June 27, 2020||Allahabad||Two GRP cops among 16 new corona cases in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Two healthcare professionals and two GRP personnel were among the 16 new novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases recorded in the district on Friday, taking Prayagraj's tally to 245. Of the fresh cases, 13 were from urban areas of the city, while the other three were from trans-Ganga and trans-Yamuna pockets. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, "Two health workers and two GRP personnel, and 12 others were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Prayagraj on Friday. While five of the patients had a travel history, seven others were infected after coming in contact with Covid-19 patients." The patients have been admitted to Covid-19 Level One and Level Three Hospitals for treatment and are aged between 17 and 46 years. Of these 16 new patients, two are women, Sahai added. The new cases were reported from area Rajrupur, Kareli, Georgetown, Manda, Soraon and Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/two-grp-cops-among-16-new-corona-cases-in-prayagraj/articleshow/76652814.cms||Kapil Dixit
June 27, 2020||Noida||Noida: 136 new Covid-19 cases, recovery rate drops to 53%||NOIDA: Gautam Buddh Nagar, which has the maximum active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, recorded 136 new patients on Friday, official data showed.  Also, 11 patients were discharged after recovering from the novel virus, taking the number of cured patients to 1,039 in the district, according to the daily bulletin released by the UP Health department.  The number of active Covid-19 cases rose to 887 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, while the death toll stood at 20 on Thursday, the data showed.  The total number of positive cases so far reported in the district is 1,946 (887 active cases, 1,039 discharged cases, 20 deceased), according to the data.  However, if 136 new cases as declared on Friday are added to Thursday's tally of 1,811 Covid-19 cases, the overall figure would stand at 1,947.  The recovery rate of patients on Friday dropped further to 53.39 per cent from 56.76 per cent on Thursday, 59.67 per cent on Wednesday and 60.25 per cent on Tuesday, according to statistics.  Gautam Buddh Nagar has the highest number of active cases (887) at present in the state followed by Ghaziabad (648), Lucknow (383), Kanpur Nagar (325), Hapur (278), Meerut (270) and Bulandshahr (208), it stated.  Overall, there were 6,730 active cases of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, while 13,583 patients were discharged and 630 deaths were recorded so far, the data stated.  Also, 762 new cases have been recorded in the district since Thursday, while 464 patients got discharged in a 24-hour period, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-136-new-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-drops-to-53/articleshow/76653130.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Homebuyers affected by MahaRERA extension of registration to projects free to go before appellate tribunal: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a flat buyer against a decision of the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulation Authority (MahaRERA), which he alleged favoured defaulting promoters at the cost of thousands of flat buyers. The HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M S Karnik said the allottee had an alternate remedy and could go in appeal to the RERA appellate body instead of coming to the HC. Advocate Nilesh Gala appearing for the petitioner, Sagar Nikam, said later that he may go in appeal to the Supreme Court against the HC order which he said "may open floodgates of appeals.'' The challenge in HC was to a May 18 order of MahaRERA by which it had invoked the force Majeure clause and extended the period of validity of registration, by three more months, for all construction projects where completion dates were to expire by March 15. Nikam's counsel Mayur Khandeparkar said the May 18 order was arbitrary and illegal, submissions, which for the state, Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and for the Centre, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, refuted. The HC in its order noted that a perusal of the Real Estate Regulatory Act "reveals that the same is a complete code in itself dealing with regulation and promotion of the real estate sector, protection of the interests of the consumers and establishment of adjudicatory mechanism for speedy dispute redressal. Apart from imposing liabilities on promoters, rights are created in favour of home buyers." The HC said, "Section 44 of the Act provides a remedy of appeal to any person against any direction or order or decision of the Real Estate Regulatory Authority constituted under sub-section (1) of section 20 of the Act read with section 2(i) read thereof before an Appellate Tribunal.'' The Appellate Tribunal has as its chairman, a Judge of a high court. Hence, the HC said, "home buyers or whose benefit the petitioner has instituted this proceeding are not left without a remedy. If indeed any home buyer is aggrieved by the order.'' They can approach the appellate forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/home-buyers-affected-by-maharera-extension-of-registration-to-projects-free-to-go-before-appellate-tribunal/articleshow/76652719.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Thirty-six Amphan-hit trees replanted at Subhash Sarovar||Amphan, the super cyclonic storm, battered various parts of the city, uprooting several trees in the process. More than 70 trees got uprooted inside the Shubash Sarovar premises alone. Now, after a month, environmentalist Arjan Basu Roy and Mudar Patherya finally replanted about 36 trees, with crowd funding and corporate help. It took them about eight days to complete the work. Some heavy machinery, like cranes, earth augers and excavators were used to dig the grounds. The work was completed on Thursday and it cost about Rs 4,000 per tree to replant. Out of more than 20 species of fallen trees, the team has successfully replanted species like Arjun, Sisso, Mahogany, Debdaru, Radhachura, Krishnachura and Jarul. "We aimed for 40 trees, but we could replant only 36 because there was no space to use those heavy machinery near other fallen trees," said Arjan. The entire area of Subhash Sarovar is around 73 acres of land and home to several birds, mammals and reptiles, not to mention over 600 trees. Interestingly, Subhash Sarovar is the only place in Kolkata where a number of rare birds, like painted stork and open bill stork breed regularly. Arjan said that since this place is a regular breeding colony of more than 20 bird species, restoring these trees were of utmost importance. "There is an island on the lake and a number of trees were uprooted there too. But we did not do anything because that is the main breeding area of birds. Once the breeding time is over, we will go to the island and plant saplings," Arjan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/thirty-six-amphan-hit-trees-replanted-at-subhash-sarovar/articleshow/76653449.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai weddings adapt to the new social distancing norm||During the coronavirus pandemic, you may feel restricted from doing several things, but should you choose to tie the knot, you’ve got Cupid on your side! The last two months have seen couples exchanging digital proposals and even getting married via Zoom calls and other online video platforms, with their families and friends logging into the ‘event’ to shower them with blessings. Taking the trend a step further, couples in the city are now going past the video calls and returning to organising weddings in mandaps and real venues, albeit keeping the new norms in mind. Referred to as a ‘social distancing wedding’, it has all the fun expected of the event, but with the addition of masks, distant seating and sanitising. ‘We decided to improvise on the wedding, instead of postponing it’Ekta Doshi and Saurabh Shah are one such couple, who tied the knot this week and are over the moon about their innovative wedding. Says the groom Saurabh, “It feels great! This is something that I have been wanting to do with my sweetheart for a long time. Earlier, we had planned our wedding for December, but with the lockdown lifted, we decided to improvise on the wedding instead of postponing it. And all the social distancing norms were followed in it, too. I got a mask made to match my outfit of sherwani with a shawl and a turban.” Adds his bride Ekta, “We planned this wedding in just over a span of a week — right from the smallest detail. It was such a novel wedding — we wore masks and did our pheras. I wanted to wear a mask with the same embroidery as my lehenga, and we even got the backdrop on the stage to match our clothes.” Saurabh Chaudhary, director at the event management company, says, “We chalked out a whole plan for this wedding, which included a map, where we marked out who would sit in which spot. We ensured that there were just two people at the food counter at a time. Besides checking the temperatures of all the guests at the entrance, we made sure there were sanitising stands around. Since masks were mandatory, we also had var and vadhu masks for the bride and groom’s side.” Thermal screenings, sanitisers, self-help counters & cuddle curtains make an entryStrict guidelines that limit large gatherings and focus on health and safety are putting the spin on the new social decorum for Indian weddings. And wedding planners are adapting to it in interesting ways with UV sanitising stations and cuddle curtains. Says Mrudang Mathuria of a wedding management company, “We call it the ‘Covid shaadi plan’. It starts from a sanitising tunnel that guests have to walk through to a welcome kit that they get with N95 masks and gloves. The banquet area has chairs at a two-metre distance and placed in circles. Since hugs are such a big part of our celebrations, there are special ‘cuddle curtains’. These are like the plastic shower curtains, which enable people to exchange an embrace while being safe. Also, there’s no buffet, but a covered plate with food that is handed to guests on the seat. The idea is that no one has to move around for anything.” For some planners, the task also includes pre-wedding precautions. Adds Neelabh Kapoor, “Our job is not only on D-Day, we’ve got some pre-wedding precautions in place as well. In the current scenario, we ask families for a tentative guest list and do follow-ups with guests on their health.” Bhavnesh Sawhney from a wedding planning firm says that guest numbers could get smaller, not the extravagance. “The focus may also be on personalisation and giving more luxury to guests. You want to make a limited number feel great, so there could be more lavish takeaways and food,” he predicts. Masks to match the lehengaRecently, a picture of Miheeka Bajaj, actor Rana Daggubati’s fiancée, wearing an embroidered face mask to match her zardozi lehenga for a pre-wedding celebration, went viral. Stylists predict that this trend of bridal face masks matching the lehenga is set to go big. In fact, they add, you’ll also see both sides of a bridal couple wearing themed masks in ‘Team Bride’ and ‘Team Groom’ designs. 5 Trends set to outline Indian weddings in futureAnkur Sarawagi, head of a digital wedding technology platform, shares some upcoming wedding trends: 1. Rise of the mini-monies: The concept of mini-ceremonies or ‘mini-monies’ with an intimate gathering 2. Masked entry: Sanitising kits with masks will be the new welcome kits 3. Guest list in shifts: To ensure that they have their full guest list, invitees come in shifts in order to stick to numbers 4. Sit-down meal over buffet: Most venues have confirmed that they are likely to opt for a sit-down plated meal, instead of a buffet 5. Open-air venues in demand: To eliminate guests from feeling confined in closed, high-risk air-conditioned spaces, open-air venues may be preferred. 50 guests allowed As per guidelines, weddings are permitted to have not more than 50 guests, maintaining social distancing at all times||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-weddings-adapt-to-the-new-social-distancing-norm/articleshow/76652329.cms||Ismat Tahseen
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Court helping poor can't be seen as sword over head, Telangana HC tells SCR||HYDERABAD: Turning down a request to close the cases against South Central Railway in respect of shifting the migrant workers to their native states, the Telangana high court on Friday objected to the usage of Damocles' sword phrase allegedly hanging over the heads of SCR officials. SCR counsel Pushpender Kaur used this phrase while asking the court to close the public interest pleas as SCR has been extending its cooperation in sending the workers back to their places. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy told her that a court which is exercising its jurisdiction under article 226 of the Constitution to ensure justice to migrants should never be seen as a sword over somebody's head. The bench whose intervention and monitoring has forced the officials from the railways and the state government to think of innovative ways to help the stranded workers said that it would monitor the case of workers till the last migrant labourer is sent home. "Who knows there may be fresh wave of migrants soon," the CJ said while hearing two public interest litigations filed by social activist Professor Rama S Melkote, seeking safe transport to migrants, and by S Jeevan Kumar of Human Rights Forum (HRF) seeking shifting of brick kiln workers to their native regions in Odisha. Thanking the intervention of the court, Vasudha Nagaraj, the counsel for the petitioners told the court that, in the last two days, the state and SCR had provided safe train transport to as many as 418 migrants. "Only 20 migrants are remaining in the shelter at Secunderabad station. All the brick kiln workers have already been sent home," she said. "We are witnessing a fresh surge of Covid-19 cases in Secunderabad and if we allow the migrants unattended to at this stage, this may pose a threat to the public health and hence the arrangement may be continued for some more time," she requested. It was at this stage, Pushpender Kaur intervened.  "We will continue to extend our cooperation. But please close the two PILs. Or at least close the cases against us, she said describing them as swords of Damocles hanging above their heads. Advocate general BS Prasad told the court that the state is ready to continue the effort to help the migrants and urged the court to continue the arrangement. "We are committed to helping the stranded migrants," he said. The bench closed the PIL pertaining to brick kiln workers and made it clear that the other PIL on general migrants would continue and that it will continue to monitor the progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/court-helping-poor-cant-be-seen-as-sword-over-head-telangana-hc-tells-scr/articleshow/76653458.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 27, 2020||India||Monsoon covers India 12 days in advance, fastest since 2013||PUNE/NEW DELHI: In a swift and smooth advance through the country, the monsoon on Friday covered the whole of India, 12 days before the normal date of July 8, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Along with 2015, when the monsoon had raced through the country on the same date, this was the fastest progression of the rain-bearing system since 2013. In the past 13 years, the monsoon has covered the entire country before June 26 only once — in 2013, when a freak convergence of several weather systems had caused the catastrophic Kedarnath deluge while advancing the monsoon by an all-time record date of June 16. IMD said the monsoon marched into the remaining parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan on Friday to cover the entire country, 26 days after hitting the Kerala coast. This sets the stage for timely sowing of kharif crops across the country. “This was one of the smoothest advances of the monsoon in recent years. Usually the monsoon progresses in fits and starts, but this year it did not stall for long at any stage,” said D Sivananda Pai, IMD’s lead monsoon forecaster. Rain in June so far has been quite good: IMD directorHowever, with the monsoon trough moving towards the Himalayan foothills, the plains of northwest India, including Delhi-NCR, are not likely to get good rainfall over the next few days. The monsoon’s smooth advance has led to a rain-surplus over the country in June, with nearly 22% higher than normal rainfall so far. The monsoon got favourable conditions for its advance right from the onset stage. First, Cyclone Amphun helped the monsoon reach the Andaman & Nicobar Islands in mid-May. Then, Cyclone Nisarga, which formed in the Arabian Sea towards the end of May, helped monsoon’s onset over Kerala on June 1 and other parts of south India and the western coast. Finally, the formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal which moved west-northwestwards and another cyclonic circulation over central India helped in its quick advance through central and north India. Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of meteorology, IMD, said the formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal which moved west-northwestwards and another cyclonic circulation over central India helped in advance of monsoon. “The rain so far has been quite good with 31 out of 36 meteorological subdivisions getting normal to excess rainfall during June. This would benefit kharif sowing,” he added. Watch Monsoon is here, covers India 12 days in advance, fastest since 2013||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/monsoon-covers-india-12-days-in-advance-fastest-since-2013/articleshow/76653820.cms||Neha Madaan
June 27, 2020||India||It’s official: SC allows CBSE to cancel pending board papers||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday permitted the Centre and CBSE to cancel the remaining Class X and XII examinations that could not be conducted due to the coronavirus pandemic and approved the Board’s scheme to award marks to students for the cancelled papers, based on their performance in previous exams held before the Covid situation worsened. The results will be out by July 15. Hearing pleas seeking scrapping of exams for rising Covid-19 infections, a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna directed CBSE to issue the notification to implement its assessment scheme. It granted a week’s time to ICSE to make its scheme public after the Board contended that it is considering a formulation that is a bit different from CBSE. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and CBSE, told the bench that all students of Class XII will also be given an option to take the test later to improve their performance. Importantly, both Boards told the top court that the results of the Board exams will be declared by July 15. This will set into motion the process of university applications and also allow students to take up admissions in private colleges and in foreign universities. After getting the nod from the court, CBSE notified the scheme according to which marks will be awarded on the basis of a student’s scores in the best performing subjects. The Board has divided candidates into three categories, based on the number of papers they have appeared for. “For students who have appeared in the examinations in more than three subjects, the average of marks obtained in the best three will be awarded in subjects whose examinations have not been conducted… For students who have appeared in only three subjects, average of marks obtained in the best two performing subjects will be considered,” CBSE Exam Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. “There are very few students of Class 12, mainly from Delhi, who have appeared in only one or two subjects. Their results will be declared based on performances in the appeared subjects and performance in internal, practical or project assessment,” he said. This category comprises mostly students with exam centres in areas affected by CAA-related riots in February in the capital. Class XII candidates who are not satisfied with the marks awarded under this scheme will be allowed to take an improvement test which to be held when the situation is ‘conducive’. The marks in the improvement test will be treated as final, Bhardwaj said, adding, “A candidate can seek improvement chance in one or more subjects.” On the schedule and registration dates for ‘improvement’ exams, he said: “CBSE cannot say when the exams are possible. The Board will be able to take a call on the dates only after a review of the prevailing situation is undertaken. No one knows when the situation will be conducive.” Watch Remaining board exams cancelled by CBSE and ICSE||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-official-sc-allows-cbse-to-cancel-pending-board-papers/articleshow/76654070.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
June 27, 2020||India||Jobs calling: Trains from UP, Bihar run full||NEW DELHI: There is strong evidence of “reverse” migration with several Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Howrah, Delhi and Secunderabad-bound special mail and express trains from states like UP and Bihar running full. The reservation status for these trains from June 26 to June 30 was at 100% with more people on the waiting list, rail ministry data showed, indicating that migrant workers who had gone to their homes in the hinterland are returning to cities. The return of these workers augurs well for the economy as businesses reopen, though it means there is a need for more measures to check the spread of Covid-19. Data showed that at least 64 trains on down routes were fully booked. Reverse journey a relief for industryAnother 11 trains had more than 90% bookings, data showed. Although the workers were not expected to remain confined to their home states indefinitely because of the “push” factor of backwardness which causes them to move out, their return to the industrialised states so soon after they exited in droves comes as a surprise. Some of the places where they were employed before the pandemic hit the economy remain hobbled by the virus and few industries are working at their full capacity. Also, with states like UP and Bihar expanding the scope of MGNREGA to create jobs and with the Centre continuing to provide free PDS grains, many expected the workers to prefer the safety of home until the fear of the virus had abated. The reverse journey would be a relief for industry which had worried about having to deal with labour shortages once economic recovery gained momentum. The trend emerges at a time when the running of Shramik Special trains has touched an all-time low, with only two trains on Friday. Watch 'Reverse' migration on rise as trains from UP, Bihar run full||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jobs-calling-trains-from-up-bihar-run-full/articleshow/76654139.cms||Dipak K Dash
June 27, 2020||India||Nepal gets army to step up border road building||PITHORAGARH: The Nepal government has expedited the process of construction of the Darchula-Tinkar Road, also known as Mahakali corridor, near the India-Nepal border adjoining Pithoragarh. The aim of this road construction, sources said, is to “minimise the dependence of Nepalese citizens on Indian roads”. Many Nepalese nationals were forced to cross over to India to use roads here in order to reach their villages in Nepal. Once the road is completed, not only will locals in Nepal not have to depend on India, the Nepalese armed police — which has set up a series of border outposts in the area — will also be able to carry out patrolling in the stretch with ease ‘Helipad built to transport equipment’Further, access to the China border, which lies beyond Tinkar, the last point on the road, will become better. This will also enable Nepalese tour operators to take pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar through this route. Sources added that the Nepalese government had some months ago deployed its army to complete the 134-km-long road, of which only around 43km had been constructed over the past decade. Government officials in Dharchula (in Pithoragarh district), told TOI that the road was being constructed by Nepalese army on a priority basis. “We have come to know that a helipad has been constructed at Ghatiabagar in Nepal to facilitate the transportation of equipment required for road construction,” said Dharchula SDM AK Shukla. The escalation of work on the road comes against the backdrop of souring of relations between India and Nepal. There is palpable tension, especially among people living in the vicinity of the border, after the Nepalese parliament earlier this month passed a map showing areas like Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani in Uttarakhand as part of its territory. Meanwhile, when TOI contacted Sharad Kumar Pokhrel, the chief district officer of Darchula (Nepal), equivalent of DM in Nepal, he confirmed that the road between Darchula and Tinkar is being constructed but refrained from commenting further. (With inputs from Ishita Mishra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-gets-army-to-step-up-border-road-building/articleshow/76654158.cms||Prem Punetha
June 27, 2020||India||Dispassionate scrutiny, reform of all multilateral entities needed: S Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: Asserting that the world stands at a "transformative moment", external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday said a dispassionate scrutiny and reform of all multilateral entities were needed to make them purpose-built for the current times and representative of this century. Addressing a virtual ministerial meeting of Alliance for Multilateralism, Jaishankar said the world is facing a two-pronged attack of a pandemic and misinformation going viral. "Today, once again, we stand at a transformative moment. A pandemic has devastated our globalised economic system; apart from taking a toll of over 400,000 lives, it has fundamentally affected the way we live, work, travel and indeed, relate to each other," he said. "While it is too early to say that the coronavirus has altered our way of life forever, it has reduced humanity's instinctive comfort in the presence of others," Jaishankar said. Suspicion of human interaction is fuelled, more often than not, by fake news, wrong information and targeted disinformation, he said. "So widespread are these phenomena today that we are truly facing a two-pronged attack of a viral pandemic and misinformation going viral. In other words, this is an era of both a health crisis and an infodemic," he said. He asserted that the way forward to address both the challenges is similar and said that there is a need to strengthen the belief in scientific approaches. "That means, we must set aside politics and focus on facts—whether it is the effort to dispassionately analyse the causes and drivers of the current coronavirus pandemic, or to assess what changes our multilateral health mechanisms need to implement to improve preparations for a future pandemic," Jaishankar said. The resolution adopted at the World Health Assembly last month is an opportunity to use facts and science to assess our response to this pandemic and take those lessons to prepare better for the future, he said, adding that as chair of the WHO executive board, India is ready to work towards these goals. "We need to restore our faith in meaningful and equal partnerships. Trust, partnership and cooperation draw people, societies and countries together especially during crises, particularly when fake news and disease engender isolationism and unilateralism," he said. In this context, India was pleased to be a part of cross-regional group presenting a statement on the ongoing ‘Infodemic' in the context of Covid-19 at the UN, he noted. "It is an empirical fact that every process and institution must evolve to meet the needs of its time. No institution, howsoever important, can remain frozen at the moment of its foundation," Jaishankar said. "Just as we need to consider the resourcing and regulatory parameters set out for the World Health Organisation, to address and resolve shortcomings, so too do we need dispassionate scrutiny and reform of all multilateral entities, to make them purpose-built for our times, and representative of this century," he said. This is why India continues to call for ‘reformed multilateralism'- one that is relevant for the age in which we live, not when this architecture was erected, he said. "Our alliance must stand for a dynamic multilateralism; for a purposeful reform of existing structures, which must continue to serve the international community even more in this complex and uncertain time," he said. The "Alliance for Multilateralism" launched by the French and German foreign ministers is an informal network of countries united in their conviction that a rules-based multilateral order is the only reliable guarantee for international stability and peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dispassionate-scrutiny-reform-of-all-multilateral-entities-needed-s-jaishankar/articleshow/76654183.cms||---
June 27, 2020||India||India watches as KP Oli faces ‘revolt’||NEW DELHI: After the initial hostility over Nepal’s new map, the government has adopted, for now, a more sedate approach to the neighbour, not least because of the fissures in the ruling communist party coming to the fore in the past few days. While it may be too early to say that Nepal PM K P Oli’s days are numbered, his combative rival in the party, P K Dahal Prachanda, has made it clear he has had enough of the unilateral manner in which Oli is allegedly working. According to reports from Nepal, Oli is already facing calls for his resignation. India has also closely followed reports that Nepal may have ceded territory to China but this has been strongly denied by Nepal’s foreign ministry. India’s reaction to internal developments in the past week or so in Nepal has been limited to reminding Kathmandu that the government has worked to ensure that supplies of essentials to Nepal despite the lockdown have remained unaffected. Recalling that bilateral trade with Nepal surpassed $300 million in May, the government said this week that people of India and Nepal shared deep-rooted and familial bonds which reflected the close civilisational and cultural linkages between the two countries.  According to reports in Nepal media, the communist party standing committee meeting this week saw Oli and Prachanda accusing each other of “failing” the government and party. Kathmandu Post quoted party members to say Prachanda had made a “sensitive revelation” in the meeting about what Oli had been up to apparently to survive as PM. “We have heard that Pakistani, Afghani or Bangladeshi models are being worked out to remain in power, but such attempts are not going to succeed,” Dahal said on Wednesday, according to the leader quoted by Post. Oli’s faction is in minority in the all important standing committee. Prachanda was also said to have spoken about how it was not going to be possible for anyone to send people to jail on false charges of corruption. “It’s not easy to rule the country with the help of the army and it is not possible to split the party and run the government by allying with the opposition,” he was quoted as saying in the meeting. While even Prachanda is not seen as particularly friendly to India, the government here believes he has never really undermined India’s interests the way Oli has. On Thursday, however, Nepal strongly denied reports regarding “encroachment” of its territory by China, saying the border between the two friendly neighbours was delineated and demarcated on the basis of the Boundary Treaty in 1961 and subsequent protocols. Watch Nepal PM KP Oli faces ‘revolt,’ India watches||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-watches-as-kp-oli-faces-revolt/articleshow/76654268.cms||---
June 27, 2020||India||ED opposes closure report in Naresh Goyal case||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has told a court here not to accept a closure report submitted by the police in a Rs 46 crore cheating case registered against Naresh Goyal, founder of the now-defunct Jet Airways, and his wife Anita. MRA Marg police, after a 19-day probe, filed a report in the magistrate court saying allegations of cheating filed by Akbar Travels against the duo were not true. Akbar Travels had alleged that Jet Airways had not paid pending dues of Rs 46.05 crore. Akbar Travels did business of Rs 900 crore with Jet Airways. The ED had also registered a money laundering case against Jet Airways under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act following the registration of the FIR. The ED urged the court to direct police to properly investigate the case including undisclosed foreign bank accounts of Goyal. ED stated that the closure report has not considered crucial facts and has thus failed to highlight these facts which are vital in establishing the criminal case against the accused. Rajesh Kumar, assistant director in the ED, on June 15 filed an intervention plea in court against the police move. ED said, “It appears that when Akbar Travels contacted Goyals, they assured their company was in good financial condition.” The Goyals also showed an account in a private bank, branch SUISSE, Switzerland, in the name of Jet Airways (Worldwide) and money in that bank account was more than the dues owed to Akbar Travels. The ED stated it found deficiencies in the closure report. “In the complaint, it was mentioned that Jeevan Crasta of Akbar Travels had met the Goyals on three occasions and it was imperative to record his statement,” it stated. Police had sought to record Crasta’s statement, but it could not be done since he was admitted in a hospital on January 17 this year. He was discharged from hospital on April 22 and died on May 14. ED stated it seems police have made an undue haste in submitting the closure report. It also cited the three dates given by the complainant when Akbar Travel official visited Goyals. However, police had said there was no mention of the visitors in the entry book and that Goyal was abroad on those dates. ED stated that the police did not obtain the CCTV footage of Goyals’ building after cops were told that it was not available. “It could have been a piece of evidence”, it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-opposes-closure-report-in-naresh-goyal-case/articleshow/76654311.cms||Mateen Hafeez
June 27, 2020||Business||Byju’s valuation surges to $10.5 billion||BENGALURU: Famed Silicon Valley investor and analyst Mary Meeker’s Bond Capital has invested in education technology startup Byju’s at a valuation of $10.5 billion. The move comes as the sector continues to get consumer transaction and strong investor interest amid the pandemic. The new valuation is a 30% increase from the $8-billion tag Byju’s got just in January, and makes it the second-most valued startup in the country after Paytm. With this, Byju’s has entered the club of ‘decacorn’ startups — those valued at over $10 billion. The company did not disclose the valuation or the investment size, which sources briefed on the matter pegged at below $100 million. The deal will be the first investment in India for Bond Capital, which raised a $1.2-billion fund last year and has backed Australian graphic design startup Canva and UK’s digital banking app Revolut. Byju’s has already announced that it has raised $400 million from Tiger Global Management and General Atlantic this year, and sources said that the company plans to mop up about $1 billion in fresh funding this year. The capital is likely to be used by the company to push its global expansion and also for acquisitions. “This crisis has brought online learning to the forefront and has helped parents, teachers and students alike to experience and understand the value of it,” said founder and CEO Byju Raveendran in a statement. The 39-year-old Raveendran had started the company as an offline coaching class for the Common Admission Test (CAT) to enter IIMs back in 2007. Then several of his students joined him in 2009, and in 2011 he registered his company as Think & Learn Private Limited. The company tried out a tablet-based format, but tasted major success after launching an app in 2015. Since then, it has attracted investments from top-tier global investors and seen its valuation jump from $1 billion at the start of 2018 to over $10.5 billion now. This has been driven by the financial metrics of the company. Byju’s claimed that it doubled its revenues from $189 million (Rs 1,430 crore) in FY19, when it was also profitable, to Rs 2,800 crore in FY20. What has helped the company is that revenues from overseas markets, especially the US, have jumped from $25 million to about $70 million in the period, according to a source briefed on the matter. Byju’s also says that it has 57 million registered students, 3.5 million paid subscribers and annual renewal rates as high as 85%. Over the years, it has also entered into a partnership with Walt Disney to use its characters to teach kids, besides also becoming the lead sponsor for the Indian cricket team. “Byju has built a profitable company and, while education has always been considered a large market, he has been able to mine it well. So, in terms of building a startup, it is the closest to a Silicon Valley story out of India,” said Vinod Murali, managing partner at Alteria Capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/byjus-valuation-surges-to-10-5bn/articleshow/76653190.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 27, 2020||Patna||Major Bihar rivers show rising trend||PATNA: Moderate to heavy rainfall across the state over the last two days has resulted in rise in water levels in several rivers. The Parman river in Araria district was flowing slightly above the danger level on Friday, water resources department said. The Parman river that originates in Nepal has been in spate as Araria district, bordering Nepal, has received high rainfall over the last two days. On Friday, the district received 71mm of rain. Besides, rainfall also occurred in the Himalayan foothills. The central water commission (CWC) bulletin said Hayaghat in Darbhanga received 127mm of rain on Friday, the highest in the state. Gaya, on the other hand, recorded 112mm of rain. Bagmati and Adhwara group of rivers were flowing just about the danger level at some places. The water level in all other major rivers like Ganga, Kosi, Mahananda, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Gandak, Punpun and Ghaghra showed rising trend. All these rivers, however, were flowing 2-4 metres below the danger level. The water discharge through Birpur barrage across the Kosi has increased from 1.56 lakh cusecs at 6am on Thursday to 1.76 lakh cusecs at 2pm on Friday. However, the water discharge through Valmiki Nagar barrage across Gandak decreased marginally from 67,000 cusecs on Thursday to 65,000 cusecs on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/major-bihar-rivers-show-rising-trend/articleshow/76651517.cms||Abhay Singh
June 27, 2020||Amritsar||Three-day lockdown in Punjab's Gidderbaha||BATHINDA: To break the chain of people catching infection after getting in touch with a 42-year-old Covid-19 patient and his contacts, the Muktsar district administration on Friday announced a three-day lockdown in Gidderbaha town, starting Saturday morning. Gidderbaha will be the first place to see lockdown after it was lifted in early June. During the lockdown up to Monday night, the district health authorities have decided to complete contact tracing and test the persons in contact to check further spread of virus. Six persons in the infected person’s contact, including family members, have already tested positive. Currently, Muktsar district has 38 active cases of Covid-19. The person, who has a shop in Subash Nagar area of Gidderbaha, had a travel history of Delhi and was tested positive four days back. When the health authorities started his contract tracing, it was found to be endless, as hundreds of people had visited his provision store. Muktsar deputy commissioner M K Aravind Kumar told TOI, “Contact tracing of the person opened a Pandora’s box, as hundreds were found to have been in his touch. The lockdown has been ordered in Gidderbaha town to complete the contact tracing work and test every affected person at the earliest, so that people are not affected any further.” Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said, “Lockdown has become necessary to stop the spread of virus. Instead of getting panicky over it, people should support the administration.” Meanwhile, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has made it clear that if the situation keeps worsening, the entire state could be put under some kind of lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/3-day-lockdown-in-gidderbaha/articleshow/76653958.cms||Neel Kamal
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Schools start issuing disciplinary guidelines to stop conduct breach in online classrooms||KOLKATA: After two months of e-classes, schools are looking to ensure decorum and discipline among students in virtual classrooms. While several schools have issued online disciplinary guidelines, others are in the process of doing s o. Schools are also training teachers to become conversant with technology so that they can foil any attempt by truant students. “Since students are more tech-savvy than senior teachers and adept at manipulating gadgets, we have noticed some serious breach in conduct during online classes. While the teachers are learning how to detect those who create mischief, we are also coming up with a set of guidelines that students have to abide by,” said St James’ School principal T H Ireland. The school has devised its online teaching software so teachers can observe the behaviour of students on a live monitor during class hours. According to the guideline the school plans to issue next week, students who resort to indiscipline will be removed from the class roster and barred entry by suspending the login till parents provide an undertaking that the student will behave himself. The two La Martiniere schools have already issued guidelines for students. With one of its schools recently experiencing a breach in online classes, the secretary of La Martiniere Schools, Supriyo Dhar, said instructions have been issued to both the principals of La Martiniere for Girls School and La Martiniere for Boys School after consultation with IT experts to deal with problems relating to the security issues of using the Zoom platform. “We have also requested both principals to conduct a session with teachers who regularly take online classes to ensure they know how to seal gaps and take protection against any glitch,” Dhar said. St Xavier’s Collegiate School principal Fr M Thamacin Arulappan said, “We know that online classrooms are high-risk and the school is prepared to face all the challenges. We have already issued an online classroom guideline for the students and we are looking forward to the support of the parents in this regardIt is mandatory for students of the school to keep the video in an active mode,” he sid. At Heritage School, principal Seema Sapru has issued separate protocol circulars for teachers and students. Among the guidelines issued to students include taking attendance in the first 10 minutes after beginning of the classes. Students will have to be in uniform. Teachers can also ask students to switch on the videos and answer questions related to subject being taught in class. “We have also informed students that any indiscipline will be met with strict consequences,” said Sapru, adding that teachers had been given several training sessions so that they're able to maintain proper discipline. Teachers, too, have been requested to be formally dressed. “Teachers also have to log in and log out at the right time. And corrections to all the homework have to be done within a week,” Sapru added. At Birla High School, principal Loveleen Saigal said, “It has been mentioned that students will have to take the classes from a quiet corner of their homes, have their stationery and books during the class and also be in their school uniform. We are also updating the teachers about the various methods of conducting online classes, assisting them to prepare digital lessons and making the classroom secure. The IT experts are in touch with them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-start-issuing-disciplinary-guidelines-to-stop-conduct-breach-in-online-classrooms/articleshow/76653424.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 27, 2020||Business||CSR 2.0: India Inc moves to virtual volunteering||Chennai: With social distancing becoming the new norm, corporates and institutions move towards virtual volunteering CSR activities. IBM India has seen a rise in employee contribution as coaches and mentors on the IBM digital platforms. “We have seen an increase of over 60% additional IBMers volunteering their time and efforts to these education and skilling initiatives, in the last three months. With most schools shifting to online schools, we are actively involved in creating audio books for the blind in 4 languages, English, Hindi, Kannada and Tamil,” said its CSR head Manoj Balachandran. Punjab-based educational institution Lovely Professional University plans to engage its students towards virtual volunteering programs, like capacity building activities for NGOs, SHGs in slums and villages through digital mode. Generating awareness through online workshops on social entrepreneurship, talk shows, webinars, contributing through content creation for social media platforms, besides conducting online competitions (on Yoga Day) in villages. Its head of division of student welfare Sorabh Lakhanpal said, “Our students will volunteer to produce audio books for NGOs like Saksham which caters to the blind community. Students will also provide career counselling to school dropouts and people in rehabilitation centres in villages.Going forward, students will develop a mobile application (technology solution), through which counselling will be given on financial, social issues in real time.” Besides restrictions placed on physical volunteering, lack of budget for CSR projects has also pushed companies to promote employee engagement. Grant-making organization which connects donors and credible NGOs — EdelGive Foundation — said the biggest challenge is raising the second round of funding for NGOs. Its COO Naghma Mulla said, “We have to accept the reality of limited funding from large corporates and must find ways to operate around it. Large donations came till May, while now we worry about donors' capacity to allocate funds for the rest of the year.” Deloitte India has seen employee engagement triple post lockdown, as they move from physical to virtual volunteering. NC Hegde, national leader, people and culture, Deloitte India said, “Participation from employees has increased from 45-50 employees per month to 200 employees during lockdownEarlier, employees physically visited NGOs to mentor and share their skillsets, while now have logged in over 500 hours in designing software solutions and providing consultations from homes.” Freshworks employees created a Covid Telemedicine Helpline to empower the state helplines which saw a large volume of calls. This system helped connect volunteer doctors (2800+ signed up) sitting in their houses to screen patients via phone for Covid symptoms. “The traffic on helpline numbers shot up with more Covid-19 cases. This project was done on a pro-bono basis by a 15-membered team who clocked 18 hours a day and were live in three days,” said Himanshu Singh, head of India pre-sales, Freshworks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/csr-2-0-india-inc-moves-to-virtual-volunteering/articleshow/76652765.cms||Mamtha Asokan
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||Teachers turn ‘YouTubers’ in villages for edu sake||Rajkot: Nowadays, with the new technology adopted more and more in urban institutions, it’s quite easy for teachers to impart education through YouTube channels. But when it comes to teaching through the same method in the rural areas it’s still not such an easy task. However, a few village teachers of government schools of Amreli, since last one month have made an attempt to start a YouTube channel by using their smartphones to teach their students in these difficult times of the Covid outbreak. And no wonder it has yielded fantastic results! It is so successful that the followers of these online classes are now all over Gujarat. Prakash Solanki of Nigala Primary School in Rajula taluka, who won the national award for his hanging library concept, has come out with such a YouTube channel. In fact he is not alone but there are few other teachers of government schools of Rajula taluka who have voluntarily started their project. “I do animation, blackboard work, graphics and editing with the help of various mobile Apps with each episode taking 5 to 6 hours,” said Solanki, who teaches Mathematics, Science and English from Class 6-8. “YouTube consumes less data compared to other mediums and the benefit is that once parents download it, the students can watch videos offline as many times as they want. When we teach through video Apps there are network issues also, so students who have missed something may study from this channel and contact us through WhatsApp group for query,” he added, whose 60 out of 75 students are using this channel and has 500 followers a month. Another teacher, Anil Parmar, who teaches English in Devka Government Secondary School of Rajula Taluka from Class 9-12 along with his wife Purva, also a Gujarati teacher, started a YouTube channel two years ago. However, it has gained immense popularity among teenage students especially after the lockdown. “My YouTube channel gained popularity during the lockdown. I made special efforts to draw the interests of the village students in English. I chose a background according to the story, for example if there is a mythological story I go to some old temple, jungle and river to shoot its background,” said Parmar. “The government also broadcasts some of the videos but television programmes are time-stipulated and if a student misses something he can’t go back, which is possible in a YouTube channel,” added Parmar. Sarita Siyal, a Class 7 student of Nigala village, too, is all praise for this concept. “My studies were disrupted because the schools were closed but these YouTube videos has help me a lot. It’s easy to understand whatever is explained in it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teachers-turn-youtubers-in-villages-for-edu-sake/articleshow/76651752.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 27, 2020||Business||Retailers resort to video calls to curb store visits||Chennai: As number of Covid cases mount and states open up non-essential retail stores, some outlets are offering whatsapp video consultations and scheduling shopping appointments — as a safety measure. To reduce the time spent in the stores and have fewer customers on premises, customers can now pick products through video consultations and have them it delivered or picked via appointments. Apparel brands such as Allen Solly have on call consultations. “During the call, the customer care associate takes the customer through the store assortment. While the customers can ask for close up views of any garment they need, the CCA uses his experience and understanding to offer curated combinations suitable for the customers. The customer then has an option of asking for 8 garments to be sent home for final selection. The option for pick up at store is also available,” said Vishak Kumar, CEO – Madura Fashion & Lifestyle, Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd. Some brands such as Lifestyle have partnered with hyperlocal delivery platforms to get their products delivered. Consumer durable firms such as Girias, Viveks are also touching base with their customers through video consultations. A basic video call explaining the functionality of their products and brands saves customers time of browsing the catalogue and helps them pick the product faster, say officials. Electronics retail chain Girias has extended the access to video chats with the nearby store managers even in post-Covid era. The customers can pick and choose through the website or the app and for better clarity speak to the store manager. “There are safety concerns and customers have been reluctant to step out and shop and hence, we introduced video shopping. Payment is also made online. They can either come to our store on an appointment basis to pick up their product or have it delivered,” said Nitesh Giria, director, Girias Investment. Besides offering a contactless shopping experience, these video calls also improve the engagement, the brands say. Arun Narayan, AVP marketing and Retail at Tanishq adds that they have been able to reach customers in tier-2 cities once they began offering video shopping. “We fix appointments for those who wish to shorten the time spent in the store. And for those who wish to shop with the family, we schedule video consultations. In the last 2 weeks, we have been able to access customers in Davangare, Sivakasi etc and engage better with them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retailers-resort-to-video-calls-to-curb-store-visits/articleshow/76652795.cms||Aparna Desikan
June 27, 2020||Business||RIL’s capital-raise positive: Moody’s||TNN Mumbai: Rating agency Moody’s has said that the capital-raise by Reliance Industries (RIL) through its subsidiary Jio Platforms can help the company reduce around 49% of its net debt. “These divestments are credit-positive because proceeds from sales of the stakes will be used for debt reduction and bring the company closer to its target of reducing its net debt to zero by March 2021,” Moody’s said. The agency noted that RIL has so far announced the divestment of an 18.01% stake in Jio Platforms for Rs 78,560 crore ($10.5 billion). Proceeds from these divestments alone will help the company pare around 49% of its net debt of Rs 1.6 lakh crore ($21.4 billion) outstanding as of March 31, 2020. The agency has forecast that the company’s net debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation) will improve to below 2x in the current fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rils-capital-raise-positive-moodys/articleshow/76653230.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Goa||Cremation of victims creates chaos in Ponda||Ponda: The cremation of two Covid-19 victims at the Muktidham crematorium in Ponda conducted by the South Goa administration, on Wednesday night, evoked an angry reaction in Ponda, on Friday. The MGP claimed it was a clear attempt to create panic in the constituency of an opposition MLA. Following a demand by some councillors, an urgent meeting of the Ponda Municipal Council (PMC) has been convened on Saturday to discuss the issue, PMC chairperson Venkatesh Naik said. Ponda MLA Ravi Naik said that neither he or the municipality were taken into confidence before the bodies were cremated. “It was surprising that the government could not find a crematorium in the 23 constituencies represented by the BJP ” MGP president Pandurang Dhavalikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cremation-of-victims-creates-chaos-in-ponda/articleshow/76653457.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
June 27, 2020||Delhi||More areas likely to come under red zone in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With Covid-positive cases emerging in clusters, Delhi government has decided to increase the number of containment zones to prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading. While the final guidelines on redrawing of containment zones, as decided in a meeting of the central and state governments chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah last week, were still being made, sources said the focus could be on sealing more areas and better surveillance to ensure that infected people remained isolated completely. Officials agreed that this would lead to a sudden spike in the number of containment zones across the city. According to Delhi government’s health bulletin released on Friday, there were 280 active red zones in the city with over 2.5 lakh people living in them. While most economic activities are allowed in the city, there is a complete restriction on entry and exit and any kind of human interference in containment zones. “The boundaries of the existing containment zones will be redrawn to divide the sealed areas into smaller segments with increased surveillance. Efforts are being made to cluster as many cases as possible,” said an official. The Central and North districts introduced the system by dividing large containment zones into smaller segments, which proved effective. In some cases, said officials, a large containment area could be divided into 8-10 smaller clusters. “This will help in two ways. First, there will be strict and effective surveillance with the help of local police and technology, and secondly, the smaller pockets that have no positive cases can be opened up and normal activities be allowed,” said a senior district official. The district officials have also decided to use Aarogya Setu app and ITIHAS system to track the movement of cases and their contacts and project cluster development in an area of about 300 metres. The surveillance system, said officials, would be guided by this IT-enabled tool. Adoption of Aarogya Setu app would also be promoted. However, an official said they were plotting the cases and finding out clusters manually as sometimes the apps failed to give a comprehensive picture. The Union home ministry on Friday said in a statement that Shah had approved the combined use of Aarogya Setu and ITIHAS as strong predictive tools for detection of Covid-19 outbreak in clusters. “Training on the combined use of the apps was given by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to the district teams of Delhi government on Thursday,” the ministry added. Delhi government had separately roped in NCDC, along with other stakeholders and experts, to prepare a robust plan for redrawing the boundaries of containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-areas-likely-to-come-under-red-zone/articleshow/76653480.cms||Atul Mathur
June 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 40-year-old arrested for raping minor girl||PATNA: A 40-year-old man was arrested on Thursday night for allegedly raping a 12-year-old Scheduled Caste girl at his rented accommodation near Bikhari Thakur bridge under Gardanibagh police station in state capital on Wednesday. The accused was identified as Doman Yadav, who runs a garage near the victim’s residence at Daroga Rai path under Kotwali police station. Kotwali SHO Ramashankar Singh said Yadav used to financially help the girl’s family as her mother has chronic health issues. “On Wednesday evening, he took the girl to his rented accommodation in the name of providing her medicines for her mother. There he raped the girl,” he said. The SHO said the victim in her FIR alleged that the accused used to sexually harass her earlier also. He said the victim’s elder sister had also accompanied her and seen the incident. “After returning late in the night that day, the victim narrated her ordeal to parents who approached police and an FIR was lodged on Thursday,” he said. Her medical examination was conducted while the accused was sent to jail on Friday. “Her statement will be recorded before a judicial magistrate on Saturday,” Singh added. On Thursday only, police had arrested seven youths from Badi Pahadi locality under Agamkuan police station area for alleged gang-rape of a minor girl after dragging her to a secluded area Monday night. The accused had threatened the victim as well as her family due to which they had not approached the police immediately. The victim had approached police and lodged an FIR on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/76651698.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Patna||Rain, thunderstorm to continue in Bihar: Met||PATNA: Medium to heavy rainfall continued at many places in the state on Friday. Patna meteorological centre stated that monsoon was vigorous over Bihar in the last 24 hours. The India Meteorological Department on Friday predicted widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall to continue over northeast and adjoining east India during the next three days. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also likely over Bihar on Saturday. The IMD also issued forecast for thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at a few places in Bihar during the next four to five days. Patna meteorological centre has also predicted rainfall with thunderstorm in almost all 38 districts till Sunday. Though the intensity of rainfall may slightly reduce on Monday and Tuesday, it is again likely to increase for two days thereafter. The Patna centre stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places over Bihar and heavy to very heavy rainfall at few places over north Bihar during the last 24 hours. Heavy rainfall also occurred at one or two places over south-west and south- central parts of the state during the last 24 hours. The places which received significant amount of rainfall included Bahadurganj in Kishanganj and Hayaghat in Darbhanga-(130mm each), Taiyabpur in Kishanganj, Chatia in East Champaran and Daudnagar in Aurangabad district (120mm each), Bodh Gaya, Gaya and Thakurganj in Kishanganj (110mm each), Araria, Motihari, Hussainganj in Siwan and Pachrukhi (90mm each). The ongoing rainy spell has been attributed to favourable position of trough — an elongated low pressure area along with convergence of winds in the region. The Patna meteorological centre stated that a trough line was passing across Punjab to east Bihar across Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. A second trough line was running from Bihar to east Vidarbha across north Chhattisgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-thunderstorm-to-continue-in-bihar-met/articleshow/76651473.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest fires down by 93%||DEHRADUN: Forest fires that occurred with alarming regularity between February and June in Uttarakhand, ravaging thousands of hectares of forests and affecting hundreds annually, have recorded a drastic decline this year. From 2,158 wildfire incidents last year, the number was down to just 134 this season — a 93% decrease in cases— while 170 hectares were lost to smoke compared with nearly 3,000 hectares in 2019. But it’s not just Uttarakhand, the dip in forest fires during peak season was recorded across the country this year, thanks to tech interventions, awareness campaigns and intermittent rains. According to data accessed by TOI from the Forest Survey of India, 21,110 fire alerts — the lowest in the past five years — were recorded across the nation, a 20% reduction from 2019 when 26,641 alerts were registered. In 2018, 36,356 forest fire alerts had been recorded. FSI uses real-time data from NASA and ISRO satellites to monitor forest fires and send SMS alerts to each state. Field staff then verifies the incident. “The number between actual forest fire incidents and forest fire alerts that are sent out may vary a little because sometimes even controlled burning by forest departments to create firebreak lines are recorded by satellites,” said Subhash Ashutosh, director general of FSI. The DG added that intense groundwork and intermittent rains protected forests from infernos this year. “While rains kept blazes from spreading, increased monitoring allowed timely interventions. Forests were categorised based on their vulnerability to fires which allowed targeted allocation of resources. We identified 21.4% of forest cover in India — including forests in the north-eastern region and central India — which was in the category of highly fire prone to extremely fire prone.” In Uttarakhand — where 9.3% of forest cover was identified as very highly moderately fire prone and 21.6% as highly moderately fire prone — forest officials said they deployed their 7,700-strong workforce of firefighters accordingly. “As many as 2,300 meetings were held in vulnerable areas and about 48,000 local residents participated,” said B K Gangtey, chief conservator of forests (Uttarakhand) and nodal officer of forest fires. Roping in local residents was crucial to stop the environmental tragedy that was unfolding every year in the hills. A majority of forest fires are man-made so creating awareness among residents is necessary, said Vaibhav Singh, divisional forest officer (Rudraprayag). Posters that tweaked dialogues and scenes from iconic Bollywood flicks to create awareness on forest fires were put up across the district. “To boost participation from youngsters, we developed a smartphone app that allowed them to record forest fire incidents in the district along with details of location, forest type etc,” said Singh. Elsewhere, jingles in local languages that talked of forest conservation played on community radios. To ensure removal of pine needles that are highly inflammable, the state government signed contracts with 21 private firms that would use pine needles to produce green energy and hire local residents for collection, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat told TOI. Both Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh — another state that usually tops the tally of forest fire incidents — used drones to keep an eye on forests for signs of smoke. MP recorded 1,322 fire alerts this year compared with 2,521 last year. Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forests (research and extension), MP, said they equipped their firefighters with equipment such as fire blowers and fire beaters while drones helped provide timely warnings. Officials in Maharashtra, which recorded 945 fire alerts compared with 2,058 in 2019, also said regular monitoring helped curb the number of incidents. “Our helpline to report forest fires called Hello Forest is another factor that helps keep fires in check,” said Mohan Karat, additional principal chief conservator of forests (protection) in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-forest-fires-down-by-93/articleshow/76651402.cms||Shivani Azad
June 27, 2020||Pune||Train cancellation leaves many citizens in the lurch||PUNE: The railways' decision to suspend regular train services till August 12 has come as a shock to many who were looking forward to travel to their homes in various parts of the state. Nagesh Ramchandra Maske (45), who lives in a village near Navi Mumbai, had been waiting for normal train services to resume to bring his mother from Solapur.“I wanted to bring her here so that she could stay with us. Now, I have to wait for nearly one-and-a-half months,” he said. “My mother stays all alone there. I call her every day in the morning and evening and tell her to remain strong. I also talk to the neighbours, requesting them to take care of her.I do not have money to hire a vehicle and bring my mother here,” said Maske, who works in a courier firm and has four family members to support. With trains services suspended, he is not able to resume work at his company located near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) station. “I was hopeful of train services starting between Pune, Mumbai and Solapur. I wanted to bring my mother here and resume work,” he said. Maske is currently paid around Rs 10,000, less than half his salary. “My house rent is Rs 7,000 and with just Rs 3000 left I try to support my wife and three daughters,” he said. A Pune rail division official said that they were surprised by the decision to cancel train services till August 12. “While the Pune-Danapur Express is running daily from Pune station, we were hoping for train services to resume between Pune and Mumbai,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/train-cancellation-leaves-many-citizens-in-the-lurch/articleshow/76652715.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 27, 2020||Patna||Lightning sensors, mobile app to issue alerts||PATNA: Lightning sensors have been installed at various locations in Bihar in the wake of frequent lightning strikes in recent years that have led to heavy loss of life and property. State disaster management department has installed an early warning system for lightning at six places covering the entire state, which give advance warning at least 40-45 minutes before the lightning strike. The department has also launched a mobile app “Indravajra” under the early warning system, which gives early alert for lightning in a radius of 20kms. BSDMA vice-chairman Vyasji told TOI that lightning sensors and the early warning system have been developed by a US-based firm ‘Earth Networks’ as per a memorandum of understanding signed with the DMD. “The early warning system is linked to the mobile app, which sends alerts in advance regarding the possibility of lightning strike. The system has been quite effective and steps are being taken to promote its usage, especially in the rural areas,” Vyasji said. According to sources, the US firm Earth Networks is also providing its services to Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odissa and West Bengal for developing such early warning systems. Lightning sensors have also been installed at two places in Bihar by Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune under a MoU with ministry of earth sciences. “The lightning sensors at Patna and Madhubani have been installed at the premises of Central University of South Bihar and Madhubani collectorate respectively,” said Pradhan Parth Sarthi, professor of environmental science department at Central University of South Bihar. He is also the nodal officer of IITM’s lightning sensor project in Bihar. “The lightning sensors developed by IITM give information about lightning at a place, not a forecast for the same,” Sarthi said. Bihar government has also signed an MoU with Skymet Weather Services, a private weather monitoring agency, in 2019 to facilitate weather forecast services. Sources said the water resources department also takes the services of Skymet in disaster preparedness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lightning-sensors-mobile-app-to-issue-alerts/articleshow/76651905.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 27, 2020||Patna||Jitan Ram Manjhi relents after Sonia Gandhi’s assurance||PATNA: Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi has decided to go by the recent assurance of Congress president Sonia Gandhi that the Grand Alliance would constitute its coordination committee in seven days, party’s spokesman Danish Rizwan said. Rizwan also said the party’s workers, at their meeting held on Friday, authorised Manjhi to take all the decisions pertaining to the party’s affairs. Manjhi has been exerting pressure on the RJD to take the initiative regarding constitution of the coordination committee of the Grand Alliance. He had set June 25 deadline for the RJD to come up with the panel. As the deadline expired on Thursday, the HAM(S) workers met at the residence of Manjhi to discuss the situation and authorised their party leader to take all the crucial decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-relents-after-sonias-assurance/articleshow/76651811.cms||Abhay Singh
June 27, 2020||Patna||Acquire land for Patna-Gaya highway in 4 weeks: HC to government||GAYA: The Patna high court on Thursday gave four weeks to the state government to complete the process of land acquisition for four-laning 127km-long NH-83 connecting GT Road with Patna. The two-lane road between Dobhi in Gaya district and Patna is to be converted into a four-lane highway to facilitate fast and smooth traffic that would reduce the travel time between Gaya and Patna airports from more than three hours to 100 minutes. The HC direction came during the hearing of the PIL (CWJC no. 8093/19) filed by a Gaya-based activist group seeking early completion of the project. Patna high court lawyer Manish Kumar, who represented the petitioners, said the bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar heard the case through videoconferencing. The court, according to the lawyer, was informed that the process for land acquisition for the remaining 18km-long stretch of the road was under progress. The court directed the state development commissioner to complete the land acquisition process within four weeks. The court also constituted a committee comprising the regional officer of National Highways Authority of India and the district magistrates of Patna, Gaya and Jehanabad to jointly inspect the ongoing repair of the existing road on June 27 and submit the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/acquire-land-for-patna-gaya-highway-in-4-wks-hc-to-govt/articleshow/76652037.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Patna||Samastipur-Darbhanga track doubling work expedited: Railways||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has expedited track doubling work of about 38km on the Samastipur-Darbhanga route falling under Samastipur division. It has completed the broad gauge (BG) track doubling work of 9km between Darbhanga and Thalwara. The new line will be thrown open for passenger traffic movements after getting clearance from the commissioner of railway safety (CRS). ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the railways has started non-interlocking (NI) work on this particular route since June 21. It will be completed by June 27. “Railways intends to complete major works related to signal, track linking and crossing points on the newly laid track between Darbhanga and Thalwara on priority. CRS is likely to inspect this route on June 28,” he said. Railways has built at least nine bridges between Darbhanga and Thalwara to ensure smooth train traffic with foolproof safety measures. “Railways has also completed rail electrification work between Samastipur and Darbhanga to run electric locomotive-hauled passenger and goods trains,” he said. The Railway Board had approved the Samastipur-Darbhanga track doubling new line project in 2015 at an estimated cost of Rs411 crore, which was subsequently enhanced to Rs519 crore in 2018. “Railways has constructed and given facelift to at least six station buildings between Darbhanga and Samastipur also. It has completed the entire Samastipur-Darbhanga new line route in the first phase between Samastipur and Kisanpur and then between Darbhanga and Thalwara. The opening of the newly laid double tracks between Samastipur and Darbhanga will streamline movement of both passenger and gods trains on its particular route,” the CPRO said. Meanwhile, the ECR has gained the first ranking in the railways so far movement of goods trains is concerned from different places falling under its jurisdiction in the present lockdown condition. “The distance which used to be covered in about 24 hours by goods trains from one place to another across the country was covered in hardly 12 to 14 hours by the goods trains originating from the ECR jurisdiction, the CPRO said, adding these goods trains carrying coal, iron, cement bags, fertilizers and other essential materials reached their destination points either in Haryana, Punjab, Gujarat and other places in about 14 hours only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/samastipur-darbhanga-track-doubling-work-expedited-railways/articleshow/76652089.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Surat||Big diamond units decide to shut down for a week||Surat: Shaken by the sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases among its workforce, the majority of the big diamond units in Katargam zone of Surat city have unanimously decided to shut down for a week to contain the spread. The units in Katargam employ more than 1,000 diamond workers. After about two-and-a-half-month of lockdown, only 35% of the diamond units resumed operation from June 1. However, for a sector facing challenges due to weak demand for polished diamonds in international markets, the hope of quick revival was short-lived. As many as 535 diamond workers tested positive for the Covid-19 virus since the operations resumed at diamond units. Out of these more than half are employed in the diamond units located in Katargam. Chairman of Shree Ramkrishna Export (SRK), Govind Dholakiya told TOI, “We have shut the factory for a week to stop the spread of coronavirus infection to other diamond workers. Even though only four workers have tested positive for Covid-19 in our factory, but we have decided to close the unit for the safety of the workers and ourselves.” Dholakiya added, “Till the coronavirus the vaccine is not invented, we have decided to keep our unit completely shut for a week every month. At present, we are operating with less than 50% workforce and alternate day shift system.” Industry sources said that majority of the big diamond units are not buying rough diamonds and are running the units from the goods lying in the inventory. Also, there is a huge pile-up of polished diamonds in the pipeline as a majority of the consumer markets in the world are yet to see the demand for jewellery due to the coronavirus pandemic and crashing of the economies. Managing director of Dharmanandan Diamond Private Limited, Hitesh Patel told TOI, “After 12 of our workers tested positive for Covid-19 virus, we have shut down our factory in Katargam for a week for the safety other workers.” President of Surat Diamond Association (SDA), Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “An appeal was made to the diamond unit owners in Katargam to keep their units shut for a week due to rising Covid-19 cases among workers. This will stop the further spread of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/big-diamond-units-decide-to-shut-down-for-a-week/articleshow/76651303.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Business||Board meet time gap rule eased till July 31||TNN Mumbai: Sebi has relaxed till July 31 the rule that requires that the time lag between two board meetings of a listed entity should not exceed 120 days. Earlier, this relaxation was to expire on June 30, Sebi said. The rule change was necessitated after Sebi on June 24 allowed listed entities up to July 31 to file their results for the period ended March 31, mainly because of the hardships companies are facing in finalising their accounts due to Covid-related issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/board-meet-time-gap-rule-eased-till-july-31/articleshow/76653206.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||BSF catch Pakistani man trying to cross border||Ahmedabad: A Pakistan national was caught by the Border Security Force (BSF) in the early hours of Friday when he was trying to cross the border fence near Pillar 1,082, near Khavda. BSF officials said nothing suspicious was found on him. “Our interrogation is still going on. He will also be subjected to joint interrogation by various agencies. It seems that he is unable to speak,” said a senior BSF official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bsf-catch-pakistani-man-trying-to-cross-border/articleshow/76652319.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Patna||Five-fold rise in number of containment zones in Patna||PATNA: With the increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Patna, containment zones in the state capital have gone up to 47 — nearly 5 times the number of such zones that existed in April. As per data available with TOI, there were 10 containment zones in Patna on April 29. This figure went up to 15 by mid-May. At present, there are 1,664 houses in 47 containment zones. The increase in the number of containment zones is because of the corresponding rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Patna. State health department data states that altogether 529 Covid-19 cases have been registered in the district so far. This is the highest number registered in any district in the state. But much to the relief of the health authorities, over 50% people have recovered and this figure stands at 290. With five deaths of Covid-19 positive persons in Patna, active cases stand at 234. Some of the important areas in the capital which have been declared as containment zones include Buddha Colony, Bhattacharya Road, AMS Park (Boring Road), PC Colony, Kasim Colony in Sultanganj, an apartment in ward number 23 in Boring Road, Gaighat in Alamganj, Mainpura, Khajekala, Ashok Chakra gali and Mogalpura in Patna City, Kamla Nehru Nagar. Several localities of Danapur, Dhanarua and Phulwarisharif have also been declared as containment zones. Patna civil surgeon Dr RK Choudhary said all containment zones are sealed and unnecessary movement is not allowed. “People are allowed in or out only when very urgent and that too following all safety measures,” said Dr Chaudhary. He further asked people to be more cautious as cases were increasing with each passing day. “Even though cases are increasing, several people are now not taking this issue seriously. Since a vaccine is not available, there are just two options, put a mask whenever you go out and avoid going to public places, unless it is very necessary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-fold-rise-in-number-of-containment-zones-in-patna/articleshow/76651763.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 27, 2020||Patna||JD(U) for single-phase assembly election in Bihar||PATNA: JD(U) on Friday advocated for single-phase assembly election in state. Talking to reporters after the all-party meeting convened by Bihar chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa, JD(U) MP from Munger Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh said, “No other state except Bihar is going to the polls. We have sufficient central paramilitary forces to ensure free, fair and peaceful election. If required, employees of central government organisations can be deployed as polling personnel for the purpose.” Earlier, Srinivasa told the leaders that the number of polling booths in the state had been increased from existing 73,000 to 1.06 lakh in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The representatives of 12 recognized parties submitted their proposals to the commission on the occasion. Singh of JD(U) said the single-phase election would ease the pressure on candidates in the fray. When asked about the medium to be adopted for addressing rallies and public meetings, Singh said, “The Election Commission (EC) has to decide how big leaders of political parties will establish their direct contact with voters.” Singh suggested two methods for campaigning in the changed scenario — candidates approach voters in a traditional manner by visiting them personally and big leaders address virtual public meetings and rallies. “The use of digital platforms will enable them to maintain the SOP issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. He said the EC should seek the opinion of national parties on the issue. BJP’s state president Sanjay Jaiswal and health minister Mangal Pandey represented the party. RJD, however, opposed the concept of virtual rally. “This is a big conspiracy hatched by the ruling alliance to keep leaders of opposition parties aloof from voters. It’s a fight between the rich and the poor,” RJD’s state president Jagadanand Singh said. Referring to lack of resources for smaller parties, Jagadanand said it would weaken the democratic set-up and devoid the leaders of smaller parties of interacting with voters. He said it would be better if the election was contested on the basis of election manifestos of the parties only. “Sare sansadhanon ko bandh kar kewal election manifesto ko rahne dein,” he added. LJP suggested to include the names of all returnee migrant workers in the electoral roll. Party general secretary Shahnawaz Kaifi said the mode of showing expenses on virtual rallies should clearly be defined by the EC. It proposed mobile polling booths in Maoist-hit constituencies. The representatives of CPI and CPI-ML (Liberation) also submitted their proposals to the CEO. Additional CEO Baiju Nath Kumar Singh said the CEO would apprise the EC of the opinion of leaders of all recognized parties in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-for-single-phase-assembly-election-in-bihar/articleshow/76652227.cms||Ramashankar
June 27, 2020||Patna||Patna roads waterlogged after brief spell of rain||PATNA: Several localities in the city got waterlogged after a brief spell of rain on Friday. The dug-up roads and traffic snarls added to the woes of people. Residents of areas like Karbigahiya, Birla Mandir-Khetan Market Road, Langar Toli Mor, Ramvilas Chowk near Postal Park in Kankarbagh and Sanjay Nagar complained of waterlogging on Friday. Even some portions of Bailey Road near J D Women’s College and Station Roundabout got submerged in water. The dug-up Thakurbari Road, Nala Road and Churi Market made life difficult for people. “This is not even heavy rainfall, but look at the roads. None can walk on these roads,” said Bhanwar Pokhar resident Pappu Kumar. Dhananjay Kumar, owner of a confectionery shop on Birla Mandir Road, said, “Even if it rains for 10 minutes, the entire road gets waterlogged. I have been seeing this condition since 1992, the year I opened my shop. This area is a commercial hub, but the business gets affected due to waterlogging. When we complain about it to PMC, they send some sanitation staff and get the chamber cleaned. However, none bothers for a permanent solution.” Khurram Mallick, who owns a garment shop at Khetan Market, said, “Monsoon for us means no business. At a time when coronavirus has badly affected businesses, waterlogging has further complicated the situation for traders in the city,” Khurram added. Local councillor Asfar Ahmad said he wrote several times to the authorities concerned to ensure construction of a chamber in the locality, but to no avail. “People come to me with their complaints. However, despite repeated pleas to the PMC commissioner, executive officer and other officials, nothing tangible has been done to end the problem of waterlogging in the area,” he added. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the accumulated water was drained out from all the localities within a few hours on Friday. “Drains constructed in old localities cannot meet the present demand. As a result, these areas get waterlogged even after a brief spell of rain. We have got Rs 45 crore for construction of drains in new as well as old areas of the city. The project could not be completed on time due to coronavirus-induced lockdown,” he added. Himanshu said certain portions of Nala Road and Thakurbari Road were dug up to sort out the waterlogging issue. “We have planned to construct a drain with an estimated expenditure of Rs 40 lakh to end the problem of waterlogging in Birla Mandir Road locality. This scheme will be taken up after monsoon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-roads-waterlogged-after-brief-spell-of-rain/articleshow/76651640.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Married woman unites with same-sex partner||BEGUSARAI: The Begusarai town police found itself in a fix after a woman and a man both claimed to be married to the same woman. Town SHO Amrendra Kumar Jha on Friday said the two women – Puja and Anjali (names changed) were in a relationship for over two years. But Anjali’s family members got her married on June 14 to a man in Ranchi. “While both women belong to Jharkhand the man is a resident of Marwari Mohalla of Begusarai town,” the SHO added. After getting to know that Anjali has been married off, Puja confronted Anjali’s husband at their house on Thursday and insisted that she and Anjali were already married and had committed to live together. “Anjali also told her husband that she had accepted Puja as her husband and it was only under pressure from her family that she was married to him. As the situation aggravated the boy’s family members reached the local police station for help,” the SHO said. He added, “We first brought both girls to the police station and conducted a counselling session. But both women remained adamant on living together as they had an emotional bonding. The girls are totally within their right to live life together. So police allowed both of them to return to their place in Jharkhand on Thursday.” Police said Puja and Anjali used to work together at a store in Chatra in Jharkhand and it was there that they were attracted to each other. However, Anjali’s family members despite her opposition got her married to a boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/married-woman-unites-with-same-sex-partner/articleshow/76652190.cms||Rajiv Kumar
June 27, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 36 flapshell turtles found dead in lake on Ajwa Road||VADODARA: In a shocking incident, 36 flapshell turtles were found dead in a lake opposite Kamlanagar on Ajwa Road in the city on Friday morning. Locals who spotted the floating carcasses on the lake surface, informed the wildlife activists. Primary inquiry by forest officials revealed that low grade explosions below the water surface may have killed these turtles that are protected under schedule I. This is the first instance of so many flapshell turtles found dead together in any waterbody in the city, said Raj Bhavsar of Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA). “We got a call in morning following which we rushed to the spot and saw dozens of dead turtles floating in a corner of the lake. We began removing it with the help of forest officials,” he said. Initially, 31 dead turtles aged between two to four years of age were removed, but later five more were found in the lake. Range forest officer (RFO), Vadodara, Nidhi Dave said, “We are inquiring about the cause of their death. Some of the turtles have burnt marks on their body so it is possible that they may have died due to some explosion below the water. But we will be able to tell exact cause only after we get post-mortem report and viscera results.” Bhavsar, however, asserted that the burns indicate of some kind of explosion under water that killed the turtles. “Fishermen often use low grade explosives that blast below the water to kill fishes and make them float on water. We have often caught fishermen using this technique in Mahi River. The same must have happened in this lake too. The civic body gives fishing lease in these lakes and so it must inquire into the matter. The forest department should take strict action against the culprits,” the activist added. What, however, has baffled the forest officials is that only turtles were found dead in the water. The investigations will also focus on any pollutant liquid that may have caused the turtle deaths. Wildlife experts say that every lake in the city has a big population of flapshell turtles that often travel between the various water bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/36-flapshell-turtles-found-dead-in-lake-on-ajwa-road/articleshow/76650298.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s geolocation, low monsoon clouds draw lightning strikes||PATNA: Bihar is prone to lightning strikes and it leads to a large number of fatalities every year. This year the deadly bolts have already claimed 118 lives, including 95 in the past 48 hours. Altogether 172 deaths were reported last year, while the previous year the toll was 139 and in 2017 it was 180. Bihar Disaster Management Authority vice-chairman Vyasji conceded that lightning strikes have become more frequent in the recent years. “It has been seen over the past four to five years that lightning strikes are occurring more frequently in Bihar, especially ahead of the onset of southwest monsoon and in the next few weeks. A study in this regard has also been proposed as we are still not aware of the reasons behind it. Unfortunately, the deaths due to lightning in the state have been in the range of 100-170 ever year on an average,” he told TOI. Scientists attribute the frequent lightning strikes to geographical positioning of Bihar along with monsoon-related factors. Bihar stands at sixth position in the country in terms of being hit by the maximum number of lightning strikes. According to Pradhan Parth Sarthi, president of India Meteorological Society and professor of environmental science department at Central University of South Bihar, the state’s location near Nepal’s Terai region is one of the biggest factors for the frequent lightning strikes. “Lightning is a characteristic phenomenon of Cumulonimbus and Cumulus clouds, or low and medium clouds, formed during monsoon. The Himalayan Terai region in Nepal supports the formation of such clouds over Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh. Such clouds have positive charge on top and negative charge at the base. The opposite charges in the clouds lead to creation of lightning,” Sarthi said. He added, “Since wet ground has positive charge, thus more lightning strikes are reported in open areas during rains and thundershowers. It has also been seen that lightning casualties occur more in rural areas in comparison to urban areas.” Meteorologists have attributed the frequent lightning strikes to convergence of wind as well. “The lightning strikes over the past 36 hours have primarily been the result of convergence of southerly and south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal over north-east and adjoining east India. The convergence of dry and moist winds leads to formation of lightning. Such weather development is more frequent during June and July and the intensity of thunder and lightning decreases in the remaining two months,” an official at the Patna Meteorological Centre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-geolocation-low-monsoon-clouds-draw-lightning-strikes/articleshow/76651970.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 27, 2020||Patna||Cyber frauds rent Jan Dhan accounts to dupe people in Bihar||PATNA: Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) accounts are being sold to cyber criminals in return of Rs5000 per month, an investigation carried out by the cyber cell of Kaimur police has revealed. The cyber criminals are using bank accounts opened under PMJDY to dupe people of their money deposited in different banks across the state. Kaimur SP Dilnawaz Ahmad said the latest modus operandi was revealed by some members of an interstate gang of cyber frauds arrested from different parts of Jharkhand on Thursday. The arrested fraudsters — Wasir Ansari, Mosin Ansari, Md Ati-ul Ansari and Nand Lal Tori — all residents of Dhanbad and Jamtara districts in Jharkhand — told the interrogators that the money withdrawn from the victims’ accounts were immediately transferred to the bank accounts opened under PMJDY. The PMJDY accounts were rented by paying Rs 5000 per month each to the account holders. Even credit cards of some people were rented by the gang members on payment of Rs 8000. Several gangs operating in Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal have adopted the modus operandi to carry out their operations. Kaimur SP said the fraud could be detected after one and a half months of investigation in connection with a case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 11 lakh from the State Bank of India account of one Ravish Kumar Pandey, who is the state irrigation department employee posted in Mohania. His bank account is in Bhabhua. “We referred the matter to the technical cell (cyber cell) for detailed investigation,” the SP said over phone Pandey had lodged a complaint with Bhabhua police station on May 8 this year. Pandey in his FIR stated that he was in Barauni when he tried to withdraw money from the ATM but failed. He searched the bank’s customer care number on Google and dialled a number. The person on the other end asked him to download AnyDesk App. On doing it, he received several SMSs about withdrawing amounts from his bank account. The investigation revealed that the money was transferred from Pandey’s account in small instalments to 54 Jan Dhan accounts in Jharkhand and subsequently withdrawn through ATM cards or transferring to other accounts. All the bank accounts were under police surveillance and subsequently froze. The names and addresses of the account holders were also verified. The cellphone number Pandey had dialled was traced in Kolkata, which was in a fake name. While some of the account holders said their documents were taken by ‘bank officials’ on one pretext or the other, others admitted that they had shared their account details with some local youths in return of Rs 5000 per month from them. Many of the beneficiaries told the Kaimur police that they were poor and needed money. “When the accused approached them, they provided them the bank account details for money,” an investigating officer said. The modus operandi of the gang is very simple. Fraudsters approach the poor and illiterate for opening Jan Dhan accounts that enable people to receive the government scheme benefits. As per police investigation, thumb impressions taken on plain papers were scanned digitally. Frauds use polymer chemical stamp-making machines to create rubber thumbs to retain cash withdrawal controls. They also use Photoshop to clean up images. In some cases, villagers also ‘sell’ their accounts to cyber frauds to receive and withdraw money. This ‘cashback’ emboldens criminals to trap more and more people, police probe revealed. Sources said the ‘selling’ of bank accounts in districts like Jamtara and Dumka in Jharkhand is a common practice. Kaimur SP said two prime accused — Azmal Ansari alias Chhotu Ansari and Minhaz Ansari — were absconding. Police seized sim cards, laptops, CPUs, passbooks and other materials during the raid at their different hideouts in Jharkhand. The four arrested had earlier been to jail on similar charges in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cyber-frauds-rent-jan-dhan-accounts-to-dupe-people/articleshow/76652255.cms||Ramashankar
June 27, 2020||Business||Sterling & Wilson promoters seek more time for dues||MUMBAI: Promoters of Sterling and Wilson Solar — Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) and Khurshed Daruvala — have sought more time to repay their dues to the company as the Covid-19 pandemic aggravates their credit crunch. The promoters were to pay their instalment of Rs 500 crore by June 30, but have now asked for an extension of “few weeks." In a letter to the Sterling board, SP and Daruvala said that Covid-19 has caused “execution delays” to their fund-raising plan. “While we continue to strive towards achieving the originally agreed upon milestone of June 30, we apprehend that the instalment of Rs 500 crore might spill beyond June 30 by a few weeks.” SP had initiated a fund-raising programme that included stake-sales in some of its projects, but the pandemic is delaying closure of deals, impacting asset valuations and curbing the risk appetite of strategic buyers. The June 25 letter further said that while there is still a possibility of being able to pay back Rs 500 crore by June 30, in the event of a delay, the promoters would like to reassure the Sterling board that they remain committed to facilitate the entire outstanding payment of Rs 1,063 crore, and will do so within the outer deadline of September 30. SP and Daruvala together owed Rs 2,563 crore to Sterling. They have repaid Rs 1,500 crore so far and planned to clear the remaining Rs 1,063 crore through instalments. The stock of Sterling, one of the largest solar power installers in the world, is currently trending at Rs 200 — up from its all-time low of Rs 70 at the end of fiscal 2020. Some of the Indian promoters have been facing liquidity crises after business activities came to a standstill due to the pandemic. They have been asking for relaxation in repayment terms as they would prefer to preserve cash to brace themselves for the challenging months ahead. Even as business restrictions are eased in many parts of the world, some industries are skeptical whether demand will return to pre-pandemic levels quickly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sterling-wilson-promoters-seek-more-time-for-dues/articleshow/76652976.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Tedious allotment process hits smart city projects||Ludhiana: Long and tedious processes before the allotment of smart city projects have delayed many ambitious projects in the city. Projects like static compactors and Ghumar Mandi beautification are still going through evaluation process. MC officials said that they had to float tenders three to four times to allot the work because sometimes single bidders come forward and the work cannot be allotted to them. Recently, a state-level technical committee sanctioned funds for static compactors, Ghumar Mandi beautification project and fencing of Buddha Nullah, but now allotment of work is awaiting technical bid assessment. The Ghumar Mandi beautification project was among the first few projects under the smart city mission. It was among the projects on the basis of which the smart city mission gained popularity among the masses, however, till date the project has not seen the light of the day. Similarly, static compactors project is hanging fire. Fencing of Buddha Nullah got requisite approvals and contractors quite early because the project size is not that large.Requesting anonymity, an MC official said that for static compactors they had floated tenders four times and for Ghumar Mandi project twice. “Sometimes there are companies which specialise in a particular field, but we cannot give work to single bidders,” the official added. Meanwhile, the chief executive officer of smart city mission, Sanyam Aggarwal, said, “We allot projects after completing all formalities and one project has to pass through various channels. It takes time but now projects have gained pace.” Director of smart city mission Sanjay Goel said instead of waiting for so many approvals, the projects should be sanctioned on one platform. He added regular meetings are required at local level instead of holding them in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tedious-allotment-process-hits-smart-city-projects/articleshow/76651403.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Patna||Lightning toll mounts to 96 in Bihar||PATNA: The death toll due to lightning strikes in Bihar surged to 96 on Friday. Officials at the state control room of disaster management department (DMD) at Patna said the fresh cases reported on Friday actually occurred on Thursday itself, making it the highest single day toll in lightning strikes in Bihar. Gopalganj district had the maximum 13 deaths, followed by Purnia (9), Madhubani (8), Nawada (8), Aurangabad (8), Bhagalpur (8), Siwan (6), East Champaran (5), Darbhanga (5) Banka (5), Jamui (4), West Champaran (2), Kishanganj (2), Jehanabad (2), Supaul (2) and one each in Saharsa, Madhepura, Buxar, Saran, Sheohar and Samastipur. “Most people who died were working in the agriculture fields. People have been advised not to venture out in the open in the districts where thunderstorm and lightning alerts are being issued by the weather office,” a DMD official said. Patna meteorological centre issued warning for thunderstorm and lightning in all 38 districts in the state till June 30. Red colour warning has been issued for thunderstorm and lightning on Saturday and Sunday in West Champaran, East Champaran, Gopalganj, Siwan, Saran and some other districts of north-west Bihar. Red colour warning to remain alert for extreme weather conditions has also been issued for Araria and Kishanganj till Sunday. Yellow colour warning to be watchful for extreme weather conditions will also remain in effect for all districts in Bihar till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lightning-toll-mounts-to-96-in-bihar/articleshow/76651939.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Business||‘Ashok Leyland independent biz, won't be impacted by promoter discord’||Chennai: The differences between the promoter family of Ashok Leyland will not impact the running of the business said top company officials. “As far as the business is concerned this is managed independently and we have 7 independent directors on the board,” said company MD & CEO Vipin Sondhi. “The matter is a private family matter which is being addressed by the family,” he added. Ashok Leyland for its part, is focussing on a cost cutting and efficiency initiative called Project Reset to ‘look at every element of revenue and capital spend’. The new project will look at cost savings, productivity and efficiency at all levels.The belt tightening started last year when Ashok Leyland cut back its capex from the targeted Rs 2,000 crore plus to just over Rs 1,200 crore. The company’s similar initiative helped save Rs 520 crore last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ashok-leyland-independent-biz-wont-be-impacted-by-promoter-discord/articleshow/76652746.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kanpur||‘Chalk out a plan to check further spread of the virus’||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde, on Friday, directed the officials to chalk out a plan to check further spread of coronavirus in the city and raise as many as 800 teams at the earliest and impart them necessary training. At a review meeting held here on Friday, he told the officials that as per directions of the state government, each team comprising three members, would be from health/police/ local self-government/ panchayati raj/ revenue/ and village development department. The team would work in the field of prevention from corona at the micro level. In a specific direction to the health department, the commissioner asked them to increase sampling in rural areas. He stressed that those who could afford treatment should be treated in private hospitals. He also directed the district administration to arrange additional accommodation before the infected girls returned from quarantine. IG police Mohit Agarwal, SSP Dinesh Kumar, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi, Dr Richa Giri and other officials were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/chalk-out-a-plan-to-check-further-spread-of-the-virus/articleshow/76652332.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||UK’s hybrid session model may create history in UP House||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh’s legislature may take the first historic step towards a hybrid monsoon session modelled around the proceedings at House of Commons in UK with some MLAs in virtual attendance while others present on the floor under strict social distancing norms. With the deadline for convening the next session drawing near, a hybrid session is being actively considered by the Speaker to meet the constitutional obligation of holding a session within six months and the pressing need to ratify 11 ordinances passed during the lockdown to uphold their legal validity. The last assembly session ended on February 29 and the statute clearly mentions the maximum interval between two sessions cannot exceed six months, making it mandatory for convening the session by August-end. With social distancing norms strictly in place and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterating adherence to Covid protocols, the Speaker, Hriday Narayan Dikshit, has begun consultations with the principal secretary of state legislature, Pradip Dubey, on various options to hold the monsoon session. After his meeting with the Speaker, Dubey told TOI the best option would be to follow the UK model of hybrid parliament session, where half the members would be present in House while the remaining would virtually participate from their official residences. “The pattern would reverse on the session’s second day with those working from home required to be present in the House and the others would attend virtual proceedings. The hybrid system is the best way to fulfil the constitutional obligation,” said Dubey, adding the final decision will be taken by the Speaker in consultation with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The second option is to split the sitting arrangement with some MLAs occupying their usual seats on the first floor and the other group on the second floor, where guests and officers witness House proceedings while adhering to social distancing. In both cases, the Speaker has to preside over the House from his chair and cannot work from home, said Dubey, emphasising that hybrid session may have the collective approval of the Speaker and chief minister while also giving the opportunity to involve the Leader of Opposition, Ram Govind Chaudhary, for consultation from home. Currently, he’s quarantined after testing positive for Covid. However, Dubey said, in case of a hybrid session, a technology upgrade would be required for seamless uplink of proceedings to those participating virtually. The Speaker also wants the next session to be held within a stipulated period and raised this issue during video conferencing with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla last month. Dikshit is also chairman of the high-powered committee of presiding officers of state legislatures and is working on a report to make sessions more productive. He has also sought ideas from colleagues on holding sessions virtually or otherwise. The Speaker confirmed to TOI that he is holding meetings with senior members of the House, before taking a final decision. He would also discuss the hybrid session concept with the chief minister. In case of a hybrid session, there would be relative peace during proceedings as members won’t be able to rush to the well of the House or create pandemonium virtually. The state government too needs to convene the Assembly session to ratify 11 ordinances passed by the cabinet. Constitutional validity of an ordinance is of six months, if not again passed by the cabinet or approved by House. Of 11 ordinances, a key law is on freezing MLAs development funds, which might draw protests from MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uks-hybrid-session-model-may-create-history-in-up-house/articleshow/76653963.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||WB government cancels pending HS exams; results by July 31||KOLKATA: Soon after the apex court order accepted the Central Board of Secondary Education’s assessment scheme and the CISCE informed the court that it would follow the scheme but come up with an assessment plan within a week that would be a little different from that of CBSE, the state government on Friday cancelled the three pending higher secondary examinations originally slated for July 2, 6 and 8 due to a rise in the number of Covid cases. Though both CBSE and CISCE have assured the apex court about publishing results within July 15, the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE) results will be published within July 31. Candidates not satisfied with the scores, however, can appeal and appear for the remaining subjects as and when the situation improves. A notice issued by CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said if the situation is deemed conducive, the board may offer an option to candidates to write any or all of the remaining papers at a later date. “The details of the method to be adopted by CISCE will be put up within a week from Friday,” said the circular. “We have sent the pre-Board marks. This was the first time that the Council has asked us to send these. It will have the best of statisticians to draw up the modalities because marks of so many students are at stake,” said Sujoy Biswas, principal of Ram Mohan Mission. “The two years’ marks will help the Council do a comparative study. We are waiting to hear about the assessment pattern,” said T H Ireland, principal of St James’ School. The HS council, however, spelt out the assessment formula late on Friday. According to it, the highest mark secured by a candidate in the tests held will be awarded to the student as the secured marks in the suspended subjects. If necessary, the aggregate percentage secured in the already appeared subjects will be rewarded to the students in the remaining subjects. “The HS Council will try to publish the results by July-end. If a candidate is dissatisfied with the marks, they may opt to appear in the remaining papers,” said the circular issued by WBCHSE. The date and time-table for the examinations will be announced after the situation returns to “normal”. “The expert committee has prepared the modalities for marking in the remaining subjects,” said education minister Partha Chatterjee on Friday. Sources indicated that the HS council had consulted ISI for chalking out a formula. Teachers, however, are wary. “Unlike CBSE, the HS council has major exams pending. How will a science student who has secured 90 in English but an average of 50 in Bengali and mathematics, with physics, chemistry and statistics remaining, be marked? According to the education minister, if he is rewarded 90 for the remaining three subjects, will it not be an error?” questioned a teacher. A VC pointed out that universities will have to frame a guideline on how to include candidates who appear for the remaining exams later. “Their marks will change. How will we include them as we begin the session?” he asked. The BSS School principal Sunita Sen lauded the state’s decision, saying: “The question is about the kids’ safety rather than how they will be evaluated.” Saugata Basu, general secretary of West Bengal Government School Teachers’ Association, said the state has taken the call keeping in view the unprecedented conditions. (With inputs from Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-cancels-pending-hs-exams-results-by-july-31/articleshow/76653397.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 27, 2020||Patna||‘Over 60% fall in drug smuggling during lockdown’||PATNA: The enforcement agencies have intensified raids against cultivation of ganja and opium in Maoist-hit areas in state, said Narcotics Control Bureau zonal director (Bihar and Jharkhand) Kumar Manish on Friday. June 26 is observed as International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. Manish said there was 60 to 70% drop in drug smuggling in state during the lockdown period. He said several online campaign had been run for school students as well as youths to create awareness against drug abuse in state. “Enforcement activities along with other actions like seizures have increased in Bihar. Though cultivation of ganja and other plants used for manufacturing drug was going on in Maoist-dominated areas, there has been a major curb on that,” Manish told TOI over phone. Meanwhile, the state police headquarters also organized a webinar on the occasion. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani inaugurated it. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey was the chief guest. Economic offences unit (EOU) ADG JS Gangwar said 6447kg ganja and 275kg charas were seized last year in comparison to 25,355kg ganja and 63kg charas seized in state in 2018. He also said that in 2019, 621 cases were registered under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and 490 were arrested and 189 were convicted. In 2018, 360 cases were registered, 441 persons were arrested and 160 persons were convicted statewide. Gangwar said 207 cases were registered, 244 persons were arrested, 1907.04kg ganja and 21.33kg charas were seized and 49 persons were convicted under NDPS Act till May this year. Six schoolchildren and six youths were declared winners during the programme for participating in EOU’s online awareness programmes over drug abuse via drawing, painting and slogans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-60-fall-in-drug-smuggling-during-lockdown/articleshow/76652153.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 27, 2020||Business||L’Oreal to drop words like ‘fair’ & ‘white’||MUMBAI: A day after Unilever said it will stop using words like ‘fair/fairness’, ‘white/whitening’ and ‘light/lightening’ in its skincare products’ packs and communication, rival beauty company L’Oreal has followed suit. In a statement, L’Oreal said, “The L’Oreal Group acknowledges the legitimate concerns about the terms used to describe skin even-ing products, and has therefore decided to remove the words white/whitening, fair/fairness, light/lightening from all its skin even-ing products.” Earlier, Johnson & Johnson had announced its exit from the fairness creams market globally. Some of L’Oreal’s skin-lightening products in India are sold under the Garnier and L’Oreal Paris brands. While Hindustan Unilever’s Fair & Lovely (which will be rebranded in a few months to remove the word ‘fair’) is a market leader with a share of about 40%, L’Oreal’s market share is in low single digits. However, the recall for L’Oreal’s brands is high, given its greater presence in hair. Skincare and sun protection segment, which includes skin-lightening products, contributes 35% to L’Oreal’s global sales of 30 billion euros. Read AlsoHindustan Unilever to drop 'Fair' from 'Fair &amp; Lovely'In a major rebranding initiative, Hindustan Unilever has announced that it will stop using the word 'Fair' in the brand name 'Fair &amp; Lovely'. Parent Unilever had come under pressure to for its presence in skin lightening products after Johnson &amp; Johnson exited the market following a global momentumAccording to Euromonitor International’s report on the beauty and personal care market, basic moisturisers have grown from approximately Rs 7,000 crore in 2017 to over Rs 8,000 crore in 2019. Skin-whitening forms nearly 80% of the market. The impact of such global decisions by multinationals is being felt by domestic players as well. Homegrown companies like Emami and CavinKare are evaluating the situation. Emami said it is studying all implications currently and evaluating internally to decide on the next course of action. Euromonitor International’s consultant Pradeep Srinivasan said, “People are more empowered now, with information readily available and accessible across different social media platforms. This has led to a lot more awareness that beauty isn’t only skin deep and there are more traits involved — which has evolved the definition of beauty standards in the country. While the trend of inclusive beauty and embracing darker skin tones is gaining momentum, it is more of an urban phenomenon, with this segment only accounting for 34.5% of total population in 2019. However, many international and homegrown beauty companies have embraced this trend and launched facial make-up products that cater to darker skin tones.” Srinivasan said the skin-whitening segment faces uncertainty in the near future with the health and family welfare ministry cracking down on advertisements that promote fairness creams through an amendment to the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Bill, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/loreal-to-drop-words-like-fair-white/articleshow/76653094.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Allahabad||UP: ‘Start using rapid testing kits to detect Covid-19 cases’||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad high court has directed the UP government to implement the use of rapid testing kits in all the districts for detecting Covid-19 cases. The court has also directed UP DGP to ensure wearing of masks and social distancing be done compulsorily. Hearing a PIL filed on the condition of quarantine centres in the state, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar further directed that a copy of this order be sent to the chief secretary and the director general of police of the state within 24 hours through the registrar general of this court for necessary compliance at their respective ends. Apart from the above, the court has also directed the district administration that in case any individual comes inside the city of Prayagraj, then the administration should make an endeavour to test that person for Covid-19. In addition to it, the court has also directed the district administration to ensure that some responsible persons, telephonically enquire with each family in 71 wards of the Prayagraj district whether anyone in their family was having any symptom/indication of Covid-19, and in case of any doubt of any person having symptoms of the disease, his or he test should be done compulsorily. The court also said that when enough testing equipment and laboratories are established in the district, then the ward-wise test of all the residents of the district shall be conducted. The court also praised two lawyers — SPS Chauhan and Gaurav Kumar Gaur — for filing the public interest litigation (PIL) and bringing to its notice the state of affairs in the various hospitals. During the course of hearing, additional advocate general (AAG), Manish Goyal informed the court that as per the government order of May 1, 2020, the city of Prayagraj had been divided into various mohalla committees and those committees were contacting the residents of the city to know if anyone in their family was having any Covid-19 symptoms. Further, in last one week, state government had increased the number of testing from 17,000 per day to 20,000 per day. Earlier, on June 18, this court had suggested the state government to do mass testing of Covid-19 in the state. Passing the above directives, the court directed to put up this PIL on July 9, on which date not only the compliance report would be submitted but also an affidavit would be filed showing in what manner the various suggestions given by the court were being incorporated. This order was passed on June 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/start-using-rapid-testing-kits-to-detect-covid-cases/articleshow/76650158.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||State seeks MHRD, CBSE intervention to stop schools from charging extra fees||KOLKATA: The state government has appealed to the ministry of human resource department (MHRD) and CBSE to issue advisories to schools not to charge additional charges for which no services were provided. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday appealed to schools once more not to hike tuition fees and consider rolling back fee components like library and games charges since the schools are closed due to the lockdown. “Please don’t hike fees. I have got a letter today stating that some schools have been charging additional fees for computer training, library and laboratory facilities when schools are under lockdown. This is not correct. I request schools not to take fees for services that students didn’t avail of. At the same time, I don’t subscribe to the “no fee” demand during lockdown. Schools must pay salaries to teachers and employees and have a maintenance cost. School authorities must run institutions and guardians have to pay when many of them have lost jobs. Schools need to balance out the two realities,” the chief minister said. State education minister Partha Chatterjee said, “We have sought MHRD and CBSE to intervene. They should break their silence and issue advisories. Despite our requests, the schools are not meeting the parents. The parents are aggrieved.” The schools have also highlighted their constraints. “We have to maintain a 200-year-old building. It has a huge maintenance cost. There are 700 CCTV cameras alone. We have already informed the state government and the chief minister that we will not hike any fee this academic session. There are other factors. We have implemented the seventh pay commission recommendations and have to pay various license fees,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary, La Martiniere Schools. “We take session fees that goes into the repairs and maintenance of infrastructure. We have a professional school counsellor and pay for the regular workshops and sessions. The certificate costs for fire safety, drinking water safety, health and sanitary safety audit takes a huge amount of money. The club classes are always free of cost. The faculty is paid by the school themselves. Now, we have already reduced miscellaneous fees by 20% and waived all practical class and smartclass charges. Thus, it is not possible for us to reduce the school fees anymore,” said principal of Birla Bharati School, Apala Datta. Fr Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bisco High School, Park Circus, said: “We have faced no grievance till now. However, we have urged the teachers to contribute their Rs 1,000 monthly travel allowance to help students and parents who are financially distressed. We have over 100 teachers.” In the six Loreto schools, any parent who has lost a job, had a salary cut or has faced financial loss in business can approach the principal for waivers, said spokesperson Kaveri Dutt. Loyola School at Ekbalpore did not charge any fee for the past three months. The school, run by the Archdiocese of Kolkata, is finally starting to charge fees from July. However, the school will charge the tuition fees and will give a 50% waiver on annual fees. St Mary's Ripon Street, St Aloysius, Meghamala, Marian Day have all decided to waive 50% of their annual fees. In most schools, this would mean a waiver of Rs 2,500 annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-seeks-mhrd-cbse-intervention-to-stop-schools-from-charging-extra-fees/articleshow/76653407.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 27, 2020||Pune||PMPML assures bus boost after crowding complaints||PUNE: PMPML officials responded to commuters’ harrowing complaints about crowding aboard buses saying they were in the process of identifying such routes and increasing the frequency of vehicles on them. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) traffic manager Anant Waghmare confirmed that there was a problem. “The number of passengers has increased due to most offices’ reopening. 20 buses will be added on busy routes during peak hours — between 9am and 10.30am, and at 5.30pm,” he said. Nihar Thatte, commuting to Chinchwad from Hadapsar, said on Thursday, “The bus was full to the brim with every seat occupied. People were also standing. There was no social distancing. Neither the conductor nor the driver paid any heed to complaints. This happened around 5.30pm.” Another passenger said, “If the nodal authorities forming the regulations don’t care to follow rules, why should they expect the common people to abide by them?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-assures-bus-boost-after-crowding-complaints/articleshow/76652726.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 27, 2020||Business||Axis Bank loses S&P’s investment grade rating||MUMBAI: S&P has downgraded Axis Bank’s rating to BB+ from BBB- as it expects economic risks facing India’s banking system to affect the lender’s asset quality and financial performance. The agency retained its rating for public sector banks, anticipating continued government support. With the current downgrade, Axis has lost the investment grade status according to S&P. “While Axis’s asset quality is superior to the Indian banking sector average, its level of non-performing assets (NPAs) will likely remain high compared to international peers’. Nevertheless, we expect the bank to maintain its strong market position and adequate capitalisation,” S&P said. “We believe risks stemming from challenging operating conditions following Covid-19 have increased for Indian banks. We now expect the Indian economy to fall into recession in the current fiscal year. We anticipate Indian banks’ asset quality will deteriorate, credit costs will rise, and profitability will decline over the next 12 months,” the rating agency said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-loses-sps-investment-grade-rating/articleshow/76653125.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Adani bags transmission deal, to boost supply to Mumbai||MUMBAI: Adani Transmission Ltd (ATL) signed a major share purchase agreement on Friday to execute Kharghar Vikhroli Transmission Pvt Ltd project, which will bring additional power to Mumbai. It will help meet future demands of the city, officials said. The normal supply of power in the entire city is 2,500-3,000MW, and peak demand is 3,400MW during summer, sources said. Adani won the project through tariff-based competitive bidding. It will build, own, operate and maintain the transmission project in Maharashtra for 35 years. ATL signed the agreement to acquire special purpose vehicle (SPV) Kharghar Vikhroli Transmission (KVT), which was incorporated by Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd (MSETCL). The project comprises of approximately 34km of 400KV and 220KV transmission lines along with 1,500MVA 400KV GIS (Gas Insulated Substation) substation at Vikhroli. This project is critical to the city as the existing capacity of transmission corridor is not sufficient to carry further power into it, said Anil Sardana, MD and CEO, Adani Transmission Ltd. With this project, the cumulative transmission network of ATL will reach more than 14,808 circuit km of transmission line and more than 27,000MVA transformation capacity, out of which more than 11,576 circuit km and more than 18,330MVA are under steady state operations. Adani serves more than 30 lakh consumers in Mumbai. “This also takes our company closer to its target of setting up 20,000 circuit km of transmission lines by 2022.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/adani-plans-more-power-for-mumbai-with-new-project/articleshow/76652750.cms||Somit Sen
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||MC commissioner holds meeting with tax, health depts||Ludhiana: MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Friday held a meeting with officials of health and property tax department. In the meeting, Sabharwal directed the staff members to prioritise cleanliness work in the city. He also asked the officials to perform their duty with best of their endeavour. Sabharwal also highlighted cleanliness issues in ward number 28. The commissioner asked the officials concerned of the area to be more attentive in this regard.Meanwhile, the commissioner was apprised of the ongoing works under solid waste management project, including door-to-door waste collection and segregation of waste.The MC staff was also asked about the progress on the recovery of property tax. They were directed to generate maximum revenue for the civic body so that developmental works, which have been in limbo for a long time now, could start.He asked the employees to generate maximum revenue by June 30, following which they would be taken as defaulters.Meanwhile, in another meeting, the issue of non-operational city bus services was also taken up. It was discussed that even after getting permissions, bus operators have not resumed bus services on the back of increased diesel prices and 50% passenger occupancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-commissioner-holds-meeting-with-tax-health-depts/articleshow/76651427.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Five killed as car rams into divider, highway traffic stalls for hour||MUMBAI: A family of four from Nalasopara and relative were killed on the spot when their car lost control and rammed into a divider on Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway at Talasari in Palghar district on Friday evening. A two-wheeler rider, who sustained injuries, and was on the Mumbai lane heading to Dahanu, is being treated at Talasari rural hospital. Deviprasad Shukla (44), wife Raina (42) and children Shruti (16) and Swayam (10), and a relative, Sanjay Tiwari (38), a resident of Thane, had left Oswal Nagari in Nalasopara (E) on Friday after lunch to head to Navsari for a family function. When they reached Dapchari village, Deviprasad lost control of the vehicle, which rammed into the divider and landed on the Mumbai lane. API Ajay Vasave of Talasari police said Deviprasad could have been speeding. A case of causing death due to negligence under IPC section 304 (a) has been registered. Eyewitnesses told police the car tumbled thrice before landing on the wheels. Victims had got entangled inside and the roof was smashed. The highway is still deserted due to lockdown. Police said fortunately no other vehicle was on the Mumbai lane. There were no vehicles on the Gujarat lane too. Traffic to Mumbai was disrupted for an hour till the car was moved away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-killed-as-car-rams-into-divider-on-ahmedabad-highway/articleshow/76652723.cms||Sandhya Nair
June 27, 2020||Agra||2 elderly women looted in Vrindavan, cops crack case in a day, nab 3 including house maid||Agra: Two elderly women were assaulted and held hostage in their house in Vrindavan by two youths who allegedly looted Rs1.28 lakh cash along with silver utensils with the support of a domestic help. The incident happened on Thursday night. Acting swiftly, police arrested all the accused and recovered the looted cash and ornaments within 15 hours of the incident.All of them have been remanded to judicial custody. According to police, the victim Premlata Agarwal, 75, who hails from Assam, has been living in Vrindavan for decades.The other woman, Munni Devi, has been living with her for the past seven years in her house. Recently, Premlata hired Radha, who also hails from Assam, as a domestic help and allowed her to live in the house. She also bought a new mobile phone worth Rs 15,000 for Radha. On Friday night, two youths identified as Prateek Gaur and Raj Chaturvedi entered the house with the help of Radha when the women were sleeping. But when they got up after hearing some voices, they were assaulted by the accused. They sustained head and eye injuries while trying to defend themselves. The suspects subsequently tied their arms and legs with a rope. Police said that around 10 days ago, Radha had met Prateek Gaur, who helped her in downloading google applications on her new mobile phone. During conversation, Prateek expressed his poor financial condition after lockdown. Radha told Prateek that her landlady had a lot of money and then they jointly made a plan to loot her. They also involved another youth Raj Chaturvedi in their plan. Station house officer Vrindavan, Sanjeev Kumar Dubey said that the accused have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-elderly-women-looted-in-vrindavan-cops-crack-case-in-a-day-nab-3-including-house-maid/articleshow/76651424.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Varanasi||DM leads night-long Op to kill locusts in Pindra||Varanasi: In order to save the crops from locust swarms, the district administration launched a night-long operation in the villages of Pindra tehsil on Thursday. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma led the operation that started around 10 pm at Rajpur and other villages. The DM said that the operation to kill the locust swarm began with six fire brigades and 40 manual sprayers in Rajpur and Nayepur villages. The local administration would remain in alert mode to ward off the menace, he said. The swarms of locusts entered the district from Mirzapur and Jaunpur districts on Thursday. The district administration had made all necessary arrangements to handle the situation. The fire brigade, manual spray pumps for spraying insecticide were already put on ready mode to start the operation after finding the locations of the insects at night. Besides, all the SDMs, BDOs and officials of agriculture department, and gram pradhans were also engaged in tracing the location of locust swarms. The DM also gave some tips to the farmers on how to handle the situation. The locust swarms can be diverted by making noise. The sandy soil is fit for the breeding of locust, hence the field of sandy soil should be tilled or filled with water to evade the problem. The farmers were also advised to use prescribed pesticide to save the crops. The swarms of locusts also entered the Azamgarh and Bhadohi districts. Earlier, the swarms of locusts had hit Kusiara village in Halia area of Mirzapur district on May 28. The district administration had taken preventive measures in view of locust attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dm-leads-night-long-op-to-kill-locusts-in-pindra/articleshow/76650237.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Life support: Delhi government to increase ICU beds in hospitals||NEW DELHI: In the next few days, the number of ICU beds in state-run hospitals would be increased. This was announced on Friday by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who added that Delhi government had also decided to increase the number of Covid beds in the upcoming hospital at Burari by 450. The cabinet approved it in a meeting on Friday morning. Kejriwal, in a digital press conference, said the new ICU beds would come up at Lok Nayak, Guru Teg Bahadur and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospitals. However, he didn’t give the exact number of the beds. “I feel that we will require more ICU beds in the coming days and we have to now focus on saving more lives,” he added. Though the number of Covid-positive cases have been increasing, the CM said the requirement of beds was constant at around 6,000. He added that not only were the cases of mild nature and didn’t require hospitalisation, but a large number of patients were getting treated every day. In the last one week, the number of beds occupied in the hospitals had remained stagnant. “Even though 3,000-3,500 cases are being reported daily, the patients do not require hospitalisation as they have mild infection. The number of people recovering and getting discharged from hospitals are the same as those being admitted for treatment. Currently, we have 13,500 beds in our hospitals of which 7,500 are vacant,” said Kejriwal. The CM added that conversion of banquet halls into healthcare facilities was going to increase the number of beds even further. “In the coming days, with the setting up of more beds in the Burari hospital and banquet halls, our bed count will increase,” he added. “Delhi government has received permission to do more plasma therapy, which has been effective in treating serious patients who didn’t have extreme comorbidities. This may help reduce Covid deaths. Lok Nayak Hospital has got the permission to do 200 more plasma therapy trials,” said the CM. Results have shown that it is hard to save serious patients on ventilator or suffering from multi-organ failure through plasma therapy. But those with moderate symptoms can recover and plasma therapy can help in preventing their condition from deteriorating. The results of plasma therapy at Lok Nayak Hospital have shown that the death rate has decreased to less than half the usual. “While the government has increased testing by three times, positive cases have been increasing by only around 3,000 per day. Out of the 77,000-odd Covid-19 patients, about 47,000 have recovered. This shows that people are recovering quickly,” Kejriwal said. The CM added, “Till a few days ago, we used to conduct around 6,000 tests daily of which 2,000-2,500 were found to be positive. We now conduct 18,000-20,000 tests daily, but the positive cases have only increased to 3,000-3,500.” Advising patients in home isolation to regularly use pulse oximeters provided by the government to check their oxygen level, Kejriwal said, “These oximeters will act as your Suraksha Kavach.” He also played an audio clip of his conversation with a patient under home isolation, who was using the device frequently to check his oxygen level. Watch Number of ICU beds in state-run hospitals would be increased, announces Delhi CM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/life-support-govt-to-increase-icu-beds-in-hosps/articleshow/76653467.cms||Atul Mathur
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM moots antigen tests for detecting Covid cases quickly||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has on Friday given directions to start antigen tests to obtain quick Covid-19 test reports in the state as per the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He said the goal was to keep the deaths due to coronavirus in the state to a minimum. The antigen detection test or the Standard Q Covid-19 Ag kit does not require any specialised machine. It can show results within 30 minutes and “can be interpreted with a naked eye”. The antigen testing is a promising tool for quick diagnosis of coronavirus infection in field settings, according to ICMR. For the purpose, ICMR will be sending about 200 test kits. Gehlot took the decision after discussions with experts of medical colleges, renowned doctors from across the state through a video conference from the CM’s residence. More than 100 experts participated in the discussion and gave suggestions on various aspects of combating Covid, including investigation, treatment and prevention. The medical community has been playing an important role in the success of Rajasthan in controlling corona, he said. "Due to our coordinated efforts, the Rajasthan model is discussed all over the country. Death audits of corona patients are also being conducted in the state, so that we can understand the real causes of death. These studies can be used to prevent corona," said the chief minister. Gehlot said precaution was the best way to prevent the disease. “We have launched a special campaign to make the general public aware throughout the state. Rajasthan is the only state in the country to launch such a massive campaign to create awareness about this epidemic.” He expressed happiness with all sections of the society, including public representatives, doctors, government departments and voluntary organizations, for playing their role in the campaign. Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma said that the next few months could be more challenging as along with corona, the health department also had to deal with seasonal diseases. Additional chief secretary (medical and health) Rohit Kumar Singh said that the antigen test would begin soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-moots-antigentests-for-detectingcovid-cases-quickly/articleshow/76653482.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur shelter home’s assistant superintendent, DPO suspended||LUCKNOW: Five days after 57 minor inmates of a state-run shelter home tested positive for coronavirus in Kanpur, the state government on Friday suspended its assistant superintendent and the district probationary officer (DPO) for dereliction of duty. A probe into the entire episode will be done by deputy chief probationary officer of Lucknow unit. The government order on Friday said the assistant superintendent, Mithlesh Pal, and DPO, Ajeet Kumar, were suspended as they failed to enforce Covid protocols at Swarupnagar Shelter Home where 57 of 171 inmates were found Covid positive between June 15 and June 31. Director, women and child development, Manoj Kumar Rai, told TOI that action was initiated against the two after a discussion with higher officials. Rai and additional chief secretary, department of women and child development, S Radha Chauhan, visited the shelter home on Thursday to take a first-hand account and also make arrangements to shift the remaining inmates to another facility. The suspension letters of Pal and Kumar say that they also failed to react and oppose the 'rumours' that went viral about inmates of the shelter home being pregnant and testing positive for HIV and Hepatitis-C. "Neither the superintendent nor the DPO made any effort to inform the higher authorities or the government about the case and its status," the order says. During the suspension period, Kumar will be attached to the directorate of the child welfare department in Lucknow, while Pal will be attached to the Lucknow unit of deputy chief probationary officer. The issue of 57 inmates testing positive for Covid-19 went viral on June 21. Pal had told reporters that two minors, out of 57 inmates found infected with novel coronavirus, had also tested positive for HIV and Hepatitis-C respectively. Five out of 57 Covid-19 positive inmates, including these two girls, were also pregnant. However, the DM and divisioal commissioners told reporters that all the pregnant girls were rape survivors, who had been brought to the shelter home under the Pocso Act, and were pregnant at the time of admission. Next day, On June 22, the DPO lodged an FIR against 'unidentified persons' for allegedly circulating false information about the shelter home. According to the FIR, false news about the shelter home was circulated on various platforms, including social media and news channels, and the identities of the inmates were revealed. A day later, the DPO issued a clarification that the two girl had been found negative for HIV and Hepatitis-C. While just a day ago, assistant superintendnt of the shelter home had confirmed that one girl was HIV positive and another had Hepatitis-C, TOI found out from the sources in the hospital where the girls had been taken that they tested positive when examined through a kit, but their samples were sent to a local laboratory, where they were found negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-shelter-homes-assistant-superintendent-dpo-suspended/articleshow/76653978.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Official convicted for corruption||Hyderabad: An assistant engineer of AP housing board was convicted by a special ACB judge under corruption charges and awarded two years imprisonment, along witha fine of Rs 1,000. The accused, J Prem Prakash, was caught red-handed in 2011 while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 from the complainant for not harassing him and disturbing his business. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/official-convicted-for-corruption/articleshow/76653486.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pune-listed cos’ mcap rallies to mid-March levels||Pune: The traded value of Pune-based listed companies has rallied back to the levels seen in mid-March, a sign of confidence returning to the market. As on Friday, the combined market cap (mcap) of 28 listed companies, which represent about 95% of the value of all listed enterprises in the city, was Rs 4.77 lakh crore, a level last seen on March 16, when the city was days away from a long lockdown. However, analysts believe that the rally is fuelled by foreign inflows than strong fundamentals. “The results of first quarter ending June will show the extent of damage at these companies,” said a Mumbai-based analyst, who tracks some of the Pune enterprises. Banks and financial institutions have set aside hundreds of crores against potential loan losses that might come to pass as a result of job-losses, wage cuts and moratorium. “If there is another extension to the moratorium, there could be irreparable losses to the bank’s balance sheet. It was a lot of hardwork over the last two years to arrest the spiralling bad loans and all of that could be wasted in two months,” said a senior public sector banker. To add to the woes, banks are not making fresh loans at a rate as same as before. The credit growth has been in mid-single digits over the past month or so, according to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data. IT stocks have gained about 5-6% as most companies have now adjusted to remote working as a viable option for the foreseeable future. Some companies have also attested that they are working at near 100% productivity levels as before. It is the engineering services, process and manufacturing sectors that are facing the maximum brunt. With labour shortage and depleted orders across the supply chain, the manufacturing industry is looking at extended support. “The government has to constantly look at ways to put more money into the hands of people. There is not much demand for anything so unless this is stimulated, turnaround will be difficult,” said a senior executive of an auto firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-listed-cos-mcap-rallies-to-mid-march-levels/articleshow/76652757.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 27, 2020||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi lauds enterprising migrants, gets best wishes in return||GORAKHPUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday interacted with several migrant workers in the state at the launch of “Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan”, held through video conferencing, and listened to their experiences about their employment and well-being. Among others, the Prime Minister discussed several issues with Nagendra Singh of Gorakhpur’s Sahjanwa. Singh, who came back home via Shramik special train on April 29, was previously working in Ahmedabad and has now started a dairy with two buffaloes in Gorakhpur with Rs 1 lakh loan from bank. He is now earning Rs 375 profit per day, which is more than what he was earning in Ahmedabad. Interacting with Singh, PM Modi joked with him saying that he came to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s village from his village. The PM lauded Singh for turning the challenge of earning a livelihood into opportunity, and advised him to vaccinate animals timely. The PM suggested him how he could use cow dunk and make money. Nagendra told the PM that he has plans to expand his business and is paying the loan instalments timely. Modi also interacted with Kurbaan Ali of Naugarh in Siddharthnagar district. Ali returned from Mumbai on a bus on May 12. He was working as a master mason. Ali told the PM that he and his brother got work in his village as a public toilet is being constructed there. He thanked the PM and the CM, and told the former that he is feeling better in his village. Tilak Ram, a farmer and a beneficiary of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana from Bahraich, shared his experiences and feedback. Interacting with Ram, the PM joked with him saying that now that he has a new house so many relatives and guests must be visiting his house. The PM also asked the farmer what he will give him. To this, the farmer said that he wishes him to remain Prime Minister of the country forever. This brought laughter on the face of the PM. The PM asked for a promise that he will continue to make his children study. To which the farmer replied in affirmative. Modi also interacted with Vineeta Pal, leading a self help group in Gonda district. Vineeta shared her plans regarding her work for the future with the Prime Minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-lauds-enterprising-migrantsgets-best-wishes-in-return/articleshow/76650269.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||444 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths in south TN||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 444 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths were reported from the southern districts and 108 new cases in the central region. The overall tally in the south is 5,356 cases, including 38 deaths. In Madurai, the number of active cases is now 944 and is ranked sixth highest in the state for overall cases with 1,477.The total count in central region climber to 2,245. The three Covid-19 deaths reported at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai include two from Madurai and one from Virudhunagar. A 34-year-old high risk pregnant woman from Virudhunagar with diabetes and hypertension died on June 24. The patient had complications and died with breathing difficulty and Covid-19 positive pneumonia, making it the fourth Covid-19 death in Virudhunagar. A 67-year-old man with diabetes and a 68-year-old man with diabetes, coronary artery disease and hypertension, both from Madurai died on June 23 and 25 respectively. The Covid-19 death toll in Madurai now stands at 13, fifth highest in the state. The most number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region on Friday was also recorded in Madurai — 194, including four imported cases.  In the central region, Trichy remained on top ahead of Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam for the seventh consecutive day. The new cases registered in the district on Friday were 32. It pushed the total positive cases to 493 cases. Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital is treating 94 patients while three private hospitals in the district were treating 34 others and a covid care centre 82 patients. Thanjavur recorded 25 more cases while Nagapattinam district got 17 new positive cases on Friday. In Thiruvarur the new positive cases recorded were 18 while ten new cases were added to the list of Pudukottai. Four people tested positive in Ariyalur district while Perambalur registered 165 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/444-new-cases-3-deaths-in-south-tn/articleshow/76653490.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kanpur||26k Priyanka||Kanpur:Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday lambasted the state government, which issued her a notice for her recent comments based on media reports that two girls were found pregnant at a child shelter home in the state. “Jo bhi karyawahi karna chahte hain beshak kare. Main sacchai samne rakhti rahoongi. Main Indira Gandhi ki poti hoon, kuch vipaksha ke netaon ki tarah Bharatiya Janata Party ki aghoshit prawakta nahi (Whatever action they want, they can take. I will keep putting forth the truth. I am Indira Gandhi’s granddaughter, not an undeclared BJP spokesperson like some of the opposition leaders),” she tweeted in Hindi on Friday. The Congress leader is at present general secretary in-charge UP East. In other tweet she said, “Janta ke ek sewak ke roop mein, mera kartavya UP ki Janta ke prati hai, aur woh kartavya saccha ko unke samne rakhne ka hai. Kisi sarkari propaganda ko aage rakhna nahi hai. UP Sarkar apne anya Vibhago dwara mujhe fizool ki dhamkiya dekar apna samay vyarth kar rahi hai (As a public servant, my duty is towards the people of state (Uttar Pradesh). And this duty is to put out the truth before them and not to put forth government propaganda. The state government is wasting its time by threatening me through its various departments.”) To recall, the Uttar Pradesh child rights panel had issued a notice to Priyanka Gandhi asking her to reply within three days for her “misleading comments” on the Kanpur shelter home. To recall, on Sunday, the Congress leader on Facebook citing media reports stated that 57 girls tested positive for coronavirus at the state-run child shelter home in Kanpur, with two girls being “found” pregnant. She had stated that incident was reminiscent of the Muzaffarpur shelter home case in Bihar, where cases of alleged sexual abuse were reported. The state child rights panel on Thursday had issued a notice to Gandhi, asking her to file a reply within three days for her “misleading” comments on the shelter home. The Congress leader has also been asked to issue a denial of her Facebook post, with the panel saying the remarks were “without any proof” and hurt the honour of the girls lodged at the shelter home. ----------------eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/26k-priyanka/articleshow/76652213.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 27, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur says govt may get stricter||MANALI: Alarmed by a spike in Covid-19 cases, and people returning from other states making up for nearly 90% patients, the Himachal Pradesh government is planning a new strategy to control the disease. Of the total cases that had been reported till Friday afternoon in the state, only 86 have no travel history. Most Covid-19 patients in Himachal are people returned from Delhi. People returning from Mumbai and Pune are the second largest contributors to the total number of cases. The state government believes sealing state borders completely was not possible, but a mechanism was needed to minimise movement. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur told the media in Shimla that complete sealing of all entry points was not possible, but the government was planning to make entry stricter. “At present, e-passes to enter Himachal are being issued only in case of an emergency. We may have to adopt strictest measures to control the virus,” he said. Another challenge before the government is people entering the state without permit. A large number of people trying to enter Himachal have been sent back from entry points, but some have managed to enter too. been sent back by police. In what would come as a relief to the government, almost all cases in the state are non-serious and none of the patients is on ventilator support. A 90-year-old woman from Bangana in Una district, who tested positive on June 14, has tested negative without visiting the hospital. She was treated by doctors while in home quarantine. The health department is looking at this as an achievement. State health and family welfare additional chief secretary RD Dhiman said new cases in Himachal are emerging from returnees who have been kept in institutional quarantine centers. “If new cases are coming, old patients are being cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-cm-says-govt-may-get-stricter/articleshow/76653982.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Man injured after auto hits bike||Hyderabad: A 54-year-old man fractured his leg after his two-wheeler was hit by an auto inside NIMS hospital premises. The victim, P Yadagiri, and his son, Praneeth, were on their bike when an auto hit them in an attempt to take U-turn on Friday evening. Yadagiri fractured his right leg and Praneeth sustained minor injuries. A case was registered against the auto driver under section 337.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-injured-after-auto-hits-bike/articleshow/76653492.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||43% of cases in last week are ILI-related||MADURAI: As many as 400 patients (43%) out of the 934 Covid-19 cases reported in Madurai district between June 20 and June 26, were patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms, who have no direct contact with Covid-19 patients. While doctors have urged the public not to panic as not all ILI cases are Covid-19, district health officials are urging anyone with ILI symptoms to immediately consult a doctor or go to a fever clinic. “Looking at the huge spike in Covid-19 cases in Madurai, there is a spread happening quickly. Many Covid-19 cases are ILI cases. We had a few days of rain as well now and flu-like symptoms due to climate change is also common,” said Dr Prem Ananth P, a consultant interventional pulmonologist from a private hospital. He said that symptoms of cold and flu are very similar to Covid-19 but without testing one should not panic and conclude that it is Covid-19. “The symptoms - fever, cold, cough and loss of smell and taste are the same in both cases. However, the duration and severity is more for Covid-19. If symptoms persist severely for more than five days, the person should consult a doctor and get tested,” said Ananth. Initially, more elderly people and those with co-morbidities were contracting Covid-19, but, now there has been a prevalence among younger population. Anyone with symptoms can contact the local district helpline number 8428425000 for medical help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/43-of-cases-in-last-week-are-ili-related/articleshow/76653495.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to rent out kiosks in bird and botanical parks||Jaipur: Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has decided to rent out cafeterias and kiosks built in the bird park and botanical park- the two large gardens developed under Dravyavati River Project. It is expected to help in earning more revenue. Jaipur Development Authority commissioner T. Ravikant said, “The department has decided to rent out 5 kiosks and a cafeteria in the bird park located in Panipech and 12 kiosks built at the botanical park in Bambala. The cafeterias and kiosks were developed by JDA for visitors in the two large gardens developed on 3.68 hectares on Panipech Sikar Road and 2.98 hectares near Bambala Pulia.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-rent-out-kiosks-in-bird-and-botanical-parks/articleshow/76653494.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Vadodara||MSU to collect semester-wise fees this year||Vadodara: M S University has decided to collect semester-wise fees from students for this academic year. To incorporate this, it will modify the online portal system to accept fees semester-wise instead of the current annual collection system. “The system will be modified accordingly in few days. We will also extend the date of fees collection,” said Dr K M Chudasama, officiating registrar of MSU. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the university has already decided to maintain status quo in fee structure this year. In May, it had issued a circular to all faculties and colleges stating that there will be no change in online application fees, academic fees and examination fees in all courses including regular and higher payment programmes in the year 2020-21. The university has been increasing fees at 10 % annual basis since the last couple of years after it had taken a policy decision in these regards. This year, however, the fees that the students will be paying will be same as the fee structure of 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-to-collect-semester-wise-fees-this-year/articleshow/76650761.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||2 cousins found dead in well||Palanpur: Bodies of two cousins, who had left their respective villages on May 31, were found rotting in an old well in Deesa on Friday afternoon. The foul smell emanating from the well led to the recovery of the bodies in Bhopanagar area. Mamlatdar B D Vankar said that the locals complained about the the unbearable stench. The deceased have been identified as Ranjit Thakor of Sinad village in Radhanpur taluka of Patan district and Ranchhod Thakor from Vav taluka in Banaskantha district. They hadleft Bhabhar village to buy clothes but never returned. “We suspect the duo were killed and dumped into the unused well. The smell was so unbearable that we could not even pass by,’’ said a villager. Police have sent the bodies to Dharpur Hospital in Patan for the postmortem. “We are looking into the charges of murder by their relatives,’’ said P V Patel, police-inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-cousins-found-dead-in-well/articleshow/76651817.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court defers hearing of routine cases till August||CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court administration on Friday deferred hearing of routine cases till August. "Considering the prevailing situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the states of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh and to ensure the safety of judges, advocates and litigants, the administrative committee has resolved that all the cases already fixed/listed from June 29, 2020, to July 31, 2020, shall be adjourned by the NIC," says the order passed by the HC administration. With this, the cases that were to come up for hearing on June 29-30, have been adjourned for August 4. Similarly, the hearing of cases scheduled for July 31, has been adjourned till October 30. As per the order, issued by Sanjiv Berry, registrar general of the Punjab and Haryana high court, the cases which were listed after March 24 and are pending for June 29 and 30 shall be listed on the date fixed. Similarly, in all the cases which are fixed from July 1 to 31 (including the cases listed after March 24) and have been adjourned, the counsel may request for listing of the cases in case of any urgency, says the order. Cases of urgent nature would continue to be heard by the HC via video-conferencing as per the already notified procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-hry-hc-defers-hearing-of-routine-cases-till-august/articleshow/76653988.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Surat||Rs 294 crore subsidy for MSME released||Surat: In a huge relief to Surat’s man-made fabric (MMF) industry the state government on Friday released subsidy to the tune of Rs 294 crore under the MSME scheme. Office- bearers of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) stated that chief minister Vijay Rupani released nearly Rs 1,379 crore worth of subsidy through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) on Friday. Out of this Rs 294 crore was allocated towards interest and capital subsidy to the MSME units in Surat alone. A programme was organised at the district collector’s office through video conferencing where CM allocated the subsidy to the MSME sector. Ketan Desai, president SGCCI told TOI, “About 6,615 MSME units located in Surat will be benefited. Out of these units, about 80% are in the city’s textile sector.” M K Ladani, general manager, District Industries Centre (DIC) said, “Surat is the largest beneficiary of the MSME subsidy released on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-294-crore-subsidy-for-msme-released/articleshow/76651365.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Patients, health workers breathe easy after clarity on Covid-19 centre norms in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The clarity on the issue of screening corona-positive people at the Covid care centres (CCC) has come a big relief to all — patients, doctors, healthcare workers and district officials. Many people became afraid of getting tested as they were reluctant to stay at CCCs, but now they would be okay with tests, said an official. Delhi Disaster Management Authority, chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, on Thursday restored the old system of home isolation under which a district surveillance team visits a Covid patient’s house to carry out a clinical assessment and physical verification of home isolation facilities. The biggest beneficiaries are asymptomatic patients and those with facilities for home isolation, a doctor deployed at a centre said. “In the system that was implemented early this week, patients were being harassed unnecessarily as they had to go to the testing centres first and then visit a CCC,” he pointed out. “After that, they had to wait for hours and even overnight for the report from the district surveillance officer. We couldn’t discharge them even if they were asymptomatic.” The centre staff’s burden had also gone up, he added. “It is good for everyone that the previous system is back in force.” As per the LG’s order early this week, it was made mandatory for all Covid patients to visit CCCs for clinical assessment. Delhi government wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah for its withdrawal. “Patients will thankfully not have to face harassment any more and the burden on the health infrastructure will come down. We don’t have such a huge infrastructure in Delhi to take every Covid patient to a CCC and then back home if home isolation is prescribed,” said a Delhi government official. “Where are the ambulances to carry out such an exercise? It had put a huge load on the district administration and the whole government machinery.” Another huge benefit is people won’t be afraid of testing, the official said. “Most people are not willing to stay at a government set-up and prefer home isolation but the last standard operating procedure meant that being quarantined in a CCC had become like a threat,” he said. The doctors at both testing centres and CCCs are equally competent and making a screening by a CCC doctor mandatory was impractical, he claimed. “What was the point when CCCs have no separate equipment or infrastructure for testing?” he said. “A patient may need a specialist for a complicated case but for basic screening, doctors of CCCs, testing centres or dispensaries are equally competent,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/patients-health-workers-breathe-easy-after-clarity-on-covid-centre-norms/articleshow/76653498.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 27, 2020||Kanpur||I’m Indira Gandhi’s granddaughter, won’t be deterred: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||LUCKNOW: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday hit out at the state government saying she would not be deterred by attempts to harass her for raising issues related to the common man. Without naming anyone, Priyanka said she would continue to lend voice to people’s concerns unlike some leaders in Uttar Pradesh who were acting as “spokesperson of the ruling BJP”. “I will not be deterred by UP government’s departments trying to harass me for raising people’s problems,” she said in a tweet. “As a public servant, my duty towards the people of Uttar Pradesh is to bring the truth to the fore. My duty is not to propagate the government’s propaganda. UP government is wasting its time in trying to threaten me. Take whatever action you want to, I will keep highlighting the truth. I am the granddaughter of Indira Gandhi, not an undeclared spokesperson of the BJP like some leaders,” she tweeted. On Thursday, the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) issued a notice to Priyanka in connection with her comment on Kanpur shelter home case. In an official statement, SCPCR chairperson Dr Vishesh Gupta termed Priyanka's statement as "misleading" and sent her a notice asking her to file a reply within three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/im-indiras-granddaughter-wont-bedeterred-by-harassment-priyanka/articleshow/76652390.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 27, 2020||Bareilly||UP Police submits charge-sheet against Azam in 27 cases, more to go||Strap: All 27 Cases Filed By Farmers Whose Lands Were 'Forcibly' Acquired By Azam & Then CO Alay HasanRampur: UP Police have filed charge-sheet in 27 cases of land grabs registered against former UP minister Azam Khan in July last year. The senior SP leader and Rampur MP was booked for allegedly forcibly occupying agricultural land in 2006 for construction of Mohammad Ali Jauhar University. At least 27 cases were filed against him by farmers in Rampur, where Azam once held the sway.Azam was booked under various IPC sections. The then circle officer of Rampur, Alay Hasan Khan was also booked for aiding him. Alay was also named in the charge-sheet.So far, at least 85 cases have been registered against Azam, his wife and son in the last over one year for various offences including loot.Investigation is going on into other cases filed against his wife and party MLA Tazeen Fatma and son Abdullah who are members of Jauhar Trust.The 71-year-old politician is currently lodged in Sitapur jail in a forgery case. His wife and son are also in jail.Speaking to TOI, investigating officer (IO) Dinesh Chandra Gaur said, “Farmers of Aliya Ganj in Rampur had alleged that Azam and his aide Alay Hasan, a retired circle officer, had illegally detained them and pressured them to sign on forged sale deeds to acquire their land running into several thousand hectares. When they refused, their land was forcibly occupied during the Samajwadi Party tenure. The then CO Aaly Hasan misused his official position to grab the land.”Gaur added, “All the FIRs were registered under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 384 (extortion) and 447 (criminal trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The investigation into the charges was launched and both Azam and Alay have been charges-sheeted in 27 cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-police-submits-charge-sheet-against-azam-in-27-cases-more-to-go/articleshow/76651470.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Theatre adapts to virtual stage amid corona||Jaipur: As the world wrestles with Covid-19 and struggles to recover from the economic impact of the pandemic, theatre is not an isolated case.The virus has already hit Shakespeare’s Globe theatre which is facing the risk of insolvency and closure. In India, especially in Jaipur, theatre which is one of the most valued and hugely-relied avenue of entertainment, is also facing an uncommon situation. As a result, theatre companies and the artists in the Pink City are trying to find their way to digital adaptation for survival. There are four strategic areas they are focusing on -- recovering revenue, rebuilding operations, rethinking the pattern, and reaching out to the audience by accelerating the adoption of digital solutions.“As the technology starts to catch up and become accessible and consistent, I feel theatre must exploit its potential to attract the mainstream audience,” explained Abhishek Mudhgal, one of the senior stage actors in Jaipur. “We have been doing online rehearsals for last two months. We will release those on Facebook or Instagram. Because of the corona crisis, more and more theatres are making their programmes available online – either through livestreaming or as video recordings,” he added.Anita Pradhan, a seasoned actress and director from Jaipur said theatre lovers need not be disappointed – there is plethora of shows streaming online for entertainment and virtual viewing pleasure. “Live theatre is something unique which I personally feel has a different charm and different flavour. But we must adopt with the passing time and virtual theatre would be the future hope,” she added.Does virtual reality help to open whole new worlds to be explored? Many feel virtual viewing parties are surging in popularity, but Ravi Chaturvedi, who was the head of dramatics department (Rajasthan University), believes that people will immediately come back to the theatre once the pandemic subsides. Explaining, he said theatre always survived with changes. Many believe theatre will not rebound, and there is talk of a generation of artists and audiences being lost.But Chaturvedi is in no mood to accept the theory that virtual theatre is the only survival mode for the art.“Theatre provides succour and comfort to many and people still enjoy it. For me, virtual theatre doesn’t make any sense. It’s a wrong term and I never consider it a theatre at all,” he stated. Chaturvedi said it’s a transitory period following Covid-19 and there should not be any hurry for theatre to stage a comeback.“There are many things you can do outside stage. One can enhance skills by more and more reading, which I believe can help their acting career. Or a good knowledge of language would be an advantage for acting profession.” In this context, he referred to Irrfan Khan, who was groomed under his tutelage in the 1980s before he joined the NSD. “I always remembered his commitment and his willingness to strive for achieving excellence.” Chaturvedi, who now runs his own theatre group, fondly remembers how Irfan loved to interact with theatre and drama students for hours. “He made his journey through theatre and that’s why I feel the magic of theatre isn’t going to vanish.”Audience presence a challenge for producersTheatre attendance has been challenging over recent years, making it harder for producers and hall owners to make profit.Since the lockdown came into effect, streaming platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Zee5 have been entertaining the audience with not only web series, but movies also. Considering the present scenario, theatre production houses can also opt for a digital release and look for ways to earn revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/theatre-adapts-to-virtual-stage-amid-corona/articleshow/76653504.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chennai||In isolation, the elderly struggle to find home nurses, oxygen cylinders||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 pandemic has left several senior citizens in the city, currently in isolation after contracting the virus, longing for adequate care and basic amenities. Many of them are struggling to find home nurses as they need round-the-clock care. “I have made a list of agencies that provide home nurses and call at least two of them every day. Everyone has declined,” said a 62-year-old who is in isolation at his home inside a gated community near Thiru Vi Ka Nagar. His sons and their families are living abroad and he is all by himself. “This feels like solitary confinement. I have nobody around me to speak with,” he said. More than 8,000 people who tested positive in the state are above 60 and experts say around 15% of them are living alone. Almost all of them are looking for home nurses, but 50% of the nurses have either returned to their native places and are stuck there, or are unwilling to work for these patients. “The demand for home nurses is very high, but the number of people available is less,” said Ashok Sebastian, director of Horton Nursing Services. He said his agency has been receiving at least three inquiries from senior citizens in home isolation every day. “But the nurses refuse to go fearing that they would get the virus. We cannot force them,” he said. Those who need oxygen cylinders at home are struggling to get one due to high demand and steep prices. “Apart from the price, the demand is so high that even those who can afford are unable to get it. The entire supply chain, starting from the manufacturers, is hit due to the lockdown,” said Prem Anand Johnson, respiratory therapist, and director of Thangam Health Care, a firm that supplies oxygen cylinders. Prem said due to the crisis, the price of raw materials and the cylinders have increased by around 30% and they are also facing a shortage of labour to transport the cylinders from the manufacturers. “We also need people to replace cylinders at home and refill them. We don’t have enough people to do that either,” he said. “We have been working with the Greater Chennai Corporation and reaching out to senior citizens in containment zones. We are linking them up with doctors and hospitals to get the required medical aid,” said V Sivakumar, director Helpage India (Tamil Nadu). The organisation institution has been receiving around 10 calls every day from the elderly seeking psychological support and at least three of them don’t get adequate care. Sivakumar said the most common questions asked were, ‘Will I die soon?’, ‘How much time do I have left?’, ‘Will my children get to see me alive?’ “We keep assuring them that they will recover soon and that many people are affected by the virus. But the loneliness and fear are affecting them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-isolation-the-elderly-struggle-to-find-home-nurses-oxygen-cylinders/articleshow/76652766.cms||Aditi R
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Theatre adapts to virtual stage amid corona||Jaipur: As the world wrestles with Covid-19 and struggles to recover from the economic impact of the pandemic, theatre is not an isolated case.The virus has already hit Shakespeare’s Globe theatre which is facing the risk of insolvency and closure. In India, especially in Jaipur, theatre which is one of the most valued and hugely-relied avenue of entertainment, is also facing an uncommon situation. As a result, theatre companies and the artists in the Pink City are trying to find their way to digital adaptation for survival. There are four strategic areas they are focusing on -- recovering revenue, rebuilding operations, rethinking the pattern, and reaching out to the audience by accelerating the adoption of digital solutions.“As the technology starts to catch up and become accessible and consistent, I feel theatre must exploit its potential to attract the mainstream audience,” explained Abhishek Mudhgal, one of the senior stage actors in Jaipur. “We have been doing online rehearsals for last two months. We will release those on Facebook or Instagram. Because of the corona crisis, more and more theatres are making their programmes available online – either through livestreaming or as video recordings,” he added.Anita Pradhan, a seasoned actress and director from Jaipur said theatre lovers need not be disappointed – there is plethora of shows streaming online for entertainment and virtual viewing pleasure. “Live theatre is something unique which I personally feel has a different charm and different flavour. But we must adopt with the passing time and virtual theatre would be the future hope,” she added.Does virtual reality help to open whole new worlds to be explored? Many feel virtual viewing parties are surging in popularity, but Ravi Chaturvedi, who was the head of dramatics department (Rajasthan University), believes that people will immediately come back to the theatre once the pandemic subsides. Explaining, he said theatre always survived with changes. Many believe theatre will not rebound, and there is talk of a generation of artists and audiences being lost.But Chaturvedi is in no mood to accept the theory that virtual theatre is the only survival mode for the art.“Theatre provides succour and comfort to many and people still enjoy it. For me, virtual theatre doesn’t make any sense. It’s a wrong term and I never consider it a theatre at all,” he stated. Chaturvedi said it’s a transitory period following Covid-19 and there should not be any hurry for theatre to stage a comeback.“There are many things you can do outside stage. One can enhance skills by more and more reading, which I believe can help their acting career. Or a good knowledge of language would be an advantage for acting profession.” In this context, he referred to Irrfan Khan, who was groomed under his tutelage in the 1980s before he joined the NSD. “I always remembered his commitment and his willingness to strive for achieving excellence.” Chaturvedi, who now runs his own theatre group, fondly remembers how Irfan loved to interact with theatre and drama students for hours. “He made his journey through theatre and that’s why I feel the magic of theatre isn’t going to vanish.”Audience presence a challenge for producersTheatre attendance has been challenging over recent years, making it harder for producers and hall owners to make profit.Since the lockdown came into effect, streaming platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Zee5 have been entertaining the audience with not only web series, but movies also. Considering the present scenario, theatre production houses can also opt for a digital release and look for ways to earn revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/theatre-adapts-to-virtual-stage-amid-corona/articleshow/76653614.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases hit 18,705 in 3 states||The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh rose to 18,705 and the number of deaths to 339 on Friday as 634 more people were found infected with the virus and 15 died of it. However, there was a ray of hope. Even as it got 421 new cases, Haryana, the region’s worst-hit state whose tally has reached 12,884 cases, recorded 636 recoveries during the day, its highest so far. It was much higher than Punjab’s nine and Himachal’s 11. Punjab added 188 cases to its tally, which reached 4,957, and recorded two deaths. The state’s death toll is now 122. Himachal got 25 new cases and there were no deaths. Its tally has now reached 864. In Haryana, 13 people succumbed to the virus, taking the state’s death toll to 211 and past the psychological 200 mark. With the number of patients who have recovered from the virus in Harayan reaching 8,016, the state’s recovery rate improved to 62.22%. Its death rate hit 1.64% and positivity rate 5.44%. In Haryana, 54 patients were still critical, of whom 49 were on oxygen support. Faridabad and Gurgaon topped the table in new cases, deaths and recoveries in NCR as well as in Haryana. There were 238 recoveries in Faridabad and 226 in Gurgaon so far. Faridabad got 194 cases, taking the districrt’s tally to 3,134. Gurgaon reorded 93 new cases, and its tally rose to 4,944. Both districts have the highest number of cases in the region. Similarly, 35 new cases were reported from Sonipat, 24 from Bhiwani, 15 from Rohtak, 10 from Mahendergarh, nine from Jhajjar, eight from Palwal, seven each from Ambala and Karnal, six from Nuh, five from Yamunanagar, four from Jind, two from Panchkula, and one from Kurukshetra. The two deaths in Punjab were in Fatehgarh Sahib and Bathinda. Ludhiana got 67 new patients. It was followed by 31 cases in Patiala, 24 in Sangrur, 14 in Amritsar, 13 in Fazilka, 10 in Pathankot, nine in Gurdaspur, six each in Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali, and two in Ferozepur. So far, 3,021 people have been cured of the virus and 1,634 people are still under treatment in the state. In Himachal, Kangra got 16 more cases and the district’s count rose to 244. It was followed by three cases in Hamirpur, two cases in Una, and one case each in Mandi, Sirmour and Solan districts. The travel history and primary contacts of the patients are being traced. Back from Kinnaur, ITBP jawan +ve In Sirmour, an ITBP jawan from Paonta Sahib tested positive for Covid-19. He had returned from Kinnaur a few days ago and was in home quarantine. The district’s tally has reached 37, of which 13 cases are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-cases-hit-18705-in-3-states/articleshow/76653999.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Varanasi||One more covid death, 17 test positive||Times News Network Varanasi: With one more death due to Covid-19 on Friday, the toll rose to 15 in the district. Besides, 17 more people were found infected with the virus taking the distrist’s tally to 412. According to chief medical officer Dr VB Singh, a 34-year-old native of Kazzakpura locality in Aadampur area, was admitted to a private hospital with stomach problem on June 17. His sample was collected on June 25. After he was tested positive for Covid-19, he was admitted to the BHU hospital on late Thursday night. He died on Friday during treatment. A total of 214 reports were received on Friday confirming four as positive, while 13 cases were found on Thursday night. Among the 4 infected persons, a 45-year-old resident of Kharakpur Devchandpur in Baragaon area had returned from Mumbai on June 17 and was admitted to BHU hospital on June 24 following breathing problem. A 46-year-old resident of Sheel Nagar Mahmoorganj is a chemical supplier, while a 20-year-old patient is the resident of Hukulganj area who worked at the shop of an infected person. Another 38-year-old person runs a cycle repairing shop in Ambia Mandi locality. A patient was discharged from DDU Hospital on Friday. So far 268 patients have recovered from illness. Presently, there are 129 active cases of Covid-19 in the district. Ten new hotspots were created in the district including Gandhi Nagar, Chandua Satti, Sonia Pokhara, Pachayati Kua, Ghasiyari Tola, Lahartara, Kharakpur, Sheel Nagar, Ambia Mandi, and Radha Katra Hukulganj. The total number of hotspots rose to 205 in the district. So far 110 hotspots have come into green zone, while there are 95 active hotspots in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-more-covid-death-17-test-positive/articleshow/76650322.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||JMC will provide identity cards to 12,000 street vendors in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Street vendors in Pink City will now be provided with identity cards. Around 12,000 vendors have been chosen to get the identity cards and a place will be allotted to them in the city for sale. This has been a long-pending project of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to identify all the vendors and create vending zones to prevent them from encroaching public roads. A firm has been hired by the JMC and till now 12,000 vendors have been identified. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “The survey is not yet completed but whatever number of vendors has been identified, we are giving them identity cards. The firm that is given the contract of identification will also find a place for these vendors to sit i.e. vending zones.” Due to lockdown, the survey wasn’t completed. With the process of unlock down going on, survey activities will resume in the city. Recently, the Centre has introduced a scheme under which street vendors will be able to get a loan of Rs 10,000. Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Scheme was announced by the central government for street vendors who have been hit by the national lockdown. It will be valid till March 2022. With the help of these identity cards, JMC officials say it will be easy to identify the vendors to avail the benefits. According to an Act of the department of local bodies, street vendor constitutes 2.5% of the total population of the city. According to 2011 census, Jaipur has 30 lakh of population and going by the set pattern there should be at least 75,000 street vendors in the city. There has been an increase in population in the city so the number of street vendors will definitely increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-will-provide-identity-cards-to-12k-street-vendors/articleshow/76653502.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Remembering PV Narasimha Rao, first Telugu PM of country||WARANGAL: Telangana government’s decision to observe year-long centenary celebrations of former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao has been welcomed by the late Congress leader’s family members. The fete, starting June 28, is aimed towards remembering the various services rendered by Narasimha Rao in various fields, including education and literature. The former PM is best known for the economic reforms that he introduced, that were continued even by the Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh governments. Rao’s tenure was significant as he was the second person from a non-Hindi speaking state to hold the office and the first from a southern state. His stint in formal politics began in the year 1957 when he was elected as an MLA from Manthani constituency in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. In a period of 12 years, he was given a chance to lead the state. After attaining power, he implemented Land Reforms and Land Ceiling Acts strictly. A loyalist of Indira Gandhi and Rajeev Gandhi, he was applauded for completing his five-year tenue in the minority government. A convention was also broken by him when he appointed a non-political economist Manmohan Singh as his finance minister. In addition to the political achievements, Rao was a known figure in the literary circle. Rao established the Telugu Academy. He spoke 17 languages, including nine Indian languages (Hindi, Oriya, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Sanskrit, Tamil and Urdu, besides Telugu). His command over Marathi was developed when he shifted to Maharashtra and joined the Fergusson College in Pune for a B.Sc course. Owing to this, he later translated Hari Narayan Apte’s Marathi novel ‘Pan Lakshat Kon Gheto’ (But Who Pays Attention?) into Telugu. Rao briefly worked as a journalist with the newspaper ‘Kakatiya’, run by philosopher Pamulaparthy Sadasiva Rao. He wrote under the pen name of Jaya-Vijaya (his daughters). Later, he wrote his autobiography titled ‘The Insider’, which was influenced by his political career. Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao said the former PM is eligible to get the Bharat Ratna award, the highest civilian award. The state has also decided to build a memorial in city for Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/remembering-pv-first-telugu-pm-of-country/articleshow/76653501.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 27, 2020||India||Gandhis escalate attack on PM Modi over LAC crisis||NEW DELHI: Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked PM Modi to clarify how and when does the government plan to vacate the land occupied by the Chinese army in Ladakh, underlining that his ‘no-intrusion’ claim has been contradicted by defence and foreign ministries as well as defence experts. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said Modi must explain what agreements and talks he undertook while pursuing friendship with China that the neighbour was “emboldened to occupy our land”. Former junior defence ministers Pallam Raju and Jitendra Singh told reporters, “China has now occupied our territory up to 18 km inside the LAC, in the Depsang plains, up to the Y-Junction or the bottleneck.” They called it an alarming situation as “China is just 25 km from Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip”. Rahul Gandhi escalated his attack on the BJP government by saying that the PM should not be afraid of telling the truth about China holding Indian territory. He said the PM should speak “without fear” about the land taken over by China and announce that the government is going to take action, and the entire country will support the government. Leading the “shaheedon ko salam diwas” online campaign of Congress, Sonia Gandhi issued a video message in which she said that China has constructed fresh bunkers on Indian territory and the PM should take the country into confidence on the violations by the hostile neighbour. “The PM says there has been no intrusion by China but ministries of defence and foreign affairs repeatedly spoke about the presence of Chinese soldiers in big numbers and about intrusions at different times. The country wants to know if China has not occupied our land, as the PM says, then how and why were our 20 brave soldiers martyred?” she said. Watch How can you gift our land to China? Priyanka Gandhi asks PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gandhis-escalate-attack-on-pm-modi-over-lac-crisis/articleshow/76654355.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||MMRDA gets Bombay HC nod for Metro compound wall, alignment work||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday permitted Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to proceed with work connected with two Metro lines. It allowed construction of a compound wall to protect mangroves in CRZ-1 area at Mandale and Turbhe in connection with work on 23.6km Mumbai Metro 2B (D N Nagar to Mandale). An HC bench of Justices R D Dhanukar and Madhav Jamdar also allowed MMRDA to construct Metro Line-6 alignment, including construction of 26 piers in CRZ-1 area at Beek Road in Swami Samarth Nagar, Andheri (W). MMRDA, which is implementing the Metro project for these lines, sought court permission as its counsel, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni with advocate Saket Mone, said a 2018 judgement of the HC in an earlier PIL called for such prior permission to be taken in a project of public importance. The wall was needed, they said, to “protect mangroves falling in the 50-metre mangrove buffer zone area of CRZ-1’’ and in 14.5km Metro-6 project (Swami Samarth Nagar to Vikhroli), they wanted permission to proceed with alignment in CRZ-I, on the median of a road in Andheri (W).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmrda-gets-hc-nod-for-metro-compound-wall-alignment-work/articleshow/76652727.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Many traders down shutters in districts||TRICHY/MADURAI: Hundreds of traders from in several parts of the central and southern districts downed their shutters as a mark of protest against the police brutality on P Jayaraj, 58, and J Beniks, 31. They demanded stern action against the police personnel, who were involved in the incident. The closure was in response to the call by the federation of Tamil Nadu traders association, demanding justice for the victims. In Thanjavur, about 50% of the shops were shut on Friday and in Pudukottai, almost all shops and commercial establishments remained closed. There was a lukewarm response in Trichy. Hotels and shops in many parts of Madurai remained closed on Friday. President of Madurai district hotel owners association, K L Kumar said that most of their members downed their shutters throughout the day. However, some shops that were open capitalized on the opportunity and made a few quick buck. Petty shops selling groceries and vegetables remained open in the corporation wards. Vegetable prices witnessed an increase with tomatoes selling for Rs 70 a kg and potatoes for Rs 80 a kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-traders-down-shutters-in-districts/articleshow/76653507.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: New norms reduce screen time, cut down homework||JAIPUR: Guidelines to regularize online classes in the state have been issued by the Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, which are now being implemented by the Directorate of Secondary Education, Bikaner. In an order issued to all the chief district education officers, it has been directed by the directorate to inform all government and private schools about the guidelines. The order was issued on June 25. According to the guidelines, for students in higher secondary school (up to 14 years of age) one online class session should not exceed 30-40 minutes. For primary classes, schools must provide creative and informative videos of 10-15 minutes so that students are able to learn and do not have stress issues. Sangeeta Beniwal, chairman, Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights said, “Online education is being conducted by various schools and educational institutions and the commission is receiving complaints of side-effects on children. In this view, the commission has provided an advisory for various state and private schools. It was released because the increased use and access of information and communication technology by children has increased the potential risk of online exploitation and abuse.” It has been a long-standing demand of parents to reduce the timings of online classes as it is negatively affecting their children’s health. Earlier this week, many protests were organised by parents all over the city to limit the online classes, especially for primary school students. The guidelines mention that no online classes should be held before 9am or after 4pm. Many schools have been organizing online classes for kindergarten and primary section students for 4-5 hours. It has been further stated that online classes should not hamper the vacation time of students, which they should spend with their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-norms-reduce-screen-time-cut-down-homework/articleshow/76653508.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Varanasi||300 artists of 7 countries take part in online Ramlila workshop||GORAKHPUR: Gorakhpur artists are now providing training to over 300 artists through an online Ramlila workshop, organised under the joint aegis of Ayodhaya research institute (department of culture, UP), NCIC Heritage Centre Ramayana Kendra (Trinidad and Tobago) and Ramayana center Mauritius. The online workshop is being sponsored by the cultural department and chief patron is chief minister Yogi Adityanath while two other patrons are cultural and state tourism minister, Dr Neelkanth Tewari and state principal secretary, department of culture, Jitendra Kumar. A total of 300 people of 7 countries— 86 from Guiana, 70 from Mauritius, 45 from Surinam, 42 from Trinidad, 25 from Venezuela, 18 from Israel and 14 from Srilanka are taking online training, said social convener of the programme, Jagmohan Rawat. Interested candidates can get registered free of cost at the link- https://ayodhya.org.in/form/index.html. The first batch, started from June 21. Senior theatre artist of Gorakhpur, Manvendra Tripathi is the instructor and theatre director of the workshop. While talking to TOI, he said, “The class is conducted from 7.30pm to 10.30pm on every Sunday. We upload videos according to the syllabus followed by a live question-answer session and live performances.” “I stress on dialogue delivery and pronunciation and costume. I use Ramayana script with contemporary message. Lord Ram’s life is full of struggle but he remained positive with a smiling face,” said Manvendra Tripathi. The syllabus of four Sunday workshops include Ramayana teaching for living, characterisation, acting and sound in, direction, makeup, script writing, set designing, dance , costume design, Ramlila around the world and Ramlila aesthetics, said Tripathi. “All artists teaching in the workshop are from Gorakhpur and they prepare for the class for at least 6 hours before class. Artists Sanjay Mishra, Arun Singh, Shiv Kumar Mishra, Navneet kumar, Manish Srivastava, Devendra Kushwaha, Dhaani Gupta, Rini Singh, Ankeeta, Akanksha, Poornima are artists, singer Ramdarash Sharma, makeup man Radheshyam, and translator and session coordinator Yogi Raj and Oindrila Ghoshal provide training. I am a mentor and lead instructor and Y Shankar Murti is mentor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/300-artists-of-7-countries-take-part-in-online-ramlila-workshop/articleshow/76650335.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR to Telugu NRIs: Celebrate centenary||Hydeabad: Minister KT Rama Rao has urged Telugu NRIs and representatives of Telugu associations from 51 countries to celebrate the birth centenary of former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao. Interacting with them through a webinar on Friday, the minister gave a call to the Telugu NRIs to celebrate the centenary on a grand scale as a fitting tribute to the exceptional services rendered by the late leader in various fields. The minister said the government has decided to organise a year-long birth centenary celebrations from June 28 and asked the NRIs to organise various programmes in their respective countries. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-to-telugu-nris-celebrate-centenary/articleshow/76653519.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi recorded 3,460 fresh Covid-19 cases; government wants cameras in all Covid wards||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 3,460 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 77,000, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 2,492. On Tuesday, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases. On Wednesday, Delhi had eclipsed Mumbai as the city worst-hit by the pandemic in the country. Sixty-three fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, a Delhi health department bulletin said on Friday. The bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 2,492, and the total number of cases mounted to 77,240. On the brighter side, 47,091 (61%) patients have recovered from the disease. “The cases are rising only because we are testing more people. In the last 24 hours, 21,144 persons were tested for Covid-19. Of this, 3,460 were found positive for the viral infection,” said an official. He added that the majority of patients are either not showing any symptoms or have mild symptoms and there were very few who required admission. The government, a state health department official said, has issued revised Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for management of such patients. Also, a directive has been issued to all the dedicated Covid hospitals to ensure that CCTVs are installed in all wards. “All the Covid dedicated hospitals are also directed to ensure that the footage from the CCTV cameras shall be made available to the inspecting or supervisory expert team, or to any other authority or body as per the direction of the ministry of health and family welfare,” the order states. It adds that all Covid-19 dedicated hospitals shall permit one willing attendant of the patient in the hospital premises, who will remain in an area earmarked by the hospital. All Covid hospitals have been directed to create a helpdesk accessible physically as well as by telephone from where wellbeing of the patient admitted in the hospital can be enquired. The government has asked the hospitals to comply with the direction seriously failing which action as per relevant rule provisions shall be initiated without further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3460-fresh-cases-govt-wants-cams-in-all-covid-wards/articleshow/76653505.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Farmhouse owners protest against show-cause notices||GURUGRAM: The farmhouse owners of Ansals Aravali Retreat have termed as “illegal” the show-cause notices served on them for alleged unauthorised construction, thus disturbing the ecological balance of the forest area in violation of a government notification issued in 1992. This is because, the farmhouse owners, say the land was neither recorded as a forest area nor notified as a controlled area at the time of purchase. On June 4, the Sohna municipal council served notices to owners of some 600 farmhouses of Ansals Aravali Retreat for alleged illegal construction, as per an earlier direction of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The farmhouse owners have also criticised the Gurugram administration’s recent move of replacing the term ‘gair mumkin farmhouse’ with ‘gair mumkin pahad’ in land records. “At the time of purchase by the developer in 1989-90, the land was neither recorded as a forest area nor notified as controlled area. Thus the recent order by the deputy commissioner is also illegal,” Arvinder Brara, a farm house owner, told TOI. When contacted, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said, “The show-cause notices have been sent by the municipal council of Sohna regarding illegal construction on gair mumkin pahad is as per the directions of the NGT as well as the high court. They being the superior courts, we are following their directives only.” Environmentalists have, however, welcomed the move by the district administration. “It is good that the loophole has been plugged to allow enforcement of the Aravali notification,” said Sarvadaman Singh Oberoi, a green activist. Another owner, Sharad Mohan, said, “We had approached the HC regarding the notices. The court had asked the authority to issue a proper notice to each farmhouse owner and give 10 days time to respond. We have responded that the land was not notified at the time of purchase.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmhouse-owners-protest-against-show-cause-notices/articleshow/76653526.cms||Ipsita Pati
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Consumers in Madurai, Theni can pay power bills till July 15||CHENNAI: Domestic consumers in Madurai and Theni districts can now pay their power bills till July 15, Tangedco has announced. “In respect of low-tension consumers located in areas of lockdown in Madurai and Theni districts whose last date for the payment of current consumption charges falls between June 24 to July 14, it has been extended up to July 15, without levy of belated payment surcharge (BPSC),” a statement from Tangedco said. Tangedco will also not levy the disconnection and reconnection fees. For low-tension consumers who have not made payment towards the current consumption charges within their respective last date for payment, BPSC will be levied from such last date for payment to the actual date of payment, said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/consumers-in-madurai-theni-can-pay-power-bills-till-july-15/articleshow/76653518.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Retired squadron leader passes away in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Squadron leader (retired) Parvez Jamasji (78), who flew sorties into East Pakistan during 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War and suffered a bullet wound on his leg, passed away at his Dadar residence on Friday. Jamasji received the Vir Chakra for bravery after the war and Maharashtra government feted him with Gaurav Puraskar. In October 1971, Jamasji was stationed in Dimagiri, on the border of Mizoram, and then East Pakistan. He transported hundreds of soldiers of Special Frontier Forces into enemy territory in a Russian MI-4 helicopter. “These were covert operations three months before war commenced,” he had told TOI in 2012. He would fly low to evade Pakistani radars, and his chopper frequently came under mortar and anti-aircraft fire. Once on his way back after a mission, a hail of bullets hit the chopper’s rotor and fuselage. But Jamasji took his chopper safely into India. Only after he removed his flying suit he discovered blood on his left leg, as a bullet had passed through it. His funeral was held at Towers of Silence, Malabar Hill, on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rtd-squadron-leader-who-flew-sorties-during-bangladesh-war-passes-away/articleshow/76652729.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Dead Kolara tiger tests negative for Covid-19||Nagpur: A sub-adult male tiger KT-1, which died all of a sudden at Gorewada Rescue Centre four days ago, has tested negative for Covid-19. KT-1, which killed five villagers in Kolara range in the buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), was captured on June 10 and brought to Gorewada in a healthy state. However, the tiger showed poor appetite since its arrival at the centre. The tiger died on June 22 morning causing flutter. As per the preliminary findings, the veterinarians performing post-mortem said the tiger probably died of septicaemia, a serious bloodstream infection. It is also known as blood poisoning that occurs when a bacterial infection elsewhere in the body such as lungs or skin enters bloodstream. After a tiger was tested positive for Covid-19 in the USA’s Bronx Zoo, New York, both Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had issued precautionary guidelines for wild animals and those in the zoos and rescue centres. As the death of KT-1 was sudden, vets also took throat swab samples of the tiger and sent it to Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-affiliated National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases. “The ICAR lab is one of the three labs which were authorized by the CZA to conduct sample test for Covid-19. The report received on June 25 from Bhopal institute reveals that KT-1 is negative for Covid-19,” said FDCM officials. The FDCM is now awaiting the post-mortem report, which is expected in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dead-kolara-tiger-tests-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/76652825.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||In Rajasthan, man killed after spat over card game||JAIPUR: A confrontation that started while playing game of cards ended on a tragic note when a 27-year-old man was killed after being attacked by a knife at Faqeeron Ki Dungari area under Brahmpuri police station on Friday. Police have arrested the main accused within some hours after the murder while two others booked for criminal conspiracy were at large. According to police, four persons including the victim identified as Ashfaq were playing cards near a temple at the Brahm Puri locality at 5.30 pm. Suddenly, while playing all of them entered into a verbal spat. The verbal confrontation took an ugly turn when the accused attacked the victim with a knife. A large number of onlookers gathered at the spot after the murder, however, while the victim was attacked none came for the help. “The accused identified as Shayar (25) bring out a knife from his pocket and stabbed the victim many times. The victim though cried for help but none of the public who were witnessing it came for the help and nobody shown any residence to this murder,” said a senior officer of Jaipur (North). The incident took place at 6pm. Sooafter hitting the victim, the three accused, including the main accused managed to flee from the scene. A team of senior police officers and FSL team also reached at the spot. “We also got inputs that Shayar and Ashfaq are neighbours and their families are in some dispute and the families also fight with each other on trivial issues almost on day-to-day basis. Initially we detained Shayar who later confessed his crime and was arrested,” the officer added. Rajiv Pachar, the deputy commissioner of police (North), said, “One person has been arrested in the case while two others who were part of the conspiracy managed to flee. Prima facie it appears that they were gambling while playing cards and at some point they had some dispute which made the verbal spat ugly and it ended up with a murder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-killed-after-spat-over-card-game/articleshow/76653563.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Bains brothers’ rally stopped at Chandigarh-Mohali border||Mohali: A cycle rally led by MLAs Simarjit Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains of Lok Insaaf Party, which had started from Amritsar two days back, was stopped on Friday in Mohali before reaching the Punjab CM’s residence in Chandigarh. The Bains brothers were, however, later taken to the CM’s residence. Before leaving for the CM’s residence, Simarjit Singh said, “Our protest rally — Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao Rosh Yatra — is in the interest of farmers of Punjab, who are opposing the three ordinances passed by the central government. These ordinances will ruin their future. To save Punjab, its farmers should be saved. Both agriculture and farmers are under threat not only from corporates, but also from the government. We will present a memorandum in this regard to the chief minister.” On way to Chandigarh from Amritsar, they were also booked by the Phagwara administration for violating the Covid-19 norms. Criticising the Centre for the ordinances on agriculture, they said agriculture is a state subject and bringing ordinance in such a manner only hints at centralisation of powers. In their memorandum, they stated that the federal structure of the Constitution is being diluted deliberately and the farmers would be the worst affected if the MSP on paddy and rice is scrapped. Bains brothers said citizens must try to save farmers and agriculture. They also criticised SAD for not protecting the interests of the state. SAD has not spoken a word on the dilution of federal structure, they said, adding that the government is trying to clear the way for corporatisation of agriculture in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bains-brothers-rally-stopped-at-chandigarh-mohali-border/articleshow/76653564.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Amritsar||Make stand clear on farm ordinances, Bhagwant Mann tells Sukhbir Badal||BATHINDA: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab convener Bhagwant Mann on Friday accused Shiromani Akali Dal of taking a “dual stand” on the three ordinances passed by the Centre on June 5, asking party president Sukhbir Badal to to make the party’s stand clear on whether it wanted to stick to the post of Union minister held by wife Harsimrat Badal or if it would stand by farmers. The three ordinances permit trade outside agricultural produce market committees (APMCs), ease restrictions under the Essential Commodities Act and facilitate contract farming. “Kursi ya kirsani (power or peasantry)? Let Akali Dal and its president, Sukhbir, make it clear,” Mann said, adding that if the party was with the farming community of Punjab, it would have to reject the post of Union minister and oppose the ordinances passed by the BJP-led coalition, of which SAD is a member. He said people would otherwise presume SAD had deserted farmers for a post. Mann was speaking to media here on Friday, about the stand SAD had taken at the all-party meeting called by Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on June 24. “By not vehemently opposing the ordinances, SAD has unmasked its anti-farmer face,” Mann added. Mann said SAD was confused, as it would lose the Union minister’s post if it opposed the ordinances and would lose its vote bank if it justified them. Mann, who is MP from Sangrur, said Sukhbir was speaking something else in the all-party meeting and something else outside. “It seems Sukhbir is in favour of corporate houses taking over agriculture in Punjab. He might want a partnership with them. Earlier too, SAD supported CAA and then the land acquisition bill. He said AAP would start burning effigies of SAD and its president in every assembly segment from Monday. Mann said he would bring in a private member’s bill against the ordinances in Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/make-stand-clear-on-farm-ordinances-mann-tells-sukhbir/articleshow/76653546.cms||Neel Kamal
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||MSP costs Markfed more than Rs 1,000 cr in 5 years||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Cooperative Marketing Federation (Markfed) suffered losses of over Rs 1,000 crore in the last five years due to procurement of agricultural products at minimum support price (MSP) from farmers. Though the state government has procured maize, tur dal, jowar, black jaggery and bengal gram at MSP, the state marketing federation, which later sells these products in the market through tender system, has not been given the MSP price, as a result of which it had suffered losses. The statistics were reported by the officials after the state government decided to come out with a comprehensive new agriculture policy with focus on regulated cropping pattern. Officials informed the government that a major chunk of losses were due to farmers cultivating produce that was not in demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/msp-costs-markfed-more-than-rs-1000-cr-in-5-years/articleshow/76653555.cms||Roushan Ali
June 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Locust swarms enter Haryana||ROHTAK: Locust swarms destroyed cotton and bajra crop in around 40 villages of Mahendragarh and Narnaul districts on Friday. Mahendragarh and Rewari deputy director, agriculture, Jaswinder Singh said the swarms entered from Rajasthan and flew across Mahendergarh district during daytime and had entered Rewari district by the evening. He said the field officers of the department have got inputs of damage to crops in two or three villages of Mahendergarh district but the impact in Rewari is yet to be known. He said the department has been tracking the movement of locusts and tractor-mounted sprayers are being used to keep them away. Wary farmers have already been beating drums, tin boxes and any loud instruments to scare away the locusts. They are also being connected via social media groups for information on locusts and launch of remedial operations at the earliest, an official of the agriculture department said. In May, the Food and Agriculture Organisation had issued a warning of hopper groups in Pakistan moving to desert areas along the India-Pakistan border. Alerted the agriculture departments of Punjab and Haryana had issued directions to the deputy commissioners in this regard and massive spray operations were undertaken to avert the possible attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/locust-swarms-enter-haryana/articleshow/76653554.cms||Sat Singh
June 27, 2020||Kanpur||26k no carelessness in shelter home||Kanpur.......................2 Anant/ no carelessness in shelter home Times News Network Kanpur: Swati Singh minister of state (independent charge) for women welfare, family welfare, maternity and child welfare on Friday charged the opposition parties that they were maligning the image of state government . “none has committed any negligence in the shelter home case in which girls were found infected”. Talking to media persons after inspecting the shelter home the state minister claimed that all victims were pregnant when they were brought at shelter home. And no one was found HIV positive. Replying to a question about notice to Priyanka Vadra general secretary Congress from child welfare commission she said that rules were common for all not according to the status or on the basis of profile. Justifying the issuance of the notice Singh said rules were common for all in the Modi and Yogi government. Media was wrongly informed .” I admit that disease is contagious but there was neither any negligence nor any carelessness”. When her attention was drawn towards Dr Shuchita Chaturvedi’s statement that there were serious lapses in quarantining the girls, Swati Singh said that samples were collected randomly. “If there was on infected then no doubt others would too be infected,” she said. The authorities took a second round sample and those who were positive were sent to the hospital while others were sent to the quarantine centre. The women welfare minister in the morning first visited women shelter home in Swarup Nagar. There, she inspected the accommodation and asked about the quality of food being given to them. There, the district probation officer apprised her about the spread of deadly virus in girls shelter home. She directed the officials to sanitize the girls shelter home properly. She also asked about the health of girls kept under quarantine. District magistrate Dr Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari informed her that one more time sampling would take place of the girls quarantined. The state minister directed him for counselling of girls. The women welfare minister also asked the officials to raise the boundary wall of women hostel after making an inspection and also asked to complete the construction work at women hostel at the earliest. So that women from shelter home Swarup Nagar be shifted here. He also inspected and supervised the facilities at government children home. ………………………… eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/26k-no-carelessness-in-shelter-home/articleshow/76652185.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||11 people found infected in Himachal, 8 discharged||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh recorded 11 new cases of Covid-19, while eight patients were cured, on Friday. The number of coronavirus patients in the state has now reached 850, of which 339 are being treated and 491 have been cured. A total of 1,612 samples were tested till 5pm. Kangra got 10 more persons and the district’s count rose to 238. Also, five patients in the district were cured. The 11th patient was in Solan district, where the number of cases has reached 92. The travel history and primary contacts of the patients are being traced. A health department official said the result of 1,094 samples was still awaited. He said positive cases were mostly of people with a travel history. “Results of seven cases in Kangra and one in Solan were from were pending on Thursday. Three remaining cases are from samples taken today,” he said. Of the 56,147 persons put under surveillance in the state till Friday, 36,745 had completed the 28-day period and 19,402 people were still under it. In all, 72,690 people have been tested for Covid-19 in Himachal, of which 70,746 have tested negative, 850 positive, 11 have migrated out of the state and seven patients have died. With 225 cases, Hamirpur district has the second highest cases in Himachal and 108 patients are still under treatment there. Bilaspur has 38 cases and 12 cases are active there. In Chamba, 11 of total 50 cases are active. Una has reported 99 cases, of which 27 are active. Solan has 92 cases, of which 45 are active. Shimla reported 39 cases till Friday, of which 19 were active. Sirmour has reported 36 cases, of which 12 are active. Of the total 24 cases, only one case in Mandi is active. Kullu has reported five cases and Kinnaur four. Both the districts have an active case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-people-found-infected-in-himachal-8-discharged/articleshow/76654033.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||High Court issues guidelines to magistrate for inquest||Madurai: Madras high court on Friday issued a slew of directions to the Kovilpatti judicial magistrate (JM) with regard to conducting inquest into the custodial death of the father-son duo P Jayaraj and J Beniks in Tuticorin district. A division bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi said that since the family members of the victims would be under great stress, the JM may go to Sathankulam for recording their statements. The JM should visit the house of the victim to conduct inquest as the women folk would be in mourning. The JM should visit the police station, sub-jail and collect necessary documents such as medical records for better appreciation of the facts. Photographs and CCTV footage can also be collected wherever necessary. The judges observed that they were not interfering in the manner in which the inquest is conducted and directed adequate facilities and protection be ensured for the JM. The judges said though there was resentment from the family members in receiving the bodies, they received them and performed the funeral in a peaceful manner after the JM assured that justice would be rendered. The judges appealed to the public also to have the same faith in the judiciary and not to issue any statements in the social media as it would incite problems. The judges further observed that Tuticorin principal district and sessions judge is also closely monitoring the case and briefing this court about the progress. The judges directed the Kovilpatti DSP to continue the investigation in this case until further orders. Tuticorin SP Arun Balagopalan submitted a status report before the court and informed that normalcy was returning at Sathankulam. Additional AG K Chellapandian informed the court that the postmortem was completed and the report would be sent to the court in a sealed cover soon. The case was adjourned to June 30 for further hearing. Watch Tamil Nadu twin murder: High Court issues guidelines to magistrate for inquest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-issues-guidelines-to-magistrate-for-inquest/articleshow/76653530.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Three arhtiyas flee with wheat worth crores||SIRSA: Taking advantage of the Haryana government’s policy of procuring wheat in limited quantities due to the Covid-19 pandemic, three arhtiyas (commission agents), who are also brothers, bought food grain worth crores of rupees from farmers and fled after selling it in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir through their firm. Acting on the complaint of farmers, Ellenabad police have registered a case against brothers Sanjay Kumar, Rakesh Kumar, Vikas Kumar, all residents of Ellenabad and proprietors of a firm in Talwara Khurd, and their associate Dewan Chand and others. They have been booked for fraud and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-arhtiyas-flee-with-wheat-worth-crores/articleshow/76653580.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||HC suggests counselling and yoga for police personnel to beat stress||MADURAI: The Madras high court, that took suo motu cognizance of the custodial deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Beniks in Tuticorin district, on Friday suggested that the state government come up with ideas like counselling and yoga sessions to alleviate the stress of police personnel during Covid-19 pandemic. The court made the suggestion after the government informed it that the director general of police (DGP) had issued a circular recently setting standard operating procedures (SOP) for dealing with people violating the lockdown. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi observed that stress is everywhere and police personnel also undergo it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-suggests-counselling-and-yoga-for-police-personnel-to-beat-stress/articleshow/76653539.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Procure maize from Doaba farmers: SAD to Capt||Chandigarh: SAD has sought the intervention of Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to help maize farmers of Doaba region by directing Markfed and other state procurement agencies to purchase maize at remunerative prices. Former minister and SAD farmers’ wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said Doaba farmers were forced to sell crop at rates between Rs 700 and 800 per quintal even though MSP for maize was Rs 1,850 per quintal. “This is leading farmers into a debt trap, with growers who sowed maize in 20,000 hectares of land being affected,” he said. He suggested that the government involve market committees and send a list of names of farmers who were forced to undersell their produce. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/procure-maize-from-doaba-farmers-sad-to-capt/articleshow/76653571.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Cases in Punjab near 5,000 as 188 test +ve||Chandigarh: The number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab inched closer to the 5,000 mark on Friday, as 188 more people were found infected with the virus. Two casualties were among the new cases as the state’s tally rose to 4,957. Only nine patients were discharged after they recovered from infection. At the time this story was filed, the casuality stood at 122. The latest deaths took place in Bathinda and Fategarh Sahib. Continuing with trend, many fresh cases were contacts of positive cases, people co-infected with influenza-like illness and cases in which transmission history could not be ascertained by the health department. Of the total, 68 new patients were contacts of positive cases, source of transmission could not be ascertained in 26 cases, and 12 patients were found to be co-infected with influenza like illness. Source of infection in 30 cases was out of Punjab. Also, five police and two BSF personnel, and one health worker, were among those who tested positive for coronavirus infection. Ludhiana recorded the highest number of cases, 67, which included 17 contacts of patients and five cases of ILI. It was followed by Patiala, where 31 people were found infected. Of them, 16 were contacts of positive cases and health teams could not trace the source in 12 cases. In Sangrur, 24 people were tested positive, including 17 contacts of positive cases and six cases in which the source of infection could not be traced. Also, 14 people were found to be infected in Amritsar, 13 in Fazilka, 10 in Pathankot, nine in Gurdaspur, six each in Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali, and two in Ferozepur. So far, 3,021 people have been cured of the virus and 1,634 people are still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cases-in-punjab-near-5000-as-188-test-ve/articleshow/76654041.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: Districts scramble to boost hospital infrastructure||CHENNAI: With a surge in Covid-19 cases in several districts, authorities are scaling up healthcare infrastructure, particularly the number of beds in government and private hospitals and increasing the number of Covid care centres to respond to emergency situations. The worst affected districts in the northern belt have swung into action to double the number of beds, while administrations of the western districts are adding to their existing strength. Districts in the delta region are gearing up to face the onslaught. Vellore, currently, has 2,248 beds; Tiruvannamalai1,700. “We have doubled the bed strength from 150 by converting a non-Covid ward into Covid ward. There is no dearth of beds,” said an official in Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore. Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said the administration was well prepared in terms of hospital facilities and containing the spread of the virus. In Ranipet district, a 400-bed Covid Care Centre has been set up in the newly opened CMC Hospital’s Kannigapuram campus. This is in addition to the facilities available in the government hospital in the district headquarters. The administration of the Tiruvallur district, which has close to 1,000 beds, is marshalling its resources to up the number of beds. “We are inspecting private institutions to convert them into Covid care centres and increase bed strength to 5,000 so as to accommodate primary contacts of patients,” said Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. In Madurai, the district administration is involving five private hospitals with a total capacity of 400 beds for providing Covid care. Monitoring officer for Madurai B Chandra Mohan said private hospitals will provide treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. At Government Rajaji Hospital, 2,000 beds have been kept ready and around 800 already in use. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been identified by the state government for Covid treatment. This includes three medical college hospitals. According to health officials, more than 600 beds are kept ready in these seven private hospitals with PSG alone having 200 beds. Salem, Erode and Tirupur districts too have kept adequate number of beds ready. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan and Sukshma R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/districts-scramble-to-boost-hospital-infra/articleshow/76655989.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 27, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Districts scramble to boost hospital infrastructure||CHENNAI: With a surge in Covid-19 cases in several districts, authorities are scaling up healthcare infrastructure, particularly the number of beds in government and private hospitals and increasing the number of Covid care centres to respond to emergency situations. The worst affected districts in the northern belt have swung into action to double the number of beds, while administrations of the western districts are adding to their existing strength. Districts in the delta region are gearing up to face the onslaught. Vellore, currently, has 2,248 beds; Tiruvannamalai1,700. “We have doubled the bed strength from 150 by converting a non-Covid ward into Covid ward. There is no dearth of beds,” said an official in Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore. Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said the administration was well prepared in terms of hospital facilities and containing the spread of the virus. In Ranipet district, a 400-bed Covid Care Centre has been set up in the newly opened CMC Hospital’s Kannigapuram campus. This is in addition to the facilities available in the government hospital in the district headquarters. The administration of the Tiruvallur district, which has close to 1,000 beds, is marshalling its resources to up the number of beds. “We are inspecting private institutions to convert them into Covid care centres and increase bed strength to 5,000 so as to accommodate primary contacts of patients,” said Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. In Madurai, the district administration is involving five private hospitals with a total capacity of 400 beds for providing Covid care. Monitoring officer for Madurai B Chandra Mohan said private hospitals will provide treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. At Government Rajaji Hospital, 2,000 beds have been kept ready and around 800 already in use. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been identified by the state government for Covid treatment. This includes three medical college hospitals. According to health officials, more than 600 beds are kept ready in these seven private hospitals with PSG alone having 200 beds. Salem, Erode and Tirupur districts too have kept adequate number of beds ready. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan and Sukshma R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/districts-scramble-to-boost-hospital-infra/articleshow/76655993.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Districts scramble to boost hospital infrastructure||CHENNAI: With a surge in Covid-19 cases in several districts, authorities are scaling up healthcare infrastructure, particularly the number of beds in government and private hospitals and increasing the number of Covid care centres to respond to emergency situations. The worst affected districts in the northern belt have swung into action to double the number of beds, while administrations of the western districts are adding to their existing strength. Districts in the delta region are gearing up to face the onslaught. Vellore, currently, has 2,248 beds; Tiruvannamalai1,700. “We have doubled the bed strength from 150 by converting a non-Covid ward into Covid ward. There is no dearth of beds,” said an official in Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore. Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said the administration was well prepared in terms of hospital facilities and containing the spread of the virus. In Ranipet district, a 400-bed Covid Care Centre has been set up in the newly opened CMC Hospital’s Kannigapuram campus. This is in addition to the facilities available in the government hospital in the district headquarters. The administration of the Tiruvallur district, which has close to 1,000 beds, is marshalling its resources to up the number of beds. “We are inspecting private institutions to convert them into Covid care centres and increase bed strength to 5,000 so as to accommodate primary contacts of patients,” said Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. In Madurai, the district administration is involving five private hospitals with a total capacity of 400 beds for providing Covid care. Monitoring officer for Madurai B Chandra Mohan said private hospitals will provide treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. At Government Rajaji Hospital, 2,000 beds have been kept ready and around 800 already in use. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been identified by the state government for Covid treatment. This includes three medical college hospitals. According to health officials, more than 600 beds are kept ready in these seven private hospitals with PSG alone having 200 beds. Salem, Erode and Tirupur districts too have kept adequate number of beds ready. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan and Sukshma R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/districts-scramble-to-boost-hospital-infra/articleshow/76655991.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Hope shines for 11-month-old baby with rare type of asthma||RAJKOT: “How is this child even breathing?” — was how doctors reacted upon seeing the results of the CT scan they did on an eleven-month-old child in Jamnagar who is suffering from a rare allergic asthma, bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA), since he was three-months-old. Thankfully, doctors now say that the child, Raghav Chandra, is responding to medicines and is getting cured of the malaise that left him practically sleepless and cranky for the past six months. According to doctors it’s a kind of allergic disease very rarely seen in children that causes fungus growth in the lungs mainly due to the presence of humidity inside the house. While it’s a hereditary diseases, it is absolutely rare that a child of his age was suffering from it. Ever since Raghav was three-months-old, he started having cough, a malaise so intense that he could not sleep, nor his mother could feed him and even at times made him vomit. His parents had recorded a video of the child coughing non-stop for doctors to know the exact condition. His father Pintu Chandra who works as an RTO agent took him to Ahmedabad, but doctors could not diagnose his problem. He was then taken to Dr Kamlesh Shah, a pediatrician in Jamnagar, who understood the gravity of the case and referred him to G G hospital’s pulmonary medicine department. Head of pulmonary medicine department, Dr Firoz Ghanchi told TOI: “We performed a CT scan and the results left us breathless! Tubes of both sides of his lung were blocked and it was a case of severe asthma.” The physician said that while asthma is a hereditary disease, but it set in too early in the child. It’s a very rare disease in children of less then 10 years and this child was then not even six-months-old, Dr Ghanchi added. According to doctors it’s a fungal growth seen in only one percent of asthmatic patients, but very uncommon in children. The doctors started treatment of ABPA and within two weeks they started getting result. “Because of fungus allergy there was swelling in his trachea which was akin to pneumonia. It happens because of genetically allergic tendency and humidity in the house or bird-shit can trigger it,” said Dr Shah. Raghav’s mother Vaishali said that they even feared that the child may be suffering from TB, but a report of an Ahmedabad lab ruled it out. “Now, we have come to understand that it’s because of allergy, which the doctors claim will not be able to say exactly what till he is five years of age,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hope-shines-for-11-month-old-baby-with-rare-type-of-asthma/articleshow/76651978.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 27, 2020||Jammu||Three arhtiyas flee with wheat worth crores||SIRSA: Taking advantage of the Haryana government’s policy of procuring wheat in limited quantities due to the Covid-19 pandemic, three arhtiyas (commission agents), who are also brothers, bought food grain worth crores of rupees from farmers and fled after selling it in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir through their firm. Acting on the complaint of farmers, Ellenabad police have registered a case against brothers Sanjay Kumar, Rakesh Kumar, Vikas Kumar, all residents of Ellenabad and proprietors of a firm in Talwara Khurd, and their associate Dewan Chand and others. They have been booked for fraud and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/3-arhtiyas-flee-with-wheat-worth-crores/articleshow/76659276.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Districts scramble to boost hospital infrastructure||CHENNAI: With a surge in Covid-19 cases in several districts, authorities are scaling up healthcare infrastructure, particularly the number of beds in government and private hospitals and increasing the number of Covid care centres to respond to emergency situations. The worst affected districts in the northern belt have swung into action to double the number of beds, while administrations of the western districts are adding to their existing strength. Districts in the delta region are gearing up to face the onslaught. Vellore, currently, has 2,248 beds; Tiruvannamalai1,700. “We have doubled the bed strength from 150 by converting a non-Covid ward into Covid ward. There is no dearth of beds,” said an official in Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore. Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said the administration was well prepared in terms of hospital facilities and containing the spread of the virus. In Ranipet district, a 400-bed Covid Care Centre has been set up in the newly opened CMC Hospital’s Kannigapuram campus. This is in addition to the facilities available in the government hospital in the district headquarters. The administration of the Tiruvallur district, which has close to 1,000 beds, is marshalling its resources to up the number of beds. “We are inspecting private institutions to convert them into Covid care centres and increase bed strength to 5,000 so as to accommodate primary contacts of patients,” said Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. In Madurai, the district administration is involving five private hospitals with a total capacity of 400 beds for providing Covid care. Monitoring officer for Madurai B Chandra Mohan said private hospitals will provide treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. At Government Rajaji Hospital, 2,000 beds have been kept ready and around 800 already in use. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been identified by the state government for Covid treatment. This includes three medical college hospitals. According to health officials, more than 600 beds are kept ready in these seven private hospitals with PSG alone having 200 beds. Salem, Erode and Tirupur districts too have kept adequate number of beds ready. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan and Sukshma R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/districts-scramble-to-boost-hospital-infra/articleshow/76652828.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Districts scramble to boost hospital infrastructure||CHENNAI: With a surge in Covid-19 cases in several districts, authorities are scaling up healthcare infrastructure, particularly the number of beds in government and private hospitals and increasing the number of Covid care centres to respond to emergency situations. The worst affected districts in the northern belt have swung into action to double the number of beds, while administrations of the western districts are adding to their existing strength. Districts in the delta region are gearing up to face the onslaught. Vellore, currently, has 2,248 beds; Tiruvannamalai1,700. “We have doubled the bed strength from 150 by converting a non-Covid ward into Covid ward. There is no dearth of beds,” said an official in Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore. Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said the administration was well prepared in terms of hospital facilities and containing the spread of the virus. In Ranipet district, a 400-bed Covid Care Centre has been set up in the newly opened CMC Hospital’s Kannigapuram campus. This is in addition to the facilities available in the government hospital in the district headquarters. The administration of the Tiruvallur district, which has close to 1,000 beds, is marshalling its resources to up the number of beds. “We are inspecting private institutions to convert them into Covid care centres and increase bed strength to 5,000 so as to accommodate primary contacts of patients,” said Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. In Madurai, the district administration is involving five private hospitals with a total capacity of 400 beds for providing Covid care. Monitoring officer for Madurai B Chandra Mohan said private hospitals will provide treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. At Government Rajaji Hospital, 2,000 beds have been kept ready and around 800 already in use. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been identified by the state government for Covid treatment. This includes three medical college hospitals. According to health officials, more than 600 beds are kept ready in these seven private hospitals with PSG alone having 200 beds. Salem, Erode and Tirupur districts too have kept adequate number of beds ready. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan and Sukshma R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/districts-scramble-to-boost-hospital-infra/articleshow/76655988.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 27, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Districts scramble to boost hospital infrastructure||CHENNAI: With a surge in Covid-19 cases in several districts, authorities are scaling up healthcare infrastructure, particularly the number of beds in government and private hospitals and increasing the number of Covid care centres to respond to emergency situations. The worst affected districts in the northern belt have swung into action to double the number of beds, while administrations of the western districts are adding to their existing strength. Districts in the delta region are gearing up to face the onslaught. Vellore, currently, has 2,248 beds; Tiruvannamalai1,700. “We have doubled the bed strength from 150 by converting a non-Covid ward into Covid ward. There is no dearth of beds,” said an official in Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore. Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said the administration was well prepared in terms of hospital facilities and containing the spread of the virus. In Ranipet district, a 400-bed Covid Care Centre has been set up in the newly opened CMC Hospital’s Kannigapuram campus. This is in addition to the facilities available in the government hospital in the district headquarters. The administration of the Tiruvallur district, which has close to 1,000 beds, is marshalling its resources to up the number of beds. “We are inspecting private institutions to convert them into Covid care centres and increase bed strength to 5,000 so as to accommodate primary contacts of patients,” said Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. In Madurai, the district administration is involving five private hospitals with a total capacity of 400 beds for providing Covid care. Monitoring officer for Madurai B Chandra Mohan said private hospitals will provide treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. At Government Rajaji Hospital, 2,000 beds have been kept ready and around 800 already in use. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been identified by the state government for Covid treatment. This includes three medical college hospitals. According to health officials, more than 600 beds are kept ready in these seven private hospitals with PSG alone having 200 beds. Salem, Erode and Tirupur districts too have kept adequate number of beds ready. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan and Sukshma R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/districts-scramble-to-boost-hospital-infra/articleshow/76655990.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 27, 2020||Vadodara||GPCB engg booked in DA case by ACB||Vadodara: An environment engineer of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) was booked in a disproportionate assets case by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in Panchmahal. The engineer was nabbed while accepting a bribe in 2017. The accused Girijashankar Sadhu, was posted as the regional officer of GPCB in Panchmahal in March 2017. He had allegedly sought the bribe to grant a no-objection certificate to a unit proposed in Halol. Sadhu had also sought money to ensure that the unit was not harassed when it became operational. In all, he had sought Rs 1.2lakh and was nabbed while accepting it. Sadhu was subsequently granted bail in connection with the offence, but the probe regarding his assets continued. Another offence was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act by the ACB regarding the assets. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gpcb-engg-booked-in-da-case-by-acb/articleshow/76650823.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic markets stir to life after 3-month Covid stupor||MUMBAI: Municipal markets here awoke from deep corona-induced slumber of three months on Friday. After BMC permitted them markets to reopen with social distancing norms, shops on either side of lanes have begun to function on alternate days. Business is still slow as customers are scarce, and workers and labourers have left for native villages. Still, BMC permission to reopen signals a slow return to normalcy, which requires coexisting with coronavirus. Shop-owners are distributing masks to staff, while hand-sanitiser and social distancing measures are being enforced for buyers. Soohel Sudiwala, who runs Uncle’s Shop at Crawford Market, said around 10% shops reopened on Friday, while the rest will gradually restart, and by Monday more trade will be visible. “But there are no buyers yet. Moreover, since public transportation, mainly trains, is yet to resume, employees are unable to travel to work. Who will use his own vehicle when petrol prices are spiralling daily? I drove 100km to pick up workers from Reay Road, Chembur and Vikhroli,” he said. Civic officials helped shop-owners with phone numbers of vendors selling masks and sanitisers. Transporter Girish Golapkar said ever since a major fire at Crawford Market recently, power supply remains erratic. “Traders can only operate during the day. Around 40 shops out of 350 have reopened, mainly those that sell non-perishable items like tissue paper and aluminium foil. Vendors of perishable items are not operating as there are few customers, and the items could get stale,” he said. Barricades erected in Andheri (W) municipal market were set to give way on Friday. Trader Ramesh Kumar Kumawat of Kamal Stores said, “I and my helpers returned home to Rajasthan, so my shop will not reopen till July. We don’t think it is safe to return as Mumbai is a Covid-19 hotspot.” At Kranti Singh Nana Patil Mandai, Dadar (W), popularly known as Plaza Market, traders said barely 40 of the 250 shops were operational. Sunil Mandhare, who heads the local market association, said, “Large supplies of vegetables come from Vashi market but as most labourers returned to their home towns, there are few mathadis to load and unload goods. BMC also clamped rules like social distancing so few people can gather. Thus, traders are opting to simply shut shop,” he said. At Malad municipal market, Mukesh Vyas who runs Pravin general store, said, “Shops on our side of the lane resumes on Thursday and were closed on Friday. They will operate on alternate days. But there are few customers. People are wary of crowds as coronavirus crisis is not over. We are giving sanitisers and masks to employees and sanitising the shop every two hours. Only two-three buyers are allowed inside at a time.” He added that labour was short and the situation could normalise only after Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-civic-markets-stir-to-life-after-3-month-covid-stupor/articleshow/76652736.cms||Richa Pinto
June 27, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Districts scramble to boost hospital infrastructure||CHENNAI: With a surge in Covid-19 cases in several districts, authorities are scaling up healthcare infrastructure, particularly the number of beds in government and private hospitals and increasing the number of Covid care centres to respond to emergency situations. The worst affected districts in the northern belt have swung into action to double the number of beds, while administrations of the western districts are adding to their existing strength. Districts in the delta region are gearing up to face the onslaught. Vellore, currently, has 2,248 beds; Tiruvannamalai1,700. “We have doubled the bed strength from 150 by converting a non-Covid ward into Covid ward. There is no dearth of beds,” said an official in Christian Medical College Hospital in Vellore. Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said the administration was well prepared in terms of hospital facilities and containing the spread of the virus. In Ranipet district, a 400-bed Covid Care Centre has been set up in the newly opened CMC Hospital’s Kannigapuram campus. This is in addition to the facilities available in the government hospital in the district headquarters. The administration of the Tiruvallur district, which has close to 1,000 beds, is marshalling its resources to up the number of beds. “We are inspecting private institutions to convert them into Covid care centres and increase bed strength to 5,000 so as to accommodate primary contacts of patients,” said Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. In Madurai, the district administration is involving five private hospitals with a total capacity of 400 beds for providing Covid care. Monitoring officer for Madurai B Chandra Mohan said private hospitals will provide treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. At Government Rajaji Hospital, 2,000 beds have been kept ready and around 800 already in use. In Coimbatore, seven private hospitals have been identified by the state government for Covid treatment. This includes three medical college hospitals. According to health officials, more than 600 beds are kept ready in these seven private hospitals with PSG alone having 200 beds. Salem, Erode and Tirupur districts too have kept adequate number of beds ready. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan and Sukshma R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/districts-scramble-to-boost-hospital-infra/articleshow/76655994.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Provide face shields to all police personnel: HC||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Friday directed the state government to provide face shields to all frontline police personnel in the state. The additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian submitted that face shields have been provided to 54,236 police personnel across the state. The AAG also submitted photographs of police personnel wearing face shields while they were on duty. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi observed that the number of police personnel who were provided with face shields was not adequate. Hence, the judges directed the state to provide face shields for all. The judges further directed that the monitoring mechanism should also be followed to ensure that the police personnel are wearing the face shields while they are on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/provide-face-shields-to-all-police-personnel-hc/articleshow/76653550.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Couple end life after dispute with sons||MADURAI: A 67-year-old man and his 60-year-old wife committed suicide by hanging in their house on Samayanallur on Friday. The victims, K Machakalai and Pasupathi took the extreme step, depressed after a dispute with their three sons over who would take care of them. Inspector C Kannan of the Samayanallur police station said first two sons are in Saudi Arabia and Coimbatore respectively while they were living with their youngest son in Samayanallur. The couple having been taking turns to live with their sons. They had accused them of not taking care of them. The couple had also threatened to end their lives, the inspector said. It is learnt that police too had intervened a few months ago. The bodies were sent for autopsy and handed over to their family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/couple-end-life-after-dispute-with-sons/articleshow/76653574.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ludhiana||DCP’s office sealed, 20 of his contacts quarantined||tnnLudhiana: A day after the deputy commissioner of police (law & order) tested positive for Covid-19, 20 of his close contacts, including his colleagues, have been quarantined and his office sealed.At present, 18 cops of Ludhiana Police are Covid-19 positive. While some are admitted to hospitals, others are home isolated. Their contacts, at home and workplace, are also in quarantine. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “The throat swabs of DCP’s 20 close contacts are being taken for test. A senior officer visits nakas, holds meetings and checks arrangements. Therefore, I have asked all cops who came in his contact to quarantine themselves for three days and then get themselves tested.”On Friday, the entire complex of police commissionerate was sanitized and nobody was allowed to enter it.The top cop has asked residents to avoid visiting Shimlapuri and Sahnewal police stations, as some of their cops have tested positive. Agarwal said, “We request people to avoid visiting police stations, unless there is an urgency, and lodge complaints online.”Source of infection of most of the cops is unclear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dcps-office-sealed-20-of-his-contacts-quarantined/articleshow/76651683.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Veteran of 1962 war relives tense moments on India-China border||ROHTAK: Kapur Singh Rathee, an 82-year-old retired Subedar from the Army was at Galwan valley on the India-China border when war was announced in 1962. A resident of Garauthi village in the district, Kapur Singh said he cannot forget those 17 months of the Sino-Indian war of 1962 when he was out of touch with his family. “Communication was not so good in those days so I could not send a letter to my family members back in the village due to my posting in the hilly region,” he said. Finally, when Kapur Singh went back to his village, people told him that they thought he had died in the war. When they were ordered to advance in the Ladakh sector, Kapur Singh was a sepoy in the Indian Army posted at Uri sector in 5 Jat regiment. “One of our battalions was sent to Galwan valley, the other one to Hot Spring point and one was kept at Phobrang area of the Ladakh region to combat the enemy advancing on our land,” he said. Though Indian troops were physically stronger than their Chinese counterparts, the latter had superior quality guns and ammunition, had the advantage of numbers at high altitude and were also native to the hilly region, he said. According to him, the Indian soldiers were freezing cold in the extreme weather while the Chinese were comfortable. In the high altitude battle zones, even food and water were luxuries. On one occasion, they got food after 10 days of tracking in the hilly region. On being asked about his feelings on the Sino-Indian clash in Galwan valley, Kapur Singh said India has considerably improved its armaments and military power over the last six decades. “If we are not ahead of China in military power, we are no less than them in the defence sector,” he asserted, adding that the sacrifice of 20 soldiers would not go in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/veteran-of-1962-war-relives-tense-moments-on-india-china-border/articleshow/76653587.cms||Sat Singh
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Cost of mangoes almost doubles in Chennai market||CHENNAI: The king of fruits seems to be signing off on a high tide, as prices of mango has almost doubled at the temporary wholesale market in Madhavaram. Arrival of the fruit has dropped. The market is receiving only one fourth of different varieties such as Banganapalli, Romania and Bangalora mangoes than usual. On the flip side, cost of mosambi has dropped with trucks mean for other parts of Tamil Nadu being diverted to Chennai. According to market sources, 1kg of mango is sold for Rs 80-Rs 100, while it cost almost half — Rs 50 to Rs 60 — last week. While the market was receiving up to 60 tonnes of mangoes from Andhra Pradesh and Tiruvallur district, supply has dropped to 10 to 15 tonnes. S Srinivasan, president of Chennai Fruits Commission Agents Association, said the cost went up in just two days. Noting that the mango season was coming to an end, he said, “The arrivals have reduced and it has caused prices to go up.” Neighbourhood markets sell fruits by hiking prices by 20%, he added. On the other hand, of the 400 tonnes of fruits received at the market everyday, mosambi makes for nearly 100 tonnes. Srinivasan said 1kg of mosambi is sold for Rs 25 to Rs 40. “Several vehicles ferrying mosambi from Andhra Pradesh, that are meant for southern districts in Tamil Nadu, are being diverted to Chennai as intense lockdown has come into effect in several districts. Rates of mosambi has started dropping,” he added. Meanwhile, market sources said business at the Madhavaram market, which saw a lull last week with several tonnes of unsold fruits going to waste, has started picking up in the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cost-of-mangoes-almost-doubles-in-city-market/articleshow/76652860.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Diabetes is common factor in young Covid-19 victims in Vid||Nagpur: A 21-yr-old girl died in Akola due to Covid-19 on June 25. This girl, the youngest Covid-19 victim in the region, was a patient of type 1 diabetes. On June 26, a 40-yr-old woman from Dobi Nagar in Nagpur died at home. She later tested positive for Covid-19. This woman too was a patient of diabetes mellitus. Analysis of young victims of Covid-19 in Vidarbha reveals that 68% of the deceased below 50 years of age had diabetes. Vidarbha has recorded 143 deaths till June 26. Out of these 73 (51%) have history of diabetes. But, when it comes to young victims, this percentage goes up to 68%. In Vidarbha, 44 deceased out of total 143 were below 50 years of age. Out of these 44, total 30 had diabetic conditions. Four of the six youngest Covid-19 victims in region had diabetes. The youngest Covid-19 victim of Vidarbha, a girl from Hingoli, who died in Akola on June 25, was a patient of type 1 diabetes. The second youngest — a 22-yr-old boy in Nagpur — had schizophrenia and hypertension, but not diabetes. The third youngest of the region — a 29-yr-old man from Pandhrabodi — had jaundice, liver damage, and uncontrolled sugar. The fourth youngest victim — a 30-yr-old man from Dhamangaon Badhe in Buldhana district — too had a diabetic condition, though it was diagnosed only during Covid-19 treatment. In many cases, patients were unaware of their diabetic conditions until they were admitted in hospital and their sugar level was checked. “Young age diabetes has become very common in Central India. Patients generally remain asymptomatic for longer time, and hence they don’t get themselves checked. But, in Covid-19 age, neglecting diabetic conditions can result in serious consequences,” said leading diabetologist Dr Sunil Gupta. Diabetes is a well-established risk factor for Covid-19 and the risk increases with poor sugar control. Similarly, obese individuals with body mass index (BMI) greater than 35kg/m2 are at nearly 7-fold higher risk of requiring mechanical ventilation. So, doctors have suggested that those who already have diabetes should stay away from infection. “For people living with diabetes, it is important to take precautions to avoid the virus. Diabetes can land you in trouble, especially post lockdown, as infection can catch you from all directions now,” said physician Dr Nirmal Jaiswal. “Most important point is to keep sugar under control. There is no need to panic if your sugar is under control,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/diabetes-is-common-factor-in-young-covid-19-victims-in-vid/articleshow/76652876.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Order on capping rates leaves private hospitals in a fix||NEW DELHI: Do the capped rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals apply to all Covid-designated beds up to 60% of a hospital’s total beds, or do they apply only to 60% of the Covid-designated beds? The confusion arises from a June 20 Delhi government circular stating that the rates fixed for treatment of Covid-19 will be applicable on “60% of Covid beds” instead of “60% of the total bed capacity of a hospital” as specified in the order issued earlier the same day. Government officials spoke to TOI and said that the fixed rates would be applicable on up to 60% of a hospital’s total beds and the circular has been superseded. However, there is no official communication in the public domain on this, though hospitals have been sent emails to that effect. The officials also clarified that in the case of hospitals that have to provide free treatment on 10% of beds for economically weaker section (EWS), this would be separate from the 60% rate-controlled beds. In such hospitals, the hospital can charge its own rates only on 30% of the beds and not 40% as stated in the circular. “The government may be claiming to have modified the calculation of beds, but where is the official notification? The policy to fix rates for Covid treatment is unworkable in the absence of public information about the number of beds allocated in each category (isolation, ICU with or without ventilators). It seems the government has no intention of enforcing the rate regulation and is giving private hospitals a free hand,” said Malini Aisola of All India Drug Action Network, one of the 27 organisations that wrote to the chief minister demanding that fixed rates be applicable to all Covid beds. The confusion created by the circular seems to have had a positive, though unintended, consequence. About 10 large hospitals have applied to increase the proportion of Covid beds in the hospital. Under the circular, in hospitals that had less than 60% of beds dedicated to Covid, all Covid beds would be at the fixed rate. However, for those with a larger proportion of their beds designated as Covid beds, only 60% of the designated beds would be under rate control. Crossing the 60% mark, would therefore open up scope for cap-free beds. With Delhi government saying the circular has been superseded, this would no longer be true. “With these large hospitals applying to increase their Covid beds, Delhi will get at least 400 more Covid beds. Now that these hospitals have committed to providing these beds, they can’t go back,” said a senior Delhi government official. Following the order issued on June 20, Delhi government had issued a circular giving details of the number of beds in each hospital on which the fixed rates would apply. The hospitals treating Covid in Delhi were divided into two groups — one group of 108 hospitals which had set aside less than 60% of their beds for Covid and a smaller one of seven hospitals which had set aside more than 60% of beds. In the group of 108 hospitals, the fixed rates would apply to all their Covid beds. For the second group of seven hospitals, the circular had stated that the fixed rates would be applicable to 60% of Covid beds. The change from “60% of total hospital bed capacity” to “60% of Covid beds” made no difference to six out of the seven hospitals as they had set aside 100% of beds for Covid. The only hospital to which this change would have made a difference would have been Max Hospital which had set aside 80% or 200 out of its 250 beds for Covid. According to the order, the fixed rates would be applicable to 150 beds (60% of 250). But under the circular, the number of beds on which the rates would be applicable would have been just 120 giving the hospital 30 more beds to charge the hospital’s own scheduled rates. However, on June 24, Delhi government clarified to Max Hospital in an email that the hospital would have to provide fixed rates for Covid-19 treatment on 150 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/order-on-capping-rates-leaves-pvt-hospitals-in-a-fix/articleshow/76653584.cms||Rema Nagarajan
June 27, 2020||Ludhiana||61 contract the virus||tnnLudhiana: The civil surgeon said results of 61 samples came as positive on Friday, of which 56 are from Ludhiana. The health department officials said 16 cases were reported from Giaspura, five from Jalandhar Bypass, three from Sahnewal, including a police official, three from near Sangeet Cinema, three from Vishwakarma Colony, two from Police Lines, one from Chandigarh Road, BRS Nagar, two from Dugri, two each from Bhamiyan Road, Aman Nagar, SBS Nagar, Jamalpur, ESI Quarters, Bahadur Ke Road, one each from Dehlon, Islam Ganj, Guru Nanakpura, Hambran Road, Jagraon, Basti Jodhewal, Kakowal Road and Shimlapuri. They added that of the six persons who tested positive at DMCH, five are from Ludhiana whereas one is from another state.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the number of patients getting cured was increasing by the day and 39 were discharged in the past 24 hours. He said that till now, 485 were discharged from hospitals. Cops test positive The positive cases also include police personnel from Gurma in Dehlon, Sahnewal, Ludhiana, Nawanshahr and Jalandhar. Two healthcare workers from Dugri and Jassian Road, Haibowal Kalan, and one from Azad Nagar, Bahadur Ke Road, also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/61-contract-the-virus/articleshow/76651653.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man lies on tracks to end life, saved by cops in nick of time||HYDERABAD: A man, who had decided to end his life, was saved by a few policemen when they pulled him off a railway track at Lakdikapul. The city police said that they received a distress call from a female software engineer, who said that her husband, a medical representative, had video called her to inform about his decision to kill himself. Based on the details shared by her, the police patrolling party contacted the Tappachabutra additional inspector, K Prasada Rao, to get assistance in identifying the location of the man. The police contacted the mobile service provider and the location was pointed to between Nampally and Lakidikapul. “We then thought he might be at the railway station and policemen rushed to the spot,” an official said. As expected, the medical representative was found lying on the Lakidikapul railway track and waiting for the train to pass over him. When the police party reached, a train was incidentally travelling on the same track but was few meters away. Before the train inched closer, the police pulled him off the track. During the enquiry, the medical representative told police that he was depressed due to no work and no salary during the lockdown. “Technology saves life. Man made a video call to his wife about his plan to kill self. Wife informed Tappachabutra police which swung into immediate action and traced him on the railway track and saved him from getting run over by a train. Felt so satisfied about the family,’’ Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-lies-on-tracks-to-end-life-saved-by-cops-in-nick-of-time/articleshow/76653590.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Drug smuggler brothers, wives held with Rs 16 crore heroin||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana unit of Special Task Force arrested two drug smuggler brothers and their wives with 3.2kg heroin, Rs 60,000 drug money, a .32 bore pistol, four magazines and 14 live cartridges near Ishar Nagar on Friday. The recovered contraband is worth Rs 16 crore in international market. Raj Kumar, 28, his wife Anjali, 20, of Ishar Singh Nagar, Arun Kumar, 27, his wife Harpreet Kaur, 28, of Phullanwal village, Durgi, were on way to deliver the contraband to their customers when the police intercepted their SUV. STF AIG Snehdeep Sharma said, “Raj and Arun — who hail from Kapurthala — are notorious criminals. Raj has four cases against him and Arun nine. These include scuffle, robbery, drug and liquor smuggling FIRs. In some of the cases, they have been declared proclaimed offenders. The two are drug addicts too. They are into the drug trade for almost a decade and have made much property with the ill-gotten money. The smugglers are financiers too.” Police said they were the big fish of drug business and had links with an Amritsar-based gangster. “And that Amritsar gangster has cross-border contacts. Though Anjali and Harpreet don’t have any case against them, they were actively involved in the trade. The two women would fix deals, collect payments and accompany their husbands to avoid police suspicion,” the AIG added. The accused would procure the contraband from a Delhi-based Nigerian and the Amritsar gangster. “We are trying to trace the Amritsar gangster. The brothers had bought the recovered weapon from Uttar Pradesh for Rs 30,000,” he said. Another couple arrestedFollowing the interrogation of Raj and Arun, the STF arrested another Ludhiana couple involved in drug peddling. “Naman Gupta, 30, and his wife Preeti, 26, of Giaspura were arrested with 810g heroin — which is worth Rs 4.05 crore in international market — on Friday. Their two-wheeler was stopped at a checkpost near 33 Feet Road, Giaspura. During checking, heroin was found hidden under the vehicle seat. The couple has been peddling drugs from the past one year. They would procure heroin from Arun,” the AIG said. Wanted woman peddlerWanted in a drug peddling case, Heena, a resident of Ghora Colony, was arrested with 200g heroin on Thursday. Her three accomplices have already been arrested. Heena has three cases of drug peddling against her and has been into the trade from the past five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drug-smuggler-brothers-wives-held-with-rs-16crore-heroin-firearm-ammo/articleshow/76651669.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||One more child marriage stopped in Madurai||MADURAI: Timely tip-off to the Sellur police helped stop the wedding of a 17-year-old girl with a 28-year-old man to take place at the premises of a primary school on Friday. District child welfare committee member B Pandiarajan said the groom had obtained an e-pass to travel to Madurai for two days for the wedding. The girl, who completed Class XII, is a resident of Sakkimangalam. “She turned 17 only five days ago,” the member said. But her parents had convinced her to get married. However, the Sellur police led by inspector Kottaisamy stopped the wedding. The police and the child welfare committee member spoke to the families and got an undertaking from both the families that they would not get the girl married till she turned 18. This is the third child marriage stopped by the Sellur police in the last nine days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/one-more-child-marriage-stopped/articleshow/76653559.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Three of a family on way to Hyd die in car-truck smash, driver critical||Hyderabad: Three members of a family died after their car crashed into a truck at a junction in Suryapet on Friday. The driver is said to be in critical condition. M Sadanandam (70), his wife M Vijaya Kumari (60) and son M John Joseph (32), from Palakollu in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, were travelling to Hyderabad from Vijaywada . “The family was taking Vijaya Kumari, a cancer patient, for a check-up in the city when the accident occurred at around 7 am at Kasimpet road in Chivvemla mandal,” said a police officer from Chivvemla police station. Driver Avinash, was shifted to a hospital in Vijaywada. According to police, the car rammed into a cement mixing tanker travelling in the same direction after the it took a sudden U-turn on National Highway-65 road. “Joseph and Vijaya died on the spot, while Sadanandam died on his way to the hospital,” added the officer. A case was registered under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-of-a-family-on-way-to-hyd-die-in-car-truck-smash-driver-critical/articleshow/76653598.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Custodial deaths: Rs 45 lakh given to family of father-son duo||TUTICORIN: A cheque and a money transfer letter, for a total of Rs 45 lakh, were handed over on Friday to the kin of a father-son duo -- P Jayaraj and J Beniks -- who died in judicial custody in Tuticorin district. DMK leader and Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi handed over the letter for transferring Rs 25 lakh to the family as announced by party president M K Stalin. Later, on behalf of the government, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju and Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri handed over a cheque for Rs 20 lakh – at Rs 10 lakh per victim – that was announced by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami two days ago. The AIADMK on its part on Friday announced Rs 25 lakh solatium to the family. Kanimozhi told reporters that Tamil Nadu ranked second in the country in lockup deaths as per the National Crime Records Bureau. She said not even chargesheets were filed on such instances and added that this situation should change. “No family should face this plight,” she said and added that the government should treat it as a murder and punish the culprits responsible for the death. Kadambur Raju said the government was keen that such incidents should not happen. “When such incidents happen, the government will take immediate action in an unbiased manner,” the minister said. He said that the entire police force could not be blamed for such rare incidents. “Police stations in Coimbatore and Chennai have won national awards. In this incident, four police personnel were placed under suspension within 24 hours,” he said. He said a family member would be given a government job based on qualification. Meanwhile, terming the death of the duo as unfortunate and worrying, AIADMK convenor O Panneerselvam and deputy convenor Edappadi K Palaniswami in a statement on Friday said the party will not tolerate such incidents. Stating that the family has lost its two pillars, the party offered its condolences and announced a solatium of Rs 25 lakh. They added that the party and the government will uphold the trust people have on them and establish justice. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday condoled the death of a trader and his son, and said it is a tragedy when protectors turn into oppressors. “Police brutality is a terrible crime. It’s a tragedy when our protectors turn into oppressors. I offer my condolences to the family of the victims and appeal to the government to ensure justice for Jeyaraj and Fenix,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-deaths-rs-45l-given-to-family-of-father-son-duo/articleshow/76653588.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Religious leader, minor and Ludhianvi die of Covid-19||TNNLudhiana: Covid-19 claimed three lives in the past 24 hours. They included an elderly religious leader, a 17-year-old girl of Chandigarh and a 36-year-old Ludhiana resident. SPS Hospital pulmonary medicine and critical care specialist Dr Gurpreet Singh said, “The 69-year-old religious leader of Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib district had come to the hospital on June 17 with complaints of fever. He then went back. A day after, he tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to the hospital on June 19. The patient had comorbid conditions, like coronary artery disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, diabetic nephropathy and hypertension. He breathed his last around 10 pm on Thursday.” The second casualty is a minor.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the 17-year-old girl of Chandigarh, who was admitted to Ludhiana civil hospital, died on Friday. She was undergoing treatment for some other disease, but tested Covid-19 positive.”The third death is of a Ludhianvi.“The 36-year-old Ludhiana resident, who hailed from Bihar, died at PGI, Chandigarh, on Friday. He had tested positive for novel coronavirus and was a heart patient,” the civil surgeon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/religious-leader-minor-and-ludhianvi-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/76651700.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Serpentine queues to pay property tax, clear water bills||tnnLudhiana: With June 30 — last date to avail rebate on property tax and water and sewerage bills — approaching fast, long queues can be seen at Suvidha centres in the zonal offices of Ludhiana municipal corporation.In view of the rush, the corporation has decided to keep the Suvidha centers open on Saturday. Municipal officials said once the rebate period is over, they would start issuing notices to defaulters.The rebate on the property tax was announced in November last year, and later, rebate on water and sewerage dues was also announced. Due to the lockdown and curfew, the local bodies department has already extended the deadline twice, but most of the people are rushing to clear bills only in the last few days, the officials said.Given the huge rush, maintaining social distancing at Suvidha centers is becoming a challenge for the civic body officials.The corporation has also made arrangements for online payment of the dues. Civic body superintendent Vivek Verma said since people have the option to pay their bills online as well, instead of wasting time in queues, they should opt for the digital mode, which would also reduce chances of their catching the coronavirus infection.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, "Keeping in view the rush, we have decided to keep the Suvidha centres open on Saturday. We could have opened on Sunday as well, but due to complete lockdown that day, people will not be able to reach Suvidha counters." On Monday and Tuesday, they are anticipating huge rush.In the previous financial year, the civic officials had earned Rs 86 crore from property tax, while water and sewerage charges had fetched Rs 46 crore. This year, the municipal corporation expects to generate Rs 130 crore from property tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/serpentine-queues-to-pay-property-tax-clear-water-bills/articleshow/76651692.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Final adieu to Galwan martyr in Mansa||Mansa: People from all walks of life reached Birewala Dogra village of Mansa to bid the final adieu to Galwan valley martyr Sepoy Gurtej Singh, 22, at his bhog ceremony on Friday. Gurtej (22) was martyred during a clash with Chinese troops near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at Galwan valley in Ladakh. Punjab ministers Manpreet Singh Badal and Gurpreet Singh Kangar also paid homage to the martyr and promised all help to the bereaved family. Manpreet announced a Rs 25-lakh grant for the development of the village and promised to fulfil demands by the martyr’s family to lay village roads and install tube well connections at the earliest. He said the government middle school in the village has been named after Gurtej and a library has been established in the memory of the martyr in the school. A blood donation camp was also organised on the occasion. The Punjab government had already announced a Rs 50-lakh ex-gratia compensation, along with a government job, to a next of kin of the deceased to help the family. Kangar and Mansa deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal handed over two cheques of Rs 2.5 lakhs each to martyr’s father Virsa Singh and mother Parkash Kaur and said the remaining amount announced by the Punjab government would be provided soon. MLAs Budh Ram, Najar Singh Mansahia and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, andSSP Narinder Bhargav also paid homage to the martyr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/final-adieu-to-galwan-martyr-in-mansa/articleshow/76653599.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: PIL wants PPEs, masks for all police, jail personnel||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has ordered notice to the Tamil Nadu government on a PIL seeking to provide adequate personal protective equipment (PPEs), face masks, gloves and sanitisers to police and jail personnel, including prisoners, to protect them from Covid-19 infection. The petitioner, R Varaaki, also wanted the court to direct the government to take test such personnel for Covid-19 regularly. Admitting the plea on Friday, a division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy directed the state to file a detailed reply in two weeks. When the plea came up for hearing, government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan submitted that the government is already providing such protective gear to all personnel of police force and prisons. Noting that not everyone in the departments are entitled to get PPE, other gear like face masks, gloves and sanitisers are being provided in adequate numbers, he added. According to the petitioner, though police and prison authorities are working day and night to fight Covid-19, they are getting infected due to lack of adequate protection measures. Prisoners were also contracting Covid-19 infections, the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pil-wants-ppes-masks-for-all-police-jail-personnel/articleshow/76652885.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Shimla||1.8km motorable tunnel built on Manali-Chandigarh national highway||MANALI: Boring for 1.8km-long double-tube motorable tunnel, one of the 10 such tunnels being built by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) between Aut and Pandoh in Mandi district of Himachal, completed on Thursday. Afcons, the company responsible for making all the traffic tunnels in the area, achieved this breakthrough after a lot of efforts as the whole area is sinking. The tunnel has been built between Rainsnala and Dawada in Mandi district on Chandigarh-Manali national highway. The breakthrough in the tunnel was achieved in presence of NHAI project director Aman Rohila. It took nearly two years for the company to complete the tunnel. Before this, a 2.9km-long tunnel was built near Aut in August last year. Work on remaining tunnels is continuing 24X7 and are proposed to be completed by September 2021. NHAI project director Aman Rohila said credit of this another achievement should be given to hard work by all the workers and engineers. “The remaining tunnels are expected to be completed well within time. Tunnels will be very modern and equipped with all the facilities,” he said. Four-laning of Pandoh-Aut stretch is the most challenging task as the region has loose strata, which slides regularly. There is no possibility of widening of the road here as one edge of the existing road is secured by lose mountain face while other edge has deep gorge with Beas flowing deep below. The only option that engineers could find was to widen the road at possible areas and make tunnels at risky zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/1-8km-motorable-tunnel-built-on-manali-chd-nh/articleshow/76653593.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pune district lags in contact tracing, ratio less than four per case||PUNE: The district’s performance on the crucial contact tracing front in the Covid-19 fight has been the poorest in the Pune revenue division till the last week. According to the Pune division’s dashboard of June 20, the contact tracing ratio of Pune district was just 3.9 as against Kolhapur’s 14.7, Sangli and Satara’s 11, and Solapur’s 9 per positive case. The dashboard data stated that while there were 3,423 positive cases last week in Pune district, the total contacts traced were only 13,438 — less than four persons per patient. According to the set standards, the contact tracing ratio behind every positive case should be at least 15 — seven high-risk and eight low-risk contacts. After analysing the dashboard data, public health expert R Jotkar said there appeared to be a room to augment the contact tracing in Pune to attain at least 15 contacts per case. “Only Kolhapur, with 14.7 contact ratio, appears near-perfect in this context. The local deterrent is contact tracing and it has to be addressed,” he said. Epidemiologist from Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, Giridhara Rao told TOI that there was no fixed limit for contact tracing. “Karnataka did more than 45 per case in the initial period. The surge in cases in urban areas now is the natural progression of pandemic because of increased mobility and testing. At this stage, we must not focus too much on index (infected person)-based contact tracing but go for house-to-house syndromic surveillance twice a week,” he said. Rao stressed that strict contact tracing of positive cases and isolation of symptomatics would reduce the transmission significantly. “For this, community participation is absolutely necessary. It is time to involve NGOs for strengthening the community surveillance and have community care centres and hospitals,” he said. Several other public health experts claimed that faster contact tracing was essential to reduce Covid-19 deaths. State health experts also stressed on it ahead of more lockdown relaxations. An administrative official said with more tests being conducted in the state now and the subsequent higher number of patients, the time frame to track all high-risk and low-risk contacts was limited. The action summary report emphasised on increasing the contact tracing ratio, ramping up the testing facility, and early identification of people with comorbidities and moving them to hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dist-lags-in-contact-tracing-ratio-less-than-four-per-case/articleshow/76652872.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 27, 2020||Pune||Over 700 turn positive for second straight day in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: Over 700 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) for the second straight day on Friday, taking the total tally in the region to 19,027. Besides, 19 patients succumbed to the contagion in PMR on Friday. On Thursday, 725 had tested positive for the contagion in PMR, while the tally rose by 787 on Friday. Of the total new cases, 606 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, while 123 in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas and 58 in rural as well as Cantonment areas. PMC health officials said 331 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. “As many as 3,378 swab samples were collected and sent for the testing on Friday,” a health official said, adding that the active case count in PMC limits had increased to 5,575. Besides, 330 patients were critical, of whom 67 were on ventilator, the official said. Among the casualties reported on Friday, three succumbed to the infection at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 75-year-old woman from Nana Peth, a 48-year-old woman from Aundh and a 37-year-man from Ramtekdi. The patients who died at private hospitals include a 55-year-old man from the Dandekar bridge area, an 89-year-old man from Lokmanyanagar, a 62-year-old woman and a 60-year-old woman both from Hadapsar, a 72-year-old man from Ambegaon Pathar, a 74 -year-old man from Janata Vasahat, a 62-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 55-year-old woman and a 69-year-old man from the Kondhwa area, a 93-year-old man from Sinhagad Road, a 64-year-old woman from Nana Peth and a 74-year-man from Daund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-700-turn-positive-for-2nd-straight-day-in-pmr/articleshow/76652888.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Borivli society sets up Covid isolation centre||MUMBAI: Another housing society has converted its club house into an isolation centre after the rise in Covid-19 cases. Borivli’s Ekta Meadows Society with 420 families set up a five-bed centre with essential equipment, including oxygen. Managing committee members set up the centre with help from doctors residing in the society. Chairman Shankar Nair said, “We were speaking to vendors and associations on ideal equipment, when we thought we will take inputs from doctors from our society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/borivli-society-sets-up-covid-isolation-centre/articleshow/76652668.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Shimla||Shanta Kumar asks Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur to take back his escort facility||DHARAMSHALA: Senior BJP leader Shanta Kumar has written to Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, seeking withdrawal of his escort facility from July 1. In his letter, the former MP said that he has been provided many facilities as the former chief minister of Himachal Pradesh and thanked Thakur for that. “I am no longer an MP and have been freed from active politics as well. Due to my age I will no longer be touring around. In such a situation, now I do not require an escort facility anymore,” the 85-year-old BJP leader said. He said that a government vehicle and four staff attached to him serves no purpose. “The expense of lakhs of rupees for this keeps stinging me. So I urge the government to withdraw this facility as I do not need this at all,” he said in his letter to Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/shanta-asks-thakur-to-take-back-his-escort-facility/articleshow/76653605.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||15 from Chelluru attended a wedding in E Godavari dist which reported 120 cases||Visakhapatnam: Chelluru, a small farming village in Rayavaram mandal in East Godavari district, has earned a label that nobody wants: that of reporting more than 100 Covid-19 cases. This is reportedly the second village in the state to have registered over 100 cases after Gollala Mamidada in the same district. District officials believe that the cases started after a few families from Suryaraopeta in Chelluru attended a wedding in G Mamidada in Pedapudi mandal on May 13, at a time when asymptomatic transmission was believed to be at its peak in Mamidada village. It will be recalled that a 53-year-old man from G Mamidada village succumbed to Covid-19 on May 20 and is believed to have transmitted the disease to at least 200 people in Pedapudi and its neighbouring mandals. After the outbreak erupted in G Mamidada village, fear spread among those who attended the wedding. Nearly 15 people from Chelluru village voluntarily approached the health department, requesting officials screen them for the disease. Only two persons, howeverm tested positive in the initial tests conducted on June 2. All test results conducted on primary contacts on June 5 turned out to be negative but nearly 17 persons were diagnosed with the disease in tests conducted on secondary contacts on June 6. Soon, cases continued to rise in the village. Within 25 days, the number of infected people in the village rose to about 110. It is likely that the village will outnumber the 120 cases in G Mamidada village over the next few days. Chelluru is the most populous village in Rayavaram mandal with a population of around 10,730 as per the 2011 Census. Nearly 50 patients are under home isolation in the village. Among the infected are children and the elderly. A health official of the district said villagers from Chelluru who attended the wedding in G Mamidada might have contracted the virus there. “And they may have further transmitted it to other persons who came into contact with them in due course,” said the official. East Godavari, which had remained relatively free of Covid-19 in the initial months of the virus spread has now emerged as one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the state, crossing the 1,000-mark on Thursday. The disease has spread to nearly 70 per cent of all mandals, including in tribal pockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/15-from-chelluru-attended-a-wedding-in-g-mamidada-which-reported-120-cases/articleshow/76652899.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Local bodies in Ramnad self-impose restrictions||Ramanathapuram: Local bodies in Ramanathapuram district, which is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases, have begun self-imposed restrictions to prevent the spread of the disease. Thiruvadanai, a village panchayat and Thondi, a town panchayat, are striving to achieve this goal. Traders organisations throughout Ramanathapuram had already decided to shut shop by 2pm everyday to control the spread of the disease. Thiruvadanai panchayat president, Ilakiya Ramu said it was a relief that there have not been local infections till date. “The few cases we had were persons who had come from other places. About 20 people are quarantined at the Thiruvadanai Government Arts College,” she said. Disinfection of public places was done twice a day and physical distancing symbols were drawn outside all the shops in the panchayat. People were sensitized on the importance of wearing masks and handwashing, through the public address system. Thirteen shops were fined a total of Rs 13,000 a week ago for not following the rules. Now, there is 100% adherence. “We are contemplating on asking the police to help us stop all vehicles coming from Madurai and other places for trade purposes at the checkposts and offload the goods ourselves,” said the panchayat president. “Tea shops, which witnesses most people flouting the norms have been asked to close by 2pm,” she said. Chandran, a villager said that most people follow the rules by wearing masks. “We are realising the seriousness of the disease and following the rules,” said Subramani, another villager. Thondi is another local body which is trying its best to control the disease. “Locals comply easily, but outsiders are the problem,” said executive officer of the town panchayat, A Selvaraj. People without masks are fined Rs 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/local-bodies-in-ramnad-self-impose-restrictions/articleshow/76653594.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Mayor suspends dyCMO Dr Gantawar, his wife for attendance irregularities||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Friday suspended Dr Praveen Gantawar and his wife Dr Neelu Chimurkar for their alleged role in attendance irregularities at the Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya with immediate effect and ordered standing committee Vijay Zalke’s committee to inquire into the allegations levelled by corporators in the adjournment motion as the general body meeting continued for the fifth day. The issue was raised by BJP corporator Parineeti Fuke. Terming the ruling of the mayor illegal, Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that he will not implement the decision to suspend Dr Gantawar. To a query, he said he would discuss in details after minutes of the meeting come. He has said in the house that Dr Gantawar had already brought stay from the court against a complaint filed against him. His wife’s salary too was deducted for 81 days for remaining absent from the duty, the commissioner said. Joshi also directed the civic administration to write to the state government to withdraw police complaint against Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane. Assistant municipal commissioner Vijay Humne had filed an FIR against Sathawane accusing him of stalling administration from carrying out work in Satranjipura containment zone. On June 22, leader of opposition in NMC and Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve had served show cause notice to party corporator Nitin Sathawane after he submitted adjournment motion against Mundhe. The mayor ordered the administration to withheld all promotions and additional charges given to NMC officials by Mundhe. The administration was also directed to lodge an FIR against unknown person after Congress corporator Harish Gawalbanshi informed the House that a message is being circulated on social media that he and BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari had insulted Sant Tukaram and hence they should be boycotted. Disciplinary action was ordered against chief accounts and finance department officials for sitting on a file pertaining to installation of LED lights on 7,000 street light poles for 135 days. A probe was also ordered against promotion of municipal commissioner’s driver Pramod Hiwase as the civic chief’s personal assistant. The mayor also directed the standing committee to also inquire allegations on violation of tender conditions in other four hospitals along with KT Nagar Covid care hospital. Joshi nominated additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane on the committee. Like previous four sittings of the general body, the fifth day too had its share of theatrics. Congress corporators including leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve, Praful Gudadhe, Sandip Sahare, Kamlesh Chowdhary staged a walkout claiming mayor’s inability to run the House smoothly. Their action was preceded by repeated disruption by MLC Pravin Datke while Mundhe issued a statement in the House. Continuing from where he left on Thursday, Tiwari slammed the civic chief for brazenly violating the MMC act. To his demand, NMC secretary Ranjana Lade informed the House that municipal commissioner need to take leave approval from standing committee chairman. But Mundhe had ignored this rule too, Tiwari claimed. Mayor also found Mundhe and additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi had not followed the service manual while proceeding on leave without informing the standing committee chairman. Without structural audit of existing hospital buildings, Tiwari said following Mundhe’s directives, how the NMC carried out the civil works. Tiwari also alleged the civic body had wasted of taxpayers’ money for creating Covid care centers when he could have acquired private hospitals. Without reviewing NMC’s capacity, the NMC had strengthened five civic hospitals. Superintending engineer Manoj Talewar informed the House that 817 works worth Rs426 crore have been stalled due to lockdown. He also drew attention of the House towards lack of manpower in NMC health department (medicines) resulting into deteriorating medical facilities in NMC-run hospitals. He also claimed that the civic body had violated tender conditions invited for strengthening five hospitals. The discussion on adjournment motions, saw Wanve criticizing Mundhe for stalling development works. “The NMC financial condition is not so bad that the civic chief should stall even emergency works like repairing potholes, replacing damaged sewerage chambers,” he said. He also appreciated former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for increasing state government grants to the NMC and said the civic chief should also try to bring in more funds from the state government. Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav said almost 58 corporators participated in the discussion on adjournment motions in the last five days and barring two corporators, all expressed anguish against Mundhe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-suspends-dycmo-dr-gantawar-his-wife-for-attendance-irregularities/articleshow/76652897.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||5 thieves held, 45 cellphones recovered||Hyderabad: Narsingi police solved thefts of a series of cellphones in city and neighbouring districts by arresting five thieves, including two juvenile offenders. They recovered 45 stolen cellphones and four vehicles, all worth Rs 8 lakh from the possession of the accused. On June 20, the gang stole Rs 15,000 worth cellphone of a private firm employee Prakash, when he was purchasing vegetables at YSR Colony. Subsequently, the offenders stole Rs 20,000 worth cellphone of another complainant, Laxman, at a cafe in Narsingi while he was having tea. After the two offences, Narsingi police verified the CCTV camera footages at the crime scenes and identified the suspects. On Friday police arrested the gang members — N Chinna (30), auto driver from Patancheru, Srinivas (55) from Vikarabad, A Kishore (25), a car driver from Patancheru, and two juvenile offenders from Narsingi when they were moving under suspicious circumstances. “The accused had been moving between Sangareddy, Medak, Vikarabad, Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Patancheru in ther auto and committing the theft,” said Narsingi inspector Gangadhar. During questioning, the accused confessed to have committed seven offences at Narsingi, Chandanagar in the city, Jogipet, Shankarampet of Medak district and Patancheru of Sangareddy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-thieves-held-45-cellphones-recovered/articleshow/76653608.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Right actions now will shape post-Covid world, says Noam Chomsky||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Cognitive scientist and political activist Noam Chomsky has said the characteristics of a post-Covid-19 world could be largely dependent only on what people and countries were doing in the thick of the pandemic. “What is going to be a post-pandemic world depends on what people are doing right now,” said Chomsky in a video message delivered for the inaugural session of Kerala Dialogue, a virtual discussion series launched by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on his social media pages on Friday. “There are people, the ones with power, the ones who created the neoliberal disaster and the ones who are benefitting from Trump’s malice. They are working, very hard, relentlessly to ensure that the world comes out of the pandemic will be structurally much like the one that caused it, even harsher, more authoritarian…There are counter forces all over the world, very significant ones, if they can be brought together and form a powerful force, they can change the way things will turn out. There are steps in that direction. Progressive international voices are heard from all over the world,” Chomsky said. “And what are the governments in the world doing? Some are doing something, including India. But not enough, only something. The country that is doing the most is the most powerful in the world. It is racing to rush towards the abyss. Trump is pulling all the stops to maximize the use of fossil fuels and to eliminate any regulatory apparatus that might mitigate them and for a good reason. That enriches his rich friends and increases corporate power. America has awesome power. No one else comes close and no one else is going to come close and all the talks about China becoming a competing superpower, I think, is built on sand’’, he said. Nobel laureate Amartya Sen who spoke next from the US said it would be wrong to conclude that the pandemic of Covid-19 scale kills indiscriminately. “We hear in the New York Times that banality, again and again, that Covid-19 doesn’t reflect class or colour. Of course, it doesn’t and we don’t expect it. In Chicago, African Americans are 30% of the population. But 70% of the Covid deaths were from this community. The lessons could skip the human race if it fails to learn and understand things correctly,” he said. Saumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organisation, said the Coronavirus causing Covid-19 has not undergone any significant genetic changes to the scale of hampering the researches to invent effective drugs or vaccines against the pandemic. She said the scientific community was inching towards a formidable solution to the pandemic at a pace and pain which it was not unknown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/right-actions-now-will-shape-post-covid-world-chomsky/articleshow/76651722.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chennai||TN: Despite price hike, Rs 1,000 crore loss for Tasmac in 40 days||CHENNAI: State-run Tasmac liquor outlets have recorded a loss of Rs 1,000 crore in the past 40 days despite hiking prices twice this year. Closure of shops in and around Chennai is costing the liqour corporation at least Rs 25 crore a day, Tasmac sources said. Prices of liquor was increased by up to Rs 20 per 180 ml bottle and excise rates on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) was revised by 15% in February and May, to boost revenue for the government amid Covid-19 lull. The state-owned marketing corporation, which is the state’s cash cow, had already suffered losses of approximately Rs 5,000 crore when all its outlets were shut for nearly 50 days between March 25 and May 15. Tasmac shops were reopened for business except in Chennai on May 16. Of the 5,300 Tasmac outlets in Tamil Nadu, nearly 800 are closed including 750 outlets in Chennai, besides parts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts under lockdown currently. Data sourced by TOI reveals that sale of IMFL varieties has dropped by 40% in May and 7% in June when compared to the months last year. Against the average sale of 50 lakh cases of IMFL (a case has 12 full (750 ml) bottles) every month, only 30 lakh cases were sold in May. June was slightly better with 39 lakh cases sold till Thursday. In the biggest hit, beer sale dropped 70% in May and 42% in June when compared to the months in 2019. On an average, 25 lakh cases of beer (a case has 12x650ml bottles of beer) are sold every month, with it spiking past 30 lakh cases during summer months. Closure of shops in and around Chennai, which accounts for about 20% of the sales, is a major contributor to the drop in figures. Tasmac is earning Rs 108 crore-Rs 110 crore daily. “Though we were able match the daily revenue of last year, if all outlets and bars were open, we would have got an additional daily income of at least Rs 25 crore,” a Tasmac official said. Tasmac had generated revenue to the tune of more than Rs 30,000 crore during the last fiscal of 2019-2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-price-hike-rs-1000-crore-loss-for-tasmac-in-40-days/articleshow/76652895.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Post health officer for Madurai: MP||MADURAI: While reiterating his demand for increased testing, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan also called for appointment of a city health officer for Madurai, a post that has been lying vacant for many months and for more beds in isolation facilities. It is projected that Madurai would have over 7000 cases of Covid-19 by mid-July and these measures were important in managing the pandemic, he said. In a statement, issued on Friday, he said that a report by the Union health ministry on the Covid-19 situation in Madurai stated that the growth rate of the disease in Madurai is 7.9%. It also predicted that the district would have 7883 cases by July 21, in which case, as many as 2.4 lakh people would have to be tested in Madurai by then, Venkatesan said. This translates to 9500 tests per day and a requirement of 4500 beds by then. Currently, the hospitals in Madurai have only 1200 beds. A monitoring officer for Covid-19 in the district had assured that the number would be enhanced by another 2000 soon. Even then there would be a shortfall of 1300 beds, he said. Venkatesan said that the sluggish approach till early this month had resulted in the cases rising now. Increased testing is the only way forward for Madurai city, with a population of over 15 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/post-health-officer-for-madurai-mp/articleshow/76653596.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Civic body to gift masks to violators||PUNE: The civic administration will gift masks to people found venturing out in public places without the protective gear, besides slapping a fne of Rs500 on each of them. “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had appealed to the citizens a number of times to wear masks in public places. But many are not adhering to the directions. We are trying to use innovative way to encourage the violators to wear mask,” Dnyaneshwar Molak, head of PMC’s solid waste management department, said. The civic administration on Thursday started a drive to penalize citizens venturing out without masks. On the first day of action, 22 citizens were fined Rs500 each for the first-time offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-gift-masks-to-violators/articleshow/76652894.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Traditional courses for 11 colleges||By: Arti Kapur CHANDIGARH: A committee constituted by the Punjab government has suggested that under the Covid-19 situation, only traditional courses should be introduced in the 11 proposed colleges in the state and the plan to launch job-oriented skilled-based courses should be put off for now. The recommendation from the special committee, formed by the education department to decide on the courses to be introduced at the new colleges, came in its preliminary report. Sources said the panel members believe that this year only traditional courses like BA, B.Sc and B.Com should be introduced in the proposed colleges, as trained staff, labs and other infrastructure would be required immediately in case of job-oriented courses. The government has been keen to start courses in tourism, hospitality, information technology and data processing courses, besides traditional BA and B.Com courses, in the degree colleges planned for this academic year. Some committee members were also of the view that this year, only those courses should be introduced which can be offered online and have wide scope for job opportunities, like IT. There are six degree colleges proposed at Malout in Muktsar district, Abohar in Fazilka, Dholbaha in Hosiarpur, Raikot in Ludhiana, Husner in Muktasar and Korotana Fatehgarh in Moga district, to which Panjab University will give affiliation. To three degree colleges planned in Malerkotla and Roshanwala in Sangrur, and Mahain in Rupnagar, the Punjabi University, Patiala has to give affiliation, while two at Shahbazpur in Khadur Saheb of Tarn Taran and Shahkot in Jalandhar will be affiliated to GNDU, Amritsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/traditional-courses-for-11-colleges/articleshow/76653611.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||No written order to stop work, admits Mundhe||Nagpur: In a statement that brought smiles on the face of corporators rallying against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the civic chief finally got to speak in the House on Friday and admitted to not issuing any written order to stop civic works. Mundhe justified his action by citing lack of funds that “forced him to do so”. Also, unless he cleared old dues of contractors he could not take up new works which forced him to take the decision of stalling the work orders, Mundhe said. To this, mayor Sandip Joshi directed him to start development works for which work orders were issued before March 19, 2020. Since the last five days during the marathon discussion on adjournment motions, corporators from all political parties had raised the issue of municipal commissioner stalling the works forcing inconvenience to the citizens. Mundhe exuded confidence while replying to the queries raised by the corporators despite repeated attempts by ruling party corporators to disrupt his speech. The civic chief requested the mayor to allow him complete his say in the House. Later, the mayor directed all corporators to submit their queries to be asked to the municipal commissioner on their respective letter heads at his office by July 3 and the latter will give his reply to all the corporators by July 6. Mundhe also refuted all allegations levelled by corporators pertaining to implementations of guidelines pertaining to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-written-order-to-stop-work-admits-mundhe/articleshow/76652911.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kochi||Faculty pushes back, CUK puts its directive on hold||Kochi: Faculties of at least three central universities Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have written to respective vice-chancellors expressing their inability to comply with directives asking them to report back on campuses by July 1 citing the near absence of safe public transport and worsening Covid-19 situation. Following this, the Central University of Kerala (CUK) on Friday said its circular has been put on hold pending further orders, considering the gravity of the situation. “It is disturbing that university authorities have taken a decision to place the faculty of the university and their families at great risk by requiring them to report back. Faculty members are currently engaged in online teaching, evaluation and research. As we had already pointed out in our letter (May 12, 2020), without the resumption of public transport the faculty members, especially those from outside Kerala, would find it extremely difficult to travel to Kasaragod,” a letter by the teachers’ association of CUK said. A faculty member of the varsity, who did not want to be identified, said deans and heads of departments have been asked to be present in their respective departments. The letters by the teachers’ unions pointed out that according to the Union ministry of human resource development’s (MHRD) directive educational institutions are to open only after August 15. The worsening Covid-19 situation across the country would put faculty members at grave risk, they said. The Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), in its letter, also asked faculty and their family members, including children, to undergo Covid-19 testing and institutional quarantine upon reporting. A representation sent to CUTN by teachers highlighted the minimal health facilities in Thiruvarur and said this poses an additional risk to families with small children and elderly members. In response to the concerns raised, the Central University of Karnataka said it has installed a hand-wash facility at the entrance gate. Sanitizer supply would be ensured in all departments. Further, the varsity said it will comply with central government norms on quarantine. It also said work-from-home requests would be permitted on a case-by-case basis. “We are fortunate to have our jobs protected and receive full salaries on time. Let's respect that and try to contribute for the university and nation,” said the letter signed by the registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/faculty-pushes-back-cuk-puts-its-directive-on-hold/articleshow/76651755.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 27, 2020||Goa||Cong to BJP: Stop blaming Nehru for every border issue||Panaji: While paying tribute to the Army personnel who lost their lives at Galwan Valley in a clash with the Chinese troops, Congress called for the nation to stand united with the armed forces. In the same breath, the party demanded that BJP and the Centre should stop blaming Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Congress for the border dispute. The party’s senior MLAs and office bearers observed a remembrance meet at Azad Maidan in the state capital followed by a silent protest. “The entire country has come together against China,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat, adding, “India has a history that whenever the enemy has attacked us, the entire nation has united and stood behind the army, irrespective of religion, caste or region.” Kamat also urged the NDA government to tell the country about the exact situation on the Line of Actual Control instead of hiding facts. Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro said that the country would always remember the valour and martyrdom of Col Santosh Babu and the 19 brave soldiers of the Bihar Regiment. Congress did hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, blaming him for adopting the “wrong diplomatic approach” with China. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that Modi’s statement that China did not encroach into Indian territory has given a clean chit to China and has weakened India’s stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-to-bjp-stop-blaming-nehru-for-every-border-issue/articleshow/76653641.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Video calls ease some separation pains at Covid hospitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched a video calling facility at Lok Nayak Hospital to facilitate interaction between Covid-19 patients and their attendants, some families were unaware about the new convenience on Friday. A few happily connected with their relatives over video, though many said they hadn’t used the system or didn’t know how to go about it. Janakpuri resident Himani had complained to TOI on Thursday that she was unable to meet or talk to her 65-year-old father. She alleged that after his admission on Wednesday night, he had not been seen by the doctors and was worried. On Friday, Himani happily reported having spoken to her father on video calling. She got help from the receptionist for the short interaction on the new facility. “We had a video chat with him on his personal phone,” Himani said. “We found that he is on oxygen support and we are feeling a bit stressed.” Arava Gopikrishna, an IAS officer and the nodal officer for the video facility, disclosed that at least 15 video calls were arranged for Covid patients on Friday. “Attendants queued up at our hello desk, and we connected them to the patients,” said Gopikrishna. “More people will avail the service when awareness about it spreads.” There were, however, some who still grumbled about the difficulty of accessing patients in the hospital. Tilak Nagar resident Deepak, whose 70-year-old father is admitted there and for whom he brought trousers and a shirt at 9.30am but which hadn’t reached the elderly patient even at 2pm, angrily said, “Video calls are failing due to poor internet connectivity. Even in a jail, there’s no ban on people meeting. The hospital may not want us to go near our relatives, but they can let us see them from a distance.” Till Thursday, many families were exasperated by the lack of contact with the patients in the city’s major Covid hospital. A day later, members of a family from Geeta Colony said they were finally able to speak to their father on his phone. However, Karan Ahuja told TOI that he was not aware of the newly started video calling facility or how it could be use. Prem Das, a resident of Sagarpur, whose sister-in-law, Suman, is a Covid patient, was also unable to breach the gap through video. On Thursday, Das had expressed frustration at not being able to talk to his sister-in-law for eight days or get a status report on her condition. On Friday, he said he did not know how to use the video conferencing facility, though he also admitted that Suman, who has heart and kidney problems in addition to Covid, did not use a phone. The amenity, which the CM said on Thursday was meant to resolve the problems people were facing in interacting with their relatives admitted in the hospital, was a day too late for Jugni. On Thursday evening, TOI had found the 30-year-old woman grieving outside the hospital, having spent five days in high anxiety because of lack of contact with her Covid-19 suspect husband. “My husband had kidney problems. For 48 hours, I had no information on him, even when I told the hospital that if he had Covid, I would shift him to a private hospital,” Jugni wept after learning on Thursday afternoon that her husband, Radhey Shyam, had passed away. “I managed to speak to him on June 23, but the hospital asked me to come after two days for his discharge after dialysis,” the widow said. But on June 25, she couldn’t get through to him until the hospital informed her of his death. She was handed her husband’s body on Friday, and doctors said he had tested Covid-positive. At the hospital gate on Friday, the faces indicated two clear groups of attendants. Those calm or smiling reported that their patients were recovering. The wracked faces belonged to those who had failed to talk to their patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/video-calls-ease-some-separation-pains-at-covid-hosp/articleshow/76653606.cms||Sakshi Chand
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rapid spread in slum pockets along Sinhagad Road in 3 weeks||PUNE: The Covid-19 spread in areas like Panmala, Dandekar bridge and Janata Vasahat has pushed up active patient count in the Sinhagad Road ward limits to 517 in the last three weeks, second after 677 of Kasba-Vishrambaug ward limits. The case spike can be gauged with the fact that Sinhagad Road was not even among the first five civic wards in terms of active cases at start of June.  The latest report of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has revealed that active cases in the Dandekar bridge slum pocket have soared past 100-mark, while Janata Vasahat and Panmala have 90 and 40 active patients, respectively. Civic authorities said they had sealed all vulnerable slum pockets along the Sinhagad Road, including the Dandekar bridge area, the arrest the virus spread. “Besides the slum areas, the civic body has also initiated steps to keep a close watch on other vulnerable spots, such as Dhayari, which have accounted for more than 230 cases. All these cases are sporadic, but the administration has planned elaborate steps to monitor them,” Sinhagad Road ward officer Sambhajirao Khot said. More than 30 Covid-19 cases have been detected from Dhayari and its nearby areas. Since the locality is densely populated, a dedicated ambulance has been deployed for it. A PMC official said there was need for stricter enforcement of social distancing norms. “The total cases in the Dandekar bridge slum have increased to 250. Panmala slum has over 215 cases and Janata Vasahat 185,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rapid-spread-in-slum-pockets-along-sinhagad-road-in-3-weeks/articleshow/76652904.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Ensuring that quality liquor is sold at MRP, Tasmac MD tells Madras HC||CHENNAI: Retail liquor shops are not charging anything extra for liquor, Tasmac has claimed in the Madras high court, adding that if shops are found charging more than Rs 10 per bottle, all the employees of the shop concerned are transferred out en masse. If employees charge Rs 1 beyond the maximum retail price (MRP), then they are punished with a penalty of Rs 1,000 for every extra rupee, with a maximum of Rs 9,000 plus GST. A submission to this effect was made R Kirlosh Kumar, managing director of Tasmac, through a sworn affidavit on Friday. Noting that periodic circulars are issued to district authorities, Kumar said if the violation is above Rs 30, the employee concerned and the shop supervisor will be suspended immediately. Responding to a public interest writ petition filed by R Kullupadaiyachi of Salem to regulate liquor sale and ensure that liquor is not sold above the MRP, Kumar said between April 2019 and March 2020, action was taken on 9,319 complaints of overcharging. In Chennai, 2,129 cases of MRP violation have been reported during the period, he said. Of the 2,219 cases, 1,006 are violations of below Rs 10 and 1,123 are violations of Rs 10 and above, he added. Similarly, in Coimbatore 1,487 such cases have been reported. In Madurai it was 2,422, Salem 1,365 and Trichy 1,916, he said. “To stop MRP violations, Tasmac has been issuing directions and circulars regularly. All senior regional managers and district managers have been instructed to strictly adhere to such directions,” the affidavit said. He said all senior regional managers and district managers have been directed to ensure that revised MRP was displayed in all outlets. Countering the allegation that liquor supplied through Tasmac was substandard, he said the government is more sensitive to maintain public health and hence, takes utmost care in supply of liquor that conforms IS and FSSAI specifications. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy adjourned the plea after two weeks for the petitioner to file his reply to the counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ensuring-that-quality-liquor-is-sold-at-mrp-tasmac-md-tells-hc/articleshow/76652914.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Crucial Vasai bridge reopens after two years||Mumbai: The old Ambadi road bridge connecting east and west Vasai reopened on Friday after almost two years. The 35-year-old bridge was shut in July 2018 for repairs, few days after the collapse of the 40-year-old Gokhale bridge in Andheri killed two and injured three. Ambadi bridge was closed to repair portions that had developed cracks. Vehicles were using the new bridge constructed in June 2016 to travel from east to west. Mayor Pravin Shetty inaugurated the bridge. Motorists had been demanding its reopening. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/crucial-vasai-bridge-reopens-after-two-years/articleshow/76652744.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Traditional courses for 11 colleges||By: Arti Kapur CHANDIGARH: A committee constituted by the Punjab government has suggested that under the Covid-19 situation, only traditional courses should be introduced in the 11 proposed colleges in the state and the plan to launch job-oriented skilled-based courses should be put off for now. The recommendation from the special committee, formed by the education department to decide on the courses to be introduced at the new colleges, came in its preliminary report. Sources said the panel members believe that this year only traditional courses like BA, B.Sc and B.Com should be introduced in the proposed colleges, as trained staff, labs and other infrastructure would be required immediately in case of job-oriented courses. The government has been keen to start courses in tourism, hospitality, information technology and data processing courses, besides traditional BA and B.Com courses, in the degree colleges planned for this academic year. Some committee members were also of the view that this year, only those courses should be introduced which can be offered online and have wide scope for job opportunities, like IT. There are six degree colleges proposed at Malout in Muktsar district, Abohar in Fazilka, Dholbaha in Hosiarpur, Raikot in Ludhiana, Husner in Muktasar and Korotana Fatehgarh in Moga district, to which Panjab University will give affiliation. To three degree colleges planned in Malerkotla and Roshanwala in Sangrur, and Mahain in Rupnagar, the Punjabi University, Patiala has to give affiliation, while two at Shahbazpur in Khadur Saheb of Tarn Taran and Shahkot in Jalandhar will be affiliated to GNDU, Amritsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/traditional-courses-for-11-colleges/articleshow/76658842.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad man’s private hospital bill falsely shared as Covid-19 charges||HYDERABAD: A man reached out to police after the bill of a private hospital in the city, where his brother was getting treated, was shared on social media by a person as that of a Covid-19 patient’s bill. The hospital later clarified that the patient was not Covid-19 positive. The man was admitted at a hospital in Somajiguda on June 19. “A person, Maqadhadar, claiming to be the vice-president of Meeseva Chanchalguda, took the medical bills stating they will be refunded by his organisation. However, on Thursday the patient’s details were shared on social media as a Covid-19 positive patient,” said the man’s brother. A GD-entry was made by the police. Sources said the post circulated to damage the reputation of the hospital, also violated the patient’s privacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mans-private-hospital-bill-falsely-shared-as-covid-19-charges/articleshow/76653613.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||TN custodial deaths: More police torture cases surface||TUTICORIN: The custodial deaths of the father-son duo, P Jayaraj, 58, and J Beniks, 31, of Sathankulam do not seem to be the only instances of alleged torture by police in this southern coastal district. Two other cases of alleged torture are being blamed on police in the district. Mass Empowerment and Guidance Association (MEGA), an NGO in the district, has sent a complaint to the CM’s special cell, chief secretary and district authorities alleging that a 33-year-old man was severely beaten up by the Arumuganeri police that his kidney was injured, forcing him to undergo dialysis. Henri Tiphagne, executive director of People’s Watch, alleged that another man, Muruganantham of Peikulam village, was tortured and killed by Sathankulam police in the second week of June. MEGA secretary M S Mohamed Salihu said Habeeb Mohammed, 33, of Kayalpattinam, an autorickshaw driver, was healthy till he was allegedly beaten up by Arumuganeri police. On Friday, the man was seen limping as he went to a private hospital in Tirunelveli for his seventh dialysis. “I violated the Covid-19 containment zone in Kuthukal Street in our town that was barricaded after a person tested positive. I moved the barricade as the road was the shortest. I was also not wearing a mask and was smoking. Two policewomen there claimed that I blew smoke on their face, which was not true,” Habeeb Mohammed told TOI. At 10.45 am he was taken to Arumuganeri police station. He was allegedly beaten from his lower back to legs repeatedly. The next day, he went to the Kayalpattinam government hospital where he narrated the cause of injuries. “The police came in a few minutes, started harassing us and ensured that we left without getting treated,” his father Katheev Mohideen Thambi said. They then approached a private hospital in Tirunelveli city, claiming he fell down from a moving autorickshaw. His injuries affected his urine output and urine colour. His family said they spent more than Rs 1 lakh on his treatment so far. Henry Tiphagne said Muruganantham was picked up by the police as his brother, who was accused of murder, was at large. “He died a day after he was discharged. We can’t believe that the district SP did not know this through the special branch police at the station level,” he said. Tuticorin district SP Arun Balagopalan told TOI that two officers in the rank of DSP have been asked to conduct an inquiry into the Arumuganeri police station incident and allegation of custodial death in the Sathankulam police station earlier this month. A senior police officer said there has hardly been any custodial death or torture incident for which police officers or personnel concerned have been put behind bars. “In most incidents not even a case was registered against them and they are still in service,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/probe-on-into-two-more-torture-plaints-against-tuticorin-police/articleshow/76653601.cms||M K Ananth
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Chief secy Mahajan’s journey from Ropar to PMO||Chandigarh: Punjab’s new chief secretary Vini Mahajan has already been playing a key role in steering the state’s response to the Covid-19 crisis as the health sector response and procurement committee chairman. She is also the only Punjab-cadre officer at present in the state who is empanelled as secretary, Government of India. Till Friday, Mahajan was serving as additional chief secretary (ACS) for investment promotion, industries and commerce, IT and governance reforms and public grievances. An economics graduate from the Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University, she is a postgraduate from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Kolkata. Mahajan played a role in the state’s campaign to attract investment during her tenure in investment promotion and industries and commerce. Mahajan participated for the first time in the World Economic Forum at Davos in 2019, and also held an investors’ summit, with focus on micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), in December 2019. It was during her tenure as ACS for housing and urban development that the development of a 5,000-acres new township near Mohali Airport was initiated. Mahajan served in the office of then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh from 2005-2012, and handled matters relating to finance, industry and commerce. She was part of the core team of the central government that put together India’s domestic response during and following the global financial meltdown. In 1995, she became the first woman officer to be posted as DC in Punjab, when she took over as DC Ropar. Her father, B B Mahajan, was also an IAS officer of the Punjab cadre. Topper of the 1957 batch, he held important positions, including financial commissioner revenue (FCR) in Punjab, before retiring as Union food secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chief-secy-mahajans-journey-from-ropar-to-pmo/articleshow/76653612.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Curbs in parts of Wanowrie Bazaar||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board recently declared parts of Wanowrie Bazaar as micro-containment zones after it reported 12 positive cases in around 10 days. Amit Kumar, the chief executive officer of PCB, said, “Six persons from a family tested positive, while the other six patients were from the same area. So, we had to declare the areas as micro-containment zones. There was not even one positive case till June 1. Post the relaxations from June 8, people started moving out for work, which is why cases were reported.” The PCB has reported positive cases in new areas such as Solapur Bazaar and Wanowrie, which are close to containment areas in Pune Municipal Corporation limits. “We have intensified contact tracing. Around 50 swab samples are collected daily for early detection and treatment,” Kumar said. The PCB has 85 active cases in its limits. Meanwhile, a senior health department official said residents in Bhimpura and New Modikhana had refused to give their swab samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/curbs-in-parts-of-wanowrie-bazaar/articleshow/76652910.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 27, 2020||Pune||PMC to redraw containment zone map after unlock phase 1 ends||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to continue with its current micro containment zone arrangement till the Unlock 1 phase ends on June 30 to curb the spread of coronavirus. The Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to ease yet another set of curbs and allow salons and beauty parlours to reopen starting June 28 in red zones, but for select services. According to a notification, entry will be with prior appointment. Only select services like haircut, dyeing, waxing, threading will be allowed. Besides, more flexibility in the use of taxis and autorickshaws, opening up of gyms and spas, and allowing offices to bring in 25-30% of staff are also measures currently under consideration. Pune is among the red zones in the state. The PMC had 66 containment zones under its jurisdiction in Lockdown Phase 4. In the Unlock 1 phase that started in the state on June, the PMC made the first change in the containment zones the following day. The number of containment zones was brought down to 63. The civic administration again updated the new zones under its jurisdiction on June 16. This time, the number of containment zones was increased from 66 to 73. The latest rearrangement was done on June 24, where one more micro containment zoning was established. As of now, the PMC has 74 micro containment zones under its jurisdictions. “We had made an addition in the micro containment zones this week. One area, which had seen an increase in positive cases, was included in the micro containment zone list. No more addition is needed right now. We will stick to the current arrangement till June 30,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, told TOI. Earlier, the PMC was changing the zones every fortnight. As per the new strategy, the PMC planned frequent changes in containment zones and was supposed to declare new zones on Friday. “Compared to the order issued on Wednesday, there is hardly any change in the ground situation in terms of spike in the area-specific Covid-19 cases. We decided to continue with the present arrangements,” he said. The PMC in its latest order declared areas such as Shrinathnagar, Shaktinagar and Panchashilnagar-Ghorpadigaon along BT Kawde Road as micro containment zones. The PMC’s directives stated that the non-containment zones should not be barricaded. Once an area is out of the containment zone list, the barricades should also be removed. The civic body had on June 2 allowed all types of shops in the non-containment zones to operate between 9am and 5pm. The timings were further increased on June 16 and the shops can now operate till 7pm. In the containment zones, shops selling essential items are only allowed to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-redraw-cotainment-zone-map-after-unlock-phase-1-ends/articleshow/76652924.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna district’s Covid-19 death toll highest in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district, particularly Vijayawada city, has been witnessing a huge number of cases in the last fifteen days. The total number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases crossed 1,000 on June 20 and now almost another 200 has been added to the overall tally. According to the latest bulletin, 20 more cases were reported on Thursday with overall count in Krishna district standing at 1,199. On the positive side, the recovery rate of Krishna district stands at 43%. Therefore, the current active cases stand at 626 while total number of persons discharged stands at 524. The more worrying factor is the death toll increasing by another four bring it to 49 which is highest in Andhra Pradesh, overtaking Kurnool district by one. Compared to the past five days, the positivity rate has witnessed a marginal reduction. Krishna district accounts to 10.4% of Covid-19 cases in the state. On the other hand, the neighbouring districts - Guntur and West Godavari--saw a larger spike reporting 74 and 79 cases respectively. Guntur, too, is amongst the four districts in AP to have touched over 1,000 cases. One more person has been reported dead in Guntur. However, compared to Krishna district, the recovery rate in Guntur is much better standing at 52%. District officials attribute the increase in Covid cases to the arrival of migrants from the Middle East particularly from Kuwait and Qatar in the last few weeks. Also, from inter-state travelers coming in from Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-dists-covid-19-death-toll-highest-in-ap/articleshow/76652922.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 27, 2020||Amritsar||‘Don’t assign firing cases to Faridkot judge’||BATHINDA: Punjab Police inspector general (IG) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, a member of the special investigations team (SIT) probing cases of firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in October 2015 following sacrilege incidents, has requested the Faridkot district and sessions judge not to entrust any of these cases or part of them to one of the judges posted in Faridkot. Taking up the IG’s application, Faridkot district and sessions judge has sought comments of the judge concerned on the contents of the letter by June 29. In his application, the IG submitted that the said judge has close family ties with the family of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, his son and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, who have been arrayed as accused in the firing cases. “Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal have been examined during the investigation of these cases and have been arrayed as accused in some cases. All these cases are neither mutually exclusive nor completely similar but are inter-related in nature and scope,” reads the application. The IG further submitted in the application, “Independence and impartiality of judicial institutions is one of the paramount elements of basic structures of the Constitution of India. Besides, Nemo judex in causa suo (no-one should be a judge in his own cause) is one of the guiding principles of natural justice.” The IG has also written that mere involvement of political persons as accused in any case or cases does not mean that the investigation is politically motivated or the investigation team is working with some political motive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/dont-assign-firing-cases-to-faridkot-judge/articleshow/76653615.cms||Neel Kamal
June 27, 2020||Surat||Surat diamantaires pay full wages, medical costs of Covid-19 workers||SURAT: After he tested positive for Covid-19, Mulji Dhameliya (name changed), 54, an artisan at a leading diamond firm was worried about his salary. But he was pleasantly surprised the next day, when he got a call from his boss who assured him of full wages as well as payment of medical expenses. The company also assured to shift him to a private hospital. Like Dhameliya, many artisans are getting similar help from their employers. Managing director of Dharmanandan Diamonds, Hitesh Patel told TOI, "The workers detected positive for Covid-19 are part of our diamond family. We will take care of them by not just paying full salaries but also bearing the medical expenses." Patel further said that even during the lockdown when the factory was shut, the firm paid full wages to all its staff, including the workers. "This was the reason why all our workers who had gone to Saurashtra joined on a short notice when we restarted the factory," he added. Chairman of Blue Star diamonds, Ashit Mehta said, "We are extending all possible help to our workers and also their family members who have detected positive for Covid-19 as per our company policy." Kirti Shah, a diamond unit owner said that the firm is paying full salaries to 15 staff members, five of whom tested Covid-19 positive and 10 others who came in their contact and are put in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamantaires-pay-full-wages-medical-costs-of-ve-workers/articleshow/76651392.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KSRTC launches relay service||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As Covid restrictions have limited KSRTC services to just neighbouring districts, it has launched relay service to link various districts. The service was inaugurated by transport minister A K Saseendran at Thiruvananthapuram Central bus station on Friday. Catering to the demands of passengers, received by KSRTC officials and posts on its social media page, KSRTC started the relay service between Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur. The new service will be operated from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Thrissur. A passenger – who boards the bus from the capital – will have a connecting bus awaiting in Kollam to next the destination. Super deluxe buses will be used for the service. Saseendran spoke about the services provided by KSRTC to health workers and how it ferried migrant labourers to railway stations. “Government is indebted to two KSRTC staff, who contracted the disease during service. KSRTC is introducing a new model when few trains are operating in state now. Regular disinfection of buses must be done to ensure the safety of employees,” he said. There will be a bus on the route at one-hour intervals from 5am and the trip will end by 9pm. KSRTC claims that a passenger boarding a bus from Thiruvananthapuram can reach Thrissur in six hours via relay service. As bus service must be stopped by 9pm, the schedules are planned in such a way that buses will be operated to Thrissur till noon and services will end at Ernakulam, Alappuzha and Kollam. The buses will be disinfected at regular intervals. Advance ticket booking facility is available for these buses. “There was demand from inter-district travellers. We cannot operate long-distance services due to Covid protocol. So, we took government’s permission to operate the relay service,” said KSRTC MD Biju Prabhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-launches-relay-service/articleshow/76651770.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Vadodara||Murder accused who took out car rally caught||Vadodara: Notorious criminal Suraj Kahar, who had taken out a car rally right under Vadodara cops’ nose after getting bail, was arrested from Rajpipla taluka of Narmada district on Friday. Kahar’s arrest comes barely 48 hours after the Gujarat high court sought explanation from the city police commissioner following a public interest litigation filed by a law student Suyash Sahay. Prevention of Crime Branch (PCB) sleuths arrested Kahar from his sister Vaishali Macchi’s house in Varacha village of Rajpipla where he had been hiding over the last few days. Earlier, they had received information that he was hiding in Malsar village in Vadodara district. But he wasn’t found there Kahar was missing since June 10 after a police complaint was registered against him for taking out a car rally traversing many parts of the city. Kahar had travelled in a luxurious car while his accomplices drove two-wheelers alongside on June 4 after he got bail in a murder case. The incident had left the police deeply embarrassed as the rally passed through 13 police checkpoints. It was only after the videos went viral that police swung into action. The litigant had also asked the court to direct police to set up an inquiry against the cops who didn’t stop the rally midway. Kahar was arrested by the Panigate police in February this year after he and his friends brutally thrashed Keval Jadav for overtaking his car on Waghodia Road. Jadav, an HR executive with a private firm, was thrashed so badly that he died of internal injuries. Kahar has nearly a dozen cases registered against him including those for assault, criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder threatening and under the Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/murder-accused-who-took-out-car-rally-caught/articleshow/76650855.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||Elephant attacks farmer in Kodagu||Madikeri: A wild elephant attacked a farmer at a coffee estate in Abhyatmangala village in Kodagu district on Thursday. The farmer identified as B S Suresh was returning home on his two-wheeler at the time of the incident. The enraged elephant damaged his two-wheeler. According to officials, when Suresh was about to near reach his house, a wild elephant appeared on the side way and within a fraction of a second he escaped unhurt and hid himself inside a coffee estate Forester Koodakandi Subraya visited the spot. In a similar incident, an elephant had attacked and injured a cow belonging to Suresh recently. The villagers complain wild elephants are frequently entering their village. They urged the forest department to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/elephant-attacks-farmer-in-kodagu/articleshow/76649538.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Criterion blamed for fewer CBSE students in state-run colleges||Jaipur: The percentile formula introduced by the previous BJP government in 2014 has reduced the number of CBSE students in the state-run colleges. In Maharani’s College, the strength of CBSE students in the current academic year is less than 10%. Of the total 600 seats in pass courses, 49 CBSE students managed to secure admissions while prior to 2014, the share of CBSE students was close to 50% in every subject of the pass course.Talking about the impact of percentile formula, Rashmi Jain, vice-principal of Maharani’s College said that the imbalance has affected peer learning to a great extent. Most of the RBSE students come from a rural background and from low or middle-income families. While CBSE students from Jaipur or other urban centres take to faster socialization. “Also, the aspiration level of most of the RBSE students revolves around government jobs — teaching or civil service, while most of the CBSE students, due to the exposure, aspire for different career streams. A diverse combination used to help in learning new things, breaking stereotypes and sensitise them towards different aspects of the society,” said Jain. The teachers told TOI that since 80-90 per cent students come from the same socio-economic background and board, it has brought a change in the teaching pedagogy also. “The interactive sessions rarely happen as our girls from a rural background take time in opening up which was not the case when students from different boards were present,” said a teacher. Nidhi Singh, associate professor, department of English, said that participation in co-curricular activities has also gone down as we have students from a common background. “Earlier, for any debate competition, we would take audition of around 100 students. It has now reduced to less than 10,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/criterion-blamed-for-fewer-cbse-students-in-state-run-colleges/articleshow/76653616.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Drone survey for hotspots in Pune||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is planning to deploy drones to keep an eye on the Covid-19 hotspots and market areas. Additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said that the rising number of patients prompted the move with the help of the police. “The idea is at a preliminary stage but we are giving it a serious thought. There has been a substantial rise in Covid-19 cases and keeping a watch on the containment zones and market areas will ease the burden on authorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drone-survey-for-hotspots/articleshow/76652916.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Auto ambulances ferry people to fever camps||CHENNAI: Amid rising cases, Greater Chennai Corporation has turned autorickshaws as the new ambulances in the city. The civic body has employed auto drivers to help symptomatic people travel to and from fever camps. The autos will also take them to testing or to Covid care centres if needed. The auto drivers are given PPEs and paid by the civic body on a daily basis when their services are used. Two autos have been hired for every ward and the services began in Adyar zone on Monday. For auto drivers such as Arun in Kotturpuram, this is a blessing in disguise. “It is risky but we have no means of income during the lockdown. The corporation gives us a PPE kits every morning and we are paid between Rs 2,000-Rs 2500 per day,” he said. They make at least 5 trips daily. The autos are disinfected daily and masks are provided to the patients as well. The idea was born when fever surveillance workers and sanitary officers complained that many influenze like (ILI) cases refused to visit the fever camp out of fear. “Some didn’t have any means to travel, so this was suggested,” said Thirumurugan, zonal officer for Adyar. Alby John, regional deputy commissioner, South Chennai said, “Our fever surveillance worker informs the assistant engineer and sanitary inspector about every ILI case. Older people, people staying alone, with no transport facility and those in lower economic background are taken in these autos to the fever camp. If found to be a high-risk patient, they are taken to hospitals or sample collection centres. The auto drop them back home as well.” Covid positive patients are not taken in the autos, for now. “Once the result comes, we usually send an ambulance,” said Thirumurugan. “We have seen a good response as people willingly come to the camps now and get tested. Slowly, this will be implemented in other zones as well,” said a senior corporation official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/auto-ambulances-ferry-people-to-fever-camps/articleshow/76652932.cms||Komal Gautham
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan drops percentile formula for admission||JAIPUR: The state higher education department has dropped the six-year-old ‘percentile’ formula-based admission process in its colleges from the upcoming academic session. The admissions in all 280 government-run colleges will be given on the basis of the merit list based on a student’s actual scores in Class XII. State higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati says that the move has been taken after consulting all stakeholders—students, teachers, principals, educationist and industry. “Even if some boards have the liberal marking the fact remains, they all are state residents. The difference of 10-20% between the RBSE, Open and CBSE board students under the percentile system signals its failure,” said Bhati. On the contrary, the Rajasthan Government Admission Policy 2021 released late on Thursday night says the formula has been dropped due to Covid-19 situation in the state. “It has nothing to do with the admission of RBSE or CBSE students. The uncertainty over conducting remaining RBSE and CBSE examinations and the declaration of the results is the main reason for the state to recall the admission process based on the scores in Class XII,” said P K Borad, commissioner of colleges, Rajasthan. TimesViewThe dropping of percentile formula for admissions in state-run colleges will certainly give CBSE students from resource-rich schools an edge over RBSE students from resource-starved schools, most of which are in rural areas. To create a level-playing field for students from both boards, experts have suggested entrance exams to government colleges. This can help to bridge the gap between students from privileged and underprivileged backgrounds. The state ought to ensure the diversity of students in every college. Most government colleges are underutilised. By adding classrooms and recruiting teachers, more seats can be created to accommodate additional students. The state higher education department should take a middle path to maintain a fine balance between RBSE and CBSE board students in government colleges.The uncertainty pointed out by the official has turned true as the CBSE has cancelled the remaining Class XII CBSE board examinations and will declare the result by evaluating the scores in examinations. The system was introduced by then higher education minister Kalicharan Saraf by stating that scoring in CBSE board is comparatively much easier than RBSE which results into over-representation of the former board in state-run colleges. Also, this was the way chosen to create space for the students from the rural Rajasthan. Stating another argument for the move, Bhati says, “Since 2014, over 150 colleges have opened including 100 by our government in a year and a half. Most of these colleges have opened in rural areas—block-level providing quality education in rural areas. It is the right time to do away with the controversial format.” Unconvinced by the minister’s arguments, former education minister Vasudev Devnani says that CBSE students come from middle level and above economic group who can have easy access to the private education while the middle and below economic level forms the part of RBSE will suffer. “It will bound to have dropouts. State should roll it back,” said Devnani. The move backfired CBSE students as their strength declined from the premier colleges, especially in the urban areas. Several reports pointed out that the difference of up to 30% between the RBSE and CBSE in the common merit list based on percentile formula hits the headlines. “In several of our courses, we use to say CBSE students up to 80% not to apply as they would hold no chance of admission,” said Rashmi Jain, vice-principal of Maharani’s College, who explains the biggest loophole in the format, says, “It has wiped out the chance of CBSE students for a simple reason that for every CBSE student there would be hundreds of RBSE students with a common percentile score.” This year 8.67 lakh students had appeared in the Class XII RBSE examinations, while 1.44 lakh appeared in CBSE Class XII Ajmer region which included MP, Gujarat and Dadar and Nagar Haveli. The total intake in all government colleges with a new formula to be around 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-drops-percentile-formula-for-admission/articleshow/76653631.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar to amend industrial incentive policy||PATNA: The state cabinet on Friday approved the government’s proposal to amend Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy, 2016 to give tax exemptions on investments in the state in the range of Rs 26 lakh to Rs 500 crore. It will be effective from September 1, 2016. The amendment would also bring benefits to the investors in consonance with the Centre’s incentive policy. All the DMs would also be provided funds under the District Industrial Innovation Scheme. Besides, the state’s public sector undertakings would now be able to develop two industrial clusters each. The cabinet also approved the proposal to give benefit on unpaid tax and penalties to the vehicle owners to facilitate cancellation of the registration of all more than 15-year-old vehicles. The registration of the vehicles would be cancelled to ease the owners’ burden on account of tax dues and penalties. There would be 20% rebate on the tax dues and penalty if one-time payment is made within a year. The same rebate would be applicable if the dues and penalty remained unpaid for one year. It would be 10% if the dues are for five years. The water resource department’s proposal regarding expenditure of Rs 2,746.09 crore on three separate projects, including on the western Kosi canal project, was also cleared. Of the total expenditure, Rs 2,372.52 crore is the revised estimate of the project cost to be spent on the renovation and strengthening of western Kosi canal and another Rs 325.12 crore on the elevation, piling and strengthening of the left and right Kamla Balan embankments. The remaining Rs 48.49 crore is for renovation and strengthening of the left Bhootahi Balan embankment. The cabinet sanctioned the withdrawal of Rs 165.15 crore from the state contingency fund to meet the expenditure on the implementation of the Centre’s Campa project by the environment, forest and climate change department. Similarly, the cabinet approved the amendment to the fuel policy rules for facilitating the use of pit-coke and furnace oil in the state. The cabinet also approved government job to one member each from the families of the five martyrs who lost their lives in Ladakh recently. It also approved the proposal to celebrate the birth anniversary function of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya as a state function on September 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-to-amend-industrial-incentive-policy/articleshow/76651815.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Banquet halls’ pleas: Judge recuses himself||New Delhi: A batch of petitions challenging the decision of the AAP government to convert banquet halls into temporary Covid-19 treatment centres could not be taken up on Friday as the judge recused himself. Justice Navin Chawla, who recused himself from hearing the matter, transferred the case to another bench for hearing on Monday. The court was hearing three petitions filed by Chintpurni Overseas Private Limited, Ready Mint Private Limited and a Community Welfare Banquet challenging the decision to convert the banquet halls owned by them into temporary hospitals. Earlier, justice Prathiba Singh had recused herself from hearing Ready Mint’s plea and had transferred the plea to another bench. The petitions seek to quash government order dated June 12, directing the owners to grant possession of banquet halls for use as a Covid-19 treatment centre and also provide facilities of housekeeping, disinfection, catering, etc. The petitioners have argued that the government took a decision without any consultation or due diligence of the property to ascertain its suitability for use as a temporary hospital. “The order also does not take into account the fact that the petitioner (Ready Mint) is already constrained financially as there has been no business for over two months and none expected in the near future,” one of the company said in its plea. “In such dire circumstances, the petitioner is being expected to personally shell out the cost of housekeeping, disinfection, catering, electricity, maintenance, generators, protective gear including PPE kits, masks, gloves, etc,” it added. The plea also said that the conversion of the banquet hall into a Covid-19 hospital will result in the property being stigmatized thus ensuring the closure of business in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/banquet-halls-pleas-judge-recuses-himself/articleshow/76653617.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Experts advise prudent hand sanitizer usage, warn of skin irritation otherwise||PUNE: Focus on hand hygiene during the Covid-19 pandemic has sparked an unhealthy reliance on hand sanitizers. Several citizens said they had suffered skin complications due to excessive use. And now, doctors are warning people that uncontrolled use of alcohol-based rubs can have be more harmful than beneficial. Worryingly, many admitted to using hand sanitisers every few minutes. Richa Singh, a marketing executive said, “I work from home. Colleagues recently told me that I use the hand sanitizer at least three to four times during a single video conferencing session. I go through a large family-sized bottle within a week.” Malav Parekh, a working professional, said, “I pour hand sanitizer on my palms every 10 minutes even though I use my own laptop and phone. My skin now feels rough and hard. I have started keeping the bottle away from me.” Another city-based working professional, Prashant Deshmukh, said, “After just two days of use, I started experiencing skin irritation. Some of my friends too have complained of peeling skin on their palms and fingers.” Experts said hand sanitizers can also make people vulnerable to skin infections. President of the Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter, Avinash Bhondwe, said, “It is wrong to use sanitizer every now and then. They contain anywhere between 62 to 95% alcohol and can dissolve the epidermis, the outermost layer of skin. This can make people vulnerable to infections. Their use can be potentially dangerous for people with sensitive skin, especially children.” Bhondwe said sanitizers should only be used if there's no soap or water for hand washing. “It is also safer to use a soap dispenser instead of a soap cake to wash hands,” he added. Dermatologist Vitthal Jadhav said, “One can use a hand sanitizer if s/he has touched a common surface outside. There’s really no need to use sanitizers if you’re at home, where it’s better to wash hands with soap every two hours. If one has received a delivery, five drops of sanitizer is enough for both hands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-advise-prudent-hand-sanitizer-usage-warn-of-skin-irritation-otherwise/articleshow/76652956.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 27, 2020||Pune||Sharad Pawar stresses on more tests, seeks action against overcharging hospitals||PUNE: The NCP chief, Sharad Pawar, on Friday called for increasing the Covid-19 tests in Pune, expressing concern over the high cost of treatment in private hospitals. Speaking at a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in Pune at the Council Hall, he told the administrators and party ministers to ensure that private hospitals did not indulge in the practice of overcharging the coronavirus patients for treatment. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh, health minister Rajesh Tope and all senior elected representatives in Pune across party lines, including Pune MP Girish Bapat and mayor Murlidhar Mohol, besides the government officials attended the meeting. Pawar said there was an urgent need to follow the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines on increasing the tests and closely monitor the containment zones on a regular basis. Health minister Tope said the number of tests would increase in the containment areas after the state government’s go-ahead to the antigen and antibody tests. Upholding Pawar’s suggestion, he asked the officials to initiate action against the hospitals overcharging patients. He said the Pune administrators should follow the “Mumbai pattern” of appointing an officer to maintain a flow chart on the number of patients being admitted to hospitals and the infrastructure availability. He also appealed to local elected representatives to use the social media to ward off the Covid-19 fear among people. Ajit Pawar said the administration should work closely with the local representatives. Responding to Pune mayor’s demand for more funds from state government, he said he would talk to the chief minister to address the financial burden on the Pune Municipal Corporation because of the Covid-19 outbreak mitigation task. Ajit Pawar, also the state finance minister, assured a grant of Rs1 crore for the Pune Cantonment Board. State home minister Anil Deshmukh asked the corporation authorities and police to closely monitor unnecessary movements in the containment areas and initiate action against the rule violators. He said cybercrime expert had been appointed following the increase in such cases increased during the lockdown period. The expert would also monitor fake news on social media. MP Girish Bapat emphasised on contact tracing, while MP Shrirang Barne called for improving the infrastructure in rural hospitals. Shirur MP Amol Kolhe said the priority should be to keep the mortality rate low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pawar-stresses-on-more-tests-seeks-action-against-overcharging-hosps/articleshow/76652936.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan drops percentile formula for admission||JAIPUR: The state higher education department has dropped the six-year-old ‘percentile’ formula-based admission process in its colleges from the upcoming academic session. The admissions in all 280 government-run colleges will be given on the basis of the merit list based on a student’s actual scores in Class XII. State higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati says that the move has been taken after consulting all stakeholders—students, teachers, principals, educationist and industry. “Even if some boards have the liberal marking the fact remains, they all are state residents. The difference of 10-20% between the RBSE, Open and CBSE board students under the percentile system signals its failure,” said Bhati. On the contrary, the Rajasthan Government Admission Policy 2021 released late on Thursday night says the formula has been dropped due to Covid-19 situation in the state. “It has nothing to do with the admission of RBSE or CBSE students. The uncertainty over conducting remaining RBSE and CBSE examinations and the declaration of the results is the main reason for the state to recall the admission process based on the scores in Class XII,” said P K Borad, commissioner of colleges, Rajasthan. TimesViewThe dropping of percentile formula for admissions in state-run colleges will certainly give CBSE students from resource-rich schools an edge over RBSE students from resource-starved schools, most of which are in rural areas. To create a level-playing field for students from both boards, experts have suggested entrance exams to government colleges. This can help to bridge the gap between students from privileged and underprivileged backgrounds. The state ought to ensure the diversity of students in every college. Most government colleges are underutilised. By adding classrooms and recruiting teachers, more seats can be created to accommodate additional students. The state higher education department should take a middle path to maintain a fine balance between RBSE and CBSE board students in government colleges.The uncertainty pointed out by the official has turned true as the CBSE has cancelled the remaining Class XII CBSE board examinations and will declare the result by evaluating the scores in examinations. The system was introduced by then higher education minister Kalicharan Saraf by stating that scoring in CBSE board is comparatively much easier than RBSE which results into over-representation of the former board in state-run colleges. Also, this was the way chosen to create space for the students from the rural Rajasthan. Stating another argument for the move, Bhati says, “Since 2014, over 150 colleges have opened including 100 by our government in a year and a half. Most of these colleges have opened in rural areas—block-level providing quality education in rural areas. It is the right time to do away with the controversial format.” Unconvinced by the minister’s arguments, former education minister Vasudev Devnani says that CBSE students come from middle level and above economic group who can have easy access to the private education while the middle and below economic level forms the part of RBSE will suffer. “It will bound to have dropouts. State should roll it back,” said Devnani. The move backfired CBSE students as their strength declined from the premier colleges, especially in the urban areas. Several reports pointed out that the difference of up to 30% between the RBSE and CBSE in the common merit list based on percentile formula hits the headlines. “In several of our courses, we use to say CBSE students up to 80% not to apply as they would hold no chance of admission,” said Rashmi Jain, vice-principal of Maharani’s College, who explains the biggest loophole in the format, says, “It has wiped out the chance of CBSE students for a simple reason that for every CBSE student there would be hundreds of RBSE students with a common percentile score.” This year 8.67 lakh students had appeared in the Class XII RBSE examinations, while 1.44 lakh appeared in CBSE Class XII Ajmer region which included MP, Gujarat and Dadar and Nagar Haveli. The total intake in all government colleges with a new formula to be around 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-drops-percentile-formula-for-admission/articleshow/76654693.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Coastal districts record 42 Covid-19 cases||MANGALURU: The coastal districts recorded 42 Covid-19 cases on Friday, with 33 in Dakshina Kannada and nine in Udupi. With this, the total number of positive cases in Dakshina Kannada increased to 519 and 1,125 in Udupi as per the state bulletin. Dakshina Kannada has 139 active cases while Udupi has 86. As many as 34 patients were discharged from District Wenlock Hospital on Friday. DK deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said 15 out of 33 positive cases reported in the district were returnees from Saudi Arabia, Dammam and Qatar. Meanwhile, the district also recorded four cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and two persons with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) on Friday. While two cases reported are under investigation, 10 have contracted the disease through contact, the DC said. There are four comorbid patients in the ICU of Covid-19 hospital. Udupi deputy commissioner Jagadeesha said while the recovery rate in the state is 63%, Udupi has 92% with only 0.2% death rate against the state average of 1.6%. The district has 2,400 beds to treat patients and nine fever clinics have been opened, he said. Quarantine violationPolice have booked cases against 54 for violating quarantine rules in Dakshina Kannada district. DC Sindhu said that FIRs have been registered against 54 after they were found roaming outside violating quarantine rules. While 10 cases were booked in Puttur taluk, the remaining cases were registered in Mangaluru taluk, she said. "We have been keeping tabs on all who are in home quarantine. In addition to health and revenue departments, all other departments also have been roped in to ensure strict quarantine measures. We have also approached neighbours to keep a tab on quarantined persons," the DC said. Meanwhile, in Udupi district, only three FIRs were registered for violation of quarantine rules. Shop closedA shop in the city shut temporarily after the father of a staff tested positive. The owner of the shop stated in a message that he has already sanitized his business premises. "As a precautionary measure we have closed the store for three days. The sanitization process also has been completed at our store," the owner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coastal-districts-record-42-cases/articleshow/76650381.cms||Vinobha K T
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Transparent in use of CM relief fund, government tells Madras HC||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is transparent in handling the Chief Minister Relief Fund and at present, most of the fund is released for Covid-19 related work, the state told the Madras high court on Friday. Government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan made the submission while responding to the PIL moved by advocate M Karpagam seeking details of the funds received into the account and the purposes for which they are released. She wanted the court to direct the state to display the amount of funds received and their disbursal in the website meant for the purpose. When the plea came up for hearing on Friday, Jayaprakash Narayan submitted that the government is not treating the present plea as an adversarial litigation, as the state itself is taking all efforts to increase the transparency in handling the funds. The chief minister is releasing details of funds received, which is over Rs Rs 10 lakh, through regular press releases, he said. The website is only one among various options provided by the government for contribution and it provides information of funds received through that portal alone, he said. Government is directly receiving funds to the designated savings bank account through various other modes such as cheques, demand drafts, online platforms like Google Pay, Amazon Pay, Paytm, Mobikwik, Phonepe, Bhim App and various other modes, he added. The state does not deny the fact that it is the right of the citizen to access the information but there is nothing to suppress about the CM relief fund since it is handled in a transparent manner, he said. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy adjourned the hearing to June 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/transparent-in-use-of-cm-relief-fund-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/76652970.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tomato price rises to Rs 35-40/kg in market||PUNE: The price of tomato has gone up inthe retail market and mandis, with one kg being sold at Rs35-Rs 40 as against Rs 15-Rs 20 last week. The tomato crop has been affected by heavy rains owing to cyclone Nisarga in Pune and neighbouring districts. Datta Kalamkar, head of vegetable section, Market Yard, Pune, said, “There was only 1087 quintals of produce in the market as against the daily supply between 1,500 and 2,000 quintals. The prices may increase at least for the next two weeks or more as there is no new harvest in the farms,” he added. The prices in Narayangaon tomato market went up on Friday. A crate of 20 kg was sold between Rs 500 and Rs 550, the highest rates this season so far, said Sanjay Kale, chairman of the market. “There were only 40,000 crates for open auction today as against average one lakh crates,” Kale said. “Maximum produce is being bought by traders from Delhi, Gujarat and Southern states,” Kale said. Meanwhile, citizens are worried about the rising prices of vegetables. “We are paying extra for each vegetable. A bunch of coriander is being sold for Rs40-Rs 50. It has affected our monthly budget,” said Dipti Deshpande, a working professional .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tomato-price-rises-to-rs-35-40/kg-in-market/articleshow/76652975.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||‘Covid case count may go up to 4k by July-end’||Nashik: With the Covid-19 tally in the city touching the 1,600-mark, the Central and the state governments have projected that the positive cases count in the city may notch up to 4,000 by July end. Informing about the government prosjection, commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Radhakrishna Game said that citizens need not worry as the civic body was fully prepared to tackle the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Of the 81 deaths due to Covid-19 in the city so far, 60 people who have succumbed to infection were patients with comorbid conditions. “Considering that maximum comorbid patients have succumbed to Covid-19, we have started a survey of comorbid patients and senior citizens in containment zones, slum areas and gaothan areas. We are checking their health and sending their throat swab samples immediately for Covid-19 analysis,” said Game. By May 19, the city had only 48 patients but the number of cases increased after the relaxation in lockdown norms. “Of the 1,605 positive patients identified in the city, 622 have been discharged. Currently, there are 902 active patients of which 146 are on oxygen support and 21 on ventilators,” said Game. “Doctors in both civic and private hospitals in the city are getting training on Covid-19 treatment from expert doctors in Mumbai through video conferencing. A team of senior doctors have been formed to guide medical practitioners about the treatment to be administered to critical patients and curb deaths,” said Game. “So far, we have 2,400 beds for treating Covid-19 patients inluding 1,370 beds in civic hospitals and 1,00 beds in private hospitals. We already have planned 6,000 beds in both NMC and private hospitals which will be pressed into service when the need arises,” said the civic chief. The civic administration is also opening out-patient departments in Wadalgaon and Phule Nagar, which have emerged as the major hotspots of Covid-19 in the city, to facilitate the health checkup of residents living there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-case-count-may-go-up-to-4k-by-july-end/articleshow/76650424.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||1 death, 4 +ve in 3 areas outside Mominpura containment zone||Nagpur: One Covid-19 death and four positive cases were registered from three localities excluded from the Mominpura containment zone 14 days ago. Deaths from erstwhile Mominpura containment zone increased to five, and positive cases to 375. A 40-year-old woman from Boriyapura at Dobi Nagar was brought dead from a private hospital to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) on Thursday night. She was admitted for last three days in a private hospital at Kamal Chowk. Her samples tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. As per IGGMCH, the deceased was a severe comorbidity patient as she had diabetes mellitus. As per information available from NMC, the locality was under Mominpura containment zone and freed under mini containment zone system on June 13. NMC had notified a large area as Mominpura containment zone on April 4. However, cases kept increasing on daily basis as movement of people was going on inside the zone. There were protests from a large number of people. Also, the civic body revised its containment zone plan. The police also suggested mini containment zones for proper monitoring. Considering all these aspects, 60% area, where there had been no case for 28 days was excluded from containment. Eight mini containment zones were notified in remaining 40% area, of which Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura, was still the largest among all zones in the city. Four positive cases were registered, of which one from Zangre Mohalla at Timki Bhankheda and three from Dobi Nagar since revision in zone system. The cases from mini containment zones too have continued. There were 27 cases from existing containment zones between June 13 and June 25. NMC zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin told TOI, “Cases have slowed down to a great extent compared to earlier days. Special camp was held on Saturday where samples of 100 persons were taken and all tested negative. Another camp was organized on Wednesday, where 43 gave samples and all tested negative. Notifying small containment zones and proper monitoring will be continued to end chains,” he said. Corporator Dayashankar Tiwari said, “Huge containment zone was notified and then areas were freed in unscientific manner. People’s movement inside huge containment zone was going on. Later, areas were freed without random testing and checking whether infection had ended or was still prevailing. NMC should have appointed a doctor from preventive and social medicine in each zone to take decisions related to containment zone.” The number of deaths from Mominpura has increased to five. It means this area has the highest number of deaths and positive cases. It was under containment zone for 70 days. Out of five deaths, samples of two deceased tested positive after death, which is alarming. Samples of one deceased tested positive some minutes before death. Two deceased died while undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Isolation ward. NMC sources told TOI, “Another worry is that mass quarantine has been stopped since protests started in Mominpura. Also, NMC officials are quarantining contacts of positive persons who are willing to come to institutional quarantine centres and get tested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-death-4-ve-in-3-areas-outside-mominpura-containment-zone/articleshow/76652967.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||CBSE to declare results of Class X, XII by July 15||Ajmer: The results of CBSE Classes XII and X will be declared by July 15. The announcement comes a day after CBSE cancelled pending board exams due to Covid-19 situation in the country. The Ajmer Region is following the assessment guidelines as directed by the controller of CBSE examinations office to meet the deadline. This year, the final result will be declared on the basis of the number of exams held.The Ajmer Region comprises Rajasthan, Gujarat and Dadra and Nagar Haveli (UT). Around 2.05 lakh students enrolled in Ajmer Region for Classes X and XII board exams-2020. Disclosing the details of the assessment scheme, the official said that the result will be declared on the basis of students’ performance in other subjects. As per CBSE, the assessment scheme entails that if a student appeared in more than three exams, the average marks he/she obtains in the best three subjects will be awarded in the subjects whose exams were cancelled. And, if a student appeared in only three exams then the average marks he obtained in the best two subjects will be awarded in the pending exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cbse-to-declare-results-of-class-x-xii-by-july-15/articleshow/76653647.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur: Surge in Covid cases if red light areas reopen, warns study||GUNTUR: A team of experts from Harvard Medical School and Yale School of Medicine have warned that Guntur could see a significant surge in Covid-19 cases, hospitalisations and deaths if the Chilakaluripet red light area opens. However, an extended closure of the red light area could reduce Covid-19 cumulative deaths by 75% and reduce cumulative cases by 73% by the peak of the epidemic. The model further projects an additional 23 days of delay in the peak if the red light area remains closed. The experts studied the Guntur situation during a recent visit to the district and said if the red light area opens for business, the disease will spread quickly and infect a large percentage of sex workers and customers. They noted that Japan did not close down red light areas in-time and saw an “explosion” in cases because of a red light area that left local hospitals “overwhelmed”. India would need 70% more hospital beds by the peak if red light areas reopened. “If the Chilakaluripet red light area is reopened it could push Guntur over peak medical capacity sooner,” the report said, adding that fewer sick people would be able to receive treatment causing an increase in preventable deaths. Dr Sahayakan, a member of Code Red Coalition, a global coalition of doctors and researchers that is advising governments on how to prevent Covid-19 spread said, “None of the protection measures like distancing, masks, or sanitising can effectively stop Covid-19 transmission during sex work. Sex work cannot be safely practised in red light areas in India given their nature. It can result in many cases and deaths”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/surge-in-cases-if-red-light-areas-reopen-warns-study/articleshow/76652962.cms||Samdani MN
June 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh races ahead of Telangana in number of Covid tests||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh and Telangana reported their highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 553 and 920 infections, respectively. However, there is a stark contrast between the two Telugu-speaking states in terms of case positivity rate. While Andhra Pradesh conducted 19,085 tests with a 2.9% positivity rate (553 cases) on Thursday, one in four tested in Telangana were diagnosed with the disease on Thursday. The state had screened only 3,616 people in the same time. The positivity rate stands at 1.45% in Andhra Pradesh, with 7.91 lakh tests detecting 11,489 cases, while the positivity rate in Telangana is over 16%, after conducting 70,000 tests to identify 11,364 cases. One in every six people so far tested in Telangana has been found positive for the virus. The World Health Organisation (WHO), in an advisory released in May, stated that one of the indicators that the disease is under control is when less than 5% of the samples test positive for Covid-19, for at least two weeks. Andhra Pradesh, which collected its first Covid-19 sample in February, had to send it to Pune as the state had no Covid testing centre at the time. The first lab was set up in the middle of March in Tirupati with a testing capacity of 90 samples per day. The state now has the highest number of government testing centres, with 13 viral research and diagnostic laboratories and 48 Truenat labs. The spread of the virus was contained on the back of a number of measures, such as ramping up testing, contact tracing, door-to-door surveys, identifying vulnerable/high-risk persons and augmented treatment facilities. As of Friday morning, Andhra Pradesh had conducted over 7.91 lakh tests, translating into screening nearly 14,800 people per million population. This is the highest among all states. Even before cases crossed the 100-mark in April, the government identified six lines of hospitals in each district for dedicated treatment of Covid-19 patients/suspected cases. Now, the government is adding more hospitals and beds, anticipating a further spurt in cases while care centres are being set up in each district to treat mild cases. Special chief secretary, health and medical department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy, said the state has been spending about Rs 3 crore every day on Covid-19 tests alone, with each test costing about Rs 1,250. “Large-scale testing will help identify and isolate patients. This has helped in ensuring no large-scale outbreak in the state,” said Jawahar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-races-ahead-of-t-in-number-of-tests/articleshow/76652988.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||CDRI, IITR study to decode Covid conundrum||LUCKNOW: Why do some patients infected with novel coronavirus not have any symptoms of the disease? Why do some suffer and go to the brink of death while others recover perfectly after treatment? Answers to such questions, which hold great importance in developing drugs and vaccination for the treatment of Covid-19, will be traced and researched by the two Lucknow-based laboratories of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research—Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI). The two scientific institutes are conducting ‘molecular surveillance’ of novel coronavirus in which sequencing of the virus is done to help understand its exact structure/nature. This will help researchers know how it has moved from one place to another and changed over time. CDRI is almost done with molecular surveillance of novel coronavirus and is expected to release its results shortly while IITR scientists are geared up to conduct the exercise to get answers to the unknown. “To develop any medicine or vaccination, it is important to understand the nature and structure of the virus so that the drug can be developed targeting those areas. For example, if you are in a war, you need to know the strength of your enemy so that you can decide whether you require a baton or a bomb to destroy them completely. Similar is the case with drug development. We have to understand the structure of the virus to come up with drugs for its treatment and for this, sequencing of the virus is essential,” said CDRI director Prof Tapas Kumar Kundu. He said, “The institute is almost done with molecular surveillance of the virus and its results are expected shortly. The team is studying the virus strains of Covid patients and has prepared the dataset.” Meanwhile, IITR is all set with equipment to begin with the virus study. “We will carry out the sequencing of the virus that will help us know how this virus has moved from one place to another, the reason behind its spread and how its impact on health has changed over time. The main purpose of the sequencing is to know how the virus has been mutating in Uttar Pradesh,” said IITR director Prof Alok Dhawan. He said locals who were in different parts of the country have come back to the state and some have been tested Covid positive. The virus sequencing of such patients will help them understand whether the virus is the same everywhere or it is mutating, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cdri-iitr-study-to-decode-covid-conundrum/articleshow/76653677.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 27, 2020||Pune||Final-year BA student ends life in Pune's Kothrud||PUNE: A 24-year-old final year BA student was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his residence, off Paud Road in Kothrud, on Friday. The police suspect suicide, though a note has not been found. A motive has yet to be ascertained. “The student had also deleted all the data from his smartphone,” sub-inspector Yashwant Padvale of the Kothrud police said. The youth lived with his parents in the rented accommodation, while their house was being constructed in the same area His parents told police that for the past three months, he had been aloof and would hardly talk to anyone. Around 8.30am, his mother started knocking on the door to wake him up for breakfast, but there was no response. His uncle broke open the door to find him hanging. They rushed the student to Sassoon hospital, where he was pronounced dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/final-year-ba-student-ends-life-in-kothrud/articleshow/76652985.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||Top cops test negative; kid among 5 fresh cases in Mys||Mysuru: Top police officers of the district on Friday heaved a sigh of relief after being tested negative for Covid-19. After a constable attached to Nanjangud Rural police station was found infected, all officers in his primary and secondary contacts, including IGP, SP and ASP, inspectors and sub-inspectors, were quarantined. Much to their relief, all of them have tested negative. The officers under institutional quarantine will leave the centre in a day or two. Nanjangud police station, which was sealed off, will be opened after being sanitised. Confirming the development, SP C B Ryshyanth told TOI that all police officers, including the IGP and himself, were tested negative. He added that two personnel from the town station are infected, and the station’s works are shifted to the Rural station. Meanwhile, the district reported five fresh cases on Friday. An one-year-old girl having travel history from Mandya is among those infected. Three others have travel history to Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Chamarajangar. A man with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness was also found infected in Mysuru. DC Abhiram G Sankar has appealed to patients, who have visited Shafia Clinic on Ashoka Road between June 10 and 24, to get tested as the medical practitioner there himself has been shifted to a Covid hospital. At present, Mysuru has 50 containment zones, and managing the situation has become a challenge. “Cases are increasing after relaxing lockdown norms. People should understand and maintain distance at all places, including religious institutions. Containment restrictions have been limited to streets, and different criteria have been applied to apartments and slums depending on the situation,” the DC stated. . Police station sealed off in Gundlupet A police station in Gundlupet of Chamarajanagar district has been sealed off after a cop fell sick due to Covid. This is the second station in the district to be cordoned off. The district also saw 11 cases, mostly from Gundlupet, on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/top-cops-test-negative-kid-among-5-fresh-cases-in-mys/articleshow/76650438.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 5% rebate on power bills paid by June 30||JAIPUR: Discoms are offering five percent discount on next month’s electricity bill if the consumers will pay their pending bills by June 30. They will open their collection centres on Saturday and Sunday to facilitate the consumers to pay their bills. Jaipur discom managing director A K Gupta said that five percent rebate will be given in the forthcoming bill on the payment of electricity bills by June 30. The provision applies to consumers of agriculture and domestic category. A discount of one percent will be given to other categories of consumers (commercial and industry) as well for depositing the bill amount by June 30 in the forthcoming bill, he said. He informed that the bill collection centres will open office on Saturday (June 27) and Sunday (June 28) as well so that consumers can deposit their electricity bills on Saturday and Sunday also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-rebate-on-power-bills-paid-by-june-30/articleshow/76653657.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Plea in HC for 500-bedded SSHs in NMC and ZP areas||Nagpur: Two social workers have approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court seeking directions to concerned authorities to set up two 500-bedded super speciality hospitals (SSHs), one each under Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad jurisdiction, to reduce burden on existing government hospitals. According to the petitioners — Satyavrat alias Mannu Datta and Dharamdas Bagde — the SSHs should be constructed as per Indian Public Health Standards’ (IPHS) and World Health Organisation (WHO) norms, preferably within three years and be fully owned by both the public bodies. Till then, NMC should be restrained from collecting taxes not only from citizens, but also from both GMCHs and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Medical Research Institute in Indora. A division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Amir Borkar on Friday issued notices to respondents, including state chief secretary, asking them to file reply within eight weeks. Principal secretaries of urban and rural development departments, medical education, drugs, and health and family planning departments have been made respondents in the case along with NMC commissioner, collector, GMCH and IGGMCH deans. The petitioners, through counsel Chandrashekar Chandurkar, said as per IPHS guidelines public health is divided into four categories — primary health centre, community health centres, sub-district/divisional hospital and district hospital. The petitioners also demanded Rs5 lakh compensation to the kin of those who died of Covid-19 and Rs500 per day to those admitted in isolation centres. Every district should have a hospital and likewise it’s NMC’s duty to establish one in city to provide quality health services to the residents. However, even though the district’s population has gone up to 35 lakh and its geographical area widened by up to 25km in radius, the NMC and ZP failed to set up such facilities in last 40 years. On other hand, most of NMC’s old clinics and dispensaries are being closed and remaining are in dilapidated condition. According to the petitioners, the NMC commissioner and collector failed to comply with the guidelines though it’s their bounden duty. Quoting WHO norms, they argued that one health centre is needed for every 30,000 population and one MBBS doctor is needed for every 1,000 persons. However, only 36 dispensaries, including two maternity hospitals, are run by NMC and about 49 taluka-wise public health care centres are in operation in rural area. Only about 20 MBBS doctors along with 15 BAMS and homeopathy doctors are working with the civic body, most of them are on honorarium basis, they pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plea-in-hc-for-500-bedded-sshs-in-nmc-and-zp-areas/articleshow/76652994.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Turf war continues in panchayati raj dept||Jaipur: After diluting certain administrative powers of panchayati raj department’s special secretary and director Arushi Malik, ACS rural development and panchayati raj department Rajeshwar Singh has now dissolved a four-member committee constituted by Malik to probe the involvement of the department’s superintendent engineer (SE) Mukesh Maheshwari in alleged irregularities in purchase of accessories and tablets (computers) for panchayati raj institutions under the department. The probe was ordered by the special secretary on June 18 after a complaint was received on Rajasthan Sampark portal and later public grievances redressal department urging panchayati raj department to conduct a probe in the matter. The department was also asked to inform about the outcome of the probe. According to Malik’s order, the complaint also stated the “alleged irregularities resulted in financial losses to the state government”. It further pointed out that Maheshwari’s promotion to the post of SE was in violation of the rules. The probe was ordered in this matter as well. Earlier, the financial advisor of panchayati raj department had red flagged the promotion of Maheshwari to the post of SE, citing violation of rules. The purchase order for tablets and accessories was issued in February 2019 and it (order) was withdrawn by secretary panchayati raj in July 2019. The complaint also states that “following misuse and financial losses amounting to crores to the state government, having favoured only one company, the purchase order was withdrawn by the government.” Meanwhile, on June 22, the ACS of the department issued an order to dissolve the four-member committee to probe the matter and directed that “prior approval has to be taken from him before issuing an inquiry order against anyone in the department or setting up a probe committee in future.” He also stated that his approval was not taken in the matter. However, Rule 320 of panchayati raj rules, 1996, states that director rural development and panchayati raj will act as officer incharge panchayati raj institutions at the state level for enforcement of provisions of Panchayati Raj Act, 1994 Rules made or notification issued. Earlier, Singh had issued an order stating that all files pertaining to monitoring and implementation of central and state government-run panchayati raj schemes must be sent directly to him and not through the special secretary. The special secretary was also asked not to hold any meeting or video conference or participate in any of the meetings/vc related to these schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/turf-war-continues-in-panchayati-raj-dept/articleshow/76653665.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 pummels commercial realty mkt||Jaipur: Following the prolonged demand downfall in residential real estate sector, many developers had turned to commercial projects where the returns were higher. But the Covid-19 pandemic has now upended the trend.Many builders TOI spoke to said prices of commercial real estate in the last three months have witnessed deep corrections about about 25%, mirroring the plunge in rental income and uncertain outlook. Rajesh Dukiya, director of a real estate firm, who had bought a piece of land on Shipra Path in an auction by JDA last December, said he has now changed plans for the project, which was to be a commercial complex.“It would be like shooting my own feet if I persist with the idea of building a complex for offices and outlets. That was the idea when I bought it. But after the outbreak of the pandemic, the whole dynamics has changed. Housing is where the hope lies even though the demand environment is not very encouraging,” said Dukiya.Dukiya said some of those who bought commercial plots in New Aatish market in the auction held just before the outbreak of the pandemic from the Rajasthan Housing Board are not even depositing the money, even though they have the risk of losing their earnest amount. Some said the demand for reducing rental rates are rising. Even banks, offices, and companies operating from these complexes are asking to lower the rates despite waiving off their rents during the lockdown period.0“There is a limit to which you can accommodate their demands. After all, we have our financial obligations and need to pay back banks. The loan moratorium on EMI payments was effectively for five months and we still don’t know what happens to the interest part. The developers are in a bigger distress situation and don’t know how long the pandemic will continue,” said Abhishek Mishra, director of a real estate firm.While RERA has provided deadline relaxation of six months for the ongoing projects for completion, the industry expects execution delays could overshoot by more than year. Many companies or brands which had entered into deals for renting space are unlikely to honour the commitments, said Mishra.“We cannot compel them if they want to renege on the contracts signed. If there is no revenue visibility, certainly the projects will face delays,” added Mishra.Office tenants could also encourage their staff to work from reducing the demand for renting spaces. Some businesses which had expanded recently could also think of scrapping the plans. “All these will add to the pressure on rates. The commercial project rates are linked to rentals, which if go down, will cause huge losses to investors,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-pummels-commercial-realty-mkt/articleshow/76653666.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cop gives decent burial for rag picker||CHENNAI: A woman police inspector, who had been taking care of three rag pickers in Otteri during the lockdown, also helped give a decent burial to the eldest who died of an ailment on Thursday. All three sisters had earlier tested negative for Covid-19, but none of their neighbours came forward to remove the body of the 60-year-old woman. As a group of men stood watching, not even moving to help cover the half-naked body, inspector E Rajeshwari of Secretariat Colony arrived to supply food to the sisters. Shocked to see the eldest, Prabhavati, lying dead, she rushed forward to help. The onlookers tried to stop her saying the deceased was a rag picker who might have picked up the infection during her trips across the city. Rajeswari, however, ignored them and draped the body with a sari she had brought to distribute to the needy in the area. The three sisters had been living on a platform on the road outside Otteri Housing Board Tenements in SM Nagar, picking rags for a living. “I could see men watching the sobbing sisters, but not stepping forward to help,” said Rajeshwari. The inspector called a funeral van was called and the body was carried to the Otteri graveyard with Rajeswari driving alongside. She bought some flowers and milk as per the wish of the deceased woman’s sisters and performed a few rituals before burying the body. “The two younger women wanted me to perform the burial as per their tradition, according to Prabhavati’s last wish, and I did it,” said the inspector. Even since the lockdown began, Rajeswari had asked the three sisters not to move out of their temporary accommodation and promised to ensure that food reached them on time every day. The inspector also decided to supply them with groceries at their doorstep, as many others in the area who came to collect groceries at the police station decided to stop doing so because the three sisters were also coming there to collect food and other essential items. “So I decided not to embarrass them and decided to go personally and supply them with food,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cop-gives-decent-burial-for-rag-picker/articleshow/76652983.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Girl loses two gold chains to bike-borne snatchers||PUNE: Two motorcycle-borne men snatched two gold chains, collectively worth Rs45,000, of a 19-year-old girl in Vadgaon Sheri on the night of June 2. Police said the girl and her mother had purchased tablets from a medical store and were on their way home on a motorcycle. The police said the pillion rider snatched the girl’s two gold chains and sped away. Senior inspector Shankar Khatke of the Chandannagar police said, “The girl, in her complaint on Thursday, said the robbers were aged around 30-35. We have collected CCTV footage from the spot. Our probe in on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/girl-loses-two-gold-chains-to-bike-borne-snatchers/articleshow/76652991.cms||---
June 27, 2020||India||No Covid deaths in 4 North East states so far: Government||NEW DELHI: Four northeastern states — Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim — have not reported any Covid-19 death so far. The number of positive cases in these states have also been comparatively less than the rest of the country, the health ministry said on Friday. It said lack of testing facilities and dedicated Covid-19 hospitals had initially hampered the fight against the virus in the northeastern states, but the infrastructure has since been stepped up. Till Friday, the eight NE states together reported 3,731 active cases, while there have been 5,715 recoveries. The death toll in the entire region stood at 12, the ministry said. “A critical pillar which hampered the efforts was complete lack of testing facilities. But today, because of the focussed attention of the Centre through the health ministry, the region has 39 testing labs in the public sector and three in the private sector, totalling to 42 laboratories,” the ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-covid-deaths-in-4-north-east-states-so-far-government/articleshow/76654407.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Central Zone sees a 79% dip, North West a 61% rise||Ahmedabad: Till the first week of May, the Central Zone, comprising congested neighbourhoods such as Jamalpur, Dariapur, Shahpur, Rakhial and Khadia, was the epicentre of the Covid outbreak in Ahmedabad, and accounted for 74% of cases in the city. These areas have had a 79% drop in cases in June, compared to May. In sharp contrast, the tony North West Zone, which includes areas such as Bodakdev, Thaltej, Ghatlodia and Gota has seen a 61% increase in cases, while the South West Zone containing Jodhpura, Vejalpur, Maktampura and Sarkhej has seen a 17 % rise. These areas had hardly any cases 55 days ago. On Friday, these details were shared with the central team led by joint secretary, health, Lav Agarwal. He inspected micro-containment zones in Thaltej, Vishwakarma Society in Shahibaug and a few societies in Gota. At Satellite Centre in Bodakdev, which was declared a micro-containment zone a few days ago, Agarwal suggested that instead of June 20, the society should have been declared a micro-containment zone earlier, when 12 cases were reported between May 26 and June 2. A few days ago, residents of Satellite Centre had written to the municipal commissioner asking to be taken off the micro-containment zone list as there were no more cases. Earlier, residents of Sachin Towers and Galaxy Apartments had written to the AMC after they were notified as micro-containment zones. Several posh societies in Ramdevnagar, Prernatirth and Gota areas were not declared micro-containment zones despite them having more than 10 cases. Agarwal stopped by a ‘Dhanvantri’ fever van in Gota area and suggested that the van be deployed outside containment zones and not in non-containment areas. The central team also visited the Shahpur area in the walled city and spoke to a few police officials. “Agarwal also visited SVP and VS Hospitals, and a private hospital, to inspect Covid control measures,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/central-zone-sees-a-79-dip-north-west-a-61-rise/articleshow/76653158.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal turns down request to do away with P1, P2 system||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Friday turned down the request made by traders to do away with the alternate day rule of opening shops (P1, P2) in Nashik.After having a word with state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta during a meeting with the traders’ association at Shivneri Government Rest House in Nashik, Bhujbal said the officer was against such move as it had not paid any dividends in Pune.“Following the demand I had a talk with the officer, who said that the experience in Pune after removal of the P1, P2 system resulted in a huge rise in Covid-19 cases. So the option has been cancelled as of now,” Bhujbal said.The traders led by Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture president Santosh Mandlecha and others met the guardian minister with the request and offering to limit the timing of the shops till 5 pm. “The guidelines are clear — business hours from 5.00 am till 9.00 pm. We are opening up of the economy gradually and hence revisiting the lockdown is unadvisable. If business community is ready it can decide to function only between 9 am and 5 pm, but government will not issue any orders, nor support it, though it would be a welcome step,” Bhujbal said.It should be noted that markets in important parts of the city are ensuring the business establishments remain closed voluntarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-turns-down-request-to-do-away-with-p1-p2-system/articleshow/76650442.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE forms committee to look into Maharana Pratap fiasco||AJMER: Reacting to the Maharana Pratap controversy, the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has formed a committee to review the objectionable e-content uploaded on the RBSE web portal and alleged claims of downsizing the content on Pratap’s life by 40% in the revised printed textbook as compared to the one revised in the BJP tenure. In a press conference held in Ajmer on Friday, RBSE chairman, D P Jalori claimed that it has not diluted the glory, valour and humane side of Rajasthan’s icon Pratap, but has underlined and highlighted the multifold side of the Maharana in the revised textbook. A major controversy unfolded after an objectionable statement on Pratap as ‘a king who lacked moderation, control and patience’ appeared in the class 10 Social Science e-textbook. The date when the book was uploaded is not known, but the book was removed on June 25 from the website after the matter snowballed into a political issue. Jalori argued that the existing book has been added in the academic session of 2019-20 or last year. “The book has been in place for a little more than a year and nobody objected to the content,” said Jalori, who further informed that from the new academic session, NCERT syllabus and books will be introduced in class 9 and 11 leaving no scope for any confusion. Earlier, talking to TOI on the objectionable content, he said the board will look into the matter and if the content is objectionable, they will remove it. State education minister Govind Singh Dotasra has held RBSE responsible for uploading the objectionable content on the board’s web portal. Earlier, he had told TOI that the content on e-textbook was different from the printed version which appears to be a mischief by the concerned writer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-forms-committee-to-look-into-pratap-fiasco/articleshow/76653671.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APSRTC may lower frequency of bus services on some routes||VISAKHAPATNAM: The AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is likely to reschedule the number of bus services in some routes from July in view of poor patronisation after it resumed operations. The RTC resumed inter-district services on May 21 and inter-state services for Karnataka and Odisha on June 18. In the first and second weeks after resuming services, the corporation received a positive response from passengers, but since then, numbers have fallen, said a senior RTC official. The RTC official said, “We registered nearly 17,000 passengers at Dwaraka Bus Station in the beginning after we resumed services, but now the number of passengers have come down to 9,000 to 10,000 at the same station.” Officials in the corporation attributed the decline in passengers to the rapid rise in number of Covid-19 cases across the state, especially after restrictions were lifted. “In fact, we planned to restart inter-state services between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, but that was also postponed till we receive further orders from chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy,” said an RTC official. According to sources in the RTC, the corporation operated 3,266 buses across the state per day, on average, between June 1 to 20. The RTC has a nearly 12,000-strong fleet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rtc-may-lower-frequency-of-bus-services-on-some-routes/articleshow/76653015.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fraud heat on ex-peon of school||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Thursday booked a former peon of The Bishop’s School in Undri on the charges of forging letterhead and signature of PMC corporator Sainath Babar for helping four students seek admission in 2019. Babar told TOI, “On June 26, 2019, I visited the school’s Camp branch to hep some students seeking admission. A school official told me that its Undri branch admitted four students after receiving a request letter from me. But I had not issued any letter.” He said, “I later visited the school at Undri and the principal showed me the letterhead. I realized that it was forged. A parent of one of the students told me that the peon had taken Rs1.5 lakh from him and helped him get admission for his son in Std II of the school.” Kondhwa police senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad said, “We decided to lodge an FIR after the peon admitted to his involvement in the crime” School spokesperson Markus Deshmukh told TOI, “The peon resigned after being indicted in the inquiry. . We get admission requests from influential people. But we can’t accept all requests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fraud-heat-on-ex-peon-of-school/articleshow/76653004.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 positive man disappears from hospital||Vadodara: A 29-year-old patient, who was tested positive for Covid-19, went missing from the GMERS Gotri Medical College on Thursday afternoon. The hospital authorities have registered an FIR against the man and begun a search for him. According to the police, the patient was admitted to the hospital on June 14. “He wasn’t showing any symptoms of Covid-19 but his test results came positive on Thursday morning. He then disappeared from the hospital in afternoon,” said R K Gosai, police sub-inspector, Gorwa. The hospital staff found him missing during the regular round following which it began looking for him frantically. Police said that it would be a tough task tracking him as he hadn’t given his proper address in the hospital. “The only information we have is his mobile number. We tried to call on the number but it is switched off,” Gosai added. Officials are worried that the man may spread Covid-19 to other localities and hence he has to be tracked down swiftly. A similar incident had happened in Gotri last month when a Covid-19 suspect had disappeared from Gotri Hospital. He returned to the hospital later but his reports were negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-positive-man-disappears-from-hospital/articleshow/76650912.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Surat||Two retired officers get Covid OSDs duty||Surat: The state government appointed two retired government officers as officers of special duty (OSDs) for Covid-19 in Surat even as the number of cases continue to spike every day. RJ Makadia, a retired IAS officer and V P Machhar, a retired GAS (Gujarat Administrative Service) officer, were appointed in Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). According to the order issued by municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, Makadia will oversee the city's east zone (Varachha) and New East Zone (Sarthana) besides monitoring the Covid-19 spread in the diamond and textile industries. Machhar will monitor the Covid-19 control room at SMC-run SMIMER hospital and other related activities in the south-east zone, home-based treatment and civic body's surveillance. In addition, GB Mungalpara, additional collector of Surat, will oversee 104 helpline operations and supervise Dhanvatari Raths in the city On Friday, Surat city reported 161 fresh and Katargam zone crossed 1,000 mark. Three Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 152. The deceased included a 63-year-old man from the central zone, 55-year-old man from Rander zone and 65-year-old man from Katargam zone. Meanwhile, 62 patients also recovered and were discharged on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-retired-officers-get-covid-osds-duty/articleshow/76651451.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||Ayuvedic medicine laced with drugs: 4 booked under NDPS||Rajkot: Four traders were detained under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act from Atika and Shree Hari industrial areas in Rajkot on Thursday night after they were found in possession of 891 packets containing marijuana mixed with ayurvedic medicine. The police said the accused, Dhirajlal Desai (54), Sanjay Mehta (33), Yogesh Padaria (29) and Rajesh Bheda (52), were booked for selling ayurvedic medicine ‘Tarang Vijayavati’ laced with marijuana. The traders were arrested on Thursday late night after the special operations group (SOG) of Rajkot police received the report of 5,080 packets of the medicine that they had seized on March 5 from Jai Ramnath Sales Agency in Himalay Complex on Gondal Road in Rajkot.The seizure of these packets was effected on March 5, after a local newspaper carried out a sting operation, alleging that the packets had contained marijuana. “We had sent the contents of the packets to Gandhinagar FSL. After it was confirmed that ‘Tarang Vijayavati’ contained marijuana, we started tracing the traders who kept these packets at their stores. While Desai and Mehta were caught from Baba Pan shop at Atika Ahir Chowk, Padaria was nabbed from Harideva General Store in Shree Hari industry area,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot special operation group (SOG). The case against the traders was registered at Malaviyanagar police station.“We also booked the owner Jai Ramnath Sales Agency Rajesh Bheda under the NDPS Act on Thursday night” added Rawal.Meanwhile, the Rajkot SOG have contacted their counterparts in Indore police in Madhya Pradesh, informing them about the development and urging them to raid the factory that manufactures ‘Tarang Vijayavati’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ayuvedic-medicine-laced-with-drugs-4-booked-under-ndps/articleshow/76652026.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Discom to hold webinars to clear consumer doubts on high power bills||NAGPUR: Even as MSEDCL officers steadfastly refuse to admit the impact of Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (MERC) power tariff hike on June bills, the company has launched a campaign to explain the reasons for the same. Opposition parties, especially BJP, is cashing in on the discontent among poor and middle class consumers. Its leaders have been asking people not to pay ‘inflated’ bills. Realizing that the issue could snowball into a major public relations disaster, the discom has taken certain steps. A consumer grievance redressal cell will be set up in every Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) office to explain the high bills to consumers. The company will also organize consumer meets and webinars for answering the questions of consumers regarding the bills. A company spokesperson said MSEDCL had not taken readings in March, April and May and issued average bills for the two billing cycles. “We restarted taking readings in June and are sending a combined bill of two or three months. People think that it is the bill for only one month and are stunned how it could be so much. We will convince them that they are not being fleeced,” he added. The webinars will be addressed by officers ranging from chief engineer to executive engineer level. MSEDCL teams will also meet guardian ministers, ministers of state, MPs, MLAs, MLCs and other elected representatives and explain it to them that consumers have not been fleeced. The spokesperson urged consumers to visit its bill calculator page. In this page it is clearly mentioned that MERC has increased the power tariff from April 1, 2020. MSEDCL officers, however, refuse to accept this fact. Satish Chavan, director (commercial), said the tariff had reduced in summer months as compared to February and March. Energy minister Nitin Raut, on the other hand, has blamed tariff hike for the astronomical power bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/discom-to-hold-webinars-to-clear-consumer-doubts-on-high-power-bills/articleshow/76653025.cms||Ashish Roy
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: High recovery keeps active cases in check||BHOPAL: Number of active cases has increased from 81 on April 1 to 2,448 on June 26 — but barring the month of April when the testing facilities were still in nascent stages — the growth rate of active cases in Madhya Pradesh has nearly remained the same in the month of May and June so far. After the first week of May, i.e., on May 7, there were 1,828 active patients in the state and on June 26 there are 2,448 active cases in the state. There was a minor increase of 580 active patients between these two dates. However, between May 7 and June 2 6— total 2.68 lakh samples have been tested and a whopping 9,546 patients have tested positive. Sources say that despite 9,546 patients testing positive, only 580 active patients increased in this period, mainly because the recovery rate has been good. In this period, 8,573 people recovered from Covid-19 infection and were discharged from hospital, said sources. Due to this high number of recovery, there is nearly a stagnancy in the number of active patients during the past two months in the state. It also means that the disease has so far been kept under control in the state. Even during Unlock 1.0, which started from June 1, when majority of the restrictions were removed, number of active Covid patients has not increased much, this is also a good sign for the state, said sources. It was only in the month of April that a significant increase was reported in the growth rate of active cases in the state, but it was mainly due to the fact that the testing facilities were rapidly increasing and hence number of samples tested increased every second day in April, added sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/high-recovery-keeps-active-cases-in-check/articleshow/76652989.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Centralised system for 78L pensioners||Jaipur: Abolishing the 250 treasuries and sub-treasuries and the drawing and disbursing officers (DDO) in the districts, the social justice and empowerment department has adopted a “centralized mechanism” for disbursal of pension to 78.65 lakh beneficiaries under it. The mechanism will also be introduced in Palanhar and scholarship schemes. There will be one treasury and DDO in Jaipur that will clear the bills for disbursal of pension through electronic system, doing away with multiple layers of human interference in bill clearance and disbursement of money. This mechanism will also ensure curtailing delays in the payment of pension and inefficiencies in the system.“We are introducing a simple method of DBT (direct benefit transfer) by putting a scheduler, where the computer automatically takes into cognizance the amount of money required to be transferred in the bank accounts of a certain number of people on a scheduled date. No human intervention is needed for this,” said Akhil Arora, principal secretary, social justice and empowerment department.“Earlier, bills were prepared in every treasury office in the state on their computers. So, at times, there were delays because of the involvement of multiple layers of human intervention. Also, the state budget allocation was distributed to these treasuries (250) every quarter and this used to take time. So, these treasuries have been abolished. Now, there is a single treasury and a single DDO. We have also introduced server certification by embedding digital signatures (of the treasury officers/DDOs) in the server. So, the bills will be generated and passed automatically and payment will get transferred accordingly on the scheduled date,” he added.“Therefore delays will get curtailed; there will not be requirement of so much manpower and inefficiencies will be curbed. For this, rules have been amended for social security pensions,” he further added. “The payment under the mechanism has already started in the month of June. Earlier, the DDOs prepared the bills and, as treasury officers they passed the bills, and the payments were made through electronic transfer. Now, there will only one DDO in the whole state and one treasury office located in Jaipur rural. So, abolishing manual/human intervention, the bills, henceforth, will be prepared through digital signatures. It will next be introduced in Palanhar scheme,” said Suresh Gupta, additional director, pension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centralised-system-for-78l-pensioners/articleshow/76653684.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
June 27, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Other states want to replicate AP’s power purchase model’||Vijayawada: With the success of purchasing power from exchanges at spot price, the board of directors of APTransco have resolved to continue the practice henceforth. The APTransco board observed in the meeting that Andhra Pradesh has emerged as a game changer in procuring cost-effective power and now every state in the country is looking to replicate the practice. The APTransco board met at secretariat on Friday to review its performance. The energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli observed that they were able to save about Rs 700 crore in the last few months by going for spot purchase of power from the exchanges. The power prices in open market have plummeted due to significant drop in demand because of the lockdown. Andhra Pradesh power utilities have made aggressive purchase of power from the exchanges by keeping the power generators on standby. As power is available cheaper than production cost in state-owned thermal power plants, the state government purchased spot power to meet its requirements. The state power utilities have purchased power between Rs 1.63 to Rs 2.80 per unit from the exchanges which is lower than the production cost in thermal stations. The APTransco board also observed that they were able to reduce the cost of service from Rs 48,110 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 43,327 crore in 2019-20 resulting in net savings of Rs 4,783 crore. The minister for energy Balineni Srinivas Reddy told officials to continue the best practices in procuring cost effective power and at the same serving the consumers without any interruptions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/other-states-want-to-replicate-aps-power-purchase-model/articleshow/76653043.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad district accounts for two-thirds of state’s cases||Ahmedabad: On Friday, Ahmedabad district as a whole crossed the 20,000 total cases mark (20,058) with 219 new Covid-19 cases reported. While Gujarat crossed 30,000 cases on the same day, the district thus contributes two thirds of all cases.However, as the district has 3,399 of the 6,294 active in the state cases as of 9pm of June 26, it accounts for 54% or half the active cases.Analysis of the progression of cases reveal that on May 8, the district had crossed 5,000 cases, and the number doubled on on May 23, in 15 days. The case doubling rate (CDR) in Ahmedabad district slowed to 34 from 10,000 to 20,000 cases. This improvement is better than that of Gujarat, for which the CDR slowed from 18 days to 30 days.The death toll of eight in the 24 hours ending 5pm for the district was the lowest in 60 days. On April 27, Ahmedabad had recorded five deaths. To put the figure in perspective, on April 28, Gujarat had recorded 19 deaths, all which were from Ahmedabad. Likewise, between April 17 and June 26, Ahmedabad recorded its highest single-day death toll of 39, on May 5.“Deaths and new cases are on the decline in the past few days. The last time the district clocked 300 cases in a day was on June 22. Multiple factors including a change in the pattern of spread could be responsible,” said a city-based infectious diseases specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-district-accounts-for-two-thirds-of-states-cases/articleshow/76653153.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||No drug manufacturing collaboration with Patanjali: Jaipur hospital||JAIPUR: The NIMS Hospital, Jaipur, with which Patanjali collaborated for trial on Covid-19 patients, said that it is not involved in manufacturing of any drug or tablet by the name ‘Coronil’ or any other brand in any manner. The hospital further said it neither has any manufacturing or financial collaboration with Patanjali nor it gains from the use of data by end users, including not having any involvement in the statutory compliances in relation thereto except relating to the study carried out by them. In a statement issued to TOI, NIMS stated that a scientific study was carried out by National Institute of Medical Sciences, Jaipur, for and on behalf of Patanjali Research Institute, Haridwar, on Impact of Indian Traditional Ayurvedic treatment regime for nCoV-2 (Covid-19). The study design focused on Randomized, Parallel Group, Placebo Trial. It stated that the inclusion criteria were asymptomatic to mild symptomatic patients. The intervention consisted of Tablet Ashwagandha 500mg BD, Tablet Giloy Ghanwati 1,000mg BD, Tablet Tulsi 500mg BD, Swasati vati/ras 2gm and Anu Taila 4 drop BD. It also claimed that the Covid-19 patients were included in the study after taking their due consent. “The clinical study was initiated/ conducted on 100 Covid -19 positive patients who were admitted in NIMS after obtaining due consent from all concerned individuals, from May 23 which lasted up to June 14,” NIMS claimed. The NIMS University carried out the above study as a pilot project based on representations and declaration of compliance of norms by Patanjali as set out by the authorities. The entire study was conducted by a team of highly experienced professors, led by a doctor having experience of about 36 years in the field of medicine at a leading super specialty hospital of Jaipur. The entire study is well documented as per the norms of CTRI, Government of India, NIMS stated. It claimed that in conducting the study, all the necessary prerequisites were fulfilled by NIMS, including obtaining of approval of Clinical Trial Registry India (CTRI ref no. CTRI/2020/05/025273), registered on May 20, 2020 as per the guidelines laid down in The Gazette of India: Extraordinary, published on April 21, 2020 F. No. L.11011/8/2020 & General Guidelines for Clinical Evaluation of Ayurvedic Interventions by Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences, Ministry of AYUSH. Besides this, the information of the trial being conducted was also duly given to the ministry of AYUSH well in advance vide letter dated June 2, 2020 sent on June 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-hospital-says-it-has-no-drug-manufacturing-collaboration-with-patanjali/articleshow/76653689.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP ahead of many states in creating employment: PM Narendra Modi||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme is a reflection of the strength of labourers who migrated to their home states during coronavirus pandemic. The scheme covers 31 districts from east UP and Rohilkhand region and aims to provide employment to 1.25 crore people. “UP is ahead of other states in giving employment to the needy. This includes nearly 60 lakh employment under MNREGS and 40 lakh in MSME sector. Besides this, the state government is engaging workers in various construction and expressway projects,” the PM said. He added that the Centre had prepared a list of 25 categories under which migrants would be roped in. Modi also praised the state government for skill mapping and preparing data of over 30 lakh migrants. The PM said even one district, one product (ODOP) scheme of the state aimed at providing bigger market to products manufactured by local artisans. Hailing the CM, Modi said the state government ensured the return of about 35 lakh migrants by arranging special trains over a period of few weeks. “It did pose a threat of coronavirus spread but the government tackled the situation with full empathy and bailed out the state as well as served the country by this manner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ahead-of-many-states-in-creating-employment-pm/articleshow/76653696.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hubballi||42 +ve cases in K’bragi||Kalaburagi: On Friday, 42 Covid-19 positive cases were recorded in Kalaburagi district. According to the health bulletin, 75 patients have recovered and discharged from the designated hospital. With this, the total number of positive cases has risen to 1,331. With 935 being discharged from the hospital, and 15 casualties, the district has now been left with 381 active cases. Of the 42 cases, two are infected with Covid, four from ILI and one from Severe Acute Respiratory Ilness. Thirty-two are Maharashtra returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/42-ve-cases-in-kbragi/articleshow/76650484.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Stranded students to answer Class XII exams from July 30||PANAJI: Students who could not answer the three rescheduled Class XII exam papers held from May 20 to 22 will be able to appear for the supplementary exam to be held from July 30 onwards, chairman of Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Ramkrishna Samant said on Friday. He, however, said that this is a temporary date and is subject to the situation of Covid-19 cases in Goa at the time. Samant said that during the rescheduled exams, students, who could make it to the border areas Goa shares with Maharashtra and Karnataka, were accommodated in centres arranged in these two neighbouring states. “But some students were in far off areas like Delhi and Himachal Pradesh. We have been getting some calls from such students. There may be around 50 such students. They can appear for the July-August exam. All stranded students who could not appear for the three rescheduled Class XII papers will be permitted to answer this exam as a special case,” said Samant. Besides these stranded students, the examination is the supplementary exam held for students who have failed in one or two subjects in Class XII. “The temporary date for commencement of the examination is July 30, but this examination is subject to the prevailing circumstances at that time and permission from the government to conduct the examination. We are giving the notice well in advance so the candidates and schools can prepare themselves for the next exam. But everything depends of the prevailing situation of Covid at that time. The cases in Goa, as you know, are rising,” Samant said. Students who want to improve their marks under the improvement of marks scheme are also eligible to appear for the July-August exam, he said. Under the scheme, students are allowed two attempts to improve their scores. Usually, the supplementary exam was conducted only through two centres, one each in Mapusa and Margao. This year, it is being held through seven centres. This is being done to ensure that norms of social distancing are adhered because of the pandemic. Samant said that around 1,500 students expected to answer the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stranded-students-to-answer-class-xii-exams-from-july-30/articleshow/76653047.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||10 deaths in Nashik in a day highest so far||Nashik: As many as 91 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city on Friday, taking the tally of positive patients to 1,696. Meanwhile, 10 people succumbed to the viral infection on Friday. The death toll in the city now stands at 91. This is the highest number of Covid-19 related deaths that the city has recorded in a day so far. The last time the city had recorded the highest number of deaths (8) was on June 23. So far, 660 patients have been discharged after successfully recovering from the viral infection. Now, the active case count in the city stands at 945. An 80-year old man from Phule Market near Kokni Darbar, a 40-year old woman from Kumbarwada in Kazigadhi, a 65-year old man from Mhasoba Nagar in Nashik Road, a 56-year old man from Shingada Talav, a 44-year old man from Ganjamal, an 85-year old resident of Adgaon in Pachavati, a 66-year old man from Makhmalabad Road, a 75-year old man from Doodh Bazaar, a 52-year old woman from Sarda Circle and a 30-year-old resident from Raviwar Karanja died of Covid-19 on Friday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-deaths-in-nashik-in-a-day-highest-so-far/articleshow/76650490.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||BJP asks MSEDCL to withdraw ‘inflated’ bills||Nagpur: BJP has mounted pressure on MSEDCL to withdraw the ‘inflated’ power bills issued in the month of June that have caused widespread discontent among consumers. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded free power up to 200 units per month for domestic consumers on the lines of Delhi and roll back in power tariff hike affected from April. A delegation of BJP led by city president MLC Pravin Datke met chief engineer Dilip Dodke and submitted a memorandum of demands to him. Datke demanded that the ‘inflated’ June bills should be scrapped immediately, and fresh and corrected ones be issued. The BJP leaders also demanded that consumers should be given 300 units free of cost for the lockdown period on the lines of states like Madhya Pradesh, Delhi etc. Their other demands include abolition of fuel surcharge and written assurance that consumers would not be disconnected if they are unable to pay astronomical June bills. Datke has asked citizens not to pay power bills and deposit a photocopy with party corporators, their offices or BJP’s city office in Mangalam Tower, Ganeshpeth. The party plans to launch an agitation in this regard from June 29. Earlier, on Thursday, Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti (VRAS) had staged an agitation over high power bills. Energy minister Nitin Raut has asked MSEDCL to provide instalments on June bills but this has neither satisfied his political opponents nor people in general. Most people are convinced that the cash-strapped state government is overcharging them to fill its coffers. This has caused a major problem for Raut and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Datke had a suggestion for Raut two days ago, which MSEDCL officers say, had the minister followed would have led to dissipation of public anger. The opposition MLC had demanded that MSEDCL withdraw the issued bills and instead issue fresh bills that divide the June amount into three and issue them over a period of three months. AAP activists led by Bhushan Dhakulkar staged an agitation at Gaddigodam demanding free power and roll back in power tariff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-asks-msedcl-to-withdraw-inflated-bills/articleshow/76653052.cms||Ashish Roy
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Petrol heading to Rs 90 a litre; diesel up by Rs 12 in a month||NAGPUR: The rates of petrol and diesel have increased by more than Rs10 in 30 days. Petrol was priced at Rs87.41 on Friday even as dealers expect it may cross Rs90-mark before July. Petrol cost Rs76.81 a litre on May 25. Diesel rates have grown faster with an increase of Rs12.4 in the same period. The gap between petrol and diesel prices has come down to Rs9 a litre, which is expected to hamper the demand for diesel vehicles, says sources in the automobile business. In Nagpur, integrated road development project (IRDP) cess has a major contribution in pricing. It makes the fuel costlier as compared to many other centres. The cess, which is charged on pumps within the city limits, makes petrol and diesel costlier by Rs0.60 and Rs1.60 per litre, respectively. Petroleum dealers have been demanding to do away with the cess as the IRDP was implemented nearly 20 years ago and its cost is expected to have been recovered. The petrol rates were stable at Rs76.81 a litre till May 31, after which there was an increase of Rs2. On June 16, it crossed Rs84 a litre. On June 1, diesel was at Rs68.77 and by June 16 the rates shot up to Rs74. The rates also vary slightly from outlet to outlet. “The increase comes at a time when the sales are half of the normal times. During April, the sales had dipped to 15% but slowly picked up, yet it is less than half of the normal times,” said Vilas Salpekar, vice-president of Vidarbha Petroleum Dealers Association. Even as the lockdown has eased, people in general are commuting only when it is necessary which has brought the demand down. It is not feasible to maintain the staff with the current sales, he said. Shahid Sharif, a consumer activist, says the increase comes at a time when consumers are grappling with pay cuts. The increase in fuel rates is likely to have its impact on the prices of essential items. Ashish Kale, president of Federation of Automobile Dealers, says the impact of reducing gap between diesel and petrol rates on the demand of vehicles may be seen in the coming months. Kukku Marwah, who heads Nagpur Truckers’ Unity, an association of transporters, said there is a little scope of increasing the freight due to low demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/petrol-heading-to-rs90-a-ltr-diesel-up-by-rs12-in-a-month/articleshow/76653079.cms||Shishir Arya
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Micro-containment zone notified in South Bopal||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has notified Orchid Paradise and Safar Parisar II in South Bopal as a micro-containment zone. This is the first action of the AMC in the Bopal-Ghuma area, after the nagarpalika was merged into municipal limits. A meeting was held between Rajiv Gupta, ACS, who is in charge of Covid control in Ahmedabad and municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. After the meeting Gupta said it was decided to notify Safar Parisar II and Orchid Paradise, with 1,200 residents and 383 houses, as a micro containment zone. Gupta said from Saturday the AMC will now carry out a through thermal scanning and house to house surveys. The AMC had earlier declared 36 micro containment zones in the city and this was the 37th. Since June 1, South Bopal has been one of the worst affected areas, as almost all cases reported from Bopal have been from the area. The first case reported was a pregnant woman who had gone for her final pregnancy check-up. Officials said that these two societies are near shopping complexes and a vegetable market where vendors were operating without health permits without masks and sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/micro-containment-zone-notified-in-south-bopal/articleshow/76653143.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid-19 patients can dial helpline if private hospitals overcharge||JAIPUR: While allowing private hospitals to conduct Covid-19 treatment, the state government has said that it will keep an eye on them to ensure that they are not overcharging the patients. The move will prove beneficial for Covid-19 patients who can get treatment in the hospital of their choice. “In these troubled times, it is the duty of any responsible government to provide relief to the people. By capping rates, it has been ensured that private hospitals do not unnecessarily overcharge innocent public. While most private hospitals have supported and supplemented the government efforts to manage the pandemic, some unscrupulous ones might try to exploit the situation. If that happens, anyone can complain on the state helplines so that necessary action be taken against the defaulters,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). The state government had issued a notification on June 20 capping the rates for general ward per day at Rs 2,000 and for ICU with ventilator at Rs 4,000. The private hospitals have been asked not to refer the Covid-19 patients to other hospitals especially government hospitals. The government has appealed to the private hospitals not to deny treatment to Covid-19 patients or suspected cases. Till few days ago, only two private hospitals in Jaipur were providing Covid-19 treatment apart from government-run SMS Hospital, RUHS Hospital and Jaipuria Hospital. But now, except for RUHS Hospital all the other government hospitals have been declared as non-Covid hospitals. Therefore, the government has allowed the private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. “Earlier, when a patient admitted to a private hospital was found infected with Covid-19, the private hospitals would immediately shift them to government hospitals for treatment. Now, we have asked them to provide treatment at the rates fixed by the state government,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). He said that if a patient is admitted to a private hospital with symptoms of influenza-like illness and later tests positive for Covid-19, he/she will get treatment in the same hospital. Private hospitals cannot force patients to go to other hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-patients-can-dial-helpline-if-pvt-hosps-overcharge/articleshow/76653700.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||With livelihoods disrupted, AP theatre staff search for clarity||VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when medium and small-scale industries are beginning their journey to normalcy following the lifting of lockdown restrictions, film theatres across the state hope that they will soon be allowed to resume business. The lockdown has hit the livelihoods of close to 12,000 regular employees at nearly 800 film theatres in the state, said Perla Sambamurthy, joint secretary of Andhra Pradesh Film Chamber of Commerce (APFCC). Sambamurthy said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy should take into account the woes of theatre employees and extend financial support to them, similar to workers in other sectors who have benefited from the state government’s schemes during the lockdown. “We will wait to reopen our theatres till the government orders us, but what about the plight of our ground-level employees, completely depend on the theatres for survival? Recently, film producers and stars like Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna met the chief minister to bring some issues to his notice. The chief minister should also give us a chance to present our problem before him,” Sambamurthy told TOI. Theatre managements, Sambamurthy said, are ready to follow guidelines on social distancing and regular sanitisation of premises if the government permitted them to reopen theatres. “The situation will get worse if we delay an early resolution of this matter. The government should think of the condition of the film industry,” Sambamurthy, who is also managing partner at Kinnera theatre in Visakhapatnam, added. TP Anantam, manager of Leela Mahal in Visakhapatnam said each theatre employes nearly 15 people whose work starts at 8 am and continues till the last show ends. “The regular employees of theatres are now helpless as they don’t know any other work and no other industry or company will take them now. I have been working at my theatre for the last 30 years. This is the first time that I have closed my theatre for more than 80 days,” Anantham said. K Sriniva Rao, a theatre staff in Vijayawada said apart from regular staff, workers at vehicle stands, for wall posters, sanitation and canteens have also suffered losses. “In the present scenario we are not pointing fingers at anybody. We accept what has happened, but who will save us from our financial loss,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-livelihoods-disrupted-theatre-staff-search-for-clarity/articleshow/76653071.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid in jail, murder convict wants to remain out longer||Ahmedabad: A murder convict out on temporary bail has told the Gujarat high court that he is afraid to return to the Sabarmati jail because of the Covid-19 cases within the prison. This led the high court, on Wednesday, to direct jail authorities to furnish details about the virus transmission inside the prison. The high court also wanted to know about the measures being taken to protect prisoners. The high court has directed that the response be submitted by June 29. As for the murder convict, Jignesh Damor of Sabarkantha, he was released from the jail on May 8 on temporary bail by the high court. He was supposed to surrender on June 1. However, on May 29, he filed an application in the high court requesting some more time to surrender. Damor said he had heard that some jail inmates were suffering from Covid-19. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria told Sabarmati jail authorities to submit details about the total number of inmates and those affected by Covid-19. The high court wanted to know the nature of treatment and the protocol the jail authorities have developed for these patients. Moreover, the high court wanted to be apprised of quarantine facilities at the jail and how infections among the inmates came to light. Besides, the high court sought information about the practice being followed for entry and exit of inmates after they are released on temporary bail. It was at the end of May that the first Covid-19 case was detected at the Sabarmati jail. The inmate who tested positive was Manubhai Desai. The test had been conducted on him on the high court’s orders because he wanted temporary bail to look after his children. But since he tested positive, he was not released. More tests were conducted subsequently and seven other inmates were found to be Covid-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-in-jail-murder-convict-wants-to-remain-out-longer/articleshow/76653150.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||Nashik admin plans to bar entry of visitors inside district collectorate||Nashik: The Nashik district administration authorities are planning to cut down the number of visitors inside the collectorate premises to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection.The administration has already set up squads at the entrance of the district collectorate for screening visitors. In addition, the squads also note down details of visitors, following which they are allowed to enter the premises.“We have already set up squads that thermally scan people entering the building. Once cleared, the contact details of the concerned visitor is noted down, after which he/she is allowed to enter the building. However, those not wearing masks or failing to sanitise their hands are barred from entering the building,” an official from the district collectorate office said.Nearly 550 people visit the district collectorate on a daily basis even though most of the works are conducted online, the official added.“We have planned to restrict the entry of citizens inside the building unless they have an appointment to visit a particular officer or any department,” he added.Meanwhile district collector Suraj Mandhare said that the administration has provided a WhatsApp number where people can make applications, check status of the same as well as ask queries to various departments. “We have WhatsApp number — 9421954400 — where people can provide photos of their applications and queries made to the departments which are being resolved in three days,” Mandhare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-admin-plans-to-bar-entry-of-visitors-inside-district-collectorate/articleshow/76650501.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||APMC admin building shut for 3 days||Nashik: The Nashik APMC on Friday closed its administrative office building for three days till Sunday for sanitisation after some of its employee tested positive for Covid-19. Vegetable auction will, however, continue as usual, said officials. The APMC, which is calling its workers in rotation in three shifts during the auction, is also planning to hold auction of vegetables at open spaces in the city to prevent crowding, said the officials. “At a meeting with municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game recently, we discussed social distancing and other safety norms.We have also given letters to all the traders, asking them to divide the auction of vegetables to avoid crowding,” said the officials. The APMC is also in the process of appointing two doctors, who will help in the screening of farmers and traders, and has already invited applications for the posts. The doctors will also conduct health inspection of drivers transporting vegetables to Mumbai, said the officials.-Tushar Pawar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/apmc-admin-building-shut-for-3-days/articleshow/76650514.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||794 prisoners released as corona precaution||Ahmedabad: On Friday, Sabarmati jail authorities denied claims buzzing on social media that Covid-19 is spreading across the prison. The authorities said that as part of their plan to halt corona infections, they have released 794 prisoners since the lockdown was imposed in March. These prisoners faced jail terms of less than seven years. They have been released on interim bail or on parole. Before the lockdown, the jail housed 3,100 prisoners. Jail officials said that when prisoners return at the end of their bail or parole period, they join the inmate population only if they test negative for Covid-19. Jail authorities said that till date, 348 prisoners who had come back after their bail or parole period have undergone Covid-19 tests. Forty-four of them tested positive. “Currently, only nine of the 44 are under treatment at Covid-19 hospitals,” a jail official said. “The rest are back in jail after being cured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/794-prisoners-released-as-corona-precaution/articleshow/76653141.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||PM Narendra Modi led Covid-19 fight, helped UP control pandemic: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi for leading the battle from the front against Covid-19, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the process of bringing the economy back on track has begun under the PM’s stewardship. Speaking during the virtual launch of Prime Minister Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme, Yogi said the PM’s mantra of ‘Jaan bhi, jahan bhi’ would hold the key at this point of time. “It is under the guidance of PM Modi that the state government could contain the pandemic and arrest the death toll,” he said. Yogi said, it was due to the Centre’s help that the state government could put in place a robust health infrastructure to deal with the situation. “The state witnessed a surge in reverse migration with almost 35 lakh natives from Uttar Pradesh returning home during the lockdown. The primary goal of our government is to adjust these migrants and ensure their participation in rebuilding Uttar Pradesh,” the CM said. Yogi underlined the importance of vigilance committees, especially in rural areas, to keep track of migrants and ensure their screening and quarantine. “As many as 58,000 such committees have been working for the state government. We have carried out skill mapping of more than 30 lakh migrants while provisioning jobs for them,” he said. Reiterating the importance of a migrant commission for social and financial inclusion of such people, Yogi said: “Under the Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS), nearly 57 lakh man days have been created since April 21. The scheme is being used for revival of rivers, construction of ponds and plantation of trees. He said over 4 lakh migrants have been skill-mapped under the State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM) while 1.69 lakh people were provided jobs according to their skills. The CM said the Prime Minister has distributed loans worth Rs 4,034 crore to 1.35 lakh new units and Rs 6,565 crore to 2.68 lakh units under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Package’. “The PM has distributed tool kits to about 5,000 traditional artisans under Vishwakarma Shram Samman Yojana and ODOP. The chief minister said under Atmanirbhar Uttar Pradesh Scheme, more than 60 lakh labourers and workers were being employed in various works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-led-covid-fight-helped-up-control-pandemic-yogi/articleshow/76653705.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||Implement preventive measures strictly: Padvi||Nashik: A day after Nandurbar registered 38 Covid-19 infection cases on Thursday, the district guardian minister KC Padvi asked the district administration to strictly implement all preventive measures prescribed in Covid-19 protocol. The minister during a video conference with district officials, including district collector Rajendra Bharud, superintendent of police Mahendra Pandit, asked the officials to keep a track of all the people coming to Nandurbar from other districts. “The officials should not only keep a track of the people coming to the district, but also figure out if they are having any health issues so that they can be treated accordingly and in time,” Padvi said. Padvi appreciated the level of awareness among the people, but pointed out that there were few elements in urban areas who were still not paying attention to Covid-19 advisory and asked the officials to plan out ways in which infection in urban areas could be controlled.“We will take all efforts to ensure the district gets a laboratory to test throat swab samples,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/implement-preventive-measures-strictly-padvi/articleshow/76650537.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 27, 2020||Kanpur||UP: PM Narendra Modi addresses migrant with the Telugu honorific ‘Garu’||KANPUR: During his 30-minute virtual outreach to migrants during the launch of Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rozgar Abhiyan on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi struck a chord when he addressed a daily wage labourer from Bundelkhand with the Telugu honorific, ‘Garu’. A native of Vardh village of Jalaun district, Deepu had just returned from Telangana after the lockdown was clamped. While Deepu apprised the PM of his travails, he was assured of all help through government schemes and the growing opportunities in Bundelkhand region. Later talking to reporters, Deepu said, “Talking to the PM was nothing less than a dream for a poor man like me.” During his interaction with migrants, the PM said, the Bundelkhand expressway would transform fortunes of the parched region and usher prosperity. “Now, you will not have to go to other cities for work. The defence corridor and industries being set up in the region will generate more opportunities,” he told Deepu. “Earlier, villagers would give applications for building mud roads. Now, the upcoming expressway will not only be a game-changer, but also act as an industrial corridor for manufacturing units and agricultural centres,” he said. Deepu, who returned from Hyderabad, where he was employed as a daily wage worker for three years, said, “After returning home, I had no work. Someone suggested, I could earn a living by working in the construction of the Bundelkhand Expressway project. I got myself registered and was allotted work at Barha plant of the e-way project. Now, I can survive with my family.” Another Bundelkhand native, Nitin, and Amrendra of Kushinagar, were also a part of the video-conference. “Though, we did not get a chance to speak to the PM, we liked the way he addressed Deepu with the Telugu honorific, Garu, which means “Ji’ in north India,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pm-addresses-migrant-with-the-telugu-honorific-garu/articleshow/76653717.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 27, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad records fourth Covid death||Dharwad: Dharwad district recorded its fourth Covid death as a 42 year-old man (P 8753) from Sasvihalli in Navalgund taluk died at KIMS on Thursday. The day also saw 30 fresh positive cases taking the total number of positive cases to 274. Meanwhile 13 persons were cured and discharged from the hospital on Friday. With this the total number of positive cases stood at 117.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-records-fourth-covid-death/articleshow/76650529.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||Random checking of private hospital bills in Nashik||NASHIK: In a bid to curb the practice of overcharging by private hospitals, the civic administration has decided to do random checking of bills of Covid-19 patients taking treatment in private hospitals in the city. The civic chief has warned of taking legal action against the private hospitals if they are found indulging in this practice. The state government has already fixed the charges for treating Covid-19 patients in private hospitals. Infact, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has already sent letters to all the private hospitals and nursing homes in the city to display rate cards and charge patients as per the rates decided by the state government. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has already set up a special committee to keep a tab on private hospitals which are overcharging patients and not following the guidelines of the state government. Moreover, two health officials have been deployed in each of the six divisions to check the private hospitals which are not following the rules. Despite all these measures, some hospitals are reportedly overcharging. “So far, we have received three complaints. Even people taking treatment at the private hospitals are not complaining about overcharging. Hence, I have directed officials to randomly check bills in each of the private hospitals where Covid-19 patients are being treated,” said Game. “We will check five random bills in each hospital. This will help us check whether the private hospitals are overcharging and violating the guidelines of the state government,” said Game.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/random-checking-of-pvt-hospital-bills/articleshow/76650557.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 27, 2020||Surat||35 fresh cases in rural Surat, two succumb to infection||Surat: Surat rural reported 35 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases to 455 in the district. According to officials, out of the 35 cases 10 cases were from Palsana, eight from Choryasi, seven each from Olpad and Kamrej and two from Mangrol taluka of Surat district. Two Covid-19 patients _ a 53-year-old woman, a resident of Umbhel village of Kamrej and a 75-year-old woman, a resident of Suyani village of Palsana taluka of Surat district - succumbed to the virus. taking the death toll to nine in the district. Five more patients have recovered and were discharged on Friday taking the total number of recovered patients to 242 in the district. Bharuch district witnessed the highest single-day spike of 16 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total cases to 195. Official sources said that 16 Covid-19 cases were recorded from Ankleshwar, Amod, Jambusar and Bharuch town. All the patients have been shifted to the Jayaben Modi in Ankleshwar. According to health officials, there are about 111 containment zones in Bharuch district, with 31 in Jambusar taluka and 25 in Bharuch town. About 134 teams are doing screening and door-to-door visits in affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/35-fresh-cases-in-rural-surat-two-succumb-to-infection/articleshow/76651478.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||Man, his mom booked for woman’s suicide||Rajkot: A man and his mother were booked for abatement of suicide of a woman who ended her life by jumping from the fourth floor of her apartment on Sadhu Vasvani Road in Rajkot on Friday. Police said the victim, Sejalba Vaghela (26), had hurled herself to death from the fourth floor of Natrajnagar Awas Yojana. “After Vaghela’s brother Kuldeepsinh Chauhan lodged a complaint, we booked Vaghela’s husband Yashpalsinh Vaghela and his mother Rasikba Vaghela for abetment of suicide,” said police. “In his complaint, Chauhan accused Yashpalsinh and Rasikba of harassing his sister for dowry,” said an official from University police station. Vaghela had been married to Yashpalsinh for the past two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-his-mom-booked-for-womans-suicide/articleshow/76652063.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Patna||190 fresh Covid-19 cases take Bihar's count to 8,678||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar inched towards the 9,000 mark on Friday with 190 new cases, including a two year old in Patna, taking the total count to 8,678 in the state. However, the number of active cases in the state now stands at just 1,951, which is around 22% of the total number of cases. So far, 6,669 people have recovered and two coronavirus positive people have committed suicide. With no death reported on Friday, the toll remained at 56. Altogether 23 coronavirus cases have been reported from Patna, of which 10 are from Patna City areas, including a 42-year-old man from Boring Road and a 58-year-old man from Phulwarisharif. Patna civil surgeon Dr RK Chaudhary said a two-year-old girl from Patna City is among those who tested positive. According to information shared by the state health department, Covid-19 cases were reported from 25 districts. Some of the districts, which reported large number of cases include Madhubani with 22 cases, followed by Munger with 20 cases, Bhagalpur with 18 and Gopalganj with 14 cases. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in the past 24 hours, 189 people recovered and so far. The state’s recovery rate is 77% with 6,669 people having recovered from coronavirus in the state. “Total 1,89,643 samples have been tested of which 7,906 sample had been tested on Thursday. Testing capacity is being enhanced with each passing day,” Singh stated. Patna district has the highest number of cases with 529 people testing positive for the virus, followed by Bhagalpur with 401 registered cases. However, Patna has 234 active cases and Bhagalpur has 79 active cases as of now. The least number of cases have been registered in Sheohar where 78 people have tested positive for the virus so far. With 73 recoveries and one death, it has only four active cases. Patna: Fresh 190 Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Friday including a two year old child in the capital, taking the total number of cases to 8611 in the state. However, with no death, the toll remained at 56. So far, 6669 people have recovered and two coronavirus positive peopple have committed suicide. Active cases stand at 1951, which is around 22% of the total cases. All together 23 coronavirus cases have been reported from Patna, of which ten were from Patna City locality, a 42 year old male from Boring Road and a 58 year old male from Phulwarisharif. Patna civil surgeon Dr RK Chaudhary said a two year old girl child also belongs to Patna City locality. As per the information shared by health department, Covid-19 cases were reported from across across 25 districts. Some of the districts which reported large number of cases include Madhubani where 22 people had tested positive for the virus, followed by Munger with 20 cases, Bhagalpur with 18 and Gopalganj with 14 cases. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in the past 24 hours, 189 people have recovered and so far, total 6669 people have recovered from coronavirus, taking the recovery rate to around 77% in Bihar. “Total 189643 samples have been tested, of which 7906 sample had been tested on Thursday. Testing capacity is being enhanced with each passing day,” stated Singh. Highest cases have been registered in Patna with 529 people testing positive for the virus, followed by Bhagalpur with 401 registered cases. However, Patna has 234 active cases and Bhagalpur has 79 active cases as of now. Least number of cases have been registered in Sheohar where 78 people have tested positive for the virus. With 73 recoveries and one death, it has only four active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/190-fresh-cases-take-state-covid-count-to-8678/articleshow/76652045.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur's SMS Stadium to charge fee to keep tab on joggers||JAIPUR: The Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Stadium has started charging Rs 200 monthly from people who are interested in coming to the stadium for morning walks. The 2.57-km synthetic jogging track was constructed for athletes and sportspersons which was later being used by general public. Now, the stadium administration has put a monthly fee on which an identity card will be issued to the public. Mahendra Meena, secretary, SMS stadium, said the move aims at keeping a tab on who is entering the stadium. “Since the outbreak of pandemic, more people are coming to the stadium. We want to know who is entering the park. The identity card will give an idea about the number of people entering,” said Meena. People can get the access cards made from the indoor SMS stadium during office hours. An identity proof, photograph, blood group and address will have to be filled in the form provided by the authorities. Meena further said, “The jogging track is for athletes and not for common people. It is not for brisk walking, but for jogging and running. While giving identity cards, we will prefer sportspersons and former sportspersons to keep the sports culture alive inside the stadium.” Money collected from this will be utilized in maintenance of stadium. Identity cards are being issued, but it is not being strictly implemented. According to stadium authorities, the rule will be implemented strictly from July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-stadium-to-charge-fee-to-keep-tab-on-joggers/articleshow/76653713.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||They nurse hope in patients isolated from their families in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Rinku Chavda, 20, a final year BCom student and aspiring nurse, offers tender and diligent care to strangers who can’t have contact with their own families. Chavda works at the Covid-19 ward at Civil Hospital and she knows patients by their names and is sympathetic to their quirks. “When people have other ailments, their families can be with them,” Chavda said. “Family members tending to the sick can bring food or other necessities. But in a Covid ward, that is not possible.” Chavda has completed training with the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) in patient care. “We are flooded with calls from anxious relatives,” she said. For Trisha Gurung, another IRCS-trained nursing aspirant, it’s routine to get accustomed to a set of 12 patients housed in one wing. “I have combed hair and given scalp massages to women patients,” she said. “I have persevered with patients who refused to eat and have given sponge baths to immobile patients.” She went on to say: “I’m sure that like me, none would be able to forget the sudden influx of positive patients and the stressful two months. But now things are under control.” Did their parents worry about Covid-19? Chavda answers in the affirmative. “Who wouldn’t? But they knew this is my career aspiration and asked me to take care,” she said. As for Gurung, she said: “My family knows that I am a part of the solution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/they-nurse-hope-in-patients-isolated-from-their-families/articleshow/76653138.cms||Parth Shastri
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Custodial deaths spark national ire, no FIR yet||CHENNAI: The custodial deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Beniks dominated the social media on Friday, with people complaining about police brutality during Covid curfew and comparing the incident to the death of George Floyd in the United States. The state government is yet to act against those responsible for the assault on the two men. No FIR has been registered against the police personnel who allegedly tortured the father-son duo for violating Covid curfew in Sathankulam, the government doctor who certified them as "fit" for custody, the magistrate who remanded them in custody and the jail personnel who admitted them with bleeding injuries. Earlier this month, the Sathankulam police was accused of killing a man who was picked up for questioning. Similarly, the police at Kayalpattinam, which also falls in Tuticorin district, are accused of damaging a curfew violator’s kidneys. Hundreds of thousands of tweets were sent out using the hashtag #JusticeforJayarajandBennix, that was among the top Twitter topics trending in India on Friday and among the top 30 trending globally, with celebrities, sportspersons and politicians condemning the police action. “The George Floyds of India are far too many,” tweeted Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani. Cricketer Shikhar Dhawan took to social media to demand justice for the father-son duo. Will Indians march on streets in thousands(forget lakhs), like America? Will our government pass laws for a more hu… https://t.co/CkPLgIl0EP— Jignesh Mevani (@jigneshmevani80) 1593183667000Read AlsoTuticorin custodial deaths: Twitterati campaign for justice to the victims’ kinCHENNAI: Social media is agog since Thursday with posts on Jeyaraj and Benicks and messages condemning police for allegedly torturing them, resulting in their death later in judicial custody. Cricket players, actors, activists and people from other walks of life joined the campaign seeking justiceInspite of the clear guidelines given by the NHRC , and even after 4 days, No FIR has been filed in the Sathankulam… https://t.co/DGzRKnzseq— Kanimozhi (கனிமொழி) (@KanimozhiDMK) 1593245025000#JUSTICEFORJAYARAJANDBENNIX Speak up against police brutality!— Konkona Sensharma (@konkonas) 1593250821000Meanwhile, even 24 hours after the postmortem, the nature of injuries inflicted on Jayaraj and Beniks by the police is yet to be revealed. The FIR filed by the police claims the injuries were self-inflicted; that the two men rolled on the ground to hurt themselves. The Madurai bench of the Madras high court, which had taken suo motu note of the custodial deaths and called for a report, has now asked the government to provide yoga and psychological counselling sessions for cops stressed because of the pandemic. The state government said it would comply with the court orders, which are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deaths-spark-national-ire-no-fir-on-tn-cops/articleshow/76653118.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Science trips, commerce lifts Class XII pass percentage||PANAJI: The 2020 Class XII exam was cleared by 89.3% students of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, a pass percentage that was only marginally lower than 2019’s 89.6%. Board statistics show that the slight dip in the pass percentage was due to a minor drop in performance in the science stream by students. At 92.8%, the highest number of students from the commerce stream cleared the Class XII exam, followed by 88.9% in the science stream, 88.9% in the vocational stream and 85.3% in the arts stream. Some of the subjects in which students’ pass percentage dipped marginally, having an effect on the overall pass percentage, were physics, chemistry, biology, economics, besides in three second languages — Konkani, Marathi and Hindi. Students did better than last year in English, computer science and French. Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said that the nearly 90% students clearing the Class XII exams over the last two years was because of increased competitiveness among students, the board considering students’ internal marks in recent years and due to greater efforts put in by the schools. From the students that appeared for the Class XII exams across streams, a majority of nearly 40% got a first class, scoring between 60-74%. The percentage of students that scraped through the exam by scoring between 33% to 44% dropped to the lowest in the last three years to just 7.9% in 2020. Of the 17,183 new students registered for the Class XII exams, 15,339 have qualified for admissions to higher studies. As usual, the pass percentage at 90.9% was higher among girl students, as against 87.4% in boys. While students at the Cujira centre recorded the highest pass percentage, those in Ponda centre saw the least students clearing the exam among all centres. Dr KB Hedgewar Higher Secondary School became the only aided institution to record a 100% result across different streams. Altogether, 129 students appeared from the school and all cleared the exam. Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School and Dempo Higher Secondary School also saw all its students clear the Class XII exam. The other two institutes with 100% result were the special schools — Lokvishwas Prathisthan Higher Secondary School, Ponda and St Xavier’s Academy, Old Goa. This year, sports merit marks contributed less than 1% to the overall pass percentage with only 147 of the 3,098 who applied for the concession having cleared Class XII exam with the help of these marks. On the other hand, the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) scheme saw 720 students pass with the help of the scheme. Under NSQF, offered in 35 higher secondary schools, students can opt for a vocational subject as an additional subject, and a student clears the Class XII exam if he or she clears any six of the seven subjects, including the NSQF one. “I am grateful to the chief minister, the chief secretary, the director of education, DGP, SPs for the North and South Goa and the directorate of health services for making conduct of the exams possible. As you know, some even went to court as three papers of Class XII exam were postponed due to the pandemic and the advocate general made it possible to get nod for conduct the Class XII rescheduled papers as well as the Class X exam,” said Samant. He said the governments of Karnataka and Maharashtra were cooperative in allowing around 50 students to answer the Class XII exam at centres in their states at border areas shared with Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/science-trips-commerce-lifts-class-xii-pass-percentage/articleshow/76653729.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: With 27 new cases, Covid-19 tally now 983||LUCKNOW: After employees of a private insurance company and a nationalized bank were infected with Covid-19, the virus struck eight family members of the insurance firm and four contacts of infected banking staff. These patients were among 27 fresh cases reported on Friday The city’s Covid tally has touched 983, of which 629 have been discharged and 18 died during treatment. Another 10 areas of the city have been recommended as containment zones, taking the number of hotspots to 96. Health officials said, an insurance company employee on Shahnajaf Road tested positive for Covid on June 18, followed by 11 colleagues on Wednesday. Now, five family members of an employee, a Thakurganj resident, contracted the disease and three kin of another resident of Faizabad Road were found infected. The number of workplace-linked cases have touched 20. Similarly, 13 positive cases linked to Vrindavan branch of a nationalised bank were detected. Three employees were found infected on Tuesday, which led to six family members of a staffer contracting the disease on Thursday. A day after, five persons in families of two other employees who had tested positive have been diagnosed with Covid. The offices of the insurance company and bank have been sealed for sanitisation. Other cases included another three jawans of 10th battalion of PAC, taking the count to 28. Till now, 97 jawans of various battalions and their contacts have tested positive so far. The fresh containment zones include four homes in LDA Colony, Kanpur Road, two spots each in Vibhuti Khand and Indiranagar and one each in Chhoti Jugauli in Gomtinagar, Suryanagar, Krishnanagar, Alambagh, Indirapuri Colony near PGI, Hari Om Nagar on Sitapur Road, Faizabad Road, New Hyderabad and Rajajipuram. Lucknow CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said that these localities would be barricaded and entry and exit would be restricted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-27-new-cases-covid-tally-now-983/articleshow/76653725.cms||Yusra Husain
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur cop in ACB net for taking bribe||A cop posted at Saira police station in Udaipur was caught by the ACB sleuths on Friday after he took bribe from the complainant in lieu of dropping the latter’s name from an FIR under investigation. Head constable Shayar Ali had demanded Rs 4,000 from Narpat Singh and Bhagwat Singh, residents of Punawali under Saira police station limits. The bribe was for dropping charges of physical assault in the complaint against the two men. They paid Rs 500 in advance and reported the matter to the ACB. On Friday, as per the plan, the complainant went to give the remaining Rs 3,500 to the head constable who took the money. The complainant signalled the ACB sleuths who nabbed Shayar Ali and seized the bribe amount from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-cop-in-acb-net-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/76653723.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||90-year-old, attacked by bull, dies||Jaipur: Stray animal menace continues in the city. An elderly man lost his life on Friday evening. He was attacked by a bull on June 12 when he was standing outside his house. Shankar Singh Nathavat, 90, was a retired army soldier in Khatipura area. Nathavat was admitted to the hospital in a bruised condition, where his condition remained critical and he went into coma. He died in the hospital on Friday evening. Family members said that the common people are troubled by stray animals and dogs in the colony and surrounding areas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/90-year-old-attacked-by-bull-dies/articleshow/76653722.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Inpatient services to resume at Wenlock Hosp soon: Min||Mangaluru: District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari said that inpatient services will soon resume at Wenlock Hospital. The minister who chaired a meeting to review the Covid-19 cases in the district on Friday, said that the moment Wenlock Hospital was declared as the designated Covid-19 hospital in March, other services at the hospital were stopped. On realising that people were finding it difficult and wanting to get treated at the hospital , the district administration recently reopened the outpatient department (OPD). Every day, the hospital is receiving about 250 patients at its OPD. Hence a decision will soon be taken to open the inpatient service for 100 patients, he said. Providing an update on the Covid-19 cases in the district, the minister said that currently there are 142 active cases in the district, 370 people have been cured and discharged and 10 people have died due to the disease. The district has four private and one government lab to test for the novel coronavirus. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that private hospitals can admit patients directly, but the medical expenses will be borne by the patients. Patients being treated under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme can be treated at a private hospital, with a recommendation from the district health and family welfare department. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said private medical colleges have come forward to treat Covid-19 patients. With this, 800 beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients will be available at private medical colleges, in addition to private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Out of the total Covid-19 cases in the district, 295 cases are those with a history of international travel, and 130 of inter-state travel, he added. Dr Sadashiva, district surgeon and superintendent, said among the Covid-19 patients being treated in the district, five are in a critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/inpatient-services-to-resume-at-wenlock-hosp-soon-min/articleshow/76650561.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||State for giving grain to those without jobs||Nashik: The state government has sought the help of the Centre to provide food grain to the people who do not have ration cards. State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said, “The state government has written to the Union government seeking help in providing food grain to the people who do not fall under the below poverty line but currently have no source of income given the prevailing conditions.” “We have written to Union minister for food and civic supplies Ram Vilas Paswan seeking help in providing grain to people for the next three months. The system of distributing food grain will be on the same lines as was for the people who were provided rice for April, May and June after the lockdown was announced,” said Bhujbal. Bhujbal, who is also the guardian minister for Nashik district, also tried to allay the fear of farmers in procuring maize from the market. “The state government has already purchased 2.5 lakh metric tonne of maize from farmers. Now, the Central government has given us the permission to buy the 9 lakh metric tonne of maize in stock with the farmers,” said the minister. Due to the change in the cropping pattern, maize production has jumped exponentially and there are more than adequate stock lying with the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-for-giving-grain-to-those-without-jobs/articleshow/76650566.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Cong pays tribute to Ladakh martyrs||Jaipur: Rajasthan Congress on Friday paid homage to the soldiers martyred in the recent India-China face-off in eastern Ladakh. Deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee president Sachin Pilot attended one such programme at Shahid Smarak here. Similar events were held in other parts of the state. Congress workers were also asked to post live videos and photos of the event under ‘speak up for our jawans’, which was trending on Twitter on Friday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, in a video uploaded on Twitter, asked what had gone wrong with our neighbours. “When Narendra Modi took oath as Prime Minister for the first time in 2014, all the heads of government in South Asia attended the function. Now most of them have turned hostile to India, whether it is Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka... The Prime Minister had to take the country into confidence on what went wrong with China. The PM’s statement during the all party meeting has been lapped up by Chinese media. It was a big lapse on the part of the PM,” said Gehlot. Pilot while speaking to media said, the entire country is united on the issue of national security and demanded a clarification from the government on the situation on the Sino-Indian border. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the face-off with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh on the night of June 15-16. Pilot said China is continuously encroaching upon our territory on the border and the country wants to know what the government is doing. He said the country stands with the army in this time of crisis. “Nepal is drawing a new map making part of India as its own, Pakistan is constantly bombarding the LOC, the LAC is constantly being manipulated, our soldiers are getting martyred and there is negligence somewhere.” “There might be differences of opinion, but when it comes to the army, when it comes to Mother India, we want to say clearly that the whole country is one and will remain one. But whether our border was violated or not, the government has to clarify,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-pays-tribute-to-ladakh-martyrs/articleshow/76653736.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Live cartridges recovered from village in Barmer district||JAISALMER: Live cartridges stored in a pot were found while digging foundation for PM Aawas Yojana in Mithdau village near the Indo-Pak border in Barmer district on Friday. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said while digging workers noticed some some sharp pieces that turned out to be old cartridges. The SP said the old cartridges were of .303 rifles, which are obsolete. The cartridges are believed to be of the time of 1965 war. As many as 52 cartridges were found from the spot. The house owner had informed the police. A team from Binjrad police station reached the spot and took the cartridges in their possession. The SP said Madan, a resident of Khambhuon Ke Phase in Mithdau, was approved a house under the PM Aawas Yojana. These cartridges have been kept at the the police station and will be disposed of after court’s order. According to some elders in the region, during the 1965 war between India and Pakistan, Mithdau village came under heavy firing from the Pakistani side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/live-cartridges-recovered-from-village-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/76653728.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Housing societies can’t bar maids and drivers: Maharashtra government||MUMBAI: The department of cooperatives, Mantralaya, on Friday directed the cooperatives commissioner, Pune to instruct all housing societies in the state that they cannot frame rules on their own banning entry of drivers and maids in their premises. The letter issued by the department on Friday said that despite the government’s lockdown restrictions not barring the entry of domestic workers and drivers, some cooperative housing societies were restricting their access. Balasaheb Patil, minister for cooperation, told TOI the department would take strict action against a housing society if such a complaint was received. Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association (MahaSeva) said they would await a detailed SOP.Several housing societies had restricted entry to domestic help and drivers after the lockdown announced by the state and Centre in the last week of March. “The office bearers of the Cooperative Housing Society should follow the instructions issued by the government from time to time regarding the admission of domestic workers and drivers for work in the housing societies. Also, contrary to these instructions, housing societies should not make rules, this matter should be brought to the notice of all cooperative housing societies in the state,” stated the letter by senior cooperatives department officer K C Badgujar. Ramesh Prabhu, president of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association (MahaSeva), a federation of housing societies, said, “Managing committees, therefore, cannot make their own rules in this regard but have to follow certain preventive measures suggested as an SOP (standard operating procedure). While we await detailed guidelines from the commissioner and registrar of societies in this regard, Friday’s letter by the cooperatives department makes the issue even more clear.” Subhash Vishwasrao, chairman of housing society in Vasai. said while housing societies are understandably taking precautionary measures, “we should also consider the issues faced by senior citizens, the diffeerently abled and terminally ill patients who require the services of domestic help and drivers, without whom they are helpless.” Several housing societies had restricted entry to domestic help and drivers after the lockdown announced by the state and Centre in the last week of March. “The office bearers of the Cooperative Housing Society should follow the instructions issued by the government from time to time regarding the admission of domestic workers and drivers for work in the housing societies. Also, contrary to these instructions, housing societies should not make rules, this matter should be brought to the notice of all cooperative housing societies in the state,” stated the letter by senior cooperatives department officer K C Badgujar. Ramesh Prabhu, president of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association (MahaSeva), a federation of housing societies, said, “Managing committees, therefore, cannot make their own rules in this regard but have to follow certain preventive measures suggested as an SOP (standard operating procedure). While we await detailed guidelines from the commissioner and registrar of societies in this regard, Friday’s letter by the cooperatives department makes the issue even more clear.” Subhash Vishwasrao, chairman of housing society in Vasai. said while housing societies are understandably taking precautionary measures, “we should also consider the issues faced by senior citizens, the diffeerently abled and terminally ill patients who require the services of domestic help and drivers, without whom they are helpless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hsg-socs-cant-bar-maids-and-drivers-govt/articleshow/76653739.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: BJP demands case against Digvijaya Singh for RSS remarks||BHOPAL: The state BJP has demanded registration of a criminal case against Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on his remarks against RSS allegedly during IPS service meet organised in Bhopal in February early this year. Digvijaya had used the term `ideology of hatred' for the sangh while addressing the IPS officers of the state. The Congress, however, defended Digvijaya’s statement. A video posted by BJP's former state media in-charge, Hitesh Bajpai, which went viral on social media sites on Friday, shows Digvijaya addressing a gathering where he said, "We are going through a phase when the so called ‘communalism' or the idea of hate, the ideology of hatred, and the hatred which they lead to violence. All this has become a reality. But I do give credit to the founders of the RSS who believed in Hindu Rashtra and they never deviated from their path." Bajpai claimed that the video is of Digvijaya's speech during IPS meet organised by the IPS Association in Bhopal in February this year. He further said that such speech and remarks against a political party during such a meet is a violation of the Civil Services Conduct Rule. MP IPS association president, Vijay Yadav refused to comment. "I do not want to comment on this issue," he said. However, the Congress has defended Digvijaya Singh saying what he has said is true. "Digvijaya Singhji's statement is well thought off and very much true. The Congress supports what he said. What is RSS doing except spreading hatred. This is a well-known fact. We are not afraid of registering (police) cases against us," said former minister PC Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-demands-case-against-digvijaya-for-rss-remarks/articleshow/76650636.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||Stop sugar, go for ethanol: Nitin Gadkari to mills||KOLHAPUR: Union minister for road transport Nitin Gadkari has urged sugar mills to switch to ethanol production considering the excess sugar production in the country. Addressing party workers in western Maharashtra through internet, Gadkari said the price of Indian sugar was much higher in international market and at the same time, domestic consumption has come down. “Price of Brazil sugar is Rs 22 a kg, while Indian sugar is Rs 34 per kg. How will we compete? Sugar factories must understand the ground reality and switch over to production of ethanol,” he said. Gadkari said the central government had sanctions Rs 6,000 crore subsidies for export of sugar but India still has stock of 60 lakh tonne of sugar, which was enough to meet the requirement for two years. Gadkari warned that sugar factories would not survive if they did not transform. “We are concerned about cane growing farmers. They will have to burn cane if factories are closed down”, he said. He added that the government has formulated a separate ethanol policy. Ethanol economy is currently Rs 20,000 crore, which we want to take up to Rs 1 lakh crore, he said, adding that government is ready to purchase all the ethanol, produced by the sugar factories. Gadkari promised party workers that much delayed six-lane construction of Pune-Kolhapur road would be completed very soon. Gadkari said Rs 125 crore have been sanctioned for the work. Gadkari said his department has decided to construct two green field corridors – Surat to Ahmednagar and Solapur to Karnul. He said 421 km long Surat-Ahmednagar green corridor would be convenient to vehicles going to Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad. He said vehicular movement on Pune-Mumbai would also be reduced because of proposed green corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/stop-sugar-go-for-ethanol-gadkari-to-mills/articleshow/76650638.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Goa||Goa in community transmission stage, we will fight together: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said Goa has entered the community transmission stage of Covid-19, as the virus has spread throughout the state with the health department yet to ascertain the source of infection at many places. “Since cases have been reported in all talukas, it has to be considered community transmission,” Sawant said. The comment came a day after his government allowed film shooting to resume in the state, as well as the conduct of the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET). Goa has seen a spike in cases over the past few weeks, with cases showing up in new locations almost every day since the Mangor Hill cases came to light in the first week of June. Even as the area has reported hundreds of cases since, with hundreds more “linked” to it, the state government said that it was “local transmission”. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), community transmission is evidenced when a large number of cases can’t be related through chains of transmission, or by increasing positive tests through routine systematic testing of respiratory samples from established laboratories. This differs from local transmission, which, according to the WHO, is when the source of the infection is within the reported location. The past few days have seen cases show up in new locations like Mapusa, Kundaim, Nachinola and Sal. Sawant said that when a case is detected in any new village or area, persons in the vicinity are also tested. At least 100 persons are tested before authorities come to any conclusion, he said. As cases continue to rise, the CM said that the government and people would fight Covid together, adding that if people cooperate, Goa will contain the spread of the virus. “Enforcement agencies are doing their duty, but the people also should follow social distancing norms and wear masks when out in public,” he said. Asked whether the standard operating procedure (SOP) will be modified now that cases are rising, Sawant said that Goa has one of the strictest SOPs among all states. As per the protocol, interstate travellers who do not opt for a test are home quarantined for 14 days, and local bodies keep watch on them. Travellers can either enter the state with a negative certificate obtained from a lab approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), or opt to undergo a test by paying Rs 2,000 on arrival. As of Friday, Goa had 667 active Covid-19 cases. The state has also seen two deaths and 370 patients recover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-in-community-transmission-stage-we-will-fight-together-cm/articleshow/76653740.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chennai||3,645 fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu; 15,000 new positive in Chennai in ten days||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 infections spiked for the third day running on Friday. Chennai had 1,956 of the 3,645 fresh cases in Tamil Nadu, which now has 32,305 people still under treatment, while 41,357 have been cured. The official toll in the state rose to 957 with 46 more deaths. A total of 32,317 people were tested across the state, Chennai, which accounted for 63.20% of the state’s new cases on June 16, had 53.66% of them on Friday. Over the 10 days, Chennai added 15,000 cases, an increase of 1.5 times. But Vellore and Madurai saw cases increase by five to three times during the same period. Vellore now has 901 cases against 179 ten days ago. Madurai logged 1,013 cases over ten days to touch 1,477. Epidemiologists said that while absolute numbers in Chennai were still way ahead of other districts, its share of the state’s caseload had dropped. Tiruvannamalai, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, and Kanyakumari have also seen a spike in cases during the period. While Perambalur had no cases on Friday, Krishnagiri, which had a clean slate on Thursday, recorded 14 cases. “When the restrictions are loosened, the case load will increase. Smaller towns and districts may not have infrastructure such as beds and human resources. It is extremely important to contain the infection through a strong private-public partnership,” said former director of medical education Dr A Edwin Joe. A concern is the increasing incidence of returnees from other states and countries testing positive. On Friday, 122 of them tested positive for the viral infection. This included 24 people from Delhi, 23 from Karnataka, and ten from Kerala. On Friday, 30 people above the age of 60 succumbed to the virus. The oldest was a 90-year-old woman admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital on June 7. “She developed pneumonia and was on high flow oxygen. We could not resuscitate her,” said a duty doctor. She died on Wednesday. Ten eople died within a day of admission. The total death toll, however, did not include more than 200 Covid deaths in Chennai registered by the civic body, but not recorded in the state count.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3645-fresh-cases-in-tn-15000-new-ves-in-chennai-in-10-days/articleshow/76653148.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 27, 2020||Nashik||Woman delivers baby boy in train||NASHIK: A pregnant woman delivered a baby boy in the train she was travelling in before it reached Igatpuri station. Sony Devi (30) was on her way to her native place in Patna by Lokmanya Tilak Patna Patliputra Express Covid-19 special train on June 25. No sooner did the guard of the train, S B Jagdane, receive information from the co-passengers that the woman required medical attention, he immediately summoned the railway staff at Igatpuri. Around 1:30am on Thursday, the deputy station manager and medical officer from Igatpuri railway station rushed to the station and even called for the ambulance from the rural hospital. The co-passengers assisted the woman while she was in labour. The woman gave birth to a baby boy before the train reached the station. The railway staff along, with the RPF and the Government Railway Police, helped the woman and her family members debard the train and rushed her to the rural hospital. Railway officials said both the mother and the child were in good condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-delivers-baby-boy-in-train/articleshow/76650647.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to promote oil palm cultivation||Hyderabad: Oil palm cultivation will get a major fillip in the state. Apart from paddy, tur dal, turmeric, ground nut, cotton and other crops, the Telangana government has decided to promote oil palm cultivation in a big way. India consumes over 21 million tonnes of edible oil every year, but produces only seven million metric tonnes while the rest is imported from various countries. The Telangana government has already identified nearly three lakh acres of land in 25 mandals of 23 districts as suitable for cultivation of oil palm, which yields palm oil. The central government is also providing financial assistance to encourage oil palm cultivation. The state government, along with the Centre, will provide a subsidy of Rs 20,800 per acre per year to farmers cultivating oil palm for four years, including plant subsidy, funds sanctioned for various agricultural works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and other schemes. “To encourage crops other than paddy, the state government has decided to promote its cultivation on a large scale,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-promote-oil-palm-cultivation/articleshow/76653737.cms||Roushan Ali
June 27, 2020||Ajmer||Congress workers come to blows in event for martyrs||AJMER: Two Congress workers got into a fist fight during the party’s programme held in remembrance of martyrs of the Galwan Valley here on Friday. Senior leaders of Ajmer Congress were present on the spot and witnessed the fight between the two workers. However, no case was registered by police. Ajmer city Congress president Vijay Jain later told reporters that neither of the workers were party office bearers. He condemned the fight during the programme. The Congress members had gathered on the call given by the party state unit. Former MLAs, Congress officer-bearers, former mayor, senior leaders and workers turned up in large numbers. The dispute started between two party workers, Shamsudeen and Sona Dhanwani, when senior leaders were offering flowers on the pictures of the martyrs. Sona was trying to capture a video of senior leaders and Shamsudeen asked him to step back. A verbal duel soon turned turned into a fist fight. Other Congress workers tried to calm them down. Later, Dhanwani and Shamsudeen accused each other of starting the fight and asked the Congress committee to take action against each other. There were also allegations that no social distancing was maintained by the Congress party workers during the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/congress-workers-come-to-blows-in-event-for-martyrs/articleshow/76653738.cms||---
June 27, 2020||India||Focus on growth, not spending cuts: Panel||NEW DELHI: Finance Commission chairman N K Singh said on Friday that governments needed to target reviving growth, and focusing on expenditure cuts or fiscal consolidation should not be a priority at a time when the Centre and states are battling the pandemic. While acknowledging that both the Centre and states are facing fiscal pressure due to a fall in tax revenue, Singh said that structural reforms will help rev up the economy faster and several steps had already been initiated. “This is not the time to talk of fiscal consolidation. This is the time in which the world believes that what needs to be protected is the expenditure over fiscal deficit and this is exactly what the Centre has done,” he said after a meeting of the Economic Advisory Council of the 15th Finance Commission. Singh told reporters that the panel, which has been tasked with devising the formula for sharing Centre’s taxes with states, was finding it difficult to decide the base year as the current financial year may not be best suited given the adverse impact of the pandemic. “Historically, finance commissions for making projections have used the year in which they make the award as the base year. This year, on account of extraordinary factors, using the current year in which we are as the base year has got many challenges,” Singh said, adding that various options are being considered. Finance commissions make their projections and decide the award of each state’s share after deciding the base year for calculations. Singh said the commission, which is to be submit its report later this year, will focus on improving the healthcare system and the infrastructure and had also set up a panel under Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand to look into incentivising states that reformed agriculture. The first report of the panel, which has been implemented, has already seen the government offer additional borrowing space to states that amend APMC law. Asked about the suggestion of the GST Council borrowing from the market to provide support to states till the compensation cess is paid, Singh said that it was “kite flying” at the moment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/focus-on-growth-not-spending-cuts-panel/articleshow/76654487.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Patna||NDA assails Sena’s remark on PM’s praise for Bihar Regiment||Patna: The NDA partners JD(U), BJP and LJP have lashed out at Shiv Sena and its MP Sanjay Raut for accusing PM Narendra Modi of playing caste and region cards by mentioning recently the valour of Bihar Regiment at Galwan valley in Ladakh region in view of the upcoming assembly elections in state. Referring to PM Modi’s praise for Bihar Regiment for the valour shown by its soldiers during the clashes with Chinese troops, the Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ in its editorial has accused the Prime Minister of “playing caste and regional politics” by highlighting the role of one particular regiment only with an eye on the Bihar assembly elections due in October-November. “There are other regiments as well in the Indian Army, including Mahar, Maratha, Rajput, Sikh, Gorkha, and Dogra. Were they sitting idle and mixing or chewing tobacco at the border when the country faced crisis?” the ‘Saamana’ daily asked in its editorial published on Friday. It further stated: “Importance is being given to caste and region in the Army due to upcoming elections in Bihar. Such kind of politics is worse than coronavirus.” The Nitish Kumar led JD(U) has taken strong exception to the remarks in the ‘Saamana’. Raut is its executive editor. “The sharp comments made in the ‘Saamana’ on the PM’s praise for Army expose the hypocritical nationalism of Shiv Sena. Their understanding is also ironical as they don’t seem to know that Bihar Regiment does not comprise soldiers and personnel from only Bihar but across the country. For instance, martyr Col Santosh Babu belonged to Telangana. Thus, nobody else but Shiv Sena could have made such baseless allegations. Besides, it has exposed the hatred of Shiv Sena against Bihar and its people,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. “Our country is always proud of our armed forces. But when I am talking today to people of Bihar, I want to proudly mention the valour of the Bihar Regiment. Every Bihari is proud of it. I pay my respect and tributes to the brave soldiers, including those from Bihar, who have sacrificed themselves for the country. Today, when I am talking to people in Bihar, I want to assure the families of martyred soldiers that this country is with them, with the armed forces,” PM Modi had said during the online launch of Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan (GKRA) on June 20. BJP also launched a scathing attack on Shiv Sena for targeting PM Modi and sought an apology for its remarks. “Ever since Shiv Sena has joined hands with Congress, it is also insulting Army jawans and the government. Shiv Sena should not show solidarity with Pakistan, like Congress does. The soul of Bala Saheb Thackeray must be in pain at all this being done by the party founded by him,” BJP’s Bihar unit spokesperson Nikhil Anand said. LJP has also condemned Shiv Sena’s remarks. “If PM has lauded the Army, which has jawans and officers from across the country, then criticizing it shows nothing but mental bankruptcy. Politics should not be done at least on the martyrs,” LJP’s state minority cell president Ashraf Ansari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-assails-senas-remark-on-pms-praise-for-bihar-regiment/articleshow/76652128.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 27, 2020||Nashik||Two Nashik jewellers booked for cheating||NASHIK: Two city-based jewellers have been booked by police for cheating investors of over Rs 17 lakh by promising them lucrative returns on the money invested. According to police, the complaint against the suspects, who are cousins, has been lodged by one of the investors duped by them of Rs 1.10 lakh. “The complaint was registered on June 8 and it has now been transferred to the Economics Offences Wing (EOW) of the police commissionerate,” a police officer said. “The two jewellers had floated a couple of schemes and took deposits from people by assuring lucrative returns. However, since a depositor did not get the returns or the invested amount from the jeweller cousins, he lodged a complaint against them at Sarkarwada police station,” he added. The complainant, a 57-year-old man from Pawan Nagar, said he was cheated of Rs 1.10 lakh while during thse course of investigation, a total of 31 people approached the police stating that they were duped by the suspects in the same scheme and the total cheating amount has reached beyond 17 lakh. A senior police officer said that the jewelers have three outlets in the city — at Canada Corner, Saraf Bazar in old city area and at Uttam Nagar, near Burkule hall. “If people have invested money under different schemes at these shops and have so far not received the money they should contact the Economic Offences Wing of the city police with the necessary receipts of investment,” he said. The jewellers have been booked under section 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trusts by public servant, banker, merchant) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act, 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-nashik-jewellers-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/76650657.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||Gomtinagar woman loses Covid fight||Lucknow: A Gomtinagar resident succumbed to Coronovirus after battling for life for six days in the ICU of the isolation ward of King George’s Medical University on Friday. The deceased woman was 54 years old. Her husband is battling with the same disease in another ICU of the same ward, while their daughter too is suffering from the infection and is under teatment in another hospital. The woman’s death took city toll to 18, with 14 deaths in June so far. “The woman was diabetic and had hypertension. Her condition was stable for two days but deteriorated rapidly thereafter and she died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome on Friday afternoon despite our best efforts,” said Dr D Himanshu, incharge isolation unit at KGMU. A 58-year-old Balrampur resident also died of acute respiratory distress syndrome at KGMU on Friday. He also had heart and respiratory ailments. The causality, however, has not been counted in Lucknow tally, said officials. Meanwhile, the brother and son of the 45-year-old Covid-19 patient, who died at KGMU on Wednesday, tested positive for the infection on Friday. Officials said the deceased was an accountant in Gonda’s Jal Nigam office and had travelled to Gonda a few days ago despite having fever. Now his office staff in Gonda will be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gomtinagar-woman-loses-covid-fight/articleshow/76653743.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||370 home guards taken off bandobast duty in Nashik||NASHIK: As many as 370 home guards posted at different locations in the city during the lockdown period were relieved from the bandobast duty on June 24, senior police officers said. The decision was taken on the instructions of the office of Director General of Police, Maharashtra. Police officers said that they could properly focus on their routine work as the home guards took the responsibility of maintaining law and order situation during the lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19 outbreak. . According to police officers, though the services of home guards are always welcomed, the final decision of seeking their assistance lies with senior officers of the DGP office. “Approximately 3,000 personnel are associated with the city police. Due to the spread of Covid 19, those aged 55 and above have been given off-field duty where the chances of coming in contact with people is minimal,” said police officials. In October 2019, the city police had taken assistance of home guards in bandobast duty. They helped in police chowkies, police station level, court bandobast, managing vehicular traffic, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/370-home-guards-taken-off-bandobast-duty-in-nashik/articleshow/76650682.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Psychiatrists see HIV-like situation, suggest pre-test, post-test counselling||Four Covid-19 patients have committed suicide in Karnataka and psychiatrists say those battling an infection and perhaps fear – of stigma, isolation and even death – must seek help. With patients in an unprecedented situation and under avoidable scrutiny, mental health experts say they must open up and talk about the strife they may be going through. Any person who has fears or is suffering from bouts of depression and constant negative thoughts must seek help, said Dr Rajani MH, deputy director, mental health, health and family welfare department. “Even as the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing, we are reaching out to patients and counselling them,” Dr Rajani said. “However, it is not possible for a doctor to be with a patient 24/7. Patients too must raise their concerns.” She pointed out the fear and anguish begins the moment an ambulance comes to pick up a patient. Neighbours take photos and videos invading the individual’s privacy and utterly disregarding his or her sentiments. “Neighbours should help the family cope with the situation and not be a cause of the stigma,” she said. Bengaluru city police have warned people against shooting videos of Covid-19 patients while they are being taken to hospitals and have also taken exception to television channels beaming footage, utterly violating one’s privacy. However, the practice has gone on unabated. Dr A Jagadish, psychiatrist, Abhaya Hospital, said family members, relatives, and friends can be of great support to a patient, helping him/her overcome fears by keeping in touch through phone calls and video calls. “This trend of ostracising and stigmatising patients and their family members must stop. Patients also must not hesitate to seek early intervention,” said Dr Jagadish. Experts say that given the situation and the fear enveloping a SARS-CoV2 infection, patients must be counselled before and after being tested. “There are defined protocols to counsel HIV patients before and after they are tested, as it involves stigma,” Dr Mahesh Gowda, director, Spandana healthcare, said. “The scenario is the same with Covid-19 patients. Fear of stigma, isolation and disruption for family members add to the stress. It is a feeling of perceived illness that scares many patients. While many may contemplate self-harm, a few end up doing so,” Dr Gowda said. He said protocols and safety precautions taken by doctors like wearing PPE, although necessary and done for the right reasons, have cut off emotional bonding between healthcare staff and doctors on the one hand and patients on the other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/psychiatrists-see-hiv-like-situation-suggest-pre-test-post-test-counselling/articleshow/76652768.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ensure no admission cancelled for fee default: HC to govt||Ahmedabad: In a relief to many during this Covid-19 pandemic and post-lockdown situation, the Gujarat high court asked the state government to ensure that private schools do not cancel admissions of students whose parents fail to pay their fees by June 30, the deadline set by many schools.The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala ordered the state government to intervene in the matter, in response to a PIL seeking various measures to protect the interests of students whose family incomes have been reduced and may be unable to pay school fees in a single go. On resistance from the advocate general to intervening in this matter, the judges said, “We are conscious of the fact that the state government may not like to involve itself with the administration of private schools, but in the current scenario, we request the state government to work out some modalities with all private schools across the state of Gujarat…” The HC sought the government’s response to this by July 17, when the suo motu PIL will be heard further.During the hearing, the judges told the state government that it can do anything to reach a balance between private schools demanding fees and parents who have suffered a loss in income. The PIL urged the HC to direct education authorities to restrain schools from pressuring parents to pay tuition fees and to allow students to participate in online education. The PIL also sought directions restraining schools from collecting full fees under the guise of online teaching, and to minimize the burden and hardship of parents by allowing them to pay fees on a monthly basis.Patient’s death for lack of ventilator, HC directs action against Rajasthan Hospital Ahmedabad: Upset at the death of a patient outside Rajasthan Hospital for lack of a ventilator, the Gujarat high court on Friday directed the authorities to take the strictest of action against the persons responsible.The high court took suo motu cognizance of a news report on the death of Harish Kadiya outside Rajasthan Hospital, after he was shifted there from Life Care Hospital because he needed ventilator support. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation also issued notice to Rajasthan Hospital for this incident. The HC observed, “It is very shocking to note that when the ambulance carrying the patient in a critical condition reached the main entrance of Rajasthan Hospital, the gate was not opened for almost 20 minutes.”The court further said, “The first thing expected of the Rajasthan Hospital was to immediately shift the patient to the ICU and put him on a ventilator. All other formalities could have been taken care of at a later stage, including the requisite fees to be paid in advance.” The HC was of the opinion that seeking merely seeking an explanation would not be suffice in this case and called for strict action.--- HC hopes walled city strategy will work for other areasAhmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday expressed delight at the sharp decline in Covid-19 cases in the walled city area, which was a hotspot, and expressed concern over the spread of the virus in other parts of the city. The judges appreciated the strategy used by the administration to control the disease in the central part of the city and expressed their hope that a similar strategy would control virus transmission in other areas such as Bopal. The court recorded in its order, “We are glad to take note of one very positive development so far as the walled city of Ahmedabad is concerned. Initially, the walled city of Ahmedabad, more particularly, places like Jamalpur, Khadia, Dariapur, Shahpur, Raikhad, Kalupur, Dudheshwar, Madhupura, Girdharnagar, Asarwa, Meghaninagar, Naroda Road, etc., was a hotspot of Covid-19. It appears from the figures that there is a drastic decline in Covid-19 cases so far as the walled city of Ahmedabad is concerned.”---||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ensure-no-admission-cancelled-for-fee-default-hc-to-govt/articleshow/76653179.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Suicide no solution; virus can be beaten: Top cop||Bengaluru: Bhaskar Rao, the city’s top cop, on Friday appealed to Covid-19 patients not to give up hope and resort to suicide, insisting the virus can be beaten and there was no need to despair. Rao, Bengaluru city police commissioner, said his force has launched a WhatsApp group to boost morale of the force, especially those who tested positive. His appeal comes in the wake of a 60-year-old Kunigal-based patient hanging herself in the bathroom of a hospital. Rao’s own force has been hit hard by the virus, with a head constable hanging himself in a bus, while several others have either tested positive or have had to go into quarantine.“She was asymptomatic and almost cured,” Rao said, referring to the woman who took her life on Friday. “Doctors treating her said she would have been discharged in a few days. I appeal to people not to take this extreme step. If you go through medical records, you will realize more and more patients are recovering and being discharged. Very few have died due to Covid-19 in Karnataka. We are well equipped and have a good doctors. Please be brave. We are all with you.” Meanwhile, 12 police personnel tested positive on Friday. One of them had visited the commissioner’s office on Thursday evening, sources said. “The commissioner’s office will be sanitised. If needed, it will be sealed for 72 hours from Friday evening,” a senior police officer said.BoxExtreme step*June 22: A 50-year-old Karnataka State Reserve Police head constable committed suicide by hanging himself inside a police bus parked outside a hospital. The head constable had tested positive and was taken to the hospital to be admitted. *May 21: A 55-year-old hotelier, who had come from Maharashtra and was quarantined at a school in Moodbidri, Chikkamagaluru district, hanged himself. Posthumous reports confirmed he was infected. *April 26: A 50-year-old, who tested positive, jumped to his death from the seventh floor of Victoria Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/suicide-no-solution-virus-can-be-beaten-top-cop/articleshow/76652784.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Surat||Talati arrested in Rs 50k bribery case||Surat: Anti corruption bureau (ACB) arrested former talati of Palod Kothwa village of Surat district on Thursday in bribery case that had been registered against him on June 14. Accused Mohammad Ayyub Yusuf Mirza had surrendered to the ACB on Wednesday. He was detained by the police and his Covid-19 test was done. After the report came negative Mirza was formally arrested. An offence was registered against Mirza in April 2017 for demanding a bribe of Rs 50,000 to get a farm land to be declared non-agricultural. Following the demand, the complainant approached ACB and lodged the complaint. A trap was laid then but the accused gave ACB sleuths a slip after he smelt trouble when the complainant refused to give the promised bribe money to another person who was present in the same room. The accused had demanded the bribe when he was posted as talati in Palod Kothwa village of Mangrol taluka. Meanwhile, ACB initiated an inquiry of demand of bribe since police had evidences like audio and video recording of the accused. The evidences were sent to Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) and based on the report ACB registered the demand case recently. The preliminary inquiry was conducted by S N Desai, police inspector, and the case is being investigated by R K Solanki, police inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/talati-arrested-in-rs-50k-bribery-case/articleshow/76651511.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: No mask? You could be jailed||BENGALURU: Not wearing mask in public could land you in jail from Saturday. Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao told TOI that his team won’t hesitate to book those flouting the norm under Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005. This, he said, will entail arrest of the accused and, in some cases, sending them behind bars. On Friday, cops spotted over 250 people from different parts of the city without mask. The offenders were handed over to BBMP officials, who fined them Rs 100 each. However, things won’t be the same from Saturday, warned Rao. “From Saturday, a drive against people without mask will be carried out in different places. It will be a surprise check and we will photograph the violators,” he said. “We will act sternly. A lone person walking on the road may be let off with a fine. But staff and customers without masks inside a big shop won’t be forgiven. We will book them under DMA and arrest them,” Rao said, adding: “A large gathering in a public place such as temple, prayer hall or party hall without police permission will attract penal action. 5 held for making, selling fake masksKamakshipalya police have arrested five persons for allegedly manufacturing and selling fake masks carrying the brand name of Wildcraft India Pvt Ltd. Cops seized 844 masks from them. The accused are: Rajakumar Sharma of Sunkadakatte, Mahendrasingh Raj Purohit and Naresh M, both residents of Shantinagar, Ravi of Arakere and Narayana Swamy of Begur. Police said they received complaint from Wildcraft representatives about fake masks being sold using their company’s brand name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-no-mask-you-could-be-jailed/articleshow/76652834.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Coastal erosion poses threat to historic temple in Dakshina Kannada||Mangaluru: The high tide on the coast in Ullal and surrounding areas has damaged a structure, which is part of the centuries old Somanatha Temple of Someshwara. The temple is atop a hill that is adjacent to the sea, and is a major pilgrimage centre in Dakshina Kannada. Before the pandemic, hundreds of pilgrims and tourists visited the 10th century temple. People also used to come to see the natural beauty of the rocks near the temple, and the sea adjacent to it. While the steps connecting the shrine to the sea were damaged due to rough waves last year, a portion of the Sri Babbarya Daivasthana of the temple was partially damaged a few days ago. Mangaluru taluk panchayat member Ravishankar Someshwara said that the Karnataka tourism department had built the steps connecting the temple on top of the hill with the sea. “Several requests were made to rebuild the steps, which were built as part of a tourism project. Now a portion of the Sri Babbarya Daivasthana has also been damaged due to sea erosion. We have requested district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari to take measures to protect the shrine from sea erosion. They have started work on protecting houses in Uchila and Someshwara from sea erosion, by constructing a granite stone wall on the shore,” he said. Shivashankar, a local resident, said , “Other than devotees and tourists, people also visit the sea shore to perform ‘uttara kriya’ after the death of their relatives. The government should rebuild the steps and protect the shore from sea erosion,” he added. Poojari said chief minister B S Yediyurappa has sanctioned funds to build a sea wall at places where sea waves are rough. “I have directed officials to take up the work immediately,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coastal-erosion-poses-threat-to-historic-temple-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/76650378.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Home isolation for asymptomatic healthcare staff||BENGALURU: In a slight change in quarantine SOP, the government had decided to allow health professionals who test positive to stay in home isolation, provided they are asymptomatic. This is seen as a first step towards confining all asymptomatic Covid-19 cases to home quarantine, a protocol already being followed in states like Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, in a circular said healthcare workers are well aware of isolation protocol and are capable of monitoring their health during isolation. However, home isolation comes with certain riders: Besides being asymptomatic, these healthcare workers must be adequately trained and briefed about isolation protocol. They will be provided pulse oximeters and personal protection equipment for use during the quarantine period. Also, they must report to a specified health supervisor every day. On completion of seven days of home isolation and if they continue to show no sign of infection, a throat swab sample will be taken. If negative, they will be allowed to move out of isolation, the circular stated. The Bangalore International Exhibition Centre is likely to be converted into a 5,000-bed Covid-19 Care Centre. A decision to this end was taken during the meeting chief minister BS Yediyurappa held with officials and experts late on Friday and seven agencies have been spoken to in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/home-isolation-for-asymptomatic-healthcare-staff/articleshow/76652758.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 35L seized; three held||Rajkot: A total of 15,768 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 35.56 lakh were seized from a truck and three bootleggers arrested from a highway hotel on the outskirts of Kheradi village of Chotila taluka in Surendranagar district on early Friday morning. Police said the accused Jitu Khachar (33), Kalu Sumra (28) and Moraram Jat (30), were distributing the IMFL bottles when the raid was conducted. “While Jat had brought the liquor supply in the truck, Khachar and Sumra had come there to take the delivery. Apart from the truck, there were two SUVs, two cars and a bike seized from the spot. Three bootleggers, Kanu Dhandhal, Jethur Khachar and Jitu Bhambhala, gave the police the slip,” said B K Patel, inspector with Chotila police station. The police also confiscated four cellphones from the accused. During their interrogation, the accused told the cops that the liquor cache had come from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-35l-seized-three-held/articleshow/76652078.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Gang ties up family, robs home of valuables||Mangauru: A house was robbed in Kalmanja village in Belthangady after the family residing in it were tied up, in the early hours on Friday. According to police, the robbers fled with valuables worth Rs 12.4 lakh. Police said that four unidentified miscreants broke into the house of Achuth Bhat, 56, a resident of Kalmanja village. After gaining entry, they tied Achuth, his wife and mother using pieces of cloth. They snatched away the mangalsutra which his wife was wearing and also robbed a kg of silver items, 40 sovereigns of gold as well as cash from the house. Achuth is an arecanut dealer in Belthangady. In his complaint, he also alleged that the miscreants assaulted him and his family members, when they refused to give them the valuables, and threatened to kill them. The incident took place around 2.30am. A case has been registered at the Belthangady police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/gang-ties-up-family-robs-home-of-valuables/articleshow/76651462.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||Help varsities boost NAAC ratings, Guv tells officials||Lucknow: Governor Anandiben Patel, who is also the chancellor of all state universities, directed higher education department officials on Friday to select three universities and provide them full support so that they can score ‘A’ grade in the National Assessment Accreditation Council (NAAC) evaluation. She also asked officials to support Lucknow University in working out its problems and take up the issue of promotion of teachers and filling up of vacant posts on priority. She issued the directives during a meeting with the officials of higher education department, LU vice-chancellor and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma at Raj Bhawan. “Universities should not be a burden on the government and should look for new ways to earn revenue on their own,” she added. She assured that a grand centenary celebration of the Lucknow University would be held under the directions of the deputy chief minister. In the meeting, LU vice-chancellor Alok Kumar Rai shared financial challenges faced by the university, including salary burden. He said the university was not in a condition to take up promotions or fill vacant posts as it was reeling under the financial deficit of over Rs 100 crore in its annual budget of 2020-21. The governor asked LU to begin with promotions and appointments and the government would will ensure no financial handicap was faced in this process. Expressing concern that not a single university in the state has scored ‘A’ in NAAC ratings, the Governor said, “Higher education officials should fix one day in a week to meet vice-chancellors of the university and listen to their problems. They should also go for surprise inspections of the varsity and try to solve minor issues then and there.” She said promotion of teachers and employees should be ensured timely so that they could stay motivated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/help-varsities-boost-naac-ratings-guv-tells-officials/articleshow/76653749.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Not possible to hold final exams in Maharashtra, CM Uddhav Thackeray tells PM||NAGPUR: Clearing all doubts on his government’s decision to cancel final year examinations in Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday wrote to prime minister Narendra Modi that the situation wasn’t conducive for holding examinations during Covid-19 outbreak. He appealed to the PM to direct apex bodies for professional courses to endorse his government’s decision and issue necessary guidelines to the universities. They included All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Council of Architecture (COA), Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), Bar Council of India (BCI), National Council of Teachers Education (NCTE) and National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology. Last Friday, when the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Thackeray ended stalemate over the final exams by issuing a government resolution (GR) about their cancellation. It mentioned the apex bodies would be consulted in case of professional courses like engineering, pharmacy, law, architecture and others. It again led to confusion among the students on conduct of professional exams. Thackeray’s letter to Modi cleared the remaining doubts on this issue. His earlier announcement about cancellation had led to uproar after chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari objected to it as he was not consulted. Though the latter is yet to issue any statement on latest GR, government officials said he had more or less accepted the decision, considering the fact that exams were impossible in the current circumstances when Covid-19 cases were multiplying. The CM told PM the pandemic had created many challenges for the students in state, which had highest number of cases in entire country. “The numbers are increasing in all major cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Aurangabad, Nashik, Akola and others. The students and parents are not only concerned about their exams, but also about commencement of new academic year (2021-22). Conducting exams amid pandemic would be an enormous task for the district/municipal administration, examining authorities, transport officials, besides students and parents,” Thackeray said. Reminding the PM about his earlier request on issuing uniform guidelines for cancellation of final year exams during CMs video conferencing on June 16, Thackeray said his government had implemented UGC guidelines on all exams except final year. “The apex body had advised to hold exams in July. But considering the Covid-19 crisis, the State Disaster Management Authority in its June 18 meeting had decided against it and award degrees based on the formula to be decided by the universities. An option would be granted to the students to appear in the exams, whenever feasible,” he said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-possible-to-hold-final-exams-in-maha-cm-tells-pm/articleshow/76653162.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy police arrest 10 of murdered rowdy’s gang for plotting burglaries||TRICHY: The city police have arrested ten youths, said to be accomplices of a murdered rowdy, for conspiring to commit burglaries in Srirangam to avenge his death, on Thursday. The Srirangam police arrested A Rahul, 29, R Arun Kumar, 23, C Manikandan, 36, S Selvakumar, 21, M Velikunjan, 23, M Vikki, 19, B Ashok Kumar, 21, B Mathesh, 19, M Navaneetha Krishnan, 19 and K Ramkumar 21 all from Srirangam. They were remanded in judicial custody The conspiracy was brought to light after a complaint was filed by Sivaperumal from Srirangam area. According to the FIR, the gang had sketched out a plan under the rail overbridge across Kollidam river in Trichy on Thursday. Sivaperumal had gone to take a bath in Kollidam River when he overheard their plan. The FIR stated that the gang was heard saying they should avenge the murder of Chandru as people had no fear of the gang following the broad-day light murder. The gang decided they would need money to take revenge, for which they planned to burgle houses of rich people in the area. J Chandra Mohan alias Thalavetti Chandru, 37, of Keezha Vaasal in Srirangam, was murdered by a three member gang with his head severed in front of his young daughter on the rail overbridge in Srirangam on April 28. The murderers - M Saravanan, 35, his brother M Suresh, 30 and their relative A Selvam, 24, had surrendered at the police station with the decapitated head. Previous enmity was found to be the reason for the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-police-arrest-10-of-murdered-rowdys-gang-for-plotting-burglaries/articleshow/76653159.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Only double bench to hear bail plea of quacks: MP HC||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: Hearing a petition on quacks prescribing allopathic medicines to Coronavirus patients, a division bench of MP high court on Saturday ordered that bail application of a quack against whom FIR has been lodged by the police would only be heard by a division bench. The order came when the state government in its status report on the matter said that a quack was given anticipatory bail by a single-judge bench of the high court. The petitioner, Rishikesh Saraf in his petition pointed out that quacks were prescribing allopathic medicines to suspected Coronavirus patients, treating them for cough, cold and fever, thereby not only jeopardizing their lives, but also abetting in spreading Coronavirus infection. He further said that he had given a list of 28 quacks to the state government and later lodged a complaint against 13 on his own for treating patients with allopathic medicines without requisite qualification, but none of them was arrested. On the previous hearing, the division bench comprising chief justice A K Mittal and Justice VK Shukla had asked the state government to file a status report in the matter. Appearing for the state government, deputy advocate general, Swapnil Ganguly, informed the court that one of the quacks had been able to get anticipatory bail from a single-judge bench of the high court following which the court ordered that bail application of quacks against whom there is an FIR would only be heard by a division bench. The case would now be heard on July 6. Advocate Paritosh Gupta appeared in the case on behalf of the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/only-double-bench-to-hear-bail-plea-of-quacks-hc/articleshow/76650688.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||‘Postpone JEE/NEET’ demand grows as CBSE board exams cancelled||NAGPUR: Social media is flooded with support for postponement of big ticket exams JEE and NEET, scheduled to be held in July. This demand has arisen in the wake of CBSE and ICSE cancelling their board exams following a group of parents approaching the Supreme Court. Sameer Phale, owner of a coaching institute, said that the biggest contradiction is closing of railway services till August but not taking any decision on competitive exams scheduled for July. “If trains are not going to ply till August second week, then how will the July exams be conducted,” said Phale. Since exam centres are located only in urban centres, it is common for students to travel not only to other cities but also other states. In Nagpur itself, candidates come from Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh too. Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal’s Twitter page was flooded with requests from students to cancel these two exams. TOI tried to reach out to the minister regarding the issue, but he was unavailable for comment. High schools and junior colleges too are questioning why the government is even thinking about opening up in July if students of almost the same age have just got their board exams cancelled. Ravindra Fadnavis, senior member of Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal, said, “There is no logic in cancelling board exams of students but calling others from more or less the same age group to college from July.” His reference is to the guidelines given by state government regarding opening up of educational institutes. “I am surprised why both the central and state governments don’t announce that till such and such time nothing will open. Opening up junior colleges right now will be extremely risky,” said Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/postpone-jee/neet-demand-grows-as-cbse-board-exams-cancelled/articleshow/76653181.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: They took to balcony demo to tackle waste woes||BENGALURU: The Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown that followed provided 2,000-odd residents of Pride Springfields in Gubbalalu, off Kanakapura Road, a chance to not only come closer as a community but also think of ingenious solutions to daily-life problems. Something as simple as door-to-door garbage collection threw up challenges as support staff weren’t around. To help residents understand the right way to segregate, the managing committee promptly held what they called a ‘balcony demo’. “We asked residents to come down to the basement of their respective wings and dump garbage in dedicated bins. The time was fixed between 8am and 9am. Though separate bins were kept for dry, wet and sanitary waste to be collected by our in-house security guards and handed over to BBMP team, we observed that garbage wasn’t being segregated properly,” said Sudhanwa Mannur, president of Pride Springfields Residents’ Welfare Association. That’s when the managing committee decided to address the residents with a speaker and mic and asked them to come to their respective balconies. Priya Venkat, association vice-president, said the demo really helped, and waste handling went well after that. “All the 17 committee members decided to motivate the security personnel for this task because it wasn’t their regular job, yet they were helping us out,” she added. While Samir Huli is the secretary, Smita Kulkarni is the joint-secretary and Rajesh MS is the treasurer of the RWA. The association enforced all the lockdown guidelines while keeping the comfort of residents in mind. Ensuring essential supplies for senior citizens and checking on their health was always a priority, the members said.  “Even before the government announcement, we formed an emergency rescue team (ERT) with our residents, in-house doctors and other experts. We all got together to form guidelines to say safe,” added Mannur. The apartment had vendors come in at regular intervals and a fixed time. The residents showed great responsibility while making purchases, ensuring social-distancing norms were followed,” he said. Mannur said in the absence of the support staff, members of the managing committee, ERT team and other interested residents would come down every Sunday with brooms and bins and clean the common areas. The troubled time brought about a sense of bonding, co-operation and understanding among the residents. Indrani Das, a community member said residents also volunteered to monitor garbage segregation. “One of our residents, who is a doctor, made some informational videos on the dos and don’ts during lockdown and the same were shared among residents. Online classes on crafts, dance, prayers, yog and storytelling were held for kids,” she added.  “The whole situation was new for us. Now, as a managing committee, we have rules and regulations in place. Today, we did all this to fight an infection, tomorrow we may have another issue to deal with. But we now have a process in place,” said Mannur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/they-took-to-balcony-demo-to-tackle-waste-woes/articleshow/76652755.cms||Farheen Hussain
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Stray dogs kill 10 barking deer at Pilkula||Mangaluru: As many as 10 barking deer or muntjacs were killed and five others injured at the Pilikula Biological Park on Thursday, after they were set upon by a pack of stray dogs inside the park. Director of Pilikula Biological Park HJ Bhandary dubbed it a most unfortunate incident. “We have lost 10 barking deer. We had received around four of them, which were rescued, about five years ago. They multiplied in our enclosure, and we had around 35 specimens before this attack,” Bhandary told TOI. He said that officials at the park had been contemplating releasing some of the barking deer into the wild as recently as last week. “The plan was to retain only ten of them at the park,” said Bhandary, adding that the stray dogs had invaded Pilikula using a tree that had crashed on a wall of the park following heavy rain. Bhandary said that they would raise the height of the wall and intensify patrolling in the night. “We are also thinking of releasing all but 10 barking deer into the wild. This will help decongest the enclosure,” said Bhandary, expressing hope of the five injured barking deer recovering fully. Scientific officer at the park Jerald Vikram Lobo said that they had noticed around eight dogs in the enclosure for barking deer. “While some of them died of the injuries sustained in the attack, the others exhausted themselves trying to escape and running around the enclosure and died,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/stray-dogs-kill-10-barking-deer-at-pilkula/articleshow/76650700.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress alleges 'murderous attack' on MLA Bhargava||BHOPAL: Bhargava and Congress workers had taken out a bicycle rally in Vidisha - his constituency -- on Thursday to protest the petrol-diesel price hike. While speaking to mediapersons, Bhargava made the remark about a woman Union minister, without naming her. The statement angered BJP workers, and Vidisha civic body chairman held a protest. BJP filed a police complaint against Bhargava. "An FIR has been registered against Bhargava under IPC 188 (disobeying order issued by public servant) and 354A (1-4) (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment)," DGP Johri told TOI. Bhargava's choice of words angered not only BJP, but National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma, who said a reply will be sought from the legislator. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted on Friday, "Gods reside where women are worshipped. But the way our Congress leaders are commenting against women is highly condemnable." Senior Congress Surash Pachauri led a delegation of state Congress leaders to meet the DGP on Friday and handed over a letter from PCC chief Kamal Nath. Former Speaker NP Prajapati, former ministers Sajjan Singh Verma, Jitu Patwari and PC Sharma accompanied Pachauri, along with MLAs Arif Masood and Devendra Patel. Nath's letter to the DGP says, "On June 25, Vidisha MLA Sashank Bhargava was leading a peaceful bicycle rally against the unprecedented price hike of petrol and diesel. But Vidisha town council chairman Mukesh Tandon and 100-150 supporters gathered and attempted a murderous assault on the MLA. They shot at him and tried to kill him." The former CM said that the anti-socials threatened to douse the MLA in petrol and set him on fire. Bhargava went to Civil Lines police station in Vidisha and submitted a complaint. BJP criticized Nath for being silent on the offensive remarks made against a woman. "Senior Congress leader Kamal Nath writes about the incident but does not make a statement on the offensive observations made by his party MLA. This is extremely unfortunate. This shows Congress' mentality, which humiliates women to stop them from entering politics," BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agarwal said. "Recently, Congress MLA Jitu Patwari made a cheap comparison of girls, and now another Congress MLA, Shashank Bhargava, has made insulting remarks against a Union minister. We demand strict action against Bhargava," said BJP spokesperson Rajo Malviya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-congress-alleges-murderous-attack-on-mla-bhargava/articleshow/76654499.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Singareni mine workers protest privatisation||Hyderabad: Singareni Collieries’ coal mine workers on Friday staged protests and demonstrations in various districts of the state and also at the Singareni Bhavan in the city against the decision of the central government to privatise mines. The workers will also participate in a 24-hour strike on July 2 against the privatisation. Effigies of the central government were burnt by protestors at all places demanding that the decision be revoked. At Singareni Bhavan in Lakdikapul, the Telangana Boggu Ghani Kharmika Sangham (TGBKS) leaders and members, on a call given by former Nizamabad MP Kavitha Kalvakuntla, staged a protest and burnt an effigy of the central government. TGBKS president Raji Reddy and TRSKV president Ram Babu Yadav participated in the protests in the city. Kavitha, who is a former honorary president of TGBKS, opposed the central government’s decision to privatise 42 mines across the country and pointed out that Singareni Collieries Company Limited was one of the profit-making public sector undertakings. At Kothagudem, TBGKS leader Kusani Veerabhadram led the protest in GK OC mines, and OC-2 mines. Protests were also held at KK-5 mine demanding e-auction of coal mines be stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/singareni-mine-workers-protest-privatisation/articleshow/76653752.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 27, 2020||Trichy||Call on lockdown extension on Monday: Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Pegging a revenue loss of Rs 35,000 crore in two months for Tamil Nadu due to the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday said the state may record a revenue deficit of Rs 85,000 crore. The decision on extending the lockdown will be taken based on discussions with public health experts during a meeting scheduled in Chennai on Monday, and it would be in line with the Centre’s decision, the CM said in Trichy after a review meeting with district officials. Expressing concern about the state’s financial health during the pandemic, the CM said, there has been no income in the last two months. “The finance secretary has informed us that with industries and commercial establishments not functioning, there is revenue loss for the state of around Rs 13,000 - 14,000 crore per month, resulting in a revenue deficit of Rs 85,000 crore,” he said. The expenditure on the salary of the state government employees and project implemented can be taken care of only if the state earned a monthly revenue of Rs 24,000 crore per month. “The state incurred a loss of Rs 14,000 crore per month on an average during the Corona pandemic. The loss so far has been estimated at Rs 35,000 crore,” he said. In the light of the rapid spread of Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, the CM held discussions with district collectors through video conferencing on June 24. “A meeting with health experts will be held at the secretariat on Monday. A decision will be taken based on their views and on the announcement of the Union government,” said the CM in reply to a question from reporters at the Trichy collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-call-on-lockdown-extension-on-monday/articleshow/76654862.cms||R Gokul
June 27, 2020||Udaipur||170 Kuwait returnees express gratitude||UDAIPUR: It was a moment of immense joy for the 170 migrants from Kuwait who had tears of happiness in their eyes as they reached Udaipur in special buses on Friday morning. They were among the hundreds of repatriates who were flown back to Rajasthan under the Vande Bharat Mission. The flight landed in Jaipur on Thursday and after the statutory procedure was completed those belonging to Udaipur division were sent home. While some were sent to their home districts, others were taken to institutional quarantine facility here. “Of the 170 returnees, 51 are from Udaipur, 45 from Dungarpur, 6 Pratapgarh, and 68 are from Banswara. Presently, we have arranged stay for 51 of the returnees at Singhania University campus where all their needs including food, lodging and health during the quarantine period would be taken care of by the government. They would be regularly checked and after completion of quarantine period they would be sent to their respective districts,” divisional commissioner Vikas S Bhale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/170-kuwait-returnees-express-gratitude/articleshow/76653754.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||Decide on students’ demand: HC to Lucknow University||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Friday directed Lucknow University students to put forth their demand for cancellation of examinations in the wake of Covid pandemic with the university authorities. Permitting the students to make a representation to the LU with details of their demands, the court also directed LU officials to look into the students’ demand and take a decision on it. A bench of Justice Saurabh Lavania passed the order while dismissing a writ petition moved by 23 students of Lucknow University, seeking cancellation of the examinations in the Covid spread. The students have instead demanded mass promotions of all students of LU and affiliated colleges saying that it’s unsafe to conduct exams in the time of coronavirus. The petitioners had challenged LU decision to conduct exams for UG and PG courses in July and August. Opposing the students’ plea, LU lawyer Savitra Vardhan Singh said it was filed in a cursory manner and was not maintainable. He told the court that even parties were not made properly and there was signature of only one student on ‘vakalatnama’ (power of attorney) while there were 23 petitioners. On the request of the petitioners’ lawyer RK Agrawal, court allowed students to raise their grievance before LU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-to-lu-decide-on-students-demand/articleshow/76653757.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Trichy||TN CM Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurates government buildings in Trichy||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, during his visit to Trichy on Friday, inaugurated buildings constructed at the cost of Rs 25.53 crore under several government departments in Trichy. Under the national bank for agriculture and rural development (Nabard) and Samagra Shiksha, classrooms, laboratories and toilets were constructed at six places in Trichy for Rs 1,022.14 lakh. A library, constructed at the cost of Rs 311.11 lakh for law students at Trichy Government Law College, was also inaugurated. An office building, built at a cost of Rs 94 lakh, for sub-registrar of Manachanallur under the commercial tax and registration department was also inaugurated. A hostel for female students of KAP Viswanatham government medical college and a practical lab and demonstration building constructed at the cost of Rs 369.60 on the campus of Mahatama Gandhi memorial government hospital were inaugurated. The office of joint director of health service near Central bus stand and a new primary health centre at Samayapuram were also inaugurated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/palaniswami-inaugurates-govt-buildings-in-trichy/articleshow/76653163.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Call on lockdown extension on Monday: Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Pegging a revenue loss of Rs 35,000 crore in two months for Tamil Nadu due to the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday said the state may record a revenue deficit of Rs 85,000 crore. The decision on extending the lockdown will be taken based on discussions with public health experts during a meeting scheduled in Chennai on Monday, and it would be in line with the Centre’s decision, the CM said in Trichy after a review meeting with district officials. Expressing concern about the state’s financial health during the pandemic, the CM said, there has been no income in the last two months. “The finance secretary has informed us that with industries and commercial establishments not functioning, there is revenue loss for the state of around Rs 13,000 - 14,000 crore per month, resulting in a revenue deficit of Rs 85,000 crore,” he said. The expenditure on the salary of the state government employees and project implemented can be taken care of only if the state earned a monthly revenue of Rs 24,000 crore per month. “The state incurred a loss of Rs 14,000 crore per month on an average during the Corona pandemic. The loss so far has been estimated at Rs 35,000 crore,” he said. In the light of the rapid spread of Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, the CM held discussions with district collectors through video conferencing on June 24. “A meeting with health experts will be held at the secretariat on Monday. A decision will be taken based on their views and on the announcement of the Union government,” said the CM in reply to a question from reporters at the Trichy collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cm-call-on-lockdown-extension-on-monday/articleshow/76653172.cms||R Gokul
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Non-Covid civic hospitals pushed to limit||NEW DELHI: OPD regulars at hospitals that have been declared Covid-19 facilities are now avoiding them and shifting to other medical centres in the vicinity. This has put a new burden on the non-Covid municipal corporation hospitals. East Delhi Municipal Corporation officials pointed out, for instance, that patients earlier visiting Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital are now coming to Swami Dayanand Hospital after the former became a Covid facility on June 22. This has led to Swami Dayanand running its OPDs in two shifts to cater to the sudden increase in patients coming for consultations. The hospital administration has had to stagger the registration timing to prevent overcrowding, especially in the morning hours. “Our challenges have increased as we have to manage the crowd, arrange additional doctors and also ensure social distancing,” said EDMC standing committee chairman Sandeep Kapoor. The municipal body has summoned doctors and nurses from 20 dispensaries and maternity homes to tackle patients in the gynaecology section alone. Kapoor disclosed that instead of the 1,500 patients who came daily earlier, the hospital is now catering to 3,500-4,000 people. The OPD registration period for orthopaedics, paediatrics, gynaecology, medicine and surgery has been fixed for 8.30am to 11.30am Mondays through to Fridays, and 8.30am to 10am on Saturdays. The second shift is limited to ENT, skin, eye and dental consultations, for which registration is open from 11.45am to 1.45pm on weekdays and 10am to 11am on Saturdays. “Though patients admitted in GTB haven’t been transferred here, OPD patients have automatically migrated to this hospital,” a civic official said. “For the safety of everyone, people are being put to thermal screening at gate No. 2 and being issued tokens via a machine in front of the OPDs. Anyone with fever is immediately referred to the flu clinic.” At Kasturba Hospital near Jama Masjid, patients had begun swelling in April as soon as Lok Nayak was declared a Covid-19 hospital. Dr Sunil Kumar Prasad, president, Resident Doctors’ Association, Kasturba Hospital, said, “People living in old Delhi and earlier going to Lok Nayak or Hindu Rao hospitals are now coming to us. In comparison with the 5-6 patients who came here for Caesarean section deliveries, we are now carrying out 10-12 such deliveries every day.” Prasad added that while the work load had increased, the staff strength remained static and could prove inadequate in the days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/non-covid-civic-hosps-pushed-to-limit/articleshow/76653196.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||More cops give complaints against agent for harassment||JAIPUR: A couple of policemen from the Bharatpur Range have approached the ACB complaining that they too were harassed by agent Pramod Sharma, arrested for extorting money from cops. Sleuths of ACB are now planning to make them approver in the corruption case against the private agent. The ACB caught Sharma two days back for allegedly taking Rs 5 lakh from a police officer while claiming to be a close acquaintance of DIG, Bharatpur Range, Laxman Gaur. Now, more policemen are approaching ACB officially and unofficially to narrate their plight. The ACB is planning to make these policemen approver in the case. ACB sleuths said that earlier too many cops of inspector and sub-inspector level had approached them. But fearing departmental harassment, they were reluctant to become a complainant in the case. Complaints have been received from policemen from Bharatpur, Dholpur and Sawai Madhopur districts. “Many of them have approached us saying that they were fed up of taking commands from Pramod Sharma who acted as de facto DIG, Bharatpur Range. All of them have the common problem that a private person was ruling, threatening and harassing them. Let’s see how many of them file an official complaint,” said a senior officer of ACB. There is so much fear among the policemen in Bharatpur Range that they are calling ACB on WhatsApp. “An inspector range officer called and promised if we need him as approver in the case, he will cooperate,” said an officer. Saurabh Srivastav, additional director general (ACB), talking to TOI, said, “Yes it is a fact that some of them have talked to us. But, we can’t share how we would go about it in the case. Various things need to be verified and authenticated”. Also, fearing Covid-19, the ACB appeared less interested in seeking police remand of Sharma soon after arresting him, hoping to interrogate him at a later stage. “It is not that we are scared. As an SOP, whoever is arrested has to undergo the Covid-19 test. If the accused is positive he has to undergo treatment and if he is negative we can further apply for his police remand,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-cops-give-complaints-against-agent-for-harassment/articleshow/76653759.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 27, 2020||Trichy||People walk past district borders without e-pass||TRICHY: The suspension of inter-district bus services by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has failed to curtail movement, with many people, without e-passes, walking over to the neighbouring borders to board connecting buses. From Thursday, only intra-district services were allowed while inter-district buses were halted near the district boundaries. Due to this, travellers between Trichy - Thanjavur and Trichy - Pudukottai, who disembark near the last halt, walk to reach bus stops situated on the other side of the districts. While buses from Thanjavur to Trichy have their final destination at Pudhukudi, Trichy to Thanjavur bus services end at Devarayaneri. The distance between these two destinations, is 4km. Though police check-posts are established in the borders to monitor the movement of vehicles with e-pass, bus passengers and pedestrians without e-pass, manage to bypass the scrutiny and cross the borders. “All steps are being taken to check the inter-district movement of people by whatever means. There are many smaller roads too we are patrolling,” Ziaul Haque, superintendent of police, Trichy district told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/people-walk-past-district-borders-without-e-pass/articleshow/76653182.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||Schools to govt: Ask parents to pay fees||Lucknow: The Unaided Private Schools Association (UPSA) on Friday appealed to the state government to issue a government order for school fee submission for parents. The association said the GO should make it clear to the parents that the previous government orders for schools were not regarding the fee hike but only for waiving off the transportation fee. The parents have not paid entire fees for months and therefore schools are struggling to pay salaries to their teachers, UPSA said . “A number of parents in several schools have not paid fees citing the government order as the reason but there is no such order. The direction of the government was only not to hike fee in the novel coronavirus pandemic time, not to ask parents to submit yearly fees and to waive off transportation fee. Schools are already following these directions, hence the government should end this confusion among parents and ask them to pay the fee,” said UPSA president Anil Agarwal. He said if parents will not pay fees then schools will have to layoff staff. Also, they will not be able to pay salaries to teachers and this will have impact on teaching too, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/schools-to-govt-ask-parents-to-pay-fees/articleshow/76653763.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||ED attaches assets worth Rs 7.85 crore in corruption case||JAIPUR: The zonal office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) provisionally attached immovable assets worth Rs 7.85 crore of Mahesh Chand Sharma and his family members under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). The attached properties include agricultural land in Jaipur, Tonk and Karauli and 31 properties including piece of lands, flats and three shops at various locations in Jaipur. According to the ED sources, an investigation under PMLA was initiated by ED on the basis of an FIR and charge-sheet filed by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB), Jaipur, against Sharma and others. “He worked as a nursing tutor (grade- 2) at the College of Nursing, SMS Medical College and was also as member of Indian Nursing Council (INC), New Delhi. He, along with his associate, was trapped by ACB while taking bribe of Rs 5 lakh from a nursing institute for adding the name of the institute on the website of INC (which was deleted earlier). Later, an ACB investigation established that the accused had amassed illicit earning amounting to Rs 10.6 crore which is 372% more than his known and legal source of income,” said an ED officer on condition of anonymity on Friday. Further, making rigorous efforts, the directorate had identified additional properties to the tune of Rs 4 crore which were not included in the charge-sheets of ACB for calculation of Disproportionate Assets (DA). These new identified properties included - land with building/house and three shops situated at Mansarovar, Jaipur, with total land Area - 114.42 square metres, 22 plots in Aryan City, Muhana, Jaipur, having area of 233.33 sq.mtr each. Earlier, ED had provisionally attached immovable assets worth Rs 4.75 crore on July, 3, 2019, of Sharma and his family members/relatives under the provisions of PMLA. The act of Sharma clearly shows that he and his relatives and associates have committed offences under Section 3 of PMLA which is punishable u/s 4 of PMLA. Till date, proceeds of crime valued Rs 12.60 crore have been attached in the instant case. Further investigation is in process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-7-85-crore-in-corruption-case/articleshow/76653761.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||State clears Rs280 crore of its share for Itwari-Nagbhid rly project||Nagpur: The state cabinet on Thursday cleared its share of Rs280 crore for gauge conversion of the 116.15km Itwari-Nagbhid rail line project to be implemented by Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (Maharail).MahaRail is a joint venture of the government of Maharashtra and the ministry of railways on a 50:50 basis with an objective to provide a boost to the rail infrastructure projects in the state by providing critical connectivity and capacity enhancement.MRIDC has started work on the narrow gauge conversion between Itwari-Nagbhid after the line was closed for traffic on November 25, last year. The corporation has also planned to provide a chord line to WCL coalfields in Umrer.The Railway Board sanctioned the Nagpur-(Itwari)–Nagbhid gauge conversion project with an estimated cost of Rs1,400 crores on October 30, 2019.Sixty per cent (Rs840 crore) will be raised through loan and Rs560 crore will be shared equally by the railways and state government. Besides, 50% (Rs420 crore) of the loan amount will be shared by the state and the Centre.Out of the 628km narrow gauge network under Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR), Itwari- Nagbhid is the last remaining line pending for conversion.After the cabinet decision, Maharail aims to expedite the construction work and complete the project in less than 21 months. However, 7 months have already passed after closure of the line.“The line will help overcome Nagpur–Wardha and Nagpur-Gondia routes that are saturated and over-utilized. A chord line to WCL coalfields near Umrer will allow economical and safer coal movement to various thermal plants in this region,” said Maharail officials.“The main aim of this project is to expedite coal movement from mines and reduce congestion on the existing route. Itwari-Nagbhid will be directly linked with the existing railway network via Umrer to Wardha and Gondia,” they said.“Latest technology will be implemented for track installation to expedite the work. New stations buildings in this project are also planned to be designed as per latest specifications,” said Rajesh Kumar Jaiswal, managing director of Maharail.On the significance of the project, Jaiswal said, “The broad gauge line will be operational for goods as well as passenger trains with lot of financial benefit. It will reduce the coal rake movement and facilitate decongestion at Nagpur, Kalamna, Itwari, Ajni and Wardha yards and facilitate operation of shuttle trains in and around Nagpur.”The movement of the coal rake from captive mines of Mahagenco at Chandrapur to Koradi and Khaperkheda will also be facilitated by reduction in travel time. The proposed project will be of immense benefit to Mahagenco in procurement of coal from WCL mines in Umred and Chandrapur district and also help Adani’s power plant at Tiroda and NTPC at Mauda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-clears-rs280-crore-of-its-share-for-itwari-nagbhid-rly-project/articleshow/76653203.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Monsoon covers Rajasthan, many places dry||JAIPUR: The southwest monsoon has covered entire Rajasthan on Friday, however, many places are yet to receive rainfall. This is for the first time in past 10 years when the monsoon has covered the entire Rajasthan in June. Earlier, Jaipur meteorological office had stated that the full coverage of the monsoon would be achieved by July 8. Many places in the Udaipur and Kota divisions received good rainfall, but Jaipur ended up getting dust storm and scattered rainfall. Lohawat (Jodhpur) received a rainfall of 70 mm which was highest in the state. Shiv Ganesh, director, Jaipur meteorological office stated that the southwest monsoon winds have covered entire state by the afternoon on Friday. “It has covered entire state. However, many places are either getting scattered rainfall or are not getting it. There are some factors like upper air cyclonic circulation and others which have become deterrent in cloud formation,” he said. “The normal date of widespread of monsoon was July 8 but this is for the first time when southwest monsoon covered entire Rajasthan within June,” he added. The upper air cyclonic circulation over northeastern Rajasthan has been a deterrent for cloud formation even during monsoon. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively pleasant morning. During noon, some places in the city witnessed scattered rainfall as heavy dust storm played a spoilsport. In Jaipur, a maximum temperature of 39.4°C was recorded, which was one degree below the normal maximum temperature. No major rainfall activity is predicted for Pink City till Sunday. “Mild to moderate showers are likely to occur at Jaipur by Monday and on Tuesday, there is going to be widespread rainfall activity,” said an officer with the Met office. Despite the arrival of the monsoon, Jaisalmer remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 42.4°C was recorded. In its forecast, the Met office said that mild to moderate showers will take place in some parts of eastern and many places in the southern Rajasthan in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/monsoon-covers-raj-many-places-dry/articleshow/76659513.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy’s weddings throw lockdown norms to wind||TRICHY: Even as Covid-19 cases are spiking in Trichy, crowded wedding functions continue to be held in various parts of the district flouting norms. While the state government has set a cap of 50 people, more people are attending. In the last one month, at least 15 Covid-19 cases were recorded due to family gatherings. Event managers claim they are persuaded by the families to accommodate more people. “Families are asking us to make arrangements to host 200 people. If we hesitate, they are directly coordinating with the wedding halls,” a wedding planner from Trichy said. Within one month, at least 10-15 such functions have taken place, and a majority of them had not intimated the civic authorities. “Families are unwilling to spend on sanitizers and masks. If we raise our apprehensions about the safety, they are abandoning us to find other wedding planners,” an event manager said. Few families prefer to host the events inside the houses but still attract more than 50 participants. In Thanjavur, a wedding was organized near Thiruvaiyaru on June 24, which saw the participation of more than 100 people. Thuraiyur and Kattur have also witnessed such events recently. Though most attendees were seen wearing masks, social distancing was not followed. “Wedding halls were already instructed to follow the relaxations strictly. A few are conducting such events at houses, however, we will coordinate with the district administration to prevent such huge gatherings,” commissioner of Trichy Corporation, S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichys-weddings-throw-lockdown-norms-to-wind/articleshow/76653188.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 27, 2020||Hubballi||North Karnataka blood banks face severe shortage||HUBBALLI: Blood banks across North Karnataka are facing severe shortage of blood because of a sharp drop in the number of donors due to fear of Covid-19 pandemic. Not only Covid patients require blood as they become anaemic after being infected with the virus, it is also necessary for expecting mothers and patients who suffer from anaemia, leukaemia, thalassaemia and several other blood disorders. Donation camps, usually conducted by several voluntary organisations, clubs, non-profits and religious organisations in the state, were halted after the outbreak. The banks, as a result, suffered a dip in contributions. Blood banks are now busy convincing kin of patients to obtain blood on replacement basis by offering concession on blood testing charges. Dr Mahesh Raikar, pathologist, M R Diagnostic Research Centre and Blook Bank, said it was the first time in his 38 years of service that he witnessed such a severe shortage of blood. “We struggled a lot during lockdown 1.0 and 2.0. Though the government has allowed us to conduct blood camps, they are not happening due to the fear of pandemic. Even staff at many blood banks were hesitant to be part of blood donation camps. Now the situation has improved at our bank as we have convinced kin of patients to donate by counselling. We offered concession of 35% i.e. up to Rs 550 for people who obtained blood on replacement basis. However, we did not force them,” he said. There is a great demand for blood from Uttara Kannada, Gadag, Haveri, Davangere and Chitradurga districts, he added. Dr Rajashekar Pawadshettar, pathologist at IMA Blood Bank, Gadag, said people from rural areas are also aware of the situation and are actively coming forward to donate blood. Dr Zeenath Begum, pathologist, KBN Blood Bank, Kalaburagi, recalled that situation was normal till March second week. “When Kalaburagi witnessed nation’s first Covid-19 death, the situation turned worse. “Now we are receiving blood from walk-in donors. Though the demand is less, there is still an imbalance between demand and supply,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nk-blood-banks-face-severe-shortage/articleshow/76650726.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No pay for months, Hindu Rao medical staff hold protest||NEW DELHI: A protest march was carried out by nurses, lab technicians and other paramedical staff at Hindu Rao Hospital on Friday over non-payment of salary for the past three months, including June. While the staff abstained from work for a few hours on Friday, they warned of discontinuing their services if no solution was found by next week. Meanwhile, a joint meeting with North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash on the issue is scheduled for Monday. The hospital, which was to be converted into Covid-dedicated facility, is likely to start the facility from Saturday. Tajender Singh, vice-president, Paramedical Technical Staff Welfare Association, said they had been cooperating with the department even during the adverse circumstances. “We need money to meet our expenses. After Delhi high court’s intervention, north corporation and Delhi government paid salaries for two months to the residents’ doctors, but nurses and paramedical staff are yet to receive any money or assurance from the administration. We don’t have money to fight the matter in the court,” he added. Singh claimed that Friday’s protest was held after prior intimation to the administration. “But this will not be the case in the future. We are providing all assistance in operation theatres, labs, wards and even the medicine section. Without us doctors can’t run the facility,” he added. The mayor told TOI that he would be discussing the matter in Monday’s meeting. “We have limited funds and have released salary for one month to the paramedical staff and senior doctors. Now, we need to look after the requirements of others who haven’t been paid for March. We are trying to arrange for funds and get more revenue from property tax. The deadline for paying tax is likely to get extended soon,” he said. On June 14, Delhi government decided to convert Hindu Rao Hospital into a Covid-dedicated facility and directed the municipal corporation to make necessary arrangements. Prakash said he would visit the hospital on Monday. “The hospital already has a couple of suspected cases, but the admission on beds prepared in phase-I will start from Saturday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-pay-for-mnths-hindu-rao-med-staff-hold-protest/articleshow/76653209.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 27, 2020||Udaipur||Monsoon covers Rajasthan, many places dry||JAIPUR: The southwest monsoon has covered entire Rajasthan on Friday, however, many places are yet to receive rainfall. This is for the first time in past 10 years when the monsoon has covered the entire Rajasthan in June. Earlier, Jaipur meteorological office had stated that the full coverage of the monsoon would be achieved by July 8. Many places in the Udaipur and Kota divisions received good rainfall, but Jaipur ended up getting dust storm and scattered rainfall. Lohawat (Jodhpur) received a rainfall of 70 mm which was highest in the state. Shiv Ganesh, director, Jaipur meteorological office stated that the southwest monsoon winds have covered entire state by the afternoon on Friday. “It has covered entire state. However, many places are either getting scattered rainfall or are not getting it. There are some factors like upper air cyclonic circulation and others which have become deterrent in cloud formation,” he said. “The normal date of widespread of monsoon was July 8 but this is for the first time when southwest monsoon covered entire Rajasthan within June,” he added. The upper air cyclonic circulation over northeastern Rajasthan has been a deterrent for cloud formation even during monsoon. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively pleasant morning. During noon, some places in the city witnessed scattered rainfall as heavy dust storm played a spoilsport. In Jaipur, a maximum temperature of 39.4°C was recorded, which was one degree below the normal maximum temperature. No major rainfall activity is predicted for Pink City till Sunday. “Mild to moderate showers are likely to occur at Jaipur by Monday and on Tuesday, there is going to be widespread rainfall activity,” said an officer with the Met office. Despite the arrival of the monsoon, Jaisalmer remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 42.4°C was recorded. In its forecast, the Met office said that mild to moderate showers will take place in some parts of eastern and many places in the southern Rajasthan in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/monsoon-covers-raj-many-places-dry/articleshow/76659512.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Salem||Farmer held for killing his brother in Salem||SALEM: The Salem district police on Thursday night arrested a farmer under the charges of murdering his brother over a land dispute near Mallur. K Mani, 50, of Thumbalpatty village near Mallur, died on June 18 when he attempted to switch on an electronic device that looked like a FM radio. Mani’s granddaughter V Sowmiya, 11, his brother’s son Vasantha Kumar, 36, and his relative M Natesan, 65, injured in the incident. The Mallur police had registered a case. During inquiry, police learned that detonators had been used to explode the device. Mani’s brother K Sengodan, 64, had fixed the detonators in the device with an intention to murder him. Sengodan and his four brothers owned three acres of land in the village. They bought a land for Rs 20 lakh to be used as approach land to their land. “Sengodan refused to pay his share while the rest paid the full amount,” police said. Irked over this, Sengodan purchased detonators from Namakkal district and fixed it in the electronic device. “Mani found the FM radio device while he was on the way to the land. He died at his residence when he tried to switch it on,” police said. Based on Sengodan’s confession statement, the Mallur police arrested the accused and lodged him the Salem central prison under judicial custody on Friday morning. Meanwhile, the Mallur police are searching S Murugan, 45, of Namagiripettai in Namakkal district, who sold detonators to Sengodan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/farmer-held-for-killing-his-brother/articleshow/76653207.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Trichy||154 who attended funeral of Covid-19 victim, 50, traced in Perambalur||TRICHY: The health department in Perambalur district has traced 154 people who participated in the funeral of a 50-year-old man who died due to Covid-19, and their samples have been sent for testing. The funeral was conducted on June 24 before the deceased person’s Covid-19 test result was out. “We have collected 154 samples, results will arrive within the next two days. All the attendees at the funeral were told to be on mandatory home quarantine for 14 days,” an official said. The streets of Melamathur village and seven other villages in Veppur and Alathur blocks, where the attendees hail from, were sealed and were being monitored. The villagers were told to inform the health department upon developing Covid-19 symptoms. Health officials said that the 50-year-old man and his 43-year-old wife were residing in Sowcarpet, Chennai. While the wife worked in a scrap shop, the man was unemployed. On June 23, as the victim had a mild cough, his wife accompanied him to a mobile camp in Chennai where his swab was collected for test. After having dinner the same day, the victim had breathing difficulty and became unconscious. He was declared dead by the 108 emergency medical technician. The wife took the man’s body to their native Melamathur in Perambalur district in a private ambulance. The funeral was performed on June 24 attended by families, friends and villagers. Only after the deceased was cremated was his family informed that the man tested positive for Covid-19. As Perambalur health department was alerted, the officials traced the relatives, friends and neighbours who attended the funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/154-who-attended-funeral-of-covid-victim-50-traced-in-perambalur/articleshow/76653194.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana fixes rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has finally capped cost for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals in the state. The rates, ranging from Rs 8,000 to Rs 18,000 per day, have been fixed by the Khattar government for those opting for treatment in private hospitals for Covid-19 under different categories of facilities. For Non-NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare) accredited hospitals in the state, Rs 8,000 per day has been fixed for patients admitted for moderate sickness on isolation beds, including supportive care and oxygen; Rs 13,000 for severe sickness, including ICU without ventilator care; and Rs 15,000 for very severe sickness, including ICU with ventilator care. For those admitted to NABH-accredited hospitals, the state government has prescribed Rs 10,000 for moderate sickness, Rs 15,000 for severe sickness including ICU without ventilator and Rs 18,000 for very severe sickness, including ICU with ventilator. “The state government is making all efforts to make healthcare accessible to the general public and providing free testing and treatment in government hospitals across the state. However, the disparity in the charges across various private hospitals is hampering egalitarian and equal access for inpatient hospital care. Therefore, the rates of various facilities in private hospitals/medical colleges need to be standardized for Covid-19 patients,” according to the order issued by Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, Haryana. The order dated June 25 prescribing a cap on the rates has been issued by the state after going through the recommendations of the committee under Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog member, and taking into account the financial viability of private hospitals and studying precedents in other states like Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Telangana. When asked, Arora said that they have not gone into what others have done but only lifted the Delhi model, which was based on the NITI Aayog committee recommendations. He said they have also considered the recommendations made by the state’s own two committees from Gurgaon and Faridabad. Arora also admitted that they had received some complaints about excess charges by some private hospitals in the state for treatment. The decision has been taken by the state in exercise of the powers bestowed under Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act. Non-adherence to these orders may invoke penalty under Section 188 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-fixes-rates-for-covid-treatment-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/76653770.cms||Ajay Sura
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Despite rebate, here’s why 4 lakh people yet to file house tax in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The deadline for submitting property tax with a rebate of 15% is fast approaching, but because of changes in the website of the corporations several taxpayers have been unable to file it. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) plans to hold camps to encourage property owners to file their taxes. Data from the civic body shows that owners of 4-4.5 lakh properties are yet to file their taxes. “Around 1.15 lakh people have submitted their taxes, thereby availing 15% rebate. Around 95,000 have paid through the new online property tax portal, while the rest used the manual payment system,” a senior SDMC official said. The civic body is also planning to extend the rebate deadline. Another official told TOI that the file in this regard was under consideration of the deliberative wing members. “Earlier, the deadline to avail 15% rebate had been extended once in the last financial year. Around 2 lakh property taxpayers had availed the rebate by July 7 last year,” he added. A large chunk of the rebate period has been lost because of the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown. Municipal data shows that so far 152 property tax payment camps have been organised by central, south, west and Najafgarh zones. “In these camps, 18,000 people filed taxes to the tune of Rs 25 crore,” an official said. The revenue-deprived civic body announced that 75 more such camps would be organised in association with ward councillors, RWAs and market associations in the coming days and offices would remain open on weekends to facilitate payment of property tax. SDMC had unveiled its new online tax payment portal this year, but residents reported multiple issues ranging from OTPs not being received to being made to fill the entire data again. On June 4, the civic body announced that it would provide both online and manual facility as well as payment by cheques. “All zonal offices were open on all Saturdays in June so that no taxpayer missed out on the opportunity of availing 15% rebate,” the official said. While citizens’ groups like URJA stated that the old property tax system was much more user friendly, municipal officials defended the new system by arguing that in the long run the new portal would introduce more transparency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/despite-rebate-heres-why-4l-people-yet-to-file-house-tax/articleshow/76653212.cms||Paras Singh
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon covers Rajasthan, many places dry||JAIPUR: The southwest monsoon has covered entire Rajasthan on Friday, however, many places are yet to receive rainfall. This is for the first time in past 10 years when the monsoon has covered the entire Rajasthan in June. Earlier, Jaipur meteorological office had stated that the full coverage of the monsoon would be achieved by July 8. Many places in the Udaipur and Kota divisions received good rainfall, but Jaipur ended up getting dust storm and scattered rainfall. Lohawat (Jodhpur) received a rainfall of 70 mm which was highest in the state. Shiv Ganesh, director, Jaipur meteorological office stated that the southwest monsoon winds have covered entire state by the afternoon on Friday. “It has covered entire state. However, many places are either getting scattered rainfall or are not getting it. There are some factors like upper air cyclonic circulation and others which have become deterrent in cloud formation,” he said. “The normal date of widespread of monsoon was July 8 but this is for the first time when southwest monsoon covered entire Rajasthan within June,” he added. The upper air cyclonic circulation over northeastern Rajasthan has been a deterrent for cloud formation even during monsoon. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively pleasant morning. During noon, some places in the city witnessed scattered rainfall as heavy dust storm played a spoilsport. In Jaipur, a maximum temperature of 39.4°C was recorded, which was one degree below the normal maximum temperature. No major rainfall activity is predicted for Pink City till Sunday. “Mild to moderate showers are likely to occur at Jaipur by Monday and on Tuesday, there is going to be widespread rainfall activity,” said an officer with the Met office. Despite the arrival of the monsoon, Jaisalmer remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 42.4°C was recorded. In its forecast, the Met office said that mild to moderate showers will take place in some parts of eastern and many places in the southern Rajasthan in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-covers-raj-many-places-dry/articleshow/76653765.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Abhay calls on Tanwar, triggers talk of new ties||Chandigarh: Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) secretary general and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala (top) on Friday called on ex-MP and former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar at his residence it in Sirsa. The two leaders had a nearly hour-long meeting before Abhay left for the venue where leaders from other political parties joined INLD. The meeting. however, triggered talk of Tanwar directly or indirectly joining Chauatalas. When contacted, Tanwar acknowledged the meeting. “This was a courtesy call by Abhay ji. Since we live in the same city, he came over for a cup of tea. There is nothing unusual, he visited me ahead of assembly elections as well,’’ said Tanwar. Tanwar remained tightlipped on the possibility of his joining INLD. He however maintained that “a viable alternate to BJP-JJP and Congress party is the need of the hour”. “The ruling alliance has failed to protect the interests of residents of Haryana. They have failed in dealing with Covid-19 as well,’’ said Tanwar. As far as opposition is concerned, everyone is aware of the role of Congress party and its leaders at the Centre and in Haryana. “They are simply sitting in the lap of ruling alliance in the state and the central government. They can never work for the welfare of masses,” Tanwar added. Tanwar chose to keep the issue of new political alignments under wraps. Later, interacting with media in Sirsa after inductions in INLD, Chautala refrained from commenting on the issues of INLD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/abhay-calls-on-tanwar-triggers-talk-of-new-ties/articleshow/76653213.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Crippled by Covid, Hyderabad cabbies turn cars into roadside eateries||HYDERABAD: The coronavirus pandemic has forced people across occupations to adopt new vocations in order to survive. Among the worst hit are hundreds of cab drivers. With no source of income even as cabs aggregators resumed full services earlier this month, drivers who are financially crippled, are now turning into roadside vendors by converting their vehicles into makeshift juice and kirana shops in different parts of the city. Maheshwaram Prabhakar converted his MPV into a kirana store on Outer Ring Road near Narapally.Maheshwaram Prabhakar, 40, who was a cab driver for employees of an IT companies for the past 13 years, has now converted his seven-seater MPV into a kirana store on the Outer Ring Road near Narapally. Prabhakar has to pay the monthly instalment of Rs 16,500 for the bank loan he has taken for his car, but has not been able to do so in the past three months given his financial condition. “For the past three months, my financial condition has gone from bad to worse. I had no other option but to look for an alternate livelihood option,” said Prabhakar, who lives with his wife and two children in Bacharam village, Rangareddy. Among the hundreds of drivers who have lost their livelihood due to the pandemic are Nagesh Kumar and Kondal Reddy, who made slight modifications to their cabs and converted them into makeshift juice shops. Kumar, a resident of Uppal said, “Both Ola and Uber blocked my ID because the fitness certificate of my vehicle expired. They fail to understand that we had no earnings to even feed our families during the lockdown, leave alone renewing the documents. They are violating the rules by forcing us to renew the documents despite the central government’s decision.” In view of the Covid-19 situation, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways’ has recently extended the validity of all motor vehicle documents up to September 30. However, tired of trying to reach out to the cab aggregators for help, Nagesh said, “I have to bear the expenses of my cab, including loan instalments, road tax, fuel and maintenance. I have no other option but to run this juice shop to survive,” he added. A cab driver with Ola and Uber, Syed Zakir Hussain, who started a fruit shop near Kalyan Nagar, had to go back to being jobless within a month after starting the new business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crippled-by-covid-cabbies-turn-cars-into-roadside-eateries/articleshow/76653766.cms||Moulika.KV
June 27, 2020||Trichy||CM Edappadi K Palaniswami : TN not for bringing co-op banks under RBI||TRICHY: The state government does not support the Centre’s decision to bring cooperative banks under the Reserve Bank of India, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has said. The Union cabinet had approved an ordinance to bring all urban and multi-state cooperative banks under the direct supervision of RBI on Wednesday. When asked about the Union cabinet's decision, the chief minister told reporters in Trichy that the state government had already written to the Prime Minister as well as the respective Union minister urging that the existing procedure alone should be followed in the case of cooperative banks. In Tuticorin, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju said cooperative banks in Tamil Nadu are the best in the country which have been winning national awards for more than seven years. “So we don’t want the RBI guidelines,” he told reporters. The CM said that about 90% of kudimaramathu works have been completed in the delta districts and that even the second phase of works have started. “This year a total of Rs 287.86 crore was sanctioned by the government to renovate 247 tanks, 38 barrages and 244.38 km irrigation canals in delta districts. This apart, renovation of 230 tanks, 150 barrages and 31.11 km canals is under progress”, he said. Responding to a question on farmers’ complaints that kudimaramathu works were not completed properly as the works were not started on time, the CM said that the delay was because of creation of farmers' groups to execute the works. District collectors have been instructed to complete the work on time and properly. He clarified that his ‘Amma’ government would continue to provide free power supply to farmers. Responding to a question, he said the government would get the required water due for Tamil Nadu through the Cauvery Water Management Authority.  “The state government has targeted to procure about 27 lakh tonnes of paddy from farmers through direct procurement centres (DPC) by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation this year,” the CM said adding that the target is a new high as the maximum paddy procured so far has been 23 lakh tonnes. About 45% of the ongoing work of the construction of a new barrage across Kollidam river connecting Athanur and Kumaramangalam in Thanjavur district at a cost of R 495 crore has been completed. “We have also initiated the renovation of GA Canal at an estimation of Rs 2,298.75 crore. For that Tamil Nadu government has been taking steps to get fund from Asian Infrastructure Development Bank (AIDB).”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-tn-not-for-bringing-co-op-banks-under-rbi/articleshow/76653201.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Medicos want classes, but wary of safety||LUCKNOW: Shilpi (name changed), a native of Nepal and first year MBBS student at a medical college in UP, is facing a dual trouble. While her college has asked students to report for classes from July 13, the ongoing Indo-Nepal border standoff and Covid scare has kept the young medico on the tenterhooks. Shilpi is not alone. About 10,000 students of at least 50 government and private medical colleges in UP are in a similar fix, with the government announcing that classes for first and final year MBBS students will resume from July 13 and June 29, respectively. The UP chapter of All India Medical Students’ Association (AIMSA) has written to UP CM requesting him to direct colleges to ensure corona safety guidelines before classes resume. The students have also run a signature campaign on social media which received over 5,000 signatures and shared thousands of social media posts. “Not all students studying in UP are from the state. Many are residents of hotspots areas such as Gujarat and Mumbai. Many final year students are not even getting train tickets from Jaipur, Bihar and other cities to reach UP before June 29,” said an office bearer of AIMSA UP. The medical students want that they be provided zero contact transportation facility, especially those dependent on public transport. The letter also included requests for daily thermal monitoring and medical check up, mandatory sanitization of hostels, washrooms and classes, social distancing in mess and mess kitchen. The letter stated that the students have no hesitation in serving people during the health crisis but their lives should be safeguarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/medicos-want-classes-but-wary-of-safety/articleshow/76653773.cms||Yusra Husain
June 27, 2020||Salem||Salem on high alert as Covid-19 cases spike by 111 in a day||SALEM: The district, which showed signs of resistance to Covid-19 in the initial phase of outbreak, seems to be slowly yielding to the pandemic. On Friday, the district recorded 111 new positive cases, its highest single day spike. While 86 of them were indigenous cases, 25 were imported ones. The district’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 599. Among the indigenous cases, 30 were from the city limits and 22 from areas such as Vazhapadi, Gangavalli, Attur and Mecheri. According to Dr R Balajinathan, dean, Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH), two returnees from the US, three from Maldives, eight from Villupuram, and three each from Chennai, Madurai, Dharmapuri and Chengalpattu have also tested positive for the virus. Four sanitary workers, three of who were hired by the government hospital and another contract staffer of the hospital, were also among the new cases. Two men, who were arrested by the Shevapet police for stealing a bike, have also showed positive for Covid-19. City police commissioner T Senthil Kumar said, “We have quarantined six policemen who have come in contact with the accused. The police station has also been disinfected.” Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of health services, said seven people from Rajasthan, as many from Kerala and three each from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and New Delhi were among the imported cases. “There are 368 active cases and the condition of all the patients is stable.” The Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) has sealed 13 areas in the city to contain the virus spread. R Sadheesh, SMC commissioner, said, “There are four containment zones in Hasthampatty and Kondalampatty, three in Ammapet and two in Suramangalam.” Meanwhile, 24 people have recovered from Covid-19 at the government hospital. They were discharged on Friday. They have been asked to remain in home quarantine for two weeks. “They are from Tharamangalam, Attur, Omalur and Kitchipalayam areas,” the hospital dean said. Other neighbouring districts also saw a spike in cases. Krishnagiri district recorded 14 new cases, Erode and Namakkal six each and Dharmapuri five. Krishnagiri collector S Prabhakar said their Covid-19 tally has touched 87. Of them, 53 are active cases. “The district administration, along with police, have set up 22 check posts on inter-state borders with Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to monitor vehicle movement. Criminal cases will be registered against people entering the district without valid passes,” he said. While Dharmapuri has 34 active cases, Erode has 24 and Namakkal only 10. The Covid-19 monitoring officer for Dharmapuri, Santhosh Babu, chaired a meeting with the district administration and directed health department officials to ready 10,000 additional beds to handle patients. “We have quarantined nearly 52,377 people in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-on-high-alert-as-covid-cases-spike-by-111-in-a-day/articleshow/76653215.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: All SDMC staff may not get their June salaries||NEW DELHI: While the north and east municipal corporations have remained financially unstable since the MCD trifurcation in 2012, the relatively well-off South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) may be unable to pay some employees for June due to the pandemic. An official overseeing the funds allocation said SDMC needed at least Rs 220 crore just to pay salaries. “We were expected to receive around Rs 250 crore from Delhi government in the first quarter allocation of grants but we have not received a single rupee,” he alleged. This will be the first time that SDMC won’t be able to pay salaries to some staff, he said. “Sanitation workers and lowergrade employees will be paid.” Delhi government has repeatedly maintained that it has released more than its dues to the civic bodies. SDMC has around 45,000 employees. Finance department officials said groups C and D employees would get their monthly salary but groups A and B employees would have to wait till the corporation’s economic situation improved. While SDMC needs around Rs 160 crore to pay groups C and D employees, it requires around Rs 60 crore for the rest. “We have no funds to spare this amount,” an official said. Collections from stamp duties, parking, advertisement and other revenue streams have been severely hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said another official. “It is unlikely that any more grant will be issued for this quarter” as Delhi government has also been facing severe revenue crunch due to lower tax collection, he added. Following the north corporation’s funds crisis, courts had to intervene to ensure release of salaries to doctors and teachers. While the salary of doctors have been released, the nurses and paramedics still remain unpaid and a section of them protested at Hindu Rao Hospital on Friday. The corporation is yet to pay its 8,000 teachers their last three months’ dues, which amounts to Rs 1,145 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-sdmc-staff-may-not-get-their-june-salaries/articleshow/76653225.cms||Paras Singh
June 27, 2020||Chennai||Implementation of plastic ban: NGT seeks status report||CHENNAI: The National Green Tribunal Southern Zone (NGT SZ) has sought a status report from the government on implementation of the plastic ban . Tamil Nadu in January 2019 imposed a ban on single-use plastics. This included use-and-throw plastic sheets used for food wrapping, plates, tea cups water packets and carry bags. Retail chains and several others continued to violate the orders by distributing woven and non-woven plastic bags, said Chennai-based activist Antony Clement Rubin in his petition. He has filed a case against Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) and other state agencies for not implementing the ban effectively. So, he requested NGT SZ to issue directions to curb manufacturing of such bags and encourage distribution of plastic-free alternatives. The Madras high court had earlier condemned the state government for not implementing the ban in letter and spirit since authorities exempted multi-layered plastics, which were used for packing consumables. The court noted that these multi-layered packs would cause greater harm than use of other plastics as there was no scope for decomposing. It recommended use of jute or cloth bags as an alternative. Referring to the said order dated July 2019, NGT SZ members Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta on June 24 directed the corporation and the TNPCB to submit a report explaining steps taken for implementing the ban, action taken against those who violated orders, fine collected and cases booked against such offences. Government agencies have been directed to submit the report before September 11. The corporation in March said frequent raids were conducted since January 2019 and more than 4 lakh shops were inspected. Around 3 lakh kg of plastic was seized and a total of Rs 1.2 crore was collected as fine from shop owners for these violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/implementation-of-plastic-ban-ngt-seeks-status-report/articleshow/76653218.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 27, 2020||Trichy||MSMEs seek special panel to bag defence, railway orders||TRICHY: Industrial bodies that met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday have sought the state government to constitute a special committee to source orders for MSMEs from defence and railways. At the same time, the announcement from the chief minister to establish a food park in Trichy was received well by entrepreneurs optimistic in boosting exports of value-added food products. As fabrication and energy equipment manufacturing MSMEs in Trichy have been without work orders in recent years, industrialists requested formation of a special committee headed by an IAS officer to avail orders from central government’s establishments. “To support the MSMEs, government can appoint development officers in industrial hubs to help us get work orders and diversify our presence in defence and railways sectors,” said Rajappa Rajkumar, president, Bhel Small Scale Industries Association. The chief minister announced that an industrial park will be developed in Sipcot Manapparai complex at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore. A food park will come at the complex at an estimated cost of Rs 100 crore. The CM added that Rs 269.82 crore was disbursed as a loan to 6,128 MSMEs in Trichy district. “Food park will bring benefits to the central region. Banana, millet and groundnut value addition can be tried with the support of IIFPT Thanjavur. ,” said N Kanagasabapathy, former president of Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association. The industrial bodies had also sought government to invite heavy manufacturing companies to set up production units at Manapparai Sipcot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/msmes-seek-spl-panel-to-bag-defence-rly-orders/articleshow/76653198.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||8 cases of bogus papers for RTE quota detected||NAGPUR: Parents continue to forge documents and show extremely low level of income just to get a free seat in schools under Right to Education (RTE) quota. So far, eight cases of forged documents have come to fore from applications submitted for a popular CBSE school in city. Education officials say this would be the ideal time for such parents to withdraw from the admission process as later they may face criminal action. From this year, parents have to give an undertaking in the final phase of admission which says their all documents are genuine. That undertaking, for which government has given a format, also states that parents will be liable for criminal prosecution if fake documents have been submitted. An official, who did not wish to be identified, said, “This is the perfect time for all such parents to back out from the admission process. Even if they have submitted fake documents, they can avoid criminal prosecution by not going ahead with admissions. Once the physical admission process starts and that undertaking is submitted, a criminal case will be filed against them.” TOI had reported earlier on how the last phase of RTE admission process has been put on hold due to lockdown. As of now, the state education department has conducted lottery for RTE seats based on documents submitted by the parents. This part is completely online and requires no physical contact between parents and department officials. Now that seats have been allotted through online lottery, parents have to visit the school and submit physical documents to complete the process. But this time, the department has also asked parents to submit an undertaking that all documents are genuine. Shahid Sharif, an RTE activist, said, “With every fraudulent admission, a genuine poor student’s right to get free education is being taken away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-cases-of-bogus-papers-for-rte-quota-detected/articleshow/76653217.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Parents must ensure kids are kept engaged, stress psychologists||Mangaluru: The state government’s move to ban online classes and pre-recorded videos for children from class I to 5, has only added to parents’ stress. Many have urged the government to come up with ideas to keep their wards engaged productively. "We are against online classes and pre-recorded videos as it serves no purpose. And being glued to mobiles or laptops is not good for the health of a child. But we would like the government to find innovative methods of learning for children while at home," urged a parent, who requested anonymity. Most parents TOI spoke to say that they are ready to lose a year than risk their child’s health. Many wanted the school to give the kids homework or some academic activities, says Jayashree GS, president, DK District Headmasters’ Association. So several schools have formed WhatsApp groups where teachers send homework for children. With no school and cooped up at home for so long, some children have begun exhibiting behavioural changes, says Shwetha K T, psychologist and director of Anirveda Resource Centre for Psychological Wellbeing. "During the lockdown not only were their movements restricted as they could not go out to play, they were also being monitored closely at home. Now post-lockdown, suddenly there is nobody monitoring them with parents getting back to work. If the child is not engaged academically, emotionally and psychologically and brought into a structured system while at home, things can get difficult when he/she resumes school," adds Shwetha. She also advises parents to keep children engaged while at home. Since schools are unlikely to open soon and academic activities aren’t too many, parents now have a bigger role to play in keeping them engaged, says Jagruti Karkera, child psychologist, Yenepoya Medical College. Jagruti fears that with parents at work, and nobody to monitor the children, they could get stray. "Parents need to find ways or activities that will help children gain something. However, avoid giving them gadgets. If left idle, the child will start throwing tantrums and may be reluctant to go to school once it resumes," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/parents-must-ensure-kids-are-kept-engaged-stress-psychologists/articleshow/76650784.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||Scanty earnings drive tea stall owner to suicide||Rajkot: A young tea stall owner in Jamnagar district committed suicide reportedly because of scanty earnings and poor business in the lockdown period. Vasu Jhapda (22) was found hanging at his house in Pragateshwar Society in Lalpur village near Jamnagar on Thursday. Police said Jhapda had a tea kiosk on University Road in Rajkot, but it had remained shut during the lockdown period for three months. “His family members told us that Jhapda had sunk into depression which led him to the drastic step,” said an official from Lalpur police station. Jhapada is survived by his parents. He was bachelor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/scanty-earnings-drive-tea-stall-owner-to-suicide/articleshow/76652115.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Jaipur||Lover kills married woman, attempts suicide in Alwar||ALWAR: A 35-year-old man brutally murdered a 30-year-old woman, with whom he was allegedly in a relationship. The man killed her by slitting her throat and stabbing her near a vacant piece of land at Vigyan Nagar Society in Alwar on Friday. After killing the woman, the accused also tried to kill himself and is now battling for life in a hospital. According to Sadar police, the woman, identified as Tau Banjara, was working as a mason and had come to Alwar from Pali district to work with her husband and children and was a slum dweller near Shalimar Society in Alwar. “The woman arrived on the bike of her companion, identified as Mukesh Jatav Mistry at the vacant land at Science City Society. The accused stopped the bike and started thrashing the woman and was visibly angry as per the eye witnesses. Thereafter, Mukesh took out a knife and stabbed the woman with multiple blows on the throat and various parts of her body,” said a senior officer of Sadar police station. After spotting the woman in a pool of blood, the accused attempted to kill himself as he stabbed himself with the same knife. “The accused also attempted to cut the nerves in his throat. The eye witnesses stated that at the vacant land at UIT's Vigyan Nagar residential scheme in front of Shalimar Society, the man killed the woman and later attempted suicide,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lover-kills-married-woman-attempts-suicide-in-alwar/articleshow/76653775.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CBSE students might give pending exams||HYDERABAD: Questioning the CBSE’s assessment model, parents of many class 12 students from the city said that they’d much rather have their kids appear for the pending exams than get promoted based on the suggested model.  They added that it wasn’t fair to score a student in a subject by considering average marks of other subjects or by taking internal, practical or project assessments into consideration. “My son appeared for all exams and will get be graded accordingly. However, many other students will be graded based on their previous examinations or internals/practicals, where children usually score higher marks. In the end, my son will lose out in the competitive exams (JEE or NEET) that considers inter marks as well,” said R Jyoti, whose son appeared for the exams from BiPC stream. For such reasons, some parents said they’ll wait till the results are announced to decide whether their children will appear for the pending exams. “My daughter is good in Business Studies and always scores over 96%. If she doesn’t score more than 90% (based on the system of average), she will be inclined to appear for the test,” said Deepshree Sarda, whose daughter has only paper pending. Principals, meanwhile, said that it would have been better if CBSE did not give an option to appear for the exam at a later stage. “Many students in our school have Business Studies or Computer Science papers pending. As Business Studies is a scoring subject, many parents might want their child to appear for it as the score will impact the overall gardes by at least 5%. For Computer Science, the situation might be opposite,” said S Narasimha Reddy, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur. KV Praveen Raju, founder, Suchitra Academy, said that instead of taking the best of two or three subjects, to grade the pending subject, giving weightage to practical marks of the subject would have been a better option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbse-students-might-give-pending-exams/articleshow/76653777.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Antibody tests at airports a waste of time?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state has begun rapid antibody tests for Covid-19 for those coming from abroad at airports but experts have expressed doubts about the specificity of such tests. A section of medical experts and health campaigners says the chances of obtaining false results are very high in rapid tests, especially for patients with mild or no symptoms.They point out that those testing positive to antibodies -- immunoglobulin M (IgM) or immunoglobulin G (IgG) -- are usually those who have acquired the infection much earlier and they might not be infectious. Dr A Althaf, associate professor, Manjeri medical college hospital said antigen tests have the highest sensitivity as it can detect those within five days of acquiring the infection. “Then comes the RT-PCR tests, which can detect the positives between 5-10 days. Beyond ten days of infection is what the antibody test detects. We cannot claim that antibody tests are foolproof,” he said. An article in the latest issue of British Medical Journal (June 24, 2020) has noted that the existing antibody tests are “so vague that it’s impossible to know how accurate the tests are, especially for people with mild or no symptoms or whose symptoms have gone.’’ “The antibody test will certainly find some people who are positive, but not all. It will also wrongly identify many as false positive or false negative. In Thiruvananthapuram last week, 24 samples tested IgM positive were sent for RT-PCR tests but none of them tested positive in the latter,” a doctor working in government service said. According to internal medicine expert Dr Arun N M, there is no point in conducting RT-PCR tests on those testing positive in the antibody test. “Those testing positive in antibody tests would be infected much earlier and they will not be infectious. There is no point in wasting RT-PCR tests on them again and sending them to Covid hospitals for two weeks and then waiting for two successive negative results,” he said. The sensitivity of kits is also an issue as they have been rated less accurate the world over due to this. “The ICMR has already withdrawn the kits supplied by them due to this. The kits procured by the state government also faced the same issue in quality tests. It will be a big risk judging people as positives and negatives by conducting the antibody tests,” said Dr N Sulphi, vice-president, Indian Medical Association. “What purpose does it serve? The government is anyway planning to send all returnees to quarantine,” said G Pramod Kumar, former advisor with the UNDP. “It’s better to consider all of them as positive and take universal precautions. Think about the mayhem the antibody tests create at airports -- the stress, breach of confidentiality, processes, confusion, hours of wait,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/antibody-tests-at-airports-a-waste-of-time/articleshow/76652262.cms||Rajiv G
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris sees 7 more Covid-19 positive cases; reopens sealed police station||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A day after Kolakombai police station and a revenue inspector’s office in Coonoor were sealed suspecting Covid-19 cases among some staff, they were disinfected and reopened on Friday as the staff were tested negative for the virus. The district, meanwhile, reported seven new positive cases, taking its tally to 56. There were reports that seven police personnel and two home guards attached to the Kolakombai police station in Coonoor taluk had tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The district special branch said all the nine have tested negative. Similarly, the test results of the official with the revenue inspector’s office have also turned negative for the infection. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said both the facilities were sealed “as a matter of abundant caution in view of spike in positive cases”. The new cases comprise six primary and secondary contacts of the public relations officer (PRO) of a private needle manufacturing company who tested positive for the infection a few days ago and a 65-year-old resident of Kandal area in Ooty with frequent travel history to other districts. Of the 35 active cases in the district, four are being treated the Ooty government hospital. The district has tested 14,317 samples so far. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health, said, “About 600 samples are collected daily for testing. The PRO has visited many offices. There are 750 employees in that person’s company alone. The contact tracing is still on.” The PRO hasa reportedly infected 17 people. “If a containment zone is densely populated, more tests will be conducted there,” another health official said. Reiterating that there was no panic situation in the district, she said they had intensified contact tracing of patients and tracking of suspected Covid-19 cases. “Of course, the number of positive cases is increasing, and we are in that phase of the pandemic. We can come out from the current situation as people are very cooperative.” The Ooty government hospital has, meanwhile, started treating asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. “Presently, asymptomatic patients with less morbid conditions are being treated at the Ooty government hospital. They are being monitored in the ward as there isn’t any special protocol to be followed,” the collector said. The district administration has asked health secretary for trained physicians to handle Covid-19 ward in hospital. “People need not panic as the hospital is located at the centre of the town. We have taken all the biosafety measures,” Divya said. According to her, suspected cases would also be admitted to the government hospital, where they would be tested for the virus. “The hospital has 35 ventilators. If there is a surge in cases, we have enough facility,” she said. Symptomatic patients would, however, be sent to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-sees-7-more-ve-cases-reopens-sealed-police-station/articleshow/76653229.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Youth organizations oppose EIA 2020 draft||NAGPUR: In a first-of-its-kind effort, over 50 university student unions, college environment clubs and other youth organizations from across the country have come together to condemn the latest Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) draft notification issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), demanding that it be put on hold and rewritten as per recommendations by environmental experts. In an initiative spearheaded by the environment ministry of Haryana-based Ashoka University, a comprehensive letter signed by student groups including All India Students Association (AISA), Youth4Swaraj, Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU,) Jain University, Jindal Global Law School and others has been submitted to the union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday. According to the young lot, the new EIA draft notification intends to bring in controversial amendments like post-facto grant of approval, exemption of several large industries from public hearings, permission for industries to submit just one compliance report a year rather than two, increased validity of the environment clearances for mining projects and river valley projects, and many more. They added that the current amendments to the EIA posed a serious threat to the environment and society, giving a free run to several businesses and destructive industries such as mining and construction. In the letter, the students stated it was imperative that the MOEFCC worked with the citizens of this country, rather than in conflict, to implement environment-friendly policies. “Over the last 50 years, around 50 million people in the country have been displaced due to development projects,” they stated. Stating that EIA should be used to bring out the country as an environmentally aware nation, Anjali Dalmia from Ashoka University said, “While economic revival is a national priority, this should be done without compromising the environment and society as, in the long run, it is our natural ecosystem that will support us.” Highlighting the ill-effects of weak environmental policy, members of the Sustainability Committee at Azim Premji University UG Taanika Shankar and Smruthi Ananth said, “Mumbai’s Aarey forest was cleared to build a metro shed despite massive protests. Vizag’s LG Polymers caused a gas leak on May 7. Land was cleared to extend the ports in Goa regardless of protests in 2016. Despite the obvious improvement of rivers and lowered pollution levels during the lockdown period, the MOEFCC is still approving destructive projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youth-organizations-oppose-eia-2020-draft/articleshow/76653228.cms||Manka Behl
June 27, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Drang rock salt mine shut before starting||MANALI: Even after getting environment clearance and approval from Himachal government to extract salt from the Drang rock salt mines in Mandi district, Hindustan Salts Ltd (HSL) has expressed incapability in starting the Rs 300-crore project. Hindustan Salts Ltd, a government enterprise, had estimated 16 million tonnes of rock salt resources in the area. The company had to invest Rs 300cr in the solution-mining project. According to sources, the company is no more interested in the project and is in process of handing over the mines to Himachal government. This has come as a shocker to the state during the time of Covid-19 pandemic. It has also left hundreds of people upset who had to get employment in the project. Himachal had granted permission to HSL to set up a salt and the mining project in 2016. The Union ministry of environment and forests had also granted permission to set up the project in the same year. The company had proposed to start production from 2017. After much delay, HSL has now refused to invest in the project. Drang salt mines have witnessed many glitches since 1962-63, when salt extraction started here commercially. HSL shut the mines in 2011 as it could not obtain forest clearance and had not paid Himachal Pradesh government’s royalty of Rs 30 lakh. Production had restarted after six years. Not even one per cent of the total available reserves of about 16 million tonnes has been extracted so far. The rock salt of Drang area of Mandi, locally known as gumma namak, is touted to be the country’s best rock salt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/drang-rock-salt-mine-shut-before-starting/articleshow/76653779.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||Webinar takes up legal impact of Covid pandemic on industry||Lucknow: Indo-American Chamber of Commerce-NIC, Lucknow chapter organised a webinar on ‘Legal impact of Covid-19’ here on Friday. The main objective of the webinar, organised by IACC-NIC president Lalit Bhasin and chairman IACC, Lucknow chapter Mukesh Singh, was to deliberate on the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on corporates and business laws. Bhasin, who is also president of the Bar Association of India and who moderated the session, lauded chief minister Yogi Adityanath for initiating reforms to boost business activities in the state. He also appreciated chief guest and UP law minister Brajesh Pathak for mitigating the daunting impact of Covid pandemic on trade, industry and economy. Addressing the webinar, Pathak said that businesses across all sectors have been severely impacted due to the lockdown. He added that the UP government was committed to solving problems being faced by corporates in wake of the Covid pandemic. The government would take all steps to boost up the state's economy, he said and added that under the leadership of Yogi Adityanath the state managed to create more job opportunities for migrant labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/webinar-takes-up-legal-impact-of-covid-pandemic-on-industry/articleshow/76653782.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kin, cops foil family suicide pact in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Three members of a family, attempting to commit suicide by consuming poison in their rented flat, were saved, thanks to timely intervention by a relative and cops. The incident took place at Sonali Park under Regent Park police station on Friday. The three—a 67-year-old woman and her two sons, aged 43 and 38—were taken to the Baghajatin state general hospital, where doctors pumped out poison from their stomach. Though their conditions were stated to be critical, doctors and cops feel their lives would be saved. Initial probe revealed the family had been grappling with extreme financial crisis and it might have had prompted them to make the attempt.  The woman, who had lost her husband 12 years ago, used to sell ornaments at Bansdroni market. On Friday morning, her youngest son, suffering from mental ailments, called his cousin, a resident of Malancha , informing him about the suicide bid. The relative alerted the police immediately. “The trio might have tried to kill themselves. No suicide note was found,” said DCP (SSP) Pradeep Kumar Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kin-cops-foil-family-suicide-pact/articleshow/76653240.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Bottles hurled at DMK man’s residence||COIMBATORE: Unidentified men hurled beer bottles at a DMK functionary’s house at Gokulam Colony near Kovaipudur here on Thursday night. According to a police officer attached to Kuniyamuthur police station, M Muthusamy, DMK Coimbatore west district incharge, lodged a complaint with them on Friday morning stating some miscreants had hurled two beer bottles at his house on Thursday night while he and other family members were asleep. “While one of the bottles hit the portico and broke into pieces, the other one was found in the garden area. Muthusamy suspects that the miscreants’ target might have been his car that was parked in the portico,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bottles-hurled-at-dmk-mans-residence/articleshow/76653238.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||IAF’s Cheetah chopper makes landing on e-way||Chandigarh: A Cheetah helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) made a “precautionary landing” on the new KMP expressway in Sonipat district of Haryana on Friday after it developed some technical snag. At four persons on board were reported to be safe. Local police barricaded the portion of the expressway where the chopper had landed even as a recovery helicopter from Hindan airbase reached the site. After engineers rectified the technical fault, the helicopter was safely lifted from the highway. A release issued by the IAF spokesperson said, “A Cheetah helicopter was proceeding from Hindan to Halwara for a routine task. Approximately 14 NM out of Hindan, the helicopter developed technical snag and carried out precautionary landing on Eastern Peripheral Expressway. The actions taken by the pilots were prompt and correct. No damage to any property has been reported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/iafs-cheetah-chopper-makes-landing-on-e-way/articleshow/76653785.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to recruit ex-servicemen as volunteer jail warders||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana jail department would recruit ex-servicemen or retired personnel of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) as volunteer jail warders on 699 posts. The appointment will be done on a contractual basis for a period of one year. A spokesman of the department said 30 volunteer jail warders will be recruited for the Ambala central jail, 97 for Hisar central jail-1, five in Hisar central jail-2, 12 in Bhiwani district jail, 82 in Faridabad district jail, 83 in Gurgaon district jail and three in Jhajjar district jail. Similarly, 27 volunteer jail warders will be recruited in Jind district jail, 11 in Kaithal district jail, 117 in Karnal district jail, 9 in Kurukshetra district jail, 16 in Narnaul district jail, one in Palwal district jail, 47 in Panipat district jail, 118 in Rewari district jail, five in Rohtak district jail, seven in Sirsa district jail, four in Sonipat district jail and 27 in Yamunanagar district jail. Only those ex-servicemen of the Indian Army or retired personnel of the CAPF aged between 25 and 50 years can apply for these posts, provided they have not been suspended from service on disciplinary, misconduct or medical grounds. These volunteer jail warders will be recruited on contract basis for a period of one year only or the date of joining of regular candidates, whichever is earlier, at a monthly honorarium of Rs 18,000. This amount will be deposited in their bank accounts. The honorarium would not be paid in cash. At the time of recruitment, they will be given a lump sum amount of Rs 3,000 for purchasing two pairs of uniforms, one pair of shoes and other essential items related to the uniform. These jail warders will be provided an amount of Rs 150 per day as travel allowance or daily allowance for government tour and casual leave as applicable to jail warders of Haryana jail department. There will be no written examination and physical test at the time of recruitment. But the candidate should have served at least 5 years in the Army or armed police force. He should have also received a medical ‘A’ category certificate at the time of retirement. The official said in view of the excess number of vacancies in most of the districts, July 12 and 15 have been fixed to conduct interviews at all places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-to-recruit-ex-servicemen-as-volunteer-jail-warders/articleshow/76653250.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||RAF at Kolkata airport to stop quarantine rule flout||KOLKATA: A posse of policemen, including Rapid Action Force personnel, were deployed at the airport on Friday to ensure that flyers arriving from abroad did not flout the quarantine protocol. Senior cops from Bidhannagar, including two DCPs and an ACP as well as ICs of two police stations, were present at the airport when the Vande Bharat flights arrived at the airport on Friday afternoon and evening. The police bandobast followed Thursday night’s incident, in which a group of nearly 70 medical students from Kyrgyzstan had refused to accept paid quarantine, despite giving an undertaking to do so before boarding the Kolkata-bound repatriation flight. They were finally allowed to go home. The regulations allow only exceptional and compelling reasons like human distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parents accompanied by children below 10 years for home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/raf-at-airport-to-stop-quarantine-rule-flout/articleshow/76653249.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Graft from cryopreserved placenta restores partial vision to 13-yr-old||PUNE: Almost a year after Italian doctor Stanislao Rizzo used a woman's cryopreserved placenta to repair a recurrent retinal hole, Pune-based eye surgeon Aditya Kelkar applied the same approach to treat a 13-year-old-girl's optic nerve pit. She was losing her left eye vision due to a tiny hole in the optic nerve, a congenital anomaly. The teen has regained partial vision after the surgery and her parents said she has resumed online studies. The hole was filled using a 3mm tissue drawn from the innermost part of a placenta or the human amniotic membrane.The graft was sourced from an Aurangabad-based firm that deals with cryopreserved placenta. “The novel approach has been used for the first time in India to treat the rare congenital eye defect, a recurrent hole in the optic nerve of the girl's retina, the most delicate part of the eye,” Kelkar, director of the National Institute of Ophthalmology, told TOI. In India, about 1 in 10,000 individuals suffer from a retinal pit, either at birth or due to trauma. Such eye pits are unlikely to have a permanent closure and treatments offer temporary relief. Kelkar performed the complex surgery mid-March. “The success rate of treatment in such cases is 75% in young adults. It recurs in 25% cases. The condition is rare among those under 15 years of age,” he added He used the tiny keyhole approach to implant the microsized placental tissue and the intraoperative optical coherence tomography, a high-end scan machine, for the exact positioning of the graft in the hole. “The graft sealed the girl's optic nerve pit. Once the fluid collection under the retina stopped, her vision improved rapidly,” Kelkar said. The placenta is sticky which makes the graft placement tricky, but the vitrectomy equipment and the 3-D surgery technique made it safer and allowed faster visual rehab, Kelkar said. Retina surgeon Shobhit Chawla, president of the Retina Society of India said eye surgeons have used placental graft to treat retinal holes in the past. “This is perhaps the first time in India that an eye surgeon has used the method to fix a rare congenital optic nerve pit in a teen,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/graft-from-cryopreserved-placenta-restores-partial-vision-to-13-yr-old/articleshow/76654142.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Teacher robbed of 9.25 sovereigns gold||COIMBATORE: A three-member gang robbed a 46-year-old woman of 9.25 sovereigns of gold ornaments at Kembanur near Karamadai here on Thursday night. The victim, C Anitha, a teacher in an elementary school at Pungampalayam, was alone in her farmhouse at the time of the incident. “Three people, who had covered their face using masks, barged into the house and brandished sickles. They forced her to remove a five-sovereign gold chain, a pair of gold bangles and a pair of gold earrings,” a police officer said. When the gang tried to tie her to a chair, Anitha cried for help. “The miscreants fled with the valuables when her relative Prasad reached there,” the officer told TOI. Their neighbours alerted the Karamadai police, who registered a case under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. Anitha’s husband Chandrasekaran is a farmer. Their son is working in the US. “The gang members were speaking in Tamil. We have formed three special teams to nab them,” said superintendent of police S P Sujit Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teacher-robbed-of-9-25-sovereigns-gold/articleshow/76653253.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Bishop in Sunderbans on relief mission||KOLKATA: Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Kolkata Diocese of the Church of North India, camped at Rakshaskhali in Patharpratima block on Thursday and distributed relief among 350 families, who have lost their homes and belongings to Amphan. The team travelled till Kakdwip by car and then crossed the Hatania Doania river by ferry and finally took motor vans to reach Rakshashkhali village. Each family got flour, potatoes, pulses, onions, edible oil, soya chunks, sugar and salt to last them for a month. “We were shocked with what we saw. Agricultural land for hundreds of kilometres had been submerged with saline water as embankments were breached. This means loss of livelihood for a long time because all these fields are now destroyed and will not be productive for years now,” Bishop Canning said. The CNI will think of ways to return to these families because they will need help for a long time now. The presbyter of the local church and a school master jointly appealed to the CNI to help people of Rakshashkhali because of the hapless condition of the people there. “Sitting in Kolkata, it is difficult to imagine the plight of these people. Nothing is enough because more consistent effort is required. Their immediate requirement might be food and sanitation but they need to be given livelihood options and education. It’s a lot of work and we cannot keep looking for state support alone. NGOs and charitable organizations should come forward,” the Bishop added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bishop-in-sunderbans-on-relief-mission/articleshow/76653247.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 12 TSSP cops test +ve for Covid-19||Hyderabad: Over a dozen cops working with Telangana State Special Police (TSSP) battalions in the state have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. About 30 companies of TSSP personnel, from various battalions in the state, have been deployed in the city. They have been performing lockdown-related enforcement along with other duties. Most of the cases have been reported from one battalion in the city. “Based on doctor’s advice, some TSSP cops have been sent to institutional quarantine and rest are in home quarantine. Most of them are asymptomatic,” said a TSSP official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-12-tssp-cops-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76653790.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||Drive to curb meningitis in UP from July 1||Lucknow: To control the spread of contagious diseases and meningitis in the state, chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed officials to carry out the communicable disease control programme and Dastak programme in all 75 districts from July 1-31. He has directed all chief medical officers to collect micro level plans for all departments for districts and blocks and submit to WHO-NPSP and Unicef by June 29, 2020. A detailed report of the programme implementation with achievements against goals will have to be submitted to the state headquarters by August 5. He has asked officials to hold meetings of the coordination committees regularly to monitor the work being carried out by various departments. A weekly action taken report and achievement report is to be submitted to the state headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drive-to-curb-meningitis-in-up-from-july-1/articleshow/76653794.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nagpur||Collector asks for permanent fencing around KP’s dome||Nagpur: In reply to Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court’s suo motu cognizance on latest encroachment at Kasturchand Park, collector Ravindra Thakare demanded a permanent wire fencing or fabrication work to protect the Chhatri (dome) to restrict visitors’ entry. Sadar police had also written to NMC demanding the same to protect the Grade I heritage place.A division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar on Friday adjourned the hearing of a suo motu PIL (No 45/2017) where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed as amicus curiae.Both collector and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) filed their replies stating squatters staying under its heritage structure and hawkers around the area were removed immediately upon HC’s directives.Thakare said NMC had undertaken ground’s beautification work, including building compound wall, gates, parking bay, toilet blocks, electrification, ground levelling and flag mast area. He added Mahametro was granted permission for Metro station construction by dismantling the protection wall of 23 metres from LIC square to RBI square and public toilet was being constructed by NMC in south-east direction. For preparing walking, jogging, cycle track and plantation, he had granted permission to Solar Industries’s Shyam Mundada.“We had called Solar Industries to expedite the remaining work and also apprised the Nagpur Heritage Conservation Committee of need to have fencing to keep away wrongdoers from illegally using the area under Chhatri,” he said.NMC’s commissioner Ram Joshi stated that its Mangalwari Zone officials had repeatedly removed encroachments from the Kasturchand Park and its vicinity and also recovered fines from encroachers. After HC’s intervention, the squatters were again removed from its Chhatri located in the middle of the iconic ground.According to him, no unauthorized structure came up inside the park nor any hawkers were allowed entry, but the wanderers had taken shelter inside the dome due to rains. He pointed out directives were issued to the police by HC in its order of April 24, 2017, to ensure patrolling around the area to stop its misuse.“Due to Covid-19 pandemic, most of the NMC staff is engaged with related duties and there wasn’t any wilful non-compliance of the HC directives. As various developmental activities were underway there, the area appears to be bit messy,” Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-asks-for-permanent-fencing-around-kps-dome/articleshow/76653259.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||US Sikh’s eatery attacked, mayor assures action||Amritsar: Days after a Sikh-owned restaurant was targetted in a racist attack in US town of Santa Fe in New Mexico, the mayor has assured the owner to trace and punish the perpetrators of the crime . Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund (Saldf) board member Simran Singh, who spoke to TOI on Friday, said Alan Webber has assured to “find whoever did it and punish them to the full extent of the law”. He said the hate crime against a Sikh was sickening and appalling and they needed to stand up as a community and denounce this despicable act, said Singh. Sukh American Baljit Singh’s restaurant was ransacked on June 22. Baljit, who owns the restaurant since 2013, said he had never experienced race attack and had estimated losses of $1,00,000. Claiming that the family had used its own resources to feed homeless Santa Feans, he said the mayor had denounced racism, intolerance and hate. Simran said, “Tensions have flared recently with the reinvigoration of the Black Lives Matter movement and the removal of statues associated with Spanish colonizers of this area, who committed a number of atrocities. Nevertheless, we are seeing an outpouring of love and support around the city and in my experience, our neighbours love and appreciate us, as we love and appreciate them.”  According to the local daily, tables were overturned, glassware was smashed into piles on the floor, wine racks were emptied, a statue of a goddess was beheaded and computers were stolen. The vandals also turned over and destroyed food warmers while the front desk area was gutted, plates smashed and the kitchen rendered completely unusable, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/us-sikhs-eatery-attacked-mayor-assures-action/articleshow/76653793.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pandemic, plan approval hurdles cloud on demolition of flyovers in Pune||PUNE: The Covid-19 pandemic and other technical hurdles in the approval process might delay the demolition of two flyovers near Savitribai Phule Pune University Chowk and E-Square, cleared by the standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation on Monday. Pune municipal commissioner Shekar Gaikwad told TOI that the pandemic might delay the mandatory general body meeting of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for giving approval to the process. Also, the blueprint of the new bridge, demanded by the PMC, might not be ready in three months, he said, adding that a way forward was being deliberated with the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The two flyovers’ demolition is proposed to pave the way for the Shivajinagar-Hinjewadi Metro rail project. It is supposed to have a two-tier flyover — comprising a vehicular thoroughfare and a Metro viaduct. The proposed 1.5-km-long flyover and the Metro viaduct would come up on same pillars, along the lines of the double-decker flyover at Nal Stop on Karve Road, at a cost of Rs240 crore. A state government expert sought early approval to the demolition plan because the state government had cleared it. The PMRDA had sought approval to demolish the flyover during the lockdown period. It had proposed to complete the demolition work in 40 days. The PMRDA commissioner, Vikram Kumar, said they would be able to start the flyovers’ demolition work soon after getting the approval. “The demolition will be done in phases. If the approval comes during the lockdown period, we can complete the work within 40 days as there is less traffic on roads,” he said. The proposal to ply the Metro above the central part of the road would save 300 trees and no land has to be acquired. “A single pillar will take much less space on the road than two pillars. It will be a much more efficient system than two separate pillars,” Kumar said. The existing flyovers were constructed between 2007 and 2010. The transport experts objected to the flyovers’ demolition, stressing that it would put a huge burden on the state exchequer. “There should be a technical solution without demolition,” said activist Vivek Velankar. The PMRDA officials stressed funding would not be a problem because the state government had given its go-ahead to the plan and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was keen on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-plan-approval-hurdles-cloud-on-demolition-of-flyovers/articleshow/76654144.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cop helps woman stranded at night, gets her car fixed||NEW DELHI: An MNC executive from Gurugram who was left stranded on the road after her car broke down near Ramlila Maidan in central Delhi on Thursday night was helped by a Delhi Police personnel who came to her rescue and fixed the car. Alone on an empty stretch around 9pm, Shraddha was ignored by vehicles passing by even as she tried to stop them. Constable Mahesh, who was patrolling the area, noticed her trying to push the car by herself. Shraddha said she had come to meet a friend and was on her way back home in Gurugram. Mahesh inspected the car and suspected that the battery had run out of charge. At first, Mahesh offered to book a cab for Shraddha and get the car towed to the police station but she didn't want to leave the car behind since she had to go for work the next morning. She requested if he could arrange for a mechanic. The constable tried to contact motor parts dealer in Jama Masjid but no one was available. He then took the battery out and rode to the nearby market but the shops had closed. One of his colleagues then managed to get the number of a local mechanic from a dealer. Mahesh then called a lady constable to take care of the woman and asked her to wait in her car, while he rode to the mechanic’s house. He brought the mechanic to the spot and the car was finally repaired around midnight, after which the woman left for home. Later, Shraddha sent a commendation message to the SHO. Mahesh’s efforts have won him accolades from police commissioner S N Shrivastava and deputy commissioner Sanjay Bhatia. Watch Delhi: Cop helps Gurugram woman stranded at night, gets her car fixed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-helps-woman-stranded-at-night-gets-her-car-fixed/articleshow/76653269.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two bikers held for assaulting man in road rage||KOLKATA: Two bikers were arrested for allegedly assaulting a 38-year-old man in a road rage at Ballygunge on Thursday evening. Dhiraj Kumar, a resident of Asansol, lodged a complaint that he was driving on A C Avenue, when the bikers — Vipul Agarwal (22) from Bediadanga in Kasba and Abhay Agarwal (18) from Picnic Garden Road—overtook him. Kumar raised his voice against dangerous driving and had an altercation with the two who allegedly made him stop his car in the middle of the road and assaulted him. Locals claimed the bikers were in an inebriated condition. However, the two denied the allegation, claiming that Kumar had abused them in foul language. “Based on our investigations, we brought the accused to the police station and arrested them,”said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-bikers-held-for-assaulting-man-in-road-rage/articleshow/76653257.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: 1,000 villages to get 4-hour power supply||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has decided against no power cuts from noon to 4pm in about 1,000 villages having less than 60% line loss. The decision also aims to ensure smooth power supply this summer so that people do not face any problem. Also, under the ‘Mera Gaon Jagmag Gaon Yojana’, 24-hour power supply is being provided in about 4,500 villages of the state. Speaking to media on Friday, Haryana power and new and renewable energy minister Ranjit Singh said complaints regarding power cut schedule were reported from several parts of the state over the last few days. Since it is paddy sowing season in the state, therefore power cuts are scheduled as farmers need more water, he said. The minister further clarified there will be 24-hour power supply in 4,500 villages and no electricity cut in these 1,000 villages for four hours. Besides, there will be uninterrupted power supply in all the villages at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1k-villages-to-get-4-hr-power-supply/articleshow/76653261.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Pune||Ex-PWD minister opposed to new facility||PUNE: Former state public works department minister Chandrakant (Balasaheb) Shivarkar has opposed the demolition of flyovers at Savitribai Phule Pune University junction to make way for a double-decker flyover in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackaray and his deputy Ajit Pawar. He stressed the Metro work must be done without disturbing the existing infrastructure in the letter, a copy of which was sent to cabinet ministers Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan and mayor Murlidhar Mohol apart from various administrative authorities like Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Shivarkar told TOI that the flyovers were constructed to reduce congestion at the SPPU junction. “The project was completed by MSRDC. An England-based company was hired as consultant. The flyovers have become a major link between Pune and areas like Aundh, Baner, Pashan, Khadki, Wakad, old Pune-Mumbai highway and Pune-Mumbai Expressway. It succeeded in reducing traffic congestion. Dismantling of the flyovers and constructing a new one will lead to massive congestion in the area,” he said. Shivarkar said he was not against the Metro, but it must be constructed without disturbing the existing road infrastructure. “The Metro can run besides the existing structure or over it, but without any demolition,” he said. “The flyovers were among projects amounting to Rs-240 crore sanctioned in the mid-2000s. Their life is not over and they are sill in a good condition. The economic condition of the state is already bad and demolition of the current structures and building a new one will not be economically wise,” Shivarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-pwd-minister-opposes-double-decker-flyover-at-sppu-junction/articleshow/76654145.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Jhajjar medical college students resume agitation||CHANDIGARH: After the silence for over six months, the aggrieved students of the World College of Medical Sciences and Research at Jhajjar have restarted their efforts for relocation to some other medical college in the state. Besides taking up the issue with CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Haryana’s medical education and health minster Anil Vij, the students have also decided to give representation to the Punjab and Haryana high court Chief Justice for the early disposal of the case. These students are of 2016 batch of the college and have been protesting for the more than 1.5 years. Besides staging agitation, the students have also moved the high court for the purpose of shifting. Alleging lack of infrastructure and violations of guidelines of the Medical Council of India (MCI) for setting up the medical college, students, who are largely of final year, are demanding takeover of college by the state government or shifting of all the students. Students have told court that MCI too has indicted the college, along with the report by local administration, and the Haryana medical education and research department. “Now, at this point of time when we could have joined the medical experts and other medical professionals in fight against Covid-19, we are sitting at home and are helpless. We could have been part of team of Corona warriors of the state,” said Megha, one of the student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jhajjar-medical-college-students-resume-agitation/articleshow/76653270.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Wife, lover held for killing husband||MYSURU: Five days after a man was found dead in KR Nagar, cops have arrested his wife and her lover on charges of conspiracy and murder. The accused, identified as Sharada and Babu, allegedly murdered her husband Anand at the couple’s under construction house in Saligram late on Sunday, police said on Friday. Babu allegedly smashed Anand’s head with an axe, carried the body on the latter’s bike and dumped it on a wayside near an electric pole, about two kilometres away from the spot, to make it look like an accident. KR Nagar cops said the wife instigated her lover Babu to eliminate her husband claiming that Anand had developed doubts about their illicit relationship. We had suspected it to be a murder and not a regular accident case since day one, said SP CB Ryshyanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wife-lover-held-for-killing-husband/articleshow/76650843.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 27, 2020||Pune||Cops book youth over charge of cousin’s rape in Pune||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police booked a youth on Thursday on the charges of repeatedly raping his 21-year-old cousin between February and March. The police also booked the youth’s parents for threatening the woman on finding that she was pregnant. The woman returned to her parents’ home in Parbhani district during the lockdown. When they got to know of the incident, they lodged an FIR with the local police. The case was then transferred to the Hinjewadi police for further investigation. An officer from the Hinjewadi police told TOI that the woman was staying at her aunt’s house in the city. “In February, her cousin took her to a lodge under the pretext of dropping her to her workplace and raped her. The suspect then repeatedly raped her by threatening to share photographs on social media platforms,” the officer said. “When the woman informed her aunt about the incident, the latter and her husband threatened her. She told her not to reveal anything to her parents,” the officer said. The woman returned home during the lockdown. “As she complained of some physical discomfort, her mother took her to a hospital. On learning that her daughter was pregnant, she lodged the police complaint,” the officer said. “Investigation is on. We are yet to arrest the suspects,” the officer added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-book-youth-over-charge-of-cousins-rape/articleshow/76654146.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Never suppressed democratic norms, govt tells HC||Hyderabad: Justice T Vinod Kumar of the high court on Friday reserved his orders in a petition filed by TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy and 12 other Congress legislators charging the state government with obstructing them in the lawful discharge of their roles as opposition leaders. Advocate general BS Prasad informed the court that they had detained some legislators wherever there were violations of Covid-19 guidelines and that the government had never resorted to suppression of democratic process. The Congress leaders have been arguing that the state government is using its police force to prevent the democratic process where the opposition has a role to play by going to the people and briefing them about the current situation in the state. The judge reserved his judgement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/never-suppressed-democratic-norms-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/76653245.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand slashes Covid test rates, pvt labs to charge Rs 2,400 instead of Rs 4,500||Dehradun: The state government on Friday announced that government and private hospitals sending samples for Covid-19 testing to designated private labs will be charged Rs 2,000 per test while those individuals approaching the designated private labs for Covid-19 test on their own will be charged Rs 2,400 per test, including GST. Earlier, private labs were charging Rs 4,500 per sample. The orders, issued by secretary (health) Amit Negi, also mentioned that private labs conducting tests will have to provide reports with all values and should also provide data to the government if an audit is done. Negi said, "The labs, conducting RTPCT (3g) single step test will have to directly co-ordinate with district Covid-19 surveillance cell for immediate tracing of patients and update on the ICMR portal." Meanwhile, with 34 fresh cases on Friday, the Covid-19 tally in the state reached 2,725. With one death reported from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, the total death toll of novel coronavirus patients has now reached 37 in Uttarakhand. Of the 34 new cases, 14 were from Nainital, followed by 13 in US Nagar, four in Dehradun, two in Chamoli and one in Champawat. Speaking about the death of the Covid-19-positive person, Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid-19 war room at the health directorate, said, "The deceased, a 45-year-old man was brought dead at the hospital by police. He was a construction worker and had died after falling from a work site. His samples were taken,, which tested positive." Meanwhile, with discharge of 64 patients, the total number of recovered persons in Uttarakhand are now 1,822.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-slashes-covid-test-rates-pvt-labs-to-charge-rs-2400-instead-of-rs-4500/articleshow/76650861.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||RBI: Telangana took Rs 1.8L crore overdraft in 6 years||HYDERABAD: Though Telangana claims itself as one of the richest states in the country, it has availed Rs 1,80,000 crore from the RBI through ways and means advances (WMA) and overdraft in the last six years since the state came into being in 2014. The state already has nearly Rs 2 lakh crore public debt by the end of 2019-20 financial year, which is expected to touch Rs 2.30 lakh crore by the end of 2020-21 financial year, the government claimed in its budget proposals. The loans availed by the state government since 2014 was revealed by the RBI in an RTI reply to an activist Sudhir Jalagam a couple of days ago. While the state did not avail any WMA between 2014-2016, it took Rs 15,000 crore in 2016-17, which rose to Rs 35,000 crore in the next year. It reached Rs 78,000 crore in 2018-19. The state revenues dipped in the last three months due to coronavirus and lockdown and the government took about Rs 3,500 crore from the RBI to meet the salaries and pensions’ bill, apart from raising bonds. When the WMA limit had exceeded, the government availed the overdraft facility from the RBI. The government availed the overdraft from 2017-18 financial year and in 2018-19 and 2019-20, it took about Rs 7,000 crore overdraft, the RBI said in the RTI reply. It may be recalled chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on the floor of the legislative assembly had said that taking loans was not an offence. “Even countries like the US and the UK have debts. The government will further borrow money for taking up various developmental works and projects,” he had said. WMA is a temporary loan facility being provided to both the Centre and state government by the RBI to meet emergencies and sort out mismatches between revenue and expenditure. The loan facility extended by the states under this head should be returned to the RBI within 90 days. Generally, states pay an interest rate of 4.4% on borrowings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rbi-t-took-rs-1-8l-cr-overdraft-in-6-years/articleshow/76653254.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Residents set up resource centre to segregate waste||PUNE: Residents groups in Kalyaninagar have set up a Resource Recycling Centre (RRC) with the help of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) at the civic playground located in the area. The centre will segregate nine different waste materials into separate categories The nine categories include paper, cardboard, plastic, glass, broken glass, e-waste, metal, tetrapak and thermocol waste. Citizens can drop off the waste on weekends. The collected material will be handed over to responsible recyclers. Volunteers from the area have been running the waste collection initiative in an informal manner since the past 18 months. Now, they have set up an organized facility. Purnima Joshi, a member of the volunteer group, said, “Waste generated at homes, factories and offices is truly akin to wealth if we take care of it. Neglected waste causes harm and can ruin a person’s health. Hence, the residents of Kalyaninagar, together with the sanitation department of PMC’s ward number 5, recognized the waste to be an asset and set up the RRC.” The RRC is designed for residents to drop segregated dry materials in specially labelled compartments, to be later picked up by appropriate recyclers. Another lead member Anu Agarwal said, “The centre will help us treat our waste as a resource that can be recovered. Thermocol has the largest compartment as it is the bulkiest waste. Plastic of all types, including medicine strips, chips’ packets, bottles, bags, milk packets (clean and dry) are accepted here.” Nearly 5,000kg of residential e-waste has been collected by the volunteer group over five years for a safe recycling process through HiTech Recycling Systems. Non-recyclable plastic, segregated by over 700 residents, is collected on the second and fourth Saturday by the recycler Rudra Environmental Solutions. The group also collects old clothes, bedsheets and saris to make cloth bags. Corporator Yogesh Mulik said, “This is an important project. I sanctioned the RRC from my budget and got the PMC building department to cooperate in its construction.” Anil Dole, PMC’s divisional sanitation inspector, said, “Ward number 5 generates about 9,500 tons of dry waste every day. Of this, barely 2,500kg is recovered for recycling. The RRC makes our work much easier since there is much less waste to be handled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kalyaninagar-residents-set-up-resource-centre-to-segregate-nine-types-of-waste/articleshow/76654150.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Development Authority opens one office for conveyance deeds||NEW DELHI: From Monday, Delhiites will be able to receive conveyance deeds of their properties with the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) reopening its Nagrik Suvidha Kendra (NSK) at its headquarters Vikas Sadan in INA. Though there are three other NSKs — at Dwarka, Rohini and Laxmi Nagar — at the moment only the one at DDA headquarters will be opened for execution of lease deed or conveyance deed and submission of conversion application. Deeds for different categories of plots will be dealt according to days to avoid crowding. The execution date will be given only when all the formalities are completed by the allottees for changing the deed from leasehold to freehold. At the moment, only those applicants who live in the national capital region will be called to the NSK. Allottees will be informed about the exact date and time of appointment and list of documents to be brought. It is mandatory for the applicants to first install the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phone, wear face mask and carry an identity card. Only those people will be allowed to enter whose status in Aarogya Setu app is “Safe or low risk” along with prescribed affidavit and those with red or orange status will not be allowed. Allottees will be called in time slots of 30 minutes each from 10.30am till 4.30pm and only 10 executions per day per branch will be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-opens-one-office-for-conveyance-deeds/articleshow/76653283.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt mulls home for aged, orphans under one roof||HYDERABAD: The state government will soon experiment with the idea of housing an old age home and orphaned children’s home under one roof on a trial basis to see whether these two groups would reinforce living capacity in each other. State’s principal secretary of women and child welfare department informed this in an affidavit filed before the high court that is currently hearing a PIL on old age homes and the plight of their inmates. The affidavit spoke about the suggestion made by a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that mooted the idea wherein it said that such an arrangement may give the children the much-needed elderly guidance, while the elders may get the required physical support from the younger lot. The principal secretary in her affidavit said that this requires a policy decision from the government. However we will start this model on a trial basis in one old age home in Hyderabad by bringing in children from an orphanage immediately after receding of Covid-19, she said. The department for welfare of disabled and senior citizens has established a toll-free helpline No. 14567 in collaboration with the Vijaya Vahini Charitable Trust supported by Tata Trust for providing guidance , support and care to senior citizens, she said. The state is setting up three old-age homes one each in the districts of Khammam, Kamareddy and Nizamabad in collaboration with Indian Red Cross Societies in these districts, she said. While the state government has sanctioned Rs 50 lakh to each of these homes towards 50% construction cost, the remaining 50% would be mobilised by IRCS in the form of donations, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-mulls-home-for-aged-orphans-under-one-roof/articleshow/76653265.cms||M Sagar Kumar
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal gets army to step up border road work that will ease access to China||Pithoragarh: The Nepal government has expedited the process of construction of the Darchula-Tinkar Road, also known as Mahakali corridor, near the India-Nepal border adjoining Pithoragarh. The aim of this road construction, sources said, is to "minimise the dependence of Nepalese citizens on Indian roads". Many Nepalese nationals were forced to cross over to India to use roads here in order to reach their villages in Nepal. Once the road is completed, not only will locals in Nepal not have to depend on India, the Nepalese armed police — which has set up a series of border outposts in the area — will also be able to carry out patrolling in the stretch with ease. Further, access to the China border, which lies beyond Tinkar, the last point on the road, will become better. This will also enable Nepalese tour operators to take pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar through this route. Sources added that the Nepalese government had some months ago deployed its army to complete the 134-km-long road, of which only around 43 km had been constructed over the past decade. Government officials in Dharchula (in Pithoragarh district), told TOI that as per their information, the road was being constructed by Nepalese army personnel on a priority basis. “We have come to know that a helipad has been constructed at Ghatiabagar in Nepal by their army to facilitate the transportation of equipment required for the road construction,” said AK Shukla, SDM, Dharchula. The escalation of work on the road — which had been sanctioned as far back as 2008 but was being constructed at an extremely slow pace — comes in the backdrop of souring of relations between India and Nepal. There is palpable tension especially among people living in the immediate vicinity of the border after Nepalese parliament earlier this month passed a map showing areas like Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani in Uttarakhand as part of Nepal’s territory. Meanwhile, when TOI contacted Sharad Kumar Pokhrel, the chief district officer (CDO) of Darchula (Nepal) — the CDO is the equivalent of the district magistrate in Nepal — he confirmed that the road between Darchula and Tinkar is being constructed but refrained from commenting further. “I have recently taken charge of the district and will therefore not be able to say much on this issue,” he said. (with inputs from Ishita Mishra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-gets-army-to-step-up-border-road-work-that-will-ease-access-to-china/articleshow/76650884.cms||Prem Punetha
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||Grocery shop owner kills lover||Rajkot: A 24-year-old grocery shop owner slit his girlfriend’s throat before attempting suicide by cutting his own throat and stabbing in the stomach in a hotel in Limbdi town of Surendranagar district on Thursday. Police said the accused Ravirajsinh Rana alias Divyarajsinh, allegedly slit the throat of Nafisabanu Sheikh (20) in the room of Yogi Hotel near Limbdi bus stand. While Sheikh died on the spot, Rana’s condition is said to be serious at a private hospital in Rajkot. “Rana, who had also slit his own throat and dealt a stabbing wound in the stomach, is in a serious condition,” said SS Varu, sub-inspector with Limbdi police station. During investigation, police found that both Rana and Sheikh had an affair for the past one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/grocery-shop-owner-kills-lover/articleshow/76652165.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19 cases of local spread worries Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Rise in number of Covid cases due to local transmission and also cases with unidentified sources of transmission have become a cause for worry for state capital. Seven more positive cases were reported in the district on Friday taking the total number of active cases to 84. Already, Manacaud region has been closed due to threat of local spread after an autorickshaw driver turned Covid-positive. On Friday four more positive cases have been reported from Manacaud alone. Of these, three are from the contact list of the autorickshaw driver. These three are from a family and they are running a stationary shop at Manacaud Junction. A 50-year-old man his 42-year-old wife and their 15-year-old son are the ones who were tested positive. Another case reported from Manacaud is a 41-year-old man who is working with Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre. He has no travel history and does not feature in the contact list of the autorickshaw driver. The district health administration is yet to trace the source of infection of this person.As many as 12 employees of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre were put under observation after he was tested positive. All of them were in direct contact with him.  Another person, a 60-year-old retired employee of VSSC from Vallakadavu, has also been tested positive on Friday. He also has no travel history and the source of infection is not known. The other two cases reported on Friday are 28-year-old person who came from Tamil Nadu and a 68-year-old person from Chirayinkeezhu who came from Maharashtra. Till date, 190 positive cases have been reported in the district. Thiruvananthapuram tops, along with Malappuram, regarding cases with unknown sources in the state and hence the government has imposed strict restrictions in the city. The lockdown restrictions are continuing to prevent any local spread, the threat which is looming large over the capital city. Meanwhile, the city corporation’s move to issue token system for vendors of perishable goods in the city to keep 50% of such trading establishments shut, has come under criticism of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasaya Ekopana Samithi. Kamalalayam Suku, state senior vice-president of the Samithi, termed the corporation’s move as an untimely and unnecessary intervention. The city corporation had launched the new system to prevent crowding of customers at major marketplaces in the city and thereby reduce chances of spread of Covid-19. Suku said that this move would only help to create a stigma against small-scale vendors in Chalai and Palayam markets where the new regulations are strictly implemented. By targeting these too major marketplaces, the civic administration has created an impression that these areas are Covid hotspots. As a result customers are not coming to these places, he said. Suku alleged that while these regulations are strictly implemented at Chalai and Palayam markets, the rules remain on paper for shops functioning in major shopping malls. The Samithi is also contemplating protest measures unless the civic administration lifted the new regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cases-of-local-spread-worries-capital/articleshow/76652339.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Shops down shutters to protest custodial death of father-son duo||COIMBATORE: Most of the traders in the district closed their shops on Friday to protest the deaths of two shopkeepers in police custody in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi. While medical shops remained closed till 11am, hotels and bakeries were closed till 12pm. “As many as 225 hotels in the city were closed,” said M Sivakumar, secretary of the Coimbatore District Hoteliers’ Association. Almost 90% of the shops, including those run by small traders, were closed, said G Irudayaraja, district president of the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu. “The loss is expected to be around Rs 50 crore,” he said. Timber trader P Jayaraj and his son Bennix had died in judicial custody on Tuesday. They were detained by the Sathankulam police a week ago for keeping their shop open beyond the stipulated time. “Was it fair to manhandle the father-son duo just for keeping their shop open beyond the deadline? Why did the police lodge them in a sub-jail in Kovilpatti, which is 100km away from Sathankulam, while there are other sub-jails close by? We want the police officers, who were responsible for the deaths, to be booked for murder. Stringent action should be taken against all those indirectly involved or supported the act,” said Irudayaraja. “Procedure were not followed while dealing with the duo. The magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody, failed to notice the injuries. Officials at the sub-jail failed to provide treatment to them. The state government has announced a solatium of 20 lakh to the family. We want the government to provide Rs 1 crore to their families,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shops-down-shutters-to-protest-custodial-death-of-father-son-duo/articleshow/76653282.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Five more Raj Bhawan staff infected; Bhopal has 782 active cases||BHOPAL: Forty-four more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday taking the tally of positive cases in the state capital to 2,824. The health directorate bulletin reported 31 cases and the district report added 13 more. The 44 positive patients include five security personnel at Raj Bhawan, taking the count to 17. So far, 35 people including employees and security staff at Raj Bhawan have tested Corona positive. These 5 security personnel are among the 57 who were shifted to institutional quarantine centre at Mugalia Chhap the other day, said sources. Apart from these, three nursing students have also tested positive for Covid-19. So far, a total of 1363 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city this month. Thus, on an average 52 patients have tested positive daily in the state capital in June. A total of 94 people have died of Covid-19 in Bhopal so far. On the brighter side, 41positive patients recovered and were discharged from the hospital on Friday. With these, total number of patients who have recovered increased to 2042. Thus overall a total of 72% patients in state capital have recovered, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/five-more-raj-bhawan-staff-infected-bhopal-has-782-active-cases/articleshow/76654527.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC opens contempt proceedings against caller, petitioner||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday initiated contempt of court proceedings against Vijay Shah and Alpesh Patel, both residents of Petlad, for trying to influence judicial proceedings on an anticipatory bail plea, by making a call to Justice Bela Trivedi and pretending to be Congress MLA Niranjan Patel.The high court rejected Shah’s anticipatory bail plea, saying that he did not respect justice and thus did not deserve to get pre-arrest bail in connection with his altercation with cops for not following lockdown rules in May.On the day of Shah’s hearing, Justice Trivedi received a call from someone claiming to be the MLA and she was asked to reject the anticipatory bail. When the judge inquired with Shah’s lawyers, they told the HC that the MLA was interested in getting Shah arrested. This led the court to order a police inquiry. Shah was caught in the police inquiry with the caller, Alpesh Patel, spilling the beans. The court learned that it was a ploy to get a favourable order with the rationale that if a Congress MLA asked the judge to reject the case, the judge would act otherwise and grant him anticipatory bail. Justice Trivedi termed this conduct “highly deplorable and unpardonable” and said further, “The applicant has been trapped in his own net laid for trapping others.” The court also said that it was a “well designed but ill-motivated mission” to get anticipatory bail.After rejecting Shah’s bail plea, the court further observed, “When the justice delivery system is facing unprecedented multiple challenges at the hands of tech-savvy criminals, any attempt to corrupt or to fail the justice delivery system has to be dealt with very stringently.”The HC ordered suo motu contempt of court proceedings and sought their reply on the issue by July 10. Justice Trivedi referred the contempt proceedings to the chief justice for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-opens-contempt-proceedings-against-caller-petitioner/articleshow/76653284.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||No red or green zones, only containment areas in MP now||BHOPAL: After nearly a month of Unlock 1.0, there are no red or green zones in Madhya Pradesh, but there are more than 1100 containment areas spread across 52 districts of the state. Earlier, MP was divided into three zones on the basis of Covid-19 infection intensity—red zone (worst affected), orange zone (buffer between red and green) and green zone (not affected) and based on these zones, the restrictions were decided. On May 18, with the onset of lockdown 4.0, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that from now on there would only be two zones —red and green—in the state. Indore and Ujjain were the only districts tagged red throughout. In Bhopal, Dewas, Dhar, Jabalpur, Khandwa, Mandsaur, Neemuch and Kukshi, only the municipal areas were under red-zone restrictions. Government’s intent was to open up industries and businesses as far as possible to revive the economy, while continuing the fight against Covid-19. All activities, barring those restricted in all zones, were allowed in green areas. All shops, bazaars and vegetable mandis were allowed to open. Government and private offices were also allowed to operate with 100 per cent capacity in green zones. However, later from June 1, when Unlock 1.0 started, all the conditions that were applicable to red zones were applied on containment zones and other restrictions were also provided. Additional chief secretary (health), Mohammed Suleman confirmed that since Unlock 1.0, there are no zones, but only containment and non-containment areas in the state. Sources said that in the containment areas, the movement of people is prohibited and health teams scan each and every family living in the vicinity. Only when there are no patients in the containment zones that it is declared a non-containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-red-or-green-zones-only-containment-areas-in-mp-now/articleshow/76650905.cms||Amarjeet Singh
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||Villagers help rescue elephant in Bandipur||Mysuru: A video of residents of Bavikere village near Nada Haadi in the Moliyuru range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve rescuing a makhana elephant – male jumbos without tuskers – that was stuck under a railway barricade has gone viral on social media portals. The incident occurred on June 19 morning when an elephant that was trying to cross a barricade erected on the edge of the forest got stuck under it. The barricades have been erected in order to reduce incidence of human-animal conflict, which is disturbingly common in this region since elephants and other wild animals often stray into human habitats on the fringes of the forest in search of food and water. On finding the elephant in a state of agony, the villagers immediately alerted the forest department, which rushed its staff to the spot. The foresters who arrived on the spot were assisted by the locals in getting the elephant out from underneath the barricade. The elephant had gotten itself stuck near the abdomen, and had panicked. The operation that successfully ended with the jumbo’s rescue attracted a reasonable crowd at the spot. The rescued elephant subsequently returned to the woods. Assistant conservator of forests for Hediyala division Ravikumar confirmed that the elephant had been successfully rescued, and they had managed to ensure its return to the jungle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/villagers-help-rescue-elephant-in-bandipur/articleshow/76650893.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Dog dies of rabies, activists for vaccination drive in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A stray dog at Malkajgiri was suspected to have been infected with rabies on Tuesday after a local observed that the dog had died after behaving strangely. With at least three such cases being reported in the city in a span of two months, of which one was a confirmed case of rabies infection, animal welfare activists urged officials to control the spread of the disease by initiating a mass vaccination drive at the earliest. “We were informed about the Malkajgiri dog’s case after one of the residents observed that the dog was howling in pain and behaving strangely,” said Panneeru Teja, an animal activist. Teja said that a similar incident took place in DD Colony last month. Meanwhile, GHMC officials have requested the Veterinary Biological Research Institute to examine the brain of the dog for confirmation of rabies infection. “Our teams are regularly conducting anti-rabies vaccination drives in the city. We will take necessary steps once the reports of the suspected case are out,” GHMC veterinary assistant Goverdhan Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dog-dies-of-rabies-activists-for-vaccination-drive-in-city/articleshow/76653271.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: School education in Covid times, Facebook live on Saturday||BHOPAL: School education department will organise a Facebook live programme on Saturday morning to review and update about school education during the Covid-19 crisis. According to a statement by the department the programme will be held at 11am and would be live streamed across the state. The programme will focus on the role of school education and its priorities during the Covid-19 pandemic. Senior officers of the department would be providing tips to the school teachers and field staff on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-school-education-in-covid-times-facebook-live-on-saturday/articleshow/76654524.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||US report praises Bengal for anti-trafficking drive||KOLKATA: The annual report by the US state department on global trafficking praised Bengal, along with several other states, this year for playing an active role in setting up anti-human trafficking units in major police forces and ensuring trials in Pocso courts. Certain court orders ensuring stringent punishment to traffickers were also praised. Last year, Bengal had a special mention for its Swayangsiddha project that was introduced to combat human trafficking and prevent child marriage. The report mentioned about some NGOs’ good working relationships and effective coordination with local AHTU units. State police’s criminal investigation divisions also investigated human trafficking. However, the report also criticised the state for some issues like lack of adequate compensation to victims and delay in ensuring punishment for traffickers. The report came at a time when at least four cases of human trafficking during lockdown and after Amphan were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/us-report-praises-bengal-for-anti-trafficking-drive/articleshow/76653288.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Prisoners raise 10 lakh Haritha Haram saplings||Hyderabad: Inmates of the Central Prison in Warangal are helping in expanding the green cover in the state by raising around 10 lakh saplings under Haritha Haram. For the last few months, as many as 70 prisoners have been raising the saplings in a nursery on the premises of the jail. Considering the fact that there is a lot of open space in the jail, the former collector of Warangal Rural Prashant Patil initiated the process of involving the prisoners in the effort to raise the saplings. Prashant Patil is now collector of Nalgonda. “The prisoners are paid Rs 100 a day and the money is deposited in their bank account created by the prison authorities,” said a senior official of the prisons department. Some of the prisoners send part of their money to their families. Last year in April, the state government gave the contract to the jail for raising the saplings. A senior official said it could be the largest nursery in any jail in the country and more than 50 varieties of saplings are being raised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prisoners-raise-10-lakh-haritha-haram-saplings/articleshow/76653281.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Wanted criminal arrested in Nuh||Wanted criminal arrested in Nuh: Haryana police arrested a wanted criminal and his accomplice after a brief exchange of fire at Rihad village in Nuh. A police spokesperson said a police team in Nuh district had received specific inputs about the presence of Imran, a criminal wanted by Gurgaon and Neemuch (Madhya Pradesh) police, in Rihad. Acting on a tip-off, the police party raided the spot and arrested Imran and his aide Naseem Khan after a brief exchange of fire. Imran sustained a bullet injury in leg. Police also received a country-made pistol from his possession. Neemuch and Gurgaon police had declared a reward of Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000, respectively, on the arrest of Imran. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wanted-criminal-arrested-in-nuh/articleshow/76653287.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Mantralaya employees bring own equipment for Covid protection||BHOPAL: Employees of the secretariat have made their own arrangements to fight corona after seven employees in three different departments tested positive for Covid-19 and one of them died due to pandemic. Employees union alleges there is no soap in the soap dispensers at the secretariat washrooms. Most of the sanitary workers in mantralaya come from Covid-19 hot spots of the city. They do not even use masks or follow social distancing, the union pointed out and decided to use pulse oximeters to examine employees at different gates. Employees said pulse oximeter are believed to be more reliable than thermal screening. On an average, 100 people are randomly tested every day, using the oximeters. Office-bearers of the employees union said, 650 people have been tested in past one week. Sudhir Nayak, president of the Mantralayin Karmachari Sangh, said that secretariat, which is the war room of the state’s corona crisis, is not complying with safety guidelines. “We tried to make attempt to safeguard our employees by placing pulse oximeters at three gates of the secretariat, including the old entry from Vallabh Bhavan and on the gates where thermal screening is done. The state secretariat is divided into three interlinked buildings. Old building is called Vallabh Bhavan 1, while the new buildings are called Vallabh Bhavan II and Vallabh Bhavan III, respectively. Office of urban administration and development department whose employee died was in Vallabh Bhavan II- the same building, which houses the offices chief secretary, chief minister and home minister. The energy department office is also in the same building. There are multiple gates to enter the interlinked buildings. Employees questioned if thermal screening is effective enough. The employees have been writing letters and handing over memorandums to top officials expressing concern over inadequate safety measures on the premises. At least six such letters and memorandums have been handed over by the Mantralayin Karmachari Sangh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mantralaya-employees-bring-own-equipment-for-covid-protection/articleshow/76650927.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to plant 40 lakh toddy palm saplings||HYDERABAD: The state government will plant over 40 lakh toddy palm saplings this fiscal with the twin objective of providing a source of income to the Goud community and also check illegal brewing of gudumba. Of the total 12,751 villages in the state, as many as 4,000 villages have been identified where toddy palm parks will be developed with 1,000 saplings being planted in each of the 4,000 villages this fiscal. These saplings will be planted on the periphery of water bodies, sikham lands, tank bunds, government and panchayat owned lands around the villages. “The illegal brewing of gudumba is still going in some places in the state. Encouraging plantation of toddy saplings will also help in reducing the patronage for illegal gudumba,” excise minister V Srinivas Goud said while directing the officials to intensify raids on gudumba dens. Officials said the original target is to plant over 5 crore saplings of toddy palm trees. “Over 3.56 crore saplings have been planted in the last four phases of Haritha Haram. Another 1.44 crore saplings would be planted in the next three years, of which 40 lakh saplings would be planted during the current fiscal in 4,000 villages,” said the official. The required stock of saplings will be procured from the gram panchayat nurseries and those being maintained by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), horticulture and forest departments. The excise department has also come out with a Neera policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-to-plant-40-lakh-toddy-palm-saplings/articleshow/76653279.cms||Roushan Ali
June 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Coronavirus spreading fast in Maharashtra's Solapur rural||KOLHAPUR: Covid-19 cases are fast being reported from rural parts of Solapur district. On Thursday, the district recorded its highest single day number of patients (128). Of these, 83 patients were from the city, while 45 from the rural areas. Akkalkot tehsil has shown sharp increase in patients, including eight new patients on Thursday. The total patients in Akkalkot tehsil has gone up to 49 and four deaths. Other tehsils like Barshi, Mohol, North Solapur and Madha have also been reporting cases. Solapur rural has total 266 positive patients and 99 of them have been discharged. It has reported 14 deaths so far. Solapur city has recorded 2,080 positive patients till Thursday noon and 228 deaths. It has 762 active patients currently.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/virus-spreading-fast-in-solapur-rural/articleshow/76650940.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Business||Harassed by ‘frivolous’ complaint, Azim Premji and wife move SC||NEW DELHI: Software mogul and philanthropist Azim Hasham Premji and his wife Yaseem have moved the Supreme Court seeking quashing of summons issued to them by a Bengaluru court in "frivolous criminal complaints" against merger of three companies — Vidya, Regal and Napean — with Hasham Investment and Trading Company, all owned by the Premji group. Premji and his wife, through advocate Mahesh Agrawal, said the three companies, which were formed in 1974 and whose shareholdings were interlinked in 1980 that any of the two owned the third one, were merged with Hasham in 2015 after the RBI gave in-principle approval followed by the Karnataka High Court's green signal to the merger scheme. They suspected that the cause behind the complaint was a partnership gone awry with Subhiksha's R Subramanian. A Premji group firm had to file criminal complaints against a Subramanian-owned company for bouncing of cheques worth crores of rupees in 2013, which is still pending. Agrawal claimed the criminal complaints filed by NGO ‘India Awake Transparency’ was masterminded by Subramanian nearly three years after the merger took place, full information of which was given to SEBI, stock exchanges and the ministry of company affairs in 2015. What surprised the Premjis was the trial court's decision to summon them without even conducting a preliminary inquiry into the veracity of the NGO's complaints and the Karnataka HC refusing to entertain their plea against facing trial in a “motivated case” aimed at disrupting the Wipro-led software industry and Azim Premji Trust's philanthropic activities. The petitioners told the SC that on the same lines of the criminal complaints before the Bengaluru trial court, petitions were filed before the Delhi High Court and NCLAT four times between February 2018 and September 2019. Each of them were dismissed by the HC and the appellate tribunal while cumulatively imposing Rs 4 lakh in costs on those who had filed the petitions against merger of the companies. The husband-wife duo firmly believe that those four petitions too were filed with Subramanian's collusion. On the philanthropy front, the Premjis told the SC that since 2010, when the trust was formed, they had donated more than Rs 1,50,000 crore for various charitable work. "In times of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is an overall commitment of Rs 1,125 crore towards the cause. The Premjis have been carrying out various relief activities across the country, supplementing and aiding the government in Covid-related relief work. The mischievous challenge by the NGO to the amalgamation is disrupting not only the Premjis but also the ability of their group to contribute to society through charity," the petition said. The Premjis have challenged the Karnataka HC's May 15 decision refusing to quash the criminal complaints filed by the NGO before a Bengaluru court. "The scheme of amalgamation sanctioned by the Karnataka HC was deliberately suppressed by the NGO before the trial court and the HC, as the scheme gave complete details of purpose, financial structure, shareholding of the transferor and transferee companies, the accounting treatment and the terms on which the amalgamation of companies occurred, which if brought to the notice of the courts below, would have shown that not even a prima facie case was made out under the complaints," they said. "After almost three years, the NGO filed malafide criminal complaints on December 7, 2017, alleging that the three companies (Vidya, Regal and Napean) that were amalgamated with Hasham Investment did not belong to the Azim Premji group. The mischievous claim of the NGO was that the companies belonged to 'nobody' and therefore belonged to the government and could not have been merged with Hasham Investment, an Azim Premji group company. By suppressing the amalgamation scheme while filing the complaint, the NGO sought to interpret the objectives of the scheme as being criminal in nature. The complainant misled the court to take cognisance," the petitioners said. "The NGO is being used by R Subramanian as a corporate facade to file frivolous litigations against Premji and his affiliates. Subramanian is a promoter of a company named Subhiksha. He falsely induced Zash Investment and Trading Company, another Azim Premji group company, to make an investment of Rs 230 crore to acquire 10% stake in his company, Subhiksha. Hasham Investment had also been fraudulently induced to extend loans to Subhiksha and the latter had issued cheques as security for the same. Subramanian subsequently defaulted on repayment of the loan, and dishonoured cheques to the tune of Rs 31.32 crore, due to which Hasham Investment was constrained to file a case against him under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, which is still pending and at the stage of recording of evidence of witnesses," the petitioners said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/harassed-by-frivolous-complaint-azim-premji-and-wife-move-sc/articleshow/76654518.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Traders at Laad Bazaar opt for self-imposed lockdown||Hyderabad: With the spike in coronavirus cases in Hyderabad, the bangle shop owners at Laad Bazaar on Friday decided to keep their shops closed for a few days. The businessmen of Laad Bazaar and the nearby Julu Khaana market unanimously decided not to carry out any business activity from June 26 to July 3. Even though the lockdown restrictions were eased nearly month ago, sales of the famous bangles have remained low since marriages have become a low-key affair. In the last two weeks,over a dozen businessmen at Laad Bazaar tested positive for Covid-19. “We aim to curb the spread of coronavirus,” said Mustafa Ali Muzaffar of Laad Bazaar Merchants’ Association . Meanwhile, traders of over 1,500 electric shops at General Bazar and Ranigunj in Secunderabad also decided to keeps shops closed between June 28 and July 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traders-at-laad-bazaar-opt-for-self-imposed-lockdown/articleshow/76653290.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||Plans for virtual classes oblivious of conditions in tribal hamlets||Mysuru: Amid a raging debate over the merits of online classes for schoolchildren during the Covid-19 crisis, chairman of the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights Anthony Sebastian has thrown into stark relief the lack of even the most basic items for kids in tribal hamlets in Mysuru and Kodagu districts. Sebastian, along with ML Parashuram, a member of the commission, visited tribal hamlets in Kaarakandi, Nagarahole Gaddadi, Devamachi, Thithimathi, Anemala, Machchuru and Bhavali in the two districts, and found that the lockdown had deprived the children in these far-flung areas of nutritious food and education. “I visited tribal hamlets in the two districts in mid-June and interacted with the children directly so as to learn how they had been affected during the lockdown. Most of the kids informed me that they had been unable to attend schools. To them, virtual classes is something alien. They have not had access to smartphones and other gadgets. Their education has largely been confined to the classrooms,” Parashuram told TOI. In the report he has submitted to the state government, Parashuram has highlighted the futility of rolling out online classes when children in the haadis are not in the least familiar with the functioning of advanced electronic gadgets. “Children in the tribal hamlets appear not to have figured in the plans drawn up by the stakeholders while deciding on rolling out online classes. Moreover, virtual classes come with their own set of problems, which include damage to health owing to the long hours that children have to sit in front of an electronic screen,” he added. The report goes on to add that, following the enforcement of the lockdown, anganwadis in the hamlets and their neighbourhood, were not functioning regularly thereby depriving the children of nutritious food they would otherwise have had access to. Mysuru district coordinator with the commission Deekshith said that there were around 202 children in the tribal hamlets in the two adjoining districts who were enrolled in schools and anganwadis who had suffered owing to the lack of sufficient food for the past three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/plans-for-virtual-classes-oblivious-of-conditions-in-tribal-hamlets/articleshow/76650961.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||PM Narendra Modi recalls Kumbh Mela stampede, says ‘then PM’ hushed up deaths||LUCKNOW: Making a covert attack on the Congress, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said when an MP of Prayagraj (then Allahabad) was the Prime Minister of the country, he tried to hide the number of deaths in a stampede during Kumbh Mela. Without naming the leader, he said, “A stampede occurred on Mauni Amavasya during Kumbh Mela when a former Prime Minister was in power, who was also an MP from the city. The PM made all efforts to brush the deaths of hundreds of thousands of pilgrims under the carpet.” Modi also attacked the previous governments under the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). He said the way these governments used to function, one can imagine what would have been the situation had they been in power today. “Previous governments would have hid behind excuses like shortage of hospitals and adequate numbers of beds,” he said. Highlighting development works in the Yogi government, he said: “Many medical colleges are coming up while the power, roads and potable water system is being strengthened. Peaceful environment of the state is attracting investors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/modi-recalls-kumbh-stampede-says-then-pm-hushed-up-deaths/articleshow/76653864.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After being on ECMO support for 12 days, 54-year-old wins corona fight||KOLKATA: Hope floats in a city reeling from the coronavirus outbreak. A 54-year-old resident, who had to be on artificial heart and lung support for 12 long days, was among the 345 Covid-19 survivors who recovered and returned home over the past 24 hours. Abhishek Ray is one of the very few patients in India who could fight back Covid-19 despite being on ECMO (extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation) support. Ray, who runs a milk delivery business, was admitted to Medica Superspecialty Hospital on May 25, following which his oxygen level kept dropping, despite being on ventilation. Given his condition, doctors decided to put him on ECMO on May 28. ECMO is a procedure in which the patient is given artificial heart and lung support from outside. “The patient had developed multi-organ dysfunction and Covid encephalopathy. Making it a little easier for the doctors was the rock-soild support from the nursing team, especially the contribution of sister Deepamol and brother Veenish,” said critical care specialist Dipanjan Chatterjee, who along with colleague Arpan Chakraborty, took care of the patient. His condition had turned so critical that he had to be put on dialysis for acute kidney injury. Luckily none of his family members was found to have contracted the novel coronavirus. Ray was weaned off ECMO with gradual improvement in his lung function. Finally, a couple of days ago, he was taken off ventilation as well. “ECMO support in severe Covid pneumonia has proved its definite role in more than thousand cases in Europe and the US where all ventilatory measures failed. Ray’s recovery will show an enlightening way forward in severe Covid cases,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, senior vice-chairman at Medica. “It gives us immense hope amid these difficult times when we see critical Covid patients recovering and going home,” said nuclear cardiologist Alok Roy, chairman of Medica Group of Hospitals.  Recently, AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria also cured a 24-year-old Covid patient, who had to be put on ECMO support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-being-on-ecmo-support-for-12-days-54-year-old-wins-corona-fight/articleshow/76653297.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Karimnagar gears up to tackle new wave of Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Karimnagar district is again seeing rise in coronavirus cases. After effectively handling the situation soon after some positive cases in Telangana outside Hyderabad were detected in March, the district is now gearing up to tackle a fresh wave of Covid-19 cases. As on June 25, the number of cases in the district was 85, including 13 recorded on Thursday. Among them was a one-and-a-half year-old child who had tested positive for Covid-19. DMHO Dr G Sujatha attributed the sudden spurt in the cases to a lot of movement among people. “We are able to detect the cases thanks to contact tracing. Because of relaxation in the lockdown restrictions, some people are not adhering to the precautions,” she said. On Friday, the DMHO and health teams visited some villages where some fresh cases were reported and told people about the precautions they should take. In Veenvanka village, four people tested positive along with a person who returned from Chennai. There has also been a death in the same village. In Huzurabad, a man who returned from Bhiwandi in Maharashtra tested positive. According to the district authorities, the district has witnessed four Covid-related deaths so far. When Covid-19 cases were reported for the first time in March, the district authorities and the police introduced strict measures to contain the spread of the virus. The containment areas were strictly monitored and people were not allowed to come out of their houses. Essential supplies were also delivered at their doorstep. The authorities have been maintaining a surveillance since the first case was traced in March when the visiting Indonesians to a mosque in Karimnagar had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/karimnagar-gears-up-to-tackle-new-wave-of-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76653285.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 27, 2020||Pune||Monsoon covers India 12 days in advance, fastest since 2013||PUNE/NEW DELHI: In a swift and smooth advance through the country, the monsoon on Friday covered the whole of India, 12 days before the normal date of July 8, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Along with 2015, when the monsoon had raced through the country on the same date, this was the fastest progression of the rain-bearing system since 2013. In the past 13 years, the monsoon has covered the entire country before June 26 only once — in 2013, when a freak convergence of several weather systems had caused the catastrophic Kedarnath deluge while advancing the monsoon by an all-time record date of June 16. IMD said the monsoon marched into the remaining parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan on Friday to cover the entire country, 26 days after hitting the Kerala coast. This sets the stage for timely sowing of kharif crops across the country. “This was one of the smoothest advances of the monsoon in recent years. Usually the monsoon progresses in fits and starts, but this year it did not stall for long at any stage,” said D Sivananda Pai, IMD’s lead monsoon forecaster. However, with the monsoon trough moving towards the Himalayan foothills, the plains of northwest India, including Delhi-NCR, are not likely to get good rainfall over the next few days. The monsoon’s smooth advance has led to a rain-surplus over the country in June, with nearly 22% higher than normal rainfall so far. The monsoon got favourable conditions for its advance right from the onset stage. First, Cyclone Amphun helped the monsoon reach the Andaman & Nicobar Islands in mid-May. Then, Cyclone Nisarga, which formed in the Arabian Sea towards the end of May, helped monsoon’s onset over Kerala on June 1 and other parts of south India and the western coast. Finally, the formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal which moved west-northwestwards and another cyclonic circulation over central India helped in its quick advance through central and north India. Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of meteorology, IMD, said the formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal which moved west-northwestwards and another cyclonic circulation over central India basically helped in advance of monsoon. “The rain so far has been quite good and well distributed with 31 out of 36 meteorological subdivisions getting normal to large excess rainfall during June. This would benefit kharif sowing. June is the main sowing season for the country except for west Rajasthan. Hence, there may not be any adverse impact,” he added. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI that the monsoon began on time over Kerala, making an onset there on June 1. There was a slight delay in its onset over Maharashtra, as it entered the state on June 11, up to Harnai and Solapur, instead of the normal date of June 7-8. “It covered the entire state on June 14, against the normal date of June 15. On Friday, east Rajasthan reported heavy rains and parts like Ganganagar and Bikaner recorded some rain. Hence we declared its advance over the entire country on Friday,” he added. However, heavy rainfall is expected to continue over Bihar and Assam, posing the threat of floods in these regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/monsoon-covers-india-12-days-in-advance-fastest-since-13/articleshow/76654152.cms||Neha Madaan
June 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Agriculture department alerts farmers in Kolhapur about locust attack||KOLHAPUR: The agriculture department of the district administration has issued an alert for farmers asking them to keep locusts swarms away from their farmlands. The farmers, on the other hand, fear that the locusts may destroy their crops which are ready for harvesting. The agriculture department officials said that their staff have asked the farmers’ committees to remain vigilant as locust may attack anytime soon. The farmers were alerted about a similar attack last month, however, it did not take place. But, this time, the officials claim that the clear weather with no or little rainfall over the last few days may advance the movement of the insects. Locusts are known to thrive on leaves which, often, are the storehouse of nutrients. District superintendent agriculture officer Dnyandeo Wakure said, “Our local teams are making night rounds to check for the presence of locusts. The insects inhabit the trees during the night. We have activated the local teams for carrying out the spraying of insecticides. The farmers have to ensure that they check for presence of locust swarms in trees and dense shrubs.” He also said that the farmers are forming their own teams which will make regular night rounds to find the habitation of the locusts. In addition, the agriculture department has also advised the farmers to spray neem extract oil to kill locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/agri-dept-alerts-farmers-in-kolhapur-about-locust-attack/articleshow/76650964.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi schools to stay closed till July 31, says education minister Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: The schools in the city will remain shut till July 31, education minister Manish Sisodia announced on Friday. Till the schools reopen, teaching-learning will continue on virtual platforms. The decision was taken following an assessment of the Covid-19 situation and a meeting of the government with officials of the directorate of education (DoE). For over 1,000 government schools, the department will soon release a detailed plan. DoE officials have suggested reducing the syllabi by 50%. The summer vacation will end on June 30. The department received online suggestions from 829 teachers of Delhi government and private schools, 61 heads of schools, 920 students and 829 parents on reopening schools. At the school level, too, 23,262 teachers and 98,423 parents have submitted their suggestions. Their recommendations include continuing online classes and activities with the help of parents and reducing the syllabi by up to 50%. Sisodia said, “In the light of all suggestions, we should make a plan to reopen schools in a way that would teach the students to live with novel coronavirus and prepare them for a new role in new circumstances.” Other suggestions include primary classes once or twice a week with 12-15 students in a room and classes on alternate days for students of classes III to V. Conducting classes once or twice a week for classes VI to VIII has also been suggested. Some people have also suggested that classes be held for three days in a week. For classes IX and X, it has been suggested to deputy chief minister Sisodia that classes should be held in very small groups once or twice a week. But some said Class X students should have classes every day. It has been agreed that online classes should not be withdrawn and online library facilities should also continue. For classes XI and XII, alternate-day classes have been suggested while online sessions will be held on the remaining days. Action Committee, an umbrella body of private schools in the city, said they would abide by the government’s guideline. “Most of us have resumed or will resuming online classes from July 1,” said Bharat Arora, its general secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-schools-to-stay-closed-till-july-31-sisodia/articleshow/76653300.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Postal department directs its entire staff in Mumbai to resume on Monday to clear backlog||MUMBAI: In an attempt to shorten serpentine queues for withdrawing money and sending articles by speed post, the postal department has ordered all its employees to resume office from Monday. Senior superintendents of posts across Mumbai have issued notices to all employees, saying they have been directed by postmaster general, Mumbai region, to ask them to regularly attend office. Swati Pandey, PMG (MR), said for the past three and a half months, postal offices have been working with skeletal staff. “Mail has piled up and there are mounting complaints from the public about non-availability of services. We are an essential service, yet we were working at 30% capacity.” Pandey said even if all employees have been asked to attend, they are expecting only 50% to resume. Those not reporting to work will have to apply for leave. While the unions have complained about transport problems, Pandey said employees are paid travel allowance. “Employees of Rail Mail Services hired a private bus and a group of 20 travels daily to work. Others can do the same.” She said they had requested the government to allow postal employees to travel by train. There are indications they may be allowed to board trains from July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/postal-dept-directs-its-entire-staff-to-resume-on-monday-to-clear-backlog/articleshow/76650994.cms||Clara Lewis
June 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Only 1 case reported, dist’s Covid count reaches 59||KOLHAPUR: While Kolhapur district has witnessed a declining trend of Covid-19 cases, the textile town of Ichalkaranji has been observing a spike in the number of patients. The district has registered one positive case on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 59. So far, the district has reported 781 coronavirus cases. On the other hand, officials of the district administration’s health department said that they have observed local transmission of the virus in Ichalkaranji. At present, Ichalkaranji has 11 confirmed Covid-19 cases. In addition, swab samples of over 30 people have been sent for testing, the reports of which are awaited. Meanwhile, district collector Daulat Desai issued an order allowing saloons in the city to open from Saturday. Desai said that the saloon owners/operators will have to abide by the rules laid down by the state government. He has also asked the local authorities to keep an eye on saloons and watch out for any violations. As per the order, only haircuts are allowed. Services such as shaving or massage that involves touching the face are strictly prohibited. One death in Sangli A 40-year-old man from Jat tehsil of Sangli district succumbed to coronavirus infection on Friday morning. He was undergoing treatment at the Bharti Hospital. With this, the total number of Covid casualties in the district swelled to 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/only-1-case-reported-dists-covid-count-reaches-59/articleshow/76650979.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Fever clinics ‘go-to’ places for patients in Bhopal||BHOPAL: There are 61 fever clinics currently operating in Bhopal, and till June 24, over 5,573 people were examined at these clinics and appropriate medical advice was given to them. Interestingly, maximum number of people to visit fever clinics being run across the state, come from Bhopal. Chief medical & health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, said that out of 5573 persons examined at fever clinics, 474 were patients suffering from severe acute respiratory infection and 5063 had influenza-like illness. People suffering from diabetes, hypertension, COPD and heart ailments are also being treated at these fever clinic. Pregnant women also visit these clinics for consultation, informed CMHO. Doctors took samples of 1955 persons for coronavirus at these clinics and 577 of them were admitted at Covid care centres and Covid health centres. These fever clinics are being run at district hospital, all the gas relief hospitals, Hamidia Hospital, Sultania Hospital, Kasturba Hospital, Railway Hospital, all the civil hospitals, community and primary health centres and Sanjeevani clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fever-clinics-go-to-places-for-patients/articleshow/76650975.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Three months of wait over, students from Singapore finally return home||KOLKATA: The first repatriation flight from Singapore reached the city on Friday evening, carrying on board students who had been stranded in the city state under lockdown for over three months. Most of their friends and classmates from other parts of India had returned in Vande Bharat flights over a month ago with Air India operating the first flight from Singapore to Delhi on May 8. “After months of anxiety, it finally feels great to be back. I am relieved for my parents. My mother broke down several times during this period. I, too, had moments of doubt and weakness when the situation seemed damning and I just wanted to return home and be with my family. But I kept myself busy with online studies,” said Riddhimaa Gupta, a third-year student of economics honours at National University of Singapore. Riddhimaa’s on-site classes had concluded in April. But the lockdown prevented her from flying back. She saw many of her friends, who hailed from other Indian cities, fly back. Also, with Singapore prohibiting social visits, she couldn’t meet up with even fellow classmates and friends from Kolkata. “It was a long month without meeting any friend or family member, with no certainty as to when I could return home,” she said. Some of her friends in other colleges have been undergoing anxiety bouts and mood swings, while others have been suffering from loss of appetite and insomnia, all classical symptoms of depression. Pulkit Agarwal, who is a second-year student bachelor of accountancy at Singapore Management University, said the wait since mid-March, when the institute shut down, was frustrating. “At times, I felt helpless and angry. I tried to contact the Indian high commission and the ministry of external affairs several times. But there was no response,” said Pulkit. It was particularly trying for him when he heard his grandfather had suffered a heart attack. Pulkit said the lockdown also provided an opportunity for him to learn how to stay calm despite the adverse, and often, hopeless situation. “I want to meet my grandfather but know it will have to wait a week more,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-months-of-wait-over-students-from-singapore-finally-return-home/articleshow/76653312.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||CBSE’s assessment-based results leave colleges in a fix over cutoffs in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The CBSE decision to arrive at the boards results by July 15 without conducting the remaining tests has left many wondering whether it will impact the cutoffs at Delhi University colleges or IP University. Several DU principals are saying the cutoffs will be based on the trend of the results, while many are waiting for the university guidelines to deal with this situation. Some principals also think the current situation may ask for a change in the admission policy. According to the notification of Central Board of Secondary Education, the tests scheduled from July 1 to 15 stand cancelled and students will be marked on the basis of either their internal assessment or the average of their best of three or two subjects if they have appeared for more than three or two subjects, respectively. Kirori Mal College principal Vibha Singh Chauhan said “colleges haven’t heard anything from the university. But it doesn’t really matter as even if the overall percentage of marks will be lower, the competition will be the same as before and DU’s admission process will go ahead like it is”. Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava also felt that it won’t affect the process much as “the result of the remaining papers will depend on the average of the numbers in other papers”. Former deputy dean of students welfare Gurpreet Singh Tuteja agreed. “The students who score high marks are quite consistent in their performance in all subjects. So even if an average is taken out for the subjects for which they did not take any test, the marks will be high and hence the cutoffs will be the same as before.” However, he said a student might falter in a subject. “But CBSE has done well to give them an opportunity to sit for exams later so that they can improve their scores,” he pointed out. DU admission branch dean Shobha Bagai said CBSE had given guidelines but “we are waiting for a few days”. Some principals are hoping that this uncertainty will bring in changes in the admission policy. “As an educator, I hope that this crisis triggers some kind of rethinking in the near or distant future and admissions don’t remain just cutoff-based,” said Babli Moitra Saraf, principal of IP College for Women. “Hopefully schools and colleges will also revamp their internal assessment systems so that students don’t remain dependent on a signal examination to prove their quality.” S P Agarwal, principal of Ramanujan College, said the process could also get affected by the number of students willing to travel to Delhi amid the Covid-19 crisis. IP University PRO Nalini Ranjan, however, said the number of students passing the boards might increase due to this change and more applications might come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbses-assessment-based-results-leave-colleges-in-a-fix-over-cutoffs/articleshow/76653315.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Three KLF men caught for planning terror strike in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Special Cell has arrested three operatives of Khalistan Liberation Front (KLF) who were allegedly planning to carry out a terror strike in the capital and had also planned targeted killings of some political leaders. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav’s team tracked down the men, Mohinder Pal Singh (29), Gurtej Singh (41) and Lovepreet (21) after technical intelligence showed their movement around the city. The cops had their first breakthrough on June 15 when Mohinder was arrested with a pistol and two cartridges from west Delhi. Cops reached the other two after interrogating him. “We found that they were in touch with ISI handler Gopal Singh Chawla and their main targets included a Ram Raheem follower and a Shiv Sena leader from Amritsar,” said Yadav. It was found that Gurtej was inducted into the organisation by one Narayan Singh Chaura in 2019. He subsequently started luring youths into the Khalistani movement and had inducted Lovepreet along with five others. He was also in touch with an ISI operative named Abdullah and US-based Khalistani leader Avtar Singh Pannu. “He had managed to procure a pistol from a local source and had planned to extort Rs 10 lakh from two businessmen which he would use to procure more arms and give momentum to their plans,” said Yadav. Gurtej had allegedly convinced Abdullah to arrange for a training camp for the inducted youths at the ISI centre near Peshawar. He had planned to cross them over to Pakistan through the Tarn Taran border and had promised to give them AK-47 rifles and some pistols when they returned from their training. However, his plans were stalled due to the lockdown. During interrogation, Lovepreet revealed that he had made a Facebook page named ‘KhalsaBhindrewalaji’. On this page, he shared several incriminating songs and videos. He would also attend court hearings of arrested Khalistani militants to get in touch with like-minded youths. He was even in touch with dreaded Khalistani militant, Dhanna Singh, who is currently staying in the UK. Mohinder told the cops that he was a resident of Baramullah in Jammu and Kashmir and had come to Delhi in 2007 to study but had dropped out midway. In 2013, when Gurbakash Singh Khalsa had gone on a 44-day hunger strike in Ambala to create pressure for the release of six Sikh detainees who had completed their sentences, Mohinder also went and joined the strike. “After this, he developed an inclination towards the Khalistan movement and started going to the Patiala House Courts to attend the hearings of Jagtar Singh Hawara and Daya Singh Lahoriya. Here he came in contact with Harminder Singh Minto, the then chief of the KLF in India and one Tirath Singh who also came to meet the Khalistani terrorists. They were introduced to Lovepreet during this,” said sources. “Mohinder and Tirath planned to carry out targeted killings on the directions of Khalistani leaders based in UK and other countries, who are purportedly being supported by the ISI.” They were planning to identify new targets and to induct fresh youth in Khalistan movement. They had even planned for a meeting, but could not make it due to the lockdown. Their conspiracy was further foiled when Tirath Singh was arrested by Punjab Police. Efforts are now being made to track down their associates indoctrinated by Lovepreet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-klf-men-caught-for-planning-terror-strike/articleshow/76667855.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Cured of Covid-19, 3 home guards rejoin duty||Hyderabad: After overcoming coronavirus, three home guards attached to the Hyderabad commissionerate rejoined duty on Friday. Anjani Kumar, commissioner of police, Hyderabad, welcomed them by giving them a certificate and gift. According to officials, the trio tested Covid-19 positive after they were deputed for coronavirus related duties. They joined their teams on Friday soon after they were discharged from hospital. The home guards also thanked the government and police department on Friday for extending financial support to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cured-of-covid-19-3-home-guards-rejoin-duty/articleshow/76653298.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||SFI flays private hostel owners||COIMBATORE: Members of Students Federation of India (SFI) have appealed that the district administration take action against private hostel owners and landlords for demanding rent from college students in the past three months, despite a government directive asking them not to seek rent. M Dinesh Raja, SFI district secretary, said at a time when people have lost their jobs and are struggling even to manage their daily expenditure, it is unfair to demand rent from students for the rooms that they used only to keep their luggage in the last three months. Some owners have deducted rent from the advance amount, he said, while seeking strict action against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sfi-flays-pvt-hostel-owners/articleshow/76653314.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Water contamination near dump yard poses health hazard||Mangaluru: Water contamination in open wells, bore wells and lakes in and around garbage dump yard of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) in Pachayady is posing a serious health hazard for those living in the vicinity. While water in many wells in the village is not potable, the sewage from the dump yard also has polluted nearby streams and lakes. District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojary, after holding discussions with officials, has decided to seek government sanction to make sewage treatment plant at Pachanady functional. National Institute of Karnataka (NITK) - Surathkal will soon conduct a study to implement a permanent solution for the problem. Moodbidri MLA Umanath Kotial brought the problems of people in Pachanady to the notice of the minister. The MLA said the leachate from the garbage dump yard may also affect the multi-village drinking water project of Gurupur river at Maravoor. The minister said he will seek Rs 5 crore fund from the government for the restoration of sewage treatment plant (STP) of MCC’s dump yard. “Pachanady residents have been complaining about water contamination due to the inefficient functioning of STP in the dump yard. Officials of the MCC and other departments have been directed to consider the issue seriously and take necessary steps,” the minister told officials. He added that the technical snags in STP will be rectified and the unit will be made functional within a month. Meanwhile, NITK will prepare a plan through a study to find a permanent solution to prevent pollution of water resources in the area, he said. MCC deputy commissioner Santhosh Kumar said an action plan will be prepared based on NITK’s report and works will be taken up in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/water-contamination-near-dump-yard-poses-health-hazard/articleshow/76650631.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Vadodara||Anand witnesses highest single-day spike||Vadodara/Anand: Anand district witnessed the highest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, as 14 individuals tested positive within 24 hours ending on Friday evening, as the number of infected persons crossed the 200 mark. The 14 fresh cases surfaced from five talukas of Anand, including eight from Anand town, three from Khambhat and one each from Umreth, Borsad and Petlad. The total number of cases has touched 203, of which 30 are currently under treatment in Anand and Vadodara districts. The fresh cases have surfaced from Umreth’s Kasbo, Borsad’s Khanpur, Petlad’s Ruva ni sheri areas and Nano Kumarwado, Jamli Maholla, Dhanji Shah ni pole in Khambhat town. In Anand, the cases have been reported from Paramount Society on Polson Dairy Road, Nayavatan Society, Zakariya Street, Amardeep Society, Rahimnagar, behind Gopi Cinema and Ikbal Colony and Bagiaman Society on Bhalej Road. Of the 30 patients, 14 are being treated at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad, 14 at Muslim Medical Centre, Vadodara and one each at Cardiac Care Centre, Khambhat and Bankers Hospital, Vadodara. Of these, four are on ventilator, ten on oxygen while the condition of 16 is said to be stable. So far, 4,754 samples have been tested in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-witnesses-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76651138.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolhapur||10 firms set to offer over 400 jobs online||KOLHAPUR: Around ten commercial and industrial establishments have registered 441 vacancies with the district skill and entrepreneurship centre. Online job fairs will be organised from June 29 to July 1 to fille the vacancies. There are vacancies because many staffers have gone back to their native places and are unlikely to return soon due to the current situation. More establishments and industries are going to enroll with the centre to arrange for job fairs in order to recruit people urgently. The jobs range from sales to foundry workshop assistant. The qualifications required depends on the job, it may be range from tenth standard to diploma engineering. The officials said this is a good opportunity for locals who are unemployed or the ones who returned from their work place due to the pandemic. J B Karim, the assistant commissioner of the centre said, “The candidates have to enroll on 'mahaswayam' website. The list of employers and job requirement are provided on the website. The employer can directly contact the candidate for the interview. More job fairs will be held in the coming weeks. The locals have good opportunities ahead of them.” The employer will interview the candidates through a video call if the candidate is unable to go to the office. The officials said that most of these works are semiskilled and anyone with a certain education qualification can get the jobs after training for a couple of weeks. Most of the employers have decided to provide on-job training to the candidates. As the businesses are picking up the pace, these establishments are facing workforce shortage. NGOs are also organising job fairs. The officials said that there is no need of separate permission to hold the job fairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-firms-set-to-offer-over-400-jobs-online/articleshow/76651018.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Vadodara||South zone reports highest Covid cases||Vadodara: Forty-five fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the city and district since Thursday evening. According to data shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 259 persons were tested on since Thursday evening and their reports on Friday revealed that 45 were positive. The total number of cases detected in the city and district now stands on 2,087. The fresh cases were reported from the Gorwa, Gotri, Manjalpur, Waghodiya Road, Ajwa Road, Tarsali, Sama, Harni Road and other areas in the city. In the city limits, the highest number of cases were reported from the south zone where 12 tested positive, this was followed by north zone where nine persons tested positive. Eight new cases were detected in the east zone while five were found infected in the west zone. Eleven cases were reported in areas of the Vadodara district outside the city limits. These include cases from Padra, Bhayli and Ampad. Only 10 persons were discharged in the city on Friday. These included nine from hospitals as well as one from home isolation. In all, 1,466 persons have been discharged after recovery so far. This leaves 571 persons under treatment including 32 on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/south-zone-reports-highest-covid-cases/articleshow/76650957.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||Triage system introduced at KR Hospital||Mysuru: In order to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, the health authorities have introduced the triage system, which is a multi-level screening of patients, at Krishna Rajendra (KR) hospital. The system is developed to help streamline a patient’s movement on the hospital campus. Every day, around 2,000 outpatients, on an average, visit KR Hospital for getting checked and treated, from Mysuru and neighbouring districts. However, people infected with the novel coronavirus too visit the hospital for check-ups, and there is a chance of such people posing a danger to other patients. In the triage system, the health staff will check the medical condition of the patients who arrive at the hospital, and based on the illness and medical urgency, they will be directed to the designated department and units for medical check-up and treatment. The triage area, which had been set up at the hospital, has multiple registration and billing counters, where the patient can directly approach. Every person who visits has to sanitise his hands, go through thermal screening, and will also get wheelchairs, stretchers and trolleys, in case of emergencies. Social or medical workers will help and guide the patients regarding lab facilities, radiology facilities and inpatient wards. While the doctor’s from the general medicine and community medicine department will triage the patients, a nursing station has been set up for primary care of patients in the triage area. KR Hospital Medical Superintendent Dr M Nanjundaswamy said that the newly introduced triage system is a boon to screen Covid-19 suspects, influenza-like Illness and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) patients at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/triage-system-introduced-at-kr-hospital/articleshow/76651993.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Boy overcomes grief over loss of mother, writes SSLC exam||Karwar: Nilesh Gaonkar, an SSLC student at Castle Rock in Joida taluk, Uttara Kannada, displayed maturity beyond his tender years, putting on a brave face despite the overwhelming grief he felt at the demise of his 45-year-old mother, and going ahead to write the examination on Thursday hours after the tragic event. Nilesh, a student of a government school in Castle Rock, was all set to appear for the SSLC exam on Thursday morning, but the sudden death of his mother, Prabhavathi, who suffered a fatal heart attack, upended his world in a matter of seconds. Nilesh, already at the examination centre when the incident occurred, expressed his wish to go to his mother. However, officials of the education department helped contact members of his family, who advised him to write the exam nevertheless. The officials at the centre convinced him, and Neelesh, wrote the exam through the pangs of bereavement. Once the last bells tolled signalling the end of the examination, arrangements were made to ensure he could reach his village at the earliest. Nilesh subsequently offered his last respects to his mother, who was cremated on Thursday evening. Deputy director of public instruction for Sirsi Diwakar Shetty lauded the boy’s courage and spirit in the face of personal tragedy. Bus for transporting one student Shridhar Gouda, a student in Devanahalli in Sirsi taluk in Uttara Kannada district, who was assigned to an examination centre that was different to that of the other 30 SSLC students in his village was worried about reaching the venue. However, DPI officials arranged a bus specially for Shridhar and ensured that he reached the venue with time to spare before the start of the examination. Residents of a hamlet near Devanahalli, meanwhile, had been apprehensive about Renuka Gouda, an SSLC student having to go to Sirsi every day to write the exam, given the risk that it entailed for her safety, and those of the other people in the village. However, Roopa Naik, a teacher at a government school in Sirsi assured Renuka’s parents that their daughter was welcome at her house for the duration of the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/boy-overcomes-grief-over-loss-of-mother-writes-sslc-exam/articleshow/76651486.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||60 British-era buildings in Cantt on verge of collapse, but demolition drive at snail’s pace||SECUNDERABAD: Notwithstanding the onset of monsoon, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) has been sitting on demolition of nearly 60 structures built during the British-era in the Cantonment areas. The structures are dilapidated and could collapse at any point, especially during the rainy season. A couple of weeks ago, the SCB razed an old building at Sadar Bazar, however, the demolitions have been going on at a snail’s pace. “We are worried that these buildings may collapse anytime during rains,” said Sai Prashant Reddy, a resident of Doulton Bazar. Most of the dilapidated buildings are at Lalbazar in Trimulgherry, Doultan Bazar, Sadar Bazar, Risalabazar, Bowenpally, Picket and Rasoolpura. “After identifying the dilapidated buildings during a survey last year, we served notices to the building owners and asked them to demolish them before monsoon. A few owners took up repairs but others have sought more time to get the buildings razed,” said chief cantonment planner, SCB, M Ramuloo. He added that due to the pandemic, the officials have been busy with Covid-19-related duties. “The buildings will be demolished soon after the owners give their consent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/60-british-era-buildings-in-cantt-on-verge-of-collapse-but-demolition-drive-at-snails-pace/articleshow/76653296.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat police manual redrafted after 45 years||AHMEDABAD: Forty-five years after it was published and implemented, the Gujarat Police Manual — a 1,000 page three-volume compendium — has been entirely rewritten. A committee of six IPS officers took one year to revise and rewrite the manual to adapt it to current circumstances. The final draft is expected to be sent next week to DGP Shivanand Jha, and the home department, for approval. “The book will be sent for approval next week after final review is over,” said a senior police official. “The manual was to be translated to Gujarati in April 2018 and Vikas Sahay, additional DGP of Raksha Shakti University had the task. But that project was shelved. DGP Shivanand Jha then tasked six IPS officers to rewrite the manual,” a police official said. Police sources said amendment proposals for the Gujarat Police Act, SRPF act and punishment and appeal rules have also been sent to the home department for approval. Police sources could not get details of major changes made to the manual. A source said, “The first volume is about administration of the police force, the second is on accounts, and the third is on investigation and crime.” “Once the government approves the amendments and the manual, they will be put into implementation promptly,” said a senior police official. DGP Jha was to retire on April 30, but as the appointment committee of the cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved extension of his service for a period of three months beyond his superannuation. Jha will now retire on July 31, if no further extension is given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-police-manual-redrafted-after-45-years/articleshow/76653313.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Heavy downpour leads to waterlogging, traffic woes||BHOPAL: After playing hide-and-seek with the sun in the morning hours, dark clouds returned in the afternoon with heavy rain. Showers drenched parts of the city from late afternoon to early evening on Friday. Showers were witnessed in other parts of the state, too. Officials of meteorological department, Bhopal circle said, there are two systems impacting the state. The trough moving from Punjab, east Bihar, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and a cyclonic circulation over western UP, but showers in Bhopal in the day was due to activation of local system after heating in the day. Day temperature in Bhopal on Friday was recorded at 34.2 degrees Celsius — at the normal mark, and the night temperature in city was recorded at 26.0 degrees Celsius — two degrees more than the normal mark. Wind direction in city was southwesterly and average wind speed was 12 kmph. The day temperature in Bhopal on Thursday was recorded at 34.3 degrees Celsius, which was at the normal mark, while night temperature in city was recorded at 24.9 degrees Celsius, a degree more than the normal mark. Bhopal city recorded 50mm showers from afternoon to early evening hours. Other places that recorded showers between 8.30am and 5.30pm in the day were Naogaon (53mm), Dhar (41mm), Mandla (14mm), Guna (7mm), Satna (26mm), Rewa (11mm), Khajuraho (1.6mm), Jabalpur (7.3mm), Damoh (7mm), Hoshangabad (0.8mm), Betul (3.0mm), Umaria (2mm) and Sagar (0.4mm). In the forecast for Bhopal on Saturday, the meteorological department’s officials said that there would be cloudy sky in the city and parts of the state capital may witness thunder. Day and night temperature would be at 35 degrees and 26 degrees Celsius respectively, while the average wind speed will be 16 kmph In the forecast for state, the meteorological officials issued warning of heavy showers for places including Hoshangabad, Betul, Harda, Agar, Shajapur, Khandwa, Vidisha, Ashok Nagar, Umaria, Dindori, Mandla, Damoh and Sagar districts. There was warning of thunder and lightning in Bhopal, Jabalpur, Hoshangabad divisions and Sagar, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Ujjain, Dewas, Shajapur, Khandwa and Ashok Nagar districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/heavy-downpour-leads-to-waterlogging-traffic-woes/articleshow/76651001.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hubballi||Cases will be filed against those roaming about unnecessarily: DC||Dharwad: Taking a serious note of complaints about people in sealed areas breaching the protocol and venturing out unnecessarily, deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Friday directed the officials to file cases against such people and take legal action. Chairing the health task force meeting she said that the measures taken in sealed areas in rural parts are not effective. Citing the example of Morab village where more than 40 positive cases were reported in the past 10 days, Deepa said that all the three roads which lead to this village should be blocked. Police, health and revenue officials should keep a strict vigil in the village and see that people don’t come out of their houses except for medical emergencies. Health assistants should conduct door-to-door visits in sealed areas and collect information about the health status of people. Those misbehaving with health assistants or hiding their health condition should be booked, she added. This apart, those coming out of their houses without wearing masks or maintaining social distance in containment zones, should be booked and a special drive to check this should begin immediately, said Deepa. If there are any violations in containment zones, the respective official will be held responsible, she warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cases-will-be-filed-against-those-roaming-about-unnecessarily-dc/articleshow/76652169.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||DA case against pollution board engineer||Ahmedabad: The anti-corruption bureau filed a disproportionate assets case on Friday against a Gujarat Pollution Control Board engineer who had an earlier case of bribery lodged against him. ACB officials said the accused, G M Sadhu, had been caught on March 22, 2017, for demanding a bribe of Rs 1,20,000 to give a no-objection certificate (NOC) for a de-mineralization water plant in Godhra, Panchmahal. Sadhu got bail in that case from the Gujarat high court on October 10, 2017.ACB, meanwhile, began a deep probe into his assets, and according to sources, statements of his family members were recorded on video.“From January 4, 2011, to March 31, 2017, his recorded expenses were found to be 53.51% more than his legal income. The ACB has now filed a case of disproportionate assets after collecting necessary evidence and tallying his accounts,” said an ACB source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/da-case-against-pollution-board-engineer/articleshow/76653307.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Rajkot||Waiter strangles pup to death in Kutch resort, makes videos of brutality||RAJKOT: In a case of extreme cruelty against animals, a 21-year-old trainee waiter of a resort strangulated a puppy and made the video clips of the barbaric act. Khumkili Sangatam, a native of Nagaland, who works at a resort in Adipur town of Kutch, strangulated the pup he was raising as it soiled his room. He recorded the act on his mobile and sent them across to his friends in his home state, said police. However, a member of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) saw the videos that had been widely circulated on social media platforms and brought it Gandhidham police’s notice. Sangatam was detained from the resort on Friday. “Sangatam got so incensed after the pup soiled the room that he grabbed it by the scruff of its neck and strangled it till it died,” an official from Adipur police station said. In the clips, Sangatam is heard narrating what spurred him to commit the brutality, said police. Neha Chaturvedi of PETA conducted an independent inquiry after which she emailed her complaint to Kutch superintendent of police (SP) along with clips of the videos. “The SP ordered Adipur sub-inspector N K Chaudhary to probe into the matter and Sangatam was arrested from the resort. Chaudhary became the complainant in the case and booked the accused under sections 429, 11 (1) (A), 11 (1) (I) of Indian Penal Code dealing with cruelty against animals,” said the official. “At present, we have kept him under detention. We will formally arrest him once his Covid-19 test is done,” added the official. Watch Barbaric: Man kills pup, makes video of his killing act||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/resort-waiter-strangles-his-pet-puppy-to-death/articleshow/76652134.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: College students demand refund of examination fees||BHOPAL: After the state government announced general promotions, in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, for all college-goers in both higher education and technical education, students are demanding a fee refund. Exam fee varies from Rs500 to Rs3,000 in higher and technical education. “Even for under-graduate engineering courses a student needs to deposit around Rs1,400 as an exam fee. Government should make an arrangement to return the exam fee as there is no exam,” said a student Ajay Rao. Another student Anshika Tiwari said, “There are students who managed to arrange fee after a lot of struggle. If they get would get a refund, they can use it for another exam as many people have lost their job and their salaries have been cut, too.” As per the announcement, final-year UG and PG students will be deemed to have graduated on the basis of the highest score they obtained in previous exams. Those who want to improve their score can opt for an offline test later on. Officials of both higher education and technical education departments refused to elaborate on the announcement, saying guidelines will be issued in a couple of days. “As of now, it is early to comment about it. Guidelines are being prepared considering all aspects,” said a senior technical education official. There are 17.77 lakh examinees at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels in the current academic session of both higher and technical education. Those in undergraduate first-year and second-year and PG second semester will be promoted without examination on the basis of the last year and semester marks. On May 25, the government said that exams will be held between June 29 and July 31, but on June 15, it was announced that the exams were being postponed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/college-students-demand-refund-of-examination-fees/articleshow/76656119.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Designs for underpass submitted||KOLHAPUR: The draft designs for renovating and strengthening of the Babubhai Parikh Bridge railway underpass has been presented before district guardian minister Satej Patil and civic head Mallinath Kalshett on Friday for scrutiny. The Kolhapur Architects and Engineers Association (AE) drafted the designs under the guidance of a forum comprising local activists formed a year ago to save the underpass. The structure of the underpass has been deteriorating since the last few years. There is heavy traffic in the most time of the day Ajay Korane, the president of AE said, “We presented some models. The most economic and feasible one to strengthen the bridge is by using pre-cast structures. The two-lane underpass will be expanded to four lanes to ease the traffic load. In this design, trains will be moving while the work is carried out.” “I have asked civic officials to take measures to avoid waterlogging in the underpass. I will convene a meeting with railway authorities in Mumbai to ponder upon the designs. Soon, we will finalise the design and start the work,” said the minister. The waterlogging leads to slower vehicular movement and weakening of the structure. Patil asked the architects and engineers to submit the working model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/designs-for-underpass-submitted/articleshow/76651004.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Lockdown a pause button for virus’||Hyderabad: Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) member Dr Vijay said that despite spike in Covid- 19 cases, people need not fear the disease as the lockdown is like a pause button for the spread of the virus. Dr Vijay met planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar at his residence on Friday to discuss the impact of Covid-19. At the meeting, Dr Vijay said that the number of Covid-19 cases might peak in July and August and later reduce. In the second phase, cases might peak in November. “The virus cases may spread despite the lockdown and will reduce later,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-a-pause-button-for-virus/articleshow/76653310.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||When Centre, state work in unison, results are better: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh managed to keep the spread of Covid-19 under check because the government did everything that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had advised during the lockdown and then during unlock, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday, adding that when the state and Centre work together, the results are much better. Addressing industry representatives on ‘Rebuilding and Rebooting the Economy of Uttar Pradesh Post Covid-19’ at a webinar organised by FICCI, the CM thanked industrialists for their contribution in keeping the state’s economy moving during the lockdown. “To provide a conducive environment for investments, a government should ensure two things. Security and freedom from unnecessary government interference. Our government has made sectoral policies to encourage investment. Our biggest challenge after the lockdown was to get new investment in the state and we are taking all steps towards that,” the CM said. He spoke about how, even though there was stiff resistance to it from many quarters, his government undertook labour reforms during the lockdown. Setting up a land bank was a challenge, he said, but UP has a 20,000 acre land bank for new industries. Work on infrastructure development was also taking place, like new airports, four-lane roads, connectivity with district headquarters and continuous power supply. Declaring that UP has been successful in tackling both corona and ensuring that industry continued to function due to the team work by government officials, people, industrialists, etc, the CM said that initially there was worry about infections rising in the state due to the 35.92 lakh migrant workers returning to UP. Many were dying on way, he said, but it was difficult to identify those infected with Covid-19 as many were asymptomatic. “I realised that pulse oxymeters to measure oxygen level in the body was beneficial in identifying those who are infected. Now, we are manufacturing pulse oxymeters in UP. Most of the PPE kits that are being used are being manufactured in the state as well. We managed to make so much sanitizer, which was not an industry in UP before thelockdown. Now, we are exporting it,” the CM said. MSME minister Sidharthnath Singh, who also attended the webinar, said that the CM had made it clear that UP was in competition with Southeast Asia, and not just with other states. Therefore, the state’s industrial policies were being revised to bring UP at par with other Southeast Asian nations to attract foreign investment. Industries minister Satish Mahana said that the state was almost back to the pre-lockdown situation with regards to industry as the state had focused on a three-pronged strategy of survival, revival and then progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/when-centre-state-work-in-unison-results-are-better-cm/articleshow/76653895.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed police book BJP MLC for Pawar remark||Aurangabad: The Shirur police station in Beed district on Friday registered an FIR against BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar over his controversial remarks against NCP chief Sharad Pawar. The offence, second in two days, against Padalkar was filed on the basis of a complaint submitted by Maharashtra NCP youth wing chief Mehboob Shaikh. On Thursday, Pune police had registered an FIR against the BJP legislator following a complaint by NCP’s Baramati unit office-bearer, Amar Dhumal. When contacted, additional superintendent of police Vijay Kabade said, “There was a specific complaint against MLC Gopichand Padalkar, and the offence under section 505 (2) of IPC was registered after verifying its contents.” Assistant inspector Suresh Khade of the Shirur police station said the offence would be transferred to Baramati for further probe. Shaikh stated in his complaint that he received a video clip on social media on Thursday afternoon, in which Padalkar was seen passing objectionable remarks against Sharad Pawar, said police. Earlier this week, Padalkar landed in controversy after allegedly terming Sharad Pawar as “coronavirus” that has infected Maharashtra. The statement was met with strong reaction from political parties, while BJP did not waste time in distancing itself from the remark. This was immediately followed by strong protests against the MLC in different parts of the state, including in Beed, one of the strongholds of NCP, where members of the NCP youth wing burnt his effigy and shouted slogans. Padalkar could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-police-book-bjp-mlc-for-pawar-remark/articleshow/76651043.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||Cong candidate elected APMC president||Mysuru: A candidate supported by the Congress and a JD(S) candidate were elected president and vice president of the Mysuru APMC in the lottery system on Friday. In the election for the president’s post, both Basavaraju of Congress and Kotehundi M Mahadevu of JD(S) got eight votes. Similarly, in the election for the vice president’s post, M Nagaraju of JD(S) and MK Anand of Congress got eight votes each. Election officer and tahsildar KR Rakshit, then decided to select the candidates through the lottery system. While Congress-backed Basavaraju was declared president, M Nagaraju of JD(S) was selected as the vice-president. The election for the APMC, which has 16 members including three nominated members, was held at the premises at Bandipalya. The APMC has six members each supported by Congress and JD(S), one member from the vendors association and three nominated members from BJP. During the election, the vendors’ association supported JD(S), while two out of the three BJP members voted for Congress and one for JD(S). So both the parties got eight votes each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cong-candidate-elected-apmc-president/articleshow/76651030.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat case: 34 foreigners move Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Thirty-four foreigners moved the Supreme Court on Friday challenging the Centre's decision to blacklist 2,500 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members for participating in a congregation in Nizamuddin in the national capital, a major source of Covid-19 infection during the initial days of the pandemic. They also sought revocation of FIRs lodged against them for violating lockdown norms. The petitioners, through advocate Fuzail Ahmed Ayyubi, termed the April 2 decision of the home ministry to blacklist over 2,500 foreigners from 40 countries and ordering cases against them as a blatant violation of their right to life. They also contested the Union government's decision to blacklist them for 10 years from travelling to India for their alleged involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities. Senior advocates Salman Khurshid, C U Singh and Menaka Guruswamy appeared for the foreign Tablighis and had just begun arguments when a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said the petitions did not attach the individual orders blacklisting the foreigners. Khurshid said it was a general decision taken by the government and no individual order was passed against each foreigner. The SC asked the petitioners to give a copy of their plea to the Union government and sought the presence of the Centre's counsel during the hearing on Monday. The petitioners were from China, Indonesia, Fiji, Jordan, Sudan, Tanzania, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Kenya, Mali, Morocco, Malaysia, Tunisia and Thailand, among others. The petitioners said, "The unilateral decision infringes the principle of natural justice, particularly, audi alteram partem (let the other side be heard as well) by blacklisting the aforementioned foreigners present in India without first granting an opportunity of being heard or notice of any form, and resultantly depriving the aggrieved foreign nationals of their right of locomotion and travelling back to the country of their citizenship. “This sudden blacklisting has, apart from registration of FIRs against such foreigners, led to the forfeiture of their passports by state authorities, thereby resulting in a complete deprivation of their personal liberty sans procedure established by law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighi-case-34-foreigners-move-sc/articleshow/76653338.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Motorcycle thief held in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A 54-year-old man has been arrested for stealing two motorcycles in the city. The Race Course police identified the accused as M Narayanan, of Pappampatti Pirivu on the outskirts of the city. He was arrested based on a complaint lodged by R Gurumoorthy, 24, of Jai Nagar at Kavundampalayam, who lost his motorcycle that was parked in front of a private bank near Lakshmi Mills Junction on Avinashi Road. Police zeroed in on the suspect based on the CCTV footage that was collected from the area. They arrested Narayanan from his house at Pappampatti Pirivu on Thursday and seized the motorcycle. A police source said, “During inquiry, he said he had also stolen a moped that was parked near Photo Centre on Trichy Road on June 23.” Police also recovered the moped and handed that over to its owner S Vaidhyanathan, 44, of Kadalaikkara Sandhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/motorcycle-thief-held/articleshow/76653317.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam takes a jibe at PM’s foreign trips||Hyderabad: The Congress on Friday charged Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre of failing on the external affairs front. Speaking after observing deeksha at Gandhi Bhavan here to pay homage to soldiers who lost their lives at Galwan Valley, TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy said, “There was not a single casualty for 45 years on the India-China border. Modi should explain what his foreign trips have achieved. Even the countries hitherto friendly have turned into enemies during Modi’s rule.” Uttam, a former Indian Air Force pilot, charged the BJP of failing to protect the country’s borders and demanded that steps be taken to ensure that China returns to its earlier position. Uttam announced that the party cadre will stage protests in front of district collectorates across the state on June 29. He also called upon the cadre to celebrate the birth centenary of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao on June 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-takes-a-jibe-at-pms-foreign-trips/articleshow/76653301.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Tired of virus talks, viewers turn to serials with scant pandemic mention||KOLKATA: Target rating points (TRP)s for new episodes of serials are out: while many megaserials have novel coronavirus pandemic in their storylines, six soaps that have made it to the top 10 chart have no or passing reference to Covid-19, indicating that viewers might want a break from the constant talks of the virus while watching television for entertainment. Among the top 10 Bengali serials—as adjudged by the TRPs—two are based on history and mythology and so, the reference to pandemic is ruled out. Susanta Das, producer-writer of ‘Krishnakoli’, which turned out to be the most popular serial between June 13 and 19, said fatigue over corona news had set in. “In ‘Krishnakoli’, our protagonist, Mum, was poisoned and had to be hospitalized. She is not Covid-positive. Since the timing of the hospitalization is during pandemic, we had to have some reference to Covid-19,” Das said. A still from 'Mohor'However, he is careful about not going overboard. “People don’t want to switch on entertainment television to watch grim realities. Serials are their escape route and if we dwell too much on the disease, it will make them sad,” he said. That’s why Jaba, central character of Das’s ‘Ke Apon Ke Por’, wears a mask while stepping out of the house in search of her daughter (Koyel), making only a passing comment on the pandemic. In fact, another serial of Das, ‘Alo Chhaya’, which does have Covid-19 as part of the storyline, has not received flattering TRP, bringing it to the last rung of the list. The fresh episodes of the serial had started off by showing the protagonist in home quarantine. A still from 'Ke Apon Ke Por'Leena Gangopadhyay and Saibal Banerjee’s ‘Mohor’, which is second on the TRP list, is set in contemporary times and has no pandemic reference. Revolving around a teacher-student relationship, the current track is about the protagonist’s exams. In contrast, ‘Sreemoyee’, a serial by the same production house that shows a character in hospital with Covid-19, is at the seventh position. A still from 'Sanjher Bati'Arabinda Dasgupta, vice-president of the television wing of SVF Entertainment that produces five serials, including ‘Trinayani’ and ‘Joy Baba Loknath’ from the Top 10 list, doesn’t believe the mention of the pandemic will ensure good ratings. “Corona hasn’t come directly in any of our storylines... People are reading and watching news about the pandemic all the time. Six of top 10 serials staying away from pandemic only shows the audience wants a storyline where everyone is breathing easy,” he said. Sani Ghosh Ray, who produces two of the top 10 serials, ‘Sanjher Bati’ and ‘Firki’, has not used pandemic either. “If the story is good, people will watch it with or without pandemic in the plot,” he said. TRPs of serials from June 13 to June 19 1) Krishnakoli 5.7 (Has Covid-19 reference) 2) Mohor 5.4  3) Ke Apon Ke Por 5.2 (Has Covid-19 reference)  4) Sanjher Bati 4.7  5) Korunamoyee Rani Rashmoni 4.0  6) Trinayani 3.8  7) Sreemoyee 3.6 (Has Covid-19 reference) 8) Firki 3.5  9) Joy Baba Loknath 3.3 10) Alo Chaya 3.0 (Has Covid-19 reference)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tired-of-virus-talks-viewers-turn-to-serials-with-scant-pandemic-mention/articleshow/76653325.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Four more suspects linked to spurious liquor unit held||AURANGABAD: The local crime branch of Aurangabad rural police arrested four suspects, including the alleged kingpin, of a gang that operated an illicit liquor manufacturing unit in the limits of Khultabad police station early on Friday morning. The total number of arrests has now reached eight as four other suspects were nabbed during a raid on the unit on May 6. Those arrested were identified as Dinesh Nimba Gaikwad (35), Deepak Jawle (35), Sopanb Pardeshi (26), all hailing from Shirud in Dhule district, and Parmeshwar Gunjal (35) of Mandgaon in Sillod of Aurangabd. The suspects were arrested from the Shahjapur area of MIDC Waluj following a tip-off and seized a car and mobile phones totally worth Rs 18 lakh, said police. According to police, Gaikwad has about two dozen offences registered against him at different police stations across the state. He had managed to evade arrest for about 50 days, but eventually ran out of luck. “During the preliminary probe, the suspect revealed that taking advantage of the administrations across the state imposing ban on the sale and supply of liquor, he decided to get into manufacturing of spurious liquor,” said police. Inspector Bhagwat Phunde said, “Gaikwad roped in six people from Madhya Pradesh with expertise in producing spurious liquor and also formed a team to help him in getting forged stickers and bottles with caps.” The officer said the suspects have confessed under interrogation that they also sold spurious liquor to their counterparts in Gadhchiroli,. “The previously arrested suspects are behind bars while those nabbed on Friday will help police in unearthing inter-state gangs involved in manufacturing and supplying of spurious liquor,” added Phunde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-more-suspects-linked-to-spurious-liquor-unit-held/articleshow/76651066.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cases jump 20% in 2 weeks, Mumbai’s down by 8%||MUMBAI: An analysis of the 5,024 fresh cases reported on Friday showed merely 26% or 1,297 cases were from Mumbai, while 74% were from outside Mumbai, indicating a rapid rise in other parts of the state. Mumbai on Friday had a total of 72,175 cases. The city’s share in the state’s caseload has been on the decline even as MMR’s share has been steadily increasing. Between June 20 and 26, a total of 28,434 cases were reported, of which 8,036 were from Mumbai—28%. The week before that, from June 13 to 19, the number of cases in the state were 23,190, of which 8,688 cases were from Mumbai—37%. Though the number of cases in the state is on the rise, the number of cases being reported from the city show a decline. In the last two weeks, there has been more than 20% jump in cases in the state even as rise in Mumbai’s cases declined by 8%. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state was expecting cases to go up in July and August. “But we are working to ensure the fatality rate doesn’t go up. We are increasing the number of ICU beds and doctors to meet the demand,” said Tope, who was in Pune. He also said the cabinet has decided to avail services of PG final year medical students in the ICU wards. The city, meanwhile, is gearing up for arrival of rapid antibody kits which will be used to check infection within containment areas and among healthcare workers. Even as cases are on the decline, civic officials said they are readying about 500 ICU beds, anticipating a rise in cases due to monsoon. “Once rains pick up we will understand how the epidemic progresses,” said AMC Suresh Kakani. Official also said bed occupancy has been declining. On Friday, over 100 of 1,375 ICU beds were vacant. Worryingly though, the number of cases in BEST crossed the 600-mark on Friday. Thane witnessed its biggest one-day spike as 365 patients were reported, taking the tally to 7,456, while four deaths took the toll to 249.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cases-jump-20-in-2-weeks-mumbais-down-by-8/articleshow/76654544.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Limitations in Seed Act prevent check on flow of bogus seeds||Aurangabad: Mild penalty and burden on the agriculture department inspectors to prove seed company’s guilt are some of the major hurdles preventing the flow of bogus seeds in the open market.With high number of complaints about soybean seeds failing to germinate pouring in from across the state, the issue of bogus seeds in the market has come to the fore.Legal experts said that under Seed Act of 1966, seed companies or traders indulging in sale and supply of bogus, low quality and poor germination seeds for the first time are liable to Rs 500 fine or six months imprisonment. If the company or a trader is convicted for the second time, he is slapped with Rs 1000 fine or imprisonment of up to six years.Moreover, the inspectors carrying out raids do not have any powers to slap spot fine on the violators. Also, seed production is not covered under the existing act. The act is applicable only after the seeds are packed for selling.Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna chief and former MP Raju Shetti told TOI, “Taking advantage of a very weak law, seed mafias are exploiting the situation and ruining the farmers by selling bogus seeds.”He even alleged that the draft of the Seed Act of 2019, which is ready, is being opposed by the seed companies and is pending for approval with the central government.Echoing him, BJP MLA and farmer activist Pasha Patel said, “Population, consumption is increasing, but, at the same time, the yield is not increasing due to low germinating and impure seeds. The government should not compensate for the seed price, but it should compensate for the production that has been lost due to the use of bogus seeds.”Subject experts cited a series of reasons, including traders not giving bill receipts to farmers as well as farmers failing to retain the bags as well as bills of the purchased seeds. Moreover, it is only after germination of seeds, which usually takes 15 to 30 days, that a farmer comes to know whether the seeds have been germinated or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/limitations-in-seed-act-prevent-check-on-flow-of-bogus-seeds/articleshow/76651072.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||Parivahan FB page to answer queries||Lucknow: Seeking answers to queries about your vehicle and DL as well as of any other’s would be easier with transport department now using social media to connect with people. Following directives of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the transport department in order to boost connect with people has started using social media and has created a Facebook profile, ‘UP Parivahan’, where people can seek answers to their queries related to services provided by the department. Besides, one can search the page for upcoming services and update oneself on transport related matters. Initially, ‘know your vehicle’ and ‘know your license’ are the two online services links of which have been provided on the page. Through ‘know your vehicle’ one can get details about any vehicle once the registration number is fed in the link given on the page. “It could be about any vehicle, the one you plan to buy second hand or, may be, the one on the road that you find doubtful,” said a senior official. Similarly, one can check details of one’s own DL on the page. “If you plan to hire a driver, his DL related details would be available on the page,” said the official. Of course, it would not display personal details, but validity, fitness, track record, offence related details would be shown. “We will gradually make it more interactive though we have started answering queries already,” said the official. Soon, other online services would also be linked to the page. The updates regarding new schemes and projects would also be put on the page. Twitter account of the department would also be launched soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parivahan-fb-page-to-answer-queries/articleshow/76653900.cms||Neha Shukla
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||‘Allow all autos, taxis on roads from Sunday in Mumbai’||At the transport task force’s first e-meeting on Friday, autorickshaw and taxi unions demanded their services resume for all in Mumbai from June 28, with zero restrictions. Currently, autos and taxis are allowed only for essential services and on select routes such as stations.  Later, transport minister Anil Parab told the media the state is considering allowing auto and taxi operators to resume soon. “The decision will be taken only after discussing the issue with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and cabinet members. Auto and taxi operators are also demanding it and we will consider it as the government has given relaxation to a few other services,” said Parab, also chairman of the task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/allow-all-autos-taxis-on-roads-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76651075.cms||Somit Sen
June 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Bidkin food park will be boon for farmers, says industry minister||AURANGABAD: State industry minister Subhash Desai on Thursday said that the proposed food park being developed in the Bidkin area by the Auric City administration will be a good opportunity and an alternative for farmers who want to sell their produce at good prices. Desai, who is also the Aurangabad guardian minister, reviewed the work being carried out in Bidkin and instructed to ensure that it is completed soon. A meeting was held at the district collectorate, with Desai, minister of state Abdul Sattar, the district collector and senior officials concerned who took part in the meeting on video conference. The total area of the food park is spread across 517 acre of which 60 acre were developed and the work is in progress at a fast pace, the officials informed the minister. They said that the food park would be ready by January 2021. Desai said that the district is farming dominated where farmers grow maize, cotton, soyabean, pomegranate and other fruits and vegetables. He said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about six months ago had announced the food park at Bidkin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bidkin-food-park-will-be-boon-for-farmers-says-industry-minister/articleshow/76651103.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Gang breaks into Tasmac outlet, walks away with 793 bottles||COIMBATORE: An unidentified gang broke into a Tasmac outlet at Vanjiyapuram Pirivu near Pollachi and made away with 793 liquor bottles worth Rs 1.4 lakh. A special team has been formed to nab the offenders. In his complaint, Tasmac supervisor P Krishnan, 41, of Pethappampatti in Tirupur district, said that on Thursday around 10 am, when he opened the shop, he found a portion of the side wall missing. Unidentified persons had removed the hollow block concrete slabs from the wall and entered the shop, he said. Krishnan said there were CCTVs installed at the shop to cover its front portion. The thieves had damaged the cameras and took away its digital video recorder, police said. Police registered a case under IPC sections 380 (theft) and 457 (trespass) and lifted fingerprints from the shop. The state government had recently decided to install CCTV cameras at 3,000 Tasmac outlets. In Coimbatore, officials had identified 170 outlets – 75 in south Coimbatore and 95 in north – and sent a report to their headquarters recently. Apart from preventing theft and illegal activities at the outlets, installation of cameras would be useful to ensure that customers are wearing face masks and following physical distancing norms during the pandemic situation, said an official. On the choice of the 170 Tasmac outlets for installation of CCTVs, an official said, “Preference was given to outlets that record high sales, witnessed thefts or law and order issues and were located in remote locations.” Welcoming the move, S Moorthy, district president of Tasmac employees’ association said, “apart from preventing the theft of liquor bottles and cash which are kept in the outlets during the night hours, it would also curtail law and order issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-breaks-into-tasmac-outlet-walks-away-with-793-bottles/articleshow/76653341.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||MCC plans to regularise illegal water connections||Mysuru: In what could be a happy news for those with illegal water connections, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to regularise such connections by waiving off accrued interest and penalty. It will be a one-time settlement. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde told TOI that they have initiated the process to regularise illegal connections as it has lost crores of rupees in revenue. A decision to this effect will be announced after discussing the issue with the finance standing committee and seeking approval, he said. Mysuru had a population of more than 13 lakh and over 2 lakh households. The MCC had 1,70, 000 metered water connections. It also has more than 20,000 illegal connections including domestic, industrial and commercial in all 65 wards in all nine zonal limits. If they are regularized, the corporation will get an additional Rs 2 crore revenue per month, officials said. “In some parts of the city, consumers have cut water pipes and bypassed meters to draw water,” said the sources. MCC has set aside Rs 2 crore this fiscal year budget to buy water meters for regularization of illegal water connections. It has plans to install the meters to illegal connections and collect the water meter installation charges on instalment basis. The civic body has also initiated the process of collecting arrears from defaulters. Officials have failed to collect dues of nearly Rs 180.3 crore from defaulters including over Rs 40 crore pending from various government offices. “We have issued notices to the departments and written to their head offices in Bengaluru about the dues,” said Hegde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mcc-plans-to-regularise-illegal-water-connections/articleshow/76651093.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||CISF-type security force to man Metro rail, banks in UP||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh is set to get its own security force on the lines of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday gave directions to set up the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force, saying that there was a need for a dedicated security force for places like Metro rail, airport, banks and industrial and financial organisations. The force will also be deployed at district courts, historical and religious sites and places of pilgrimage. The chief minister has said that special training should be imparted to those who join this force, adding that they should be informed about modern security techniques and gadgets. The force will be headquartered in Lucknow and will start with five battalions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cisf-type-security-force-to-man-metro-rail-banks-in-up/articleshow/76653904.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Five-acre demonstration plot to raise awareness on bamboo cultivation||COIMBATORE: City-based Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB) is planning to set up a five-acre bamboo plantation on the Appakudal campus of the Kumaraguru Institute of Agriculture (KIA) in Erode. The plantation will create awareness on bamboo species, cultivation practices and economic scope for tree growers and farmers in Coimbatore and Erode region, IFGTB officials said. KIA and IFGTB signed an MoU earlier this week to plant five commercially viable bamboo species on the campus. The institute has allotted the land for 10 years. The species will be mostly thornless, making it easier to harvest and process, including Bambusa tulda, Bambusa vulgaris, Bambusa nutans and Bambusa balcooa. “We will plant 800 bamboo plants across the five acres, approximately 150 each of the five species,” said Dominic Savio of IFGTB. “They will be planted at a five-metre distance from each other.” IFGTB scientists will guide agriculture students at KIA to manage and raise the plantation. “We believe it will serve as a demonstration plot for almost 6,000 farmers in the region, who are into sugarcane cultivation, on commercially viable options of bamboo and for our students, who are interested in agroforestry-related or bamboo-related research,” said coordinator Saravanan. “IFGTB can bring or send farmers to see the plantation.” The project is being taken up under the national bamboo mission, which aims to increase the area under bamboo cultivation. IFGTB has been approaching civic bodies and private associations to allot more land for bamboo planting and growing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-acre-demonstration-plot-to-raise-awareness-on-bamboo-cultivation/articleshow/76653348.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||4 dead, 2 hurt in dumper-mini bus collision||Dehradun: Four people died and two others sustained critical injuries after the mini bus they were travelling in collided head on with a dumper in Doiwala area in the wee hours of Friday. The impact was such that after the collision, both the vehicles rammed into roadside trees. The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital. All the four deceased and two injured are residents of Bijnor (Uttar Pradesh) and were coming to Dehradun when the accident took place. According to police, the accident was reported around one-kilometre ahead of Manimai Temple on the Harrawala Road. Reportedly, both the vehicles coming from opposite directions were speeding. The driver of the tanker is still absconding. The four deceased were identified as — Sabir Ali (25), Intezar (40), Shakib Sarfaraz and Mohammad Khalid (29). The two injured — Dilbaaj Sharif and Shajid Akbar — are undergoing treatment. The police maintained that while the dumper's driver is still missing, the vehicle’s owner has been contacted and details have been sought from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-dead-2-hurt-in-dumper-mini-bus-collision/articleshow/76651121.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 27, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Complete road work from funds available’||AURANGABAD: Industries minister Subhash Desai, who is also the district guardian minister, on Friday directed officials of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation and the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation to develop pre-planned internal city roads from the funds available with them. He said the government would pay them later. He also said that the process of constructing a depot for the civic body’s smart city bus services would be started soon. Desai on Friday reviewed various schemes and works being implemented by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation including parallel water supply line, waste management, smart city project and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The meeting was attended among others by district collector Uday Chaudyar, additional commissioner Ravindra Nikam, city engineer S D Panjhade, chief accounts officer Sanjay Pawar, health officer Neeta Padalkar, executive engineer Hemant Kolhe and solid waste management chief Nandkishor Bhombe. The collector informed Desai that the city bus service had been a success and by the end of the scheme, 400 buses would be available for the city. Currently, 100 buses are being operated on 27 routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/complete-road-work-from-funds-available/articleshow/76651123.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Durian fruits to hit markets soon||UDHAGAMANDALAM: It’s the season of durian fruits in the Burliar horticulture farm in the Nilgiris. As usual, a bumper harvest is expected in July. The fruit is grown only in the Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu. According to a horticulture department official, the demand for the fruit, which is rich in sulphur content, is high. It has already floated a tender for the sale of the fruit. Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director of horticulture, said, “Of the 32 durian trees in the farm, 15 are currently bearing fruits. Though not proven scientifically, there is a myth that the fruit could induce fertility in humans. Hence, its demand is on the rise every year. During the peak season, we get many inquiries from the public. We also take advance bookings for the fruits.” The demand for the durian seedlings is high among the farmers in Kerala. Hence, the horticulture department is also concentrating on developing durian seedlings. The durian trees were introduced in the Nilgiris some 40 years ago. It is grown in tropical areas such as Burliar and Kallar. According to botanists, the tree would grow well only in tropical areas with high humidity. A durian tree would bear about 50 to 60 fruits in a season that spans from July to September. Sometimes, if the tree is matured enough, it would bear around 100 fruits. With a distinctively large size, a durian fruit would weigh between 1kg and 3kg. “Given the high demand for the fruit, we are also encouraging farmers in and around Burliar and Kallar areas to grow durian trees,” Samraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/durian-fruits-to-hit-markets-soon/articleshow/76653344.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Diesel price nudges Rs 80 & petrol Rs 87 in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Fuel prices rose for the 19th day in a row in the city, with diesel rates inching close to Rs 80 a litre at Rs 78.51 and petrol at Rs 86.91. Diesel prices have risen over Rs 12 this month, which is a cause for concern for transporters who said they may be compelled to hike freight charges on transportation, which could increase the cost of essential commodities in the coming days. “We are waiting for the Centre to give us relief in taxes as this will lower diesel prices. It will help transporters not incur huge losses,” said a leading transporter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/diesel-price-nudges-rs-80-petrol-rs-87/articleshow/76652116.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Nashik||Cops check if personnel taking immunity boosters||NASHIK: The city police are contacting personnel to ensure they are taking the homeopathy medicine distributed to them to boost their immunity. So far, five police personnel have been detected with the infection. Deputy commissioner of police Pournima Chaugule said a 50-year-old constable was detected Covid-19 positive recently. The constable was not able to recall how and where he could have caught the infection. Senior police officers said improved immunity would help personnel fight off the infection easily. Hence, officials at the police control room are making calls to police station in-charge to check if the personnel are taking the tablets. The police have also sensitized personnel about the precautionary measures to be taken while on duty. At the same time, they have been given special wrist bands to keep watch on their body temperature, heart rate, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-check-if-personnel-taking-immunity-boosters/articleshow/76651160.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||Three BJP leaders, including CM Rawat, conduct virtual rallies||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and two other senior leaders of BJP — Devendra Bhasin and Shyam Jaju — conducted virtual rallies for Uttarakhand on Friday. During his rally, CM Rawat hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying, “Earlier, India was not a manufacturer of PPE kits but now we export it. We also export HCQ medicine.” Meanwhile, Bhasin attacked Congress saying that the “party has taken money from China”. Similarly, Jaju, during his e-rally, said, “Congress has always bowed in front of China.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-bjp-leaders-including-cm-rawat-conduct-virtual-rallies/articleshow/76651157.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman hangs self, husband arrested||HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old pilot was arrested by Cyberabad police on Friday after his wife killed herself shortly after blaming her husband of physical and mental torture in a video uploaded on social media. The victim, identified as Lavanya Lahari (32), hanged herself at her house in Shamshabad late on Thursday. The deceased, who was working with an IT company until last year, and her husband Venkateshwarlu, were staying in CSK Villas at Rallaguda, Shamshabad. According to police, the couple had got married almost eight years ago. “The couple had an argument on Thursday night. The victim’s husband was reportedly harassing her for not having children even after several years. In a separate suicide note, she mentioned that her husband was having an extramarital affair. We are verifying the information,” said RGI Airport Inspector Vijay Kumar. In the video she talked about facing harassment from her husband and that she had earlier confronted him on his illicit relationship. Police said that the victim’s relatives saw the video and informed her parents, who then spoke to Venkateshwarlu. “When he went to check on her at around 11.30 pm, and she was found hanging,” police said. She was rushed to a nearby hospital but was declared brought dead. A case was registered against Venkateshwarlu and he was arrested. The police said they are conducting further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-hangs-self-husband-arrested/articleshow/76653394.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: RML Hospital gets nod, may start plasma therapy from Monday||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved Plasma therapy trials for Covid-19 patients at Centre-run Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. Dr Minakshi Bhardwaj, medical superintendent of RML, told TOI they had already identified donors and trials are likely to start from Monday. AIIMS, Lok Nayak Hospital, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital and Max Saket are already conducting plasma therapy, which involves injecting plasma — liquid portion of the blood — taken from a patient who has been cured of the disease into Covid-19 patients. Dr Bhardwaj said it has been found that plasma therapy helps improve the condition of patients with moderate symptoms. “When we started treating Covid-19 patients in February, there were limited guidelines on its management. Any patients who came with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) were put on ventilator support. But now we know ventilator support should be the last resort,” she added. The RML medical superintendent said they started with 23 beds for Covid-19 patients in the hospital’s trauma block four months ago. As the number of patients increased, she added, the bed strength also went up. “At present, we have 143 isolation beds and 14 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. There are an additional 71 beds and I4 ICU beds for Covid-19 suspected patients,” Dr Bhardwaj said. According to the hospital, delayed testing and admission often results in exacerbation of symptoms. “Anyone who has Covid-19 symptoms or has tested positive for the disease should keep checking his or her oxygen saturation. It is a simple process and can be done easily using an oxymeter. Anyone with saturation levels below 95% requires medical monitoring,” a doctor explained. RML recently came under criticism from the government over delayed testing results. The hospital authorities said their testing capacity has been ramped up over the past few weeks to ensure results are declared on time. From April to June, the hospital claimed, they had conducted over 10,000 major and minor surgical procedures and 171 child deliveries. In the past four months, sources said, at least 62 healthcare workers at RML have tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rml-gets-nod-may-start-plasma-therapy-from-mon/articleshow/76668113.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||SP stages protest across state against hike in fuel price||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party on Friday staged statewide protests against the hike in fuel prices in the country, alleging that it was leading to rise in prices of all commodities. In Lucknow, SP workers tried to reach Lok Bhawan and Vidhan Bhawan riding tractor trollies to stage a sit-in but were removed by the police using mild force. Samajwadi Party described the police action as unprovoked lathicharge. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had asked the party workers to join the public on the streets in expressing its disapproval over fuel price rise. SP leaders and party workers staged protests in various districts across the state and handed over memorandums to district officials. In many districts, SP workers took out bullock carts to protest. In most of the districts, protests were organised by SP’s frontal organisations like Lohia Vahini, Youth Brigade and Yuvjan Sabha. Party leaders later alleged that Lucknow police canecharged SP workers and stopped them from staging peaceful protests. The party said SP workers were booked in false cases and many were sent to jail after being slapped with fabricated charges.SP national secretary Rajendra Chaudhary said rise in petrol and diesel prices has a cascading impact on the prices of all commodities, including essentials, and this was happening at a time when people are already facing financial crisis due to the pandemic. “When diesel prices increase, farmers have to pay more to ferry vegetables to the market every day,” Chaudhary told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-stages-protest-across-state-against-hike-in-fuel-price/articleshow/76653924.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mysuru||MCC identifies land for piggery on city outskirts||Mysuru: Following a series of complaints by citizens about stray pig menace, the Mysuru City Corporation has decided to allot a separate place for piggery on the coutskirts. The corporation authorities have identified the land and will soon shift the pigs to the designated place. Stray pigs are creating a nuisance in the city. They trigger fear among residents, especially children and there have been instances where pigs have caused minor road accidents. A few months ago, when the corporation authorities decided to seize pigs for causing disturbance to the public, pig owners had protested against the authorities. Pig-keepers from Narashimaraja Mohalla, JP Nagar, Vidyaranyapuram, Chinnagiri Koppal, Kesare, Bamboo Bazaar and other areas had met the MCC authorities and demanded a place for them to rear pigs. Based on their request, the authorities have zeroed in on a 10-acre land at Rayanakere coming under the corporation. MCC public health standing committee chairman J Gopi said, “While half of the land will be used for pig rearing, the remaining will be developed into a stray dog rescue and rehabilitation centre,” he said. Gopi said that after the land is developed for piggery, there will be no rearing of pigs within the city limits. “If any person is found rearing pigs, the corporation will seize pigs and action will be taken as per Section 345 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act 1976.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mcc-identifies-land-for-piggery-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/76651146.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Cop shoots at colleague over ‘work row’||New Delhi: A 31-year-old constable was shot at by his colleague with his service revolver after the two had an argument over some work-related issue at Seempauri police station late on Friday. The condition of constable Amod Bhadana was still critical. He underwent an operation at AIIMS trauma centre on Saturday. Bhadana had come back from his beat duty and was having dinner at the Seemapuri police station. At 10.30pm, constable Ravinder Nagar also came to the police station and went to Bhadana’s room.  “They had an argument over some issue and all of sudden, Nagar took out his service pistol and fired at Bhadana. The bullet hit him in the chest. He was taken to Swami Dayanand Hospital from where he was referred to AIIMS trauma centre,” said Amit Sharma, DCP, Shahdara. A case of attempt to murder was registered against Nagar and he was arrested. Even as senior police officers did not reveal the reason behind the argument, an officer posted at the police station stated that Bhadana was handed over the charge of the beat recently.  “Earlier it was Nagar who was handling that beat and he was angry as he thought it was Bhadana who played a role and got him removed from the beat,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-shoots-at-colleague-over-work-row/articleshow/76667888.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Aurangabad||HC notice to state over lack of coordination among officials||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court on Friday took suo motu cognizance of several newspaper reports citing differences and lack of coordination among the officials concerned in tackling and handling Covid-19 situation along with reports on the employees including 1,000 teachers skipping the assigned pandemic-related work. The court expressed its displeasure over the situation and issued a set of instructions, including directing the officials to take stern action against people who shrug their responsibilities and duties under one or the other pretext. The court has appointed senior counsel Rajendra S Deshmukh as the amicus curiae and placed the next date of hearing on July 3 while asking that “the state home and health departments are also to be made respondents”. While taking cognizance of increasing number of patients, the bench, comprising justices TV Nalawade and Shrikant D Kulkarni, referred a report on all ruling party meetings where the members had expressed their disappointment over how the Covid-19 situation being tackled in the city and state. While mentioning reports about statement of the divisional commissioner that there was a lack of coordination between municipal commissioner and the district collector, the court dubbed it to be “unfortunate”. The court remarked: “It can be said that there is the possibility of ego matter, also possibility of non-coordination and non-cooperation. In such a situation, all of them including the police machinery need to work together, but it appears that there was no such coordination.’’ The bench also noted the reported statement of the municipal commissioner (administrator Astik Kumar Pandey) that now he wants to follow the Kerala and Dharavi pattern. “It is necessary to know as to which steps were taken if the pattern like Kerala and Dharavi were not followed in this region,’’ the court remarked. The court also observed that the “authority and the state need to be very strict and even harsh and they need to go to the extent of using power given under the Article 311 of the Constitution against the persons who are not discharging duty”. While issuing directions the bench made it clear that the respondents would have to report to the court on actions they would be taking in terms of these directions. The respondents were directed to report to the HC the action taken against those who did not do their job during the pandemic. The court has also directed the authorities concerned to install CCTV cameras at the quarantine centres where the people are kept in isolation. It also directed the respondents to see that the record in respect of contact tracing is now preserved. “We want to ascertain as to whether the teams/squads created for contact tracing have honestly worked and they have collected necessary information,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-notice-to-state-over-lack-of-coordination-among-officials/articleshow/76651168.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
June 27, 2020||Aurangabad||196 fresh cases take Aurangabad dist’s Covid count to 4,513||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad district registered 196 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the total number of patients to 4,513. The district has also reported 232 casualties so far. Officials of the district administration’s health department said that of the 196 new cases, 102 were reported from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) limits while 94 were registered from the rural areas of the district. At present, 1,971 patients are undergoing treatment at different facilities in the district, including the dedicated Covid treatment facility at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/196-fresh-cases-take-aurangabad-dists-covid-count-to-4513/articleshow/76651177.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||Hosp staff discharges Covid patient, 2 suspects, brings them back later; DM orders probe||Uttarkashi: Medical staff of Uttarkashi district hospital allegedly discharged a Covid-19 positive patient, along with two other suspects, from an isolation ward on Thursday evening. Eventually, after realising their mistake, hospital authorities brought back all three patients from their homes and readmitted them. The district magistrate has set up an inquiry and ordered for the suspension of the employees involved in the act. According to sources, a migrant from Dunda block, who had recently returned from Delhi, was admitted to the hospital on June 21 after he complained of health issues. The person was declared positive for coronavirus on June 23. Besides, a couple from the Bhatwari block area was admitted to the hospital on June 23 after their son tested positive for the virus and later died in Doon Hospital on Thursday morning. The couple had tested positive for Covid-19 in a test conducted through a TrueNat machine and their samples were sent to AIIMS Rishikesh for confirmation. However, on Thursday evening, hospital staff allegedly discharged all three patients and sent them back to their homes, creating panic among local residents. Soon, after realising their mistake, the authorities brought all three patients back within a few hours and readmitted them to the hospital. District magistrate Ashish Chauhan said, “A negligence of this sort will not be tolerated. We have set up an inquiry and have ordered for suspension of the employees involved in the act.” On the other hand, chief medical officer of Uttarkashi Dr DP Joshi said, “All three patients were discharged after they were tested negative in the Covid-19 test conducted through the TrueNat machine. However, we brought them back after local residents expressed concern. We have directed the hospital staff to follow Covid-19 guidelines before releasing any patient."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hosp-staff-discharges-covid-patient-2-suspects-brings-them-back-later-dm-orders-probe/articleshow/76651165.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ward in Assolda sealed after 3 from family test positive||QUEPEM: The Machimorodd ward of Assolda panchayat in Quepem taluka has been sealed after three Covid positive cases were detected in a family this week. The Assolda panchayat also convened an emergency meeting and decided to go in for a three-day lockdown from Thursday. The Curchorem fire station personnel sanitised the entire Machimorodd ward on Friday. “All shops and other business establishments in the area are shut, we have advised the people to remain indoors,” panch member Custodio Fernandes said. The first case was reported in the household on Wednesday. “This person had visited Raia village to carry out electrical work, and he might have got infected there,” Dr Mohanrao Dessai, health officer of the Curchorem community health centre, said. Health officials had conducted swab tests on the man’s family members in which the patient’s wife and mother-in-law tested positive on Thursday night and were shifted to the Covid care centre at Farmagudi. According to panchayat members, the mother-in-law hails from Curtorim, where many cases are reported, and would frequently visit her house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ward-in-assolda-sealed-after-3-from-family-test-positive/articleshow/76653391.cms||Johnny M
June 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Churches near containment zones unlikely to reopen for laity soon||PANAJI: Despite a go-ahead from the central government and archdiocese, churches in the vicinity of containment zones are considering deferring their opening. In the deanery of Mormugao which comprises nine parishes of Vasco, Mormugao, Chicalim, Bogmalo, Desterro, Sancoale, St Jacinto, Cortalim and Baina, most priests have decided to postpone reopening churches. This deanery has seen more than one priest test positive for Covid. Goa’s first containment zone—Mangor Hill in Vasco—has more than 350 positive cases detected in June. “Besides the detected cases, there may be more positive persons who are asymptomatic. Reopening is risky as people travel from different parts for Mass. Most priests have decided not to reopen. The Church guidelines put the onus on each parish priest to decide if and when they want to open, only once they are prepared,” an official from the Church told TOI. Parish priest of St Francis Xavier Church in Chicalim, Fr Bolmax Pereira said spiritual services continue to be made available through livestreaming, despite the church remaining closed. “Irrespective of being near a government declared containment zone in Vasco, I feel Chicalim itself has turned into an undeclared containment zone as we already have 30 positive cases and counting. We will follow the directives of the Church and government and not open for public worship until further notice,” he said. The archdiocese on Wednesday provided parishes with a roadmap for opening, prescribing strict guidelines to be followed including, precautionary measures to be taken, which will be verified by onsite inspections and vetted before a written permission is issued for reopening of each church. In Curtorim which has over 30 positive cases, faithful are unlikely to see the Church reopening for masses for the next two Sundays at least. “Two wards have been contained completely and its risky to begin services. Just because one parish opens, it doesn’t mean the others should,” parish priest of St Alex Church, Fr Joseph Salema told TOI. In Mapusa, which also has a portion of Ganganagar barricaded, parish priest of St Jerome Church, Fr Denis Fernandes told TOI that reopening is tricky and will be deferred. The parish has over 7,000 parishioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churches-near-containment-zones-unlikely-to-reopen-for-laity-soon/articleshow/76653395.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||Tourism dept starts online registration for self-employment schemes||Dehradun: To provide employment opportunities to those who have returned to the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttarakhand tourism department has started the online registration facility for Veer Chandra Singh Garhwali Tourism Self-Employment and Homestay Scheme. The scheme is aimed at enabling local youths to start small-scale employment. Under the scheme, one can buy diesel or electric buses and the state will provide a 50% subsidy or up to Rs 15 lakh for the purchase. These buses would be allowed to operate on designated routes across the state. However, it has been mandatory for such buses to carry the logo of the Uttarakhand Tourism on both sides of the vehicle. The government will also give a subsidy of 25% in case of purchase of vehicles other than buses under the same scheme. Similarly, under the homestay scheme, the subsidies to the tune of 33% (or Rs 10 lakh) in hilly areas and 25% (or Rs 7.5 lakh) in the plains will be offered. Dilip Jawalkar, Secretary Tourism, informed that transparency will increase with the implementation of an online application system for the scheme and that it will also save time. “Applicants who desire to avail benefits under both these schemes will no longer be required to visit the department’s office. The registrations of both the above-mentioned schemes can be done online. Any Uttarakhand resident who wants to benefit from this scheme can register online by visiting the given link — http://vcsgscheme.uk.gov.in. Online registration will also allow real-time monitoring of the applications for both the schemes. This will also facilitate tourists and provide them with more transport options. The scheme will also enable locals in becoming self-employed by getting maximum government support,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourism-dept-starts-online-registration-for-self-employment-schemes/articleshow/76651229.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||RTO files police complaint after fake transfer letter goes viral||Dehradun: Regional Transport Officer (RTO) DC Pathoi on Friday lodged a police complaint in Kotwali police station against an unidentified person for circulating his fake transfer letter on social media plaftroms. The secretariat also issued a clarification later in the day as the fake letter had false signatures of senior IAS official Sailesh Bagoli. As per the fake transfer letter, DC Pathoi was being replaced by Sudhansu Garg. The matter came to light when DC Pathoi reached the secretariat to enquire about the same but was shocked to know that no such transfer letter was issued by the office of the secretary. “My staff members showed me the letter which I felt was fake due to the language of the same. But the signature of the secretary and even the stamp on the letter looked original,” Pathoi told TOI. SP (city) Shweta Chaubey confirmed that a complaint was filed and police have started an investigation in the matter. It’s important to mention here that this is the second case of fake official letters being circulated on social media. Before Bugoli, a fake letter declaring a holiday on the occasion of Igas festival was issued with the signature of additional chief secretary Radha Ratudi last year. An FIR was also filed in that matter. Meanwhile, the RTO Dehradun, which started telephonic appointment service last week, has now started online registration for applications for various services. The switch has been made because people were complaining that RTO’s telephone line remains busy for long hours due to which residents were facing problems in getting the registration done a day prior. “We have started online registration which will start from Monday (June 29). This will not just save time but also maintain transparency of the process,” said Pathoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rto-files-police-complaint-after-fake-transfer-letter-goes-viral/articleshow/76651241.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 27, 2020||Goa||Two repatriation flights land in Goa with 434 passengers||Panaji: With the 25th repatriation flight landing at Dabolim airport on Friday, more than 5,700 stranded Indians have made their way back home to Goa. A batch of 281 seafarers arrived in the morning at Goa International Airport from Rome, while the fourth repatriation flight under the Vande Bharat mission landed at Dabolim late on Friday night, this time from Kuwait, with 153 stranded Indians. The seafarers were employed on three different cruise vessels operated by Geneva-based MSC Cruises and were repatriated on a special flight chartered by the company. “This is the 21st repatriation flight chartered by cruise lines, if one excludes the four Vande Bharat flights. With this, more than 5,700 stranded Indians have returned to Goa,” said Goa airport director Gagan Malik. Aside from this, two Air Asia chartered flights also arrived from Mumbai with seafarers who have been brought back by Carnival Corporation & Plc. However, with the repatriation efforts expected to wind up by the first week of July, around 800 seafarers are expected to remain stranded, said officials. “It is has been 90 days and our seafarers are still not home,” said founder president of Goa Seamen Association of India (GSAI) Dixon Vaz. “It has been too long. By July first week, the whole repatriation will be over and there will be 800 seafarers who will remain stranded till international flights resume.” Many seafarers aboard cruise vessels are locked up on vessels around the world awaiting repatriation. While bigger cruise lines such as MSC Cruises, Carnival Corporation, Norwegian Cruise Line, Royal Caribbean Cruises and Marella Cruises have chartered flights to repatriate their crew, smaller cruise firms are unable to do so. Vaz said that while the efforts of the government have been found to be less than satisfactory, the Airports Authority of India have helped in every possible way to ensure that the flights are allowed to land and the passengers allowed to exit as smoothly as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-repatriation-flights-land-in-goa-with-434-passengers/articleshow/76653396.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Hyderabad||RMP, patient stoned to death in Kamareddy||Hyderabad: A registered medical practitioner (RMP) and his patient were killed after unknown persons attacked them with stones in Gumasta colony, Kamareddy, on Friday. According to police, 45-year-old V Sudhakar and his patient K Lakshmaiah, 60, allegedly consumed liquor on the roadside on Thursday night. After analysing the crime scene, police concluded that Lakshmaiah died after he was repeatedly hit with stones, while Sudhakar was chased and then killed in the similar manner. The police said that the RMP might have attempted to escape.Lakshmaiah was a resident of Lingampeta. Since he was unwell and in need of medical aid, he came to Gumasta colony to take treatment from Sudhakar. He was staying at his sister’s house. The family members of both the victims said that they have no enmity with anyone. A case was registered under section 302 (murder) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rmp-patient-stoned-to-death-in-kamareddy/articleshow/76653399.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Coimbatore||4 Covid-19 clusters identified in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The public health department has identified at least four Covid-19 clusters—with four patients each— in the city. The department also declared 43 people as positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, taking the total number of patients to 393 in the district. At least 33 more patients are expected to be declared positive on Saturday. The day also saw eight men, four women and three children from the region being discharged after getting cured of the virus. At present, there are 234 active cases in the district. With the appearance of four new clusters, the public health department is expecting the number of positive cases to increase. The number of positive cases in the MGR Market cluster has increased from three to nine. Kaliappan Street, which housed the vegetable wholesaler, saw three more cases from the samples collected on Thursday, and Kamarajar Street, where the market parking contractor lived, also saw three more cases. Besides, a private poultry company at Pappampatti Pirivu saw three of their employees test positive and Telugu Street now has four Covid-19 cases. The numbers in all the clusters are likely to increase. Besides this, Mayflower apartment on Venkataswamy Road, which initially had only one Covid-19 case, saw the number increase to four within the building. However, officials hope this number stays contained. The two-year-old grandchild of the CMCH nurse, who tested positive on Monday, also tested positive on Friday. Meanwhile, doctors at ESI Hospital managed to perform a surgical pyloromyotomy on a 45-day-old child infected by the virus on Friday. The child had come to Masonic Hospital a few days back with complaints of constant vomiting. The doctors on examination, found that the baby was suffering a rare congenital defect called pyloric stenosis, where the opening of the stomach into the small intestine is too narrow. As a result, babies unable to digest or process their food often vomit it out and get dehydrated and lost weight as a result. Doctors at Masonic Hospital had diagnosed it and scheduled the surgery, but the baby tested positive for the virus during the routine screening test. The baby was immediately shifted to ESI Hospital on Thursday, where the four doctors, including two surgeons and two anesthetists, stabilized the baby and performed the hour-long surgery successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-covid-19-clusters-identified-in-city/articleshow/76653398.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||Employees’ salary cut: HC gives state 3 weeks to file reply||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday gave three weeks’ time to the state government to file their response to writ petition challenging the government order deducting a day’s salary of the government employee and depositing it in the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight the Covid pandemic. The single judge bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia in its last hearing had asked the government to explain under which Act the salary of the petitioner was deducted. On Friday, the counsel appearing for the government in his oral submission informed the court that salaries were deducted and deposited in the relief fund on the request of the employees. Speaking to TOI, Shashank Pandey, the counsel appearing for the petitioner said, “The counsel appearing for the government told the court that it was when the employees asked the government that they want to help in the fight against the pandemic that the salaries were deducted,” he said. Pandey added when the court asked the government for the written submission, the counsel sought three weeks’ time which was given by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/employees-salary-cut-hc-gives-state-3-weeks-to-file-reply/articleshow/76651247.cms||Prashant Jha
June 27, 2020||Thane||Thane and Kalyan record highest single-day spikes in Covid-19 cases||Thane recorded its biggest one-day spike in Covid cases on Friday. With 365 testing positive, Thane's cumulative Covid cases have reached 7,456. Kalyan-Dombivli too reported its single-day highest case count, 358, taking its total to 4,873. Navi Mumbai and Panvel City reported 224 and 87 new cases, taking their totals to 5,853 and 1,699. With the surges, a range of restrictions and measures, including declaration of containment zones and deployment of SRPF, were put in place across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). KDMC declared 32 localities as containment zones, which meant all shops and other commercial establishments in the area except shops selling essentials (to be home-delivered) will remain closed. NMMC declared 10 local areas in various wards as containment zones for a week. But Thane Municipal Corporation officials said no immediate lockdown or remedial measures will be implemented and something is likely to be formulated after a meeting with the central team likely to visit on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-and-kalyan-record-highest-single-day-spikes-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76654557.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 27, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Thane and Kalyan record highest single-day spikes in Covid-19 cases||Thane recorded its biggest one-day spike in Covid cases on Friday. With 365 testing positive, Thane's cumulative Covid cases have reached 7,456. Kalyan-Dombivli too reported its single-day highest case count, 358, taking its total to 4,873. Navi Mumbai and Panvel City reported 224 and 87 new cases, taking their totals to 5,853 and 1,699. With the surges, a range of restrictions and measures, including declaration of containment zones and deployment of SRPF, were put in place across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). KDMC declared 32 localities as containment zones, which meant all shops and other commercial establishments in the area except shops selling essentials (to be home-delivered) will remain closed. NMMC declared 10 local areas in various wards as containment zones for a week. But Thane Municipal Corporation officials said no immediate lockdown or remedial measures will be implemented and something is likely to be formulated after a meeting with the central team likely to visit on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/thane-and-kalyan-record-highest-single-day-spikes-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76654568.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Residents disappointed after S Arabia cancels Hajj||Ludhiana: Residents who were supposed to attend the annual Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca seem disappointed after Saudi Arabia barred international pilgrims from attending the Hajj. However, they said the move was necessary given the current scenario. Religious heads too said that it was a big disappointment for those who had applied for the pilgrimage.“All my children are well-settled. After fulfilling all my responsibilities, I applied for Hajj with my wife in October last year. As we were going for the first time, we were very excited. However, due to Covid-19 related issues, Saudi government banned international pilgrims. We are disappointed,” said 58-years-old Muhammad Shamsuddin Ansari of Kakowal road. He added that even if they were not going on the pilgrimage, they prayed the almighty to help all humans.“I, along with my wife and three other relatives, were to go on Hajj. We had even started packing bags months in advance. We will try again next year,” said Muhammad Akhter, the owner of a hosiery unit in Gopal Nagar. Meanwhile, Naib Shahi Imam, Punjab, Maulana Usman Ludhianvi said there was a big disappointment among people, who had applied for the pilgrimage. Hajj committee officials said that as many as 300 persons from Punjab had applied for the pilgrimage of which 164 were men and 136 women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/residents-disappointed-after-s-arabia-cancels-hajj/articleshow/76651283.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Forest official booked for sexual assault||HARIDWAR: A forest official deployed in Haridwar range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) was booked on the charges of sexual assault on Friday. The complainant woman, wife of a contract worker at the RTR, has alleged that the accused official came to her house when she was home alone. According to the survivor, the accused was in an inebriated state and he started assaulting her. She adds that when she opposed him, the official threatened that he would sack his husband. Amarjeet Singh, SHO city police station, told TOI, "A case has been registered against accused official Dev Singh Bisht under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and section 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restrain) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is underway.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-official-booked-for-sexual-assault/articleshow/76651269.cms||MS Nawaz
June 27, 2020||Goa||Goa govt announces booster shot for Covid-hit economy||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday announced several measures to revive the state’s sputtering economy, including permission for 12-hour shifts to all factories up to July 31 to offset the deficit in manpower due to current restrictions. In a relief to the common man, all construction licences and permissions issued by local civic bodies expiring between March 1 and June 30 have been deemed to be extended up to October 31 without any additional payment. The same extension has been granted for all technical clearances and development permissions obtained from the town and country planning department. Where motor vehicles are concerned, Sawant said fitness certificates, all types of permits, learners’ licences, driving licences, registration and any related document issued by the transport department with expiry dates between February 1 and September 30, have been deemed to be valid till September 30. The last date for renewal of excise licences has been extended from March 31 to June 30, without any penalty, the chief minister said. Apart from permitting 12-hour shifts in factories till July 31, the government has extended the validity of factory licences for one year. It has also deferred payment of licence fees without interest. “A self-certification scheme for factories and boilers, introduced as part of the ease of doing business initiative, states that factories shall be inspected only once in five years, instead of the usual annual inspections, with prior intimation,” Sawant said. With a view to boost the manufacturing sector, the state government is in the process of issuing an ordinance to amend the Factories Act, 1948, wherein the existing threshold of number of workers will be enhanced from 10 to 20 for factories with the aid of power, and from 20 to 40 for factories without the aid of power. “Approval has already been obtained from the President of India as this is a central legislation. Around 160 factories are likely to benefit from this,” the chief minister said. He also announced the deferment of the annual instalment towards land lease premium for 2020-21 fiscal payable to the Goa Industrial Development Corporation. “The same can be paid in an equated manner over the next three years,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-announces-booster-shot-for-covid-hit-economy/articleshow/76653423.cms||Murari Shetye
June 27, 2020||Goa||Sancoale panchayat for lockdown in three areas near Zuarinagar slum||Vasco: The Sancoale panchayat has decided to undergo a seven-day voluntary lockdown from Saturday in three areas of the village, in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases at Zuarinagar. The decision was taken at an emergency meeting convened on Friday. In the letter written to chief minister Pramod Sawant, the panchayat has stated that since Zuarinagar is a thickly populated area and the virus can spread to the entire Sancoale village, a decision has been taken to lockdown the Housing Board colony, the area from Upasnagar to MES College and Zuarinagar. Panchayat member Narayan Naik said, “We as a local body don’t have the power to announce compulsory shutdown, so we are requesting everybody to volunteer.” Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said that “only the pharmacies will remain open throughout the day, and grocery shops will remain open for two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening”. Six Covid positive cases have been detected in the Sancoale panchayat’s jurisdiction, out of which five are from the slum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sancoale-panchayat-for-lockdown-in-three-areas-near-zuarinagar-slum/articleshow/76653412.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 27, 2020||Dehradun||2 arrested for smuggling leopard skin||Pithoragarh: Champawat police on Friday arrested two people for allegedly smuggling leopard skin. They were travelling in a car when police intercepted the vehicle near Chalti on Champawat-Tanakpur Road. Police then searched the Haryana number plate car and found two leopard skin, said Lokeswar Singh, superintendent of police of Champawat. The arrested accused have been identified as Ajay Tamta, 26, and Kushal Mehra, 27, both from Khatima area of US Nagar district. On questioning, they said that they purchased the leopard skins from Lohaghat and were taking it to US Nagar to sell it, the SP added. The length of the leopard skins are is 8.5 feet and 7.4 feet, the SP said, adding that a case has been registered under the Wildlife Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-arrested-for-smuggling-leopard-skin/articleshow/76651295.cms||Prem Punetha
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Lens on hunting after family of palm civets found dead||KOLKATA: A family of Asian palm civets — at least four animals — were allegedly hunted at a village in Kharagpur division. It may be noted that there’s a High Court order on effective prevention of atrocities on wildlife during ritualistic hunting in Bengal. A forest department official, though, said that they were still probing into the case and trying to find out if it was a result of ritualistic hunting. A video of the purported brutality has been doing the rounds on social media. Asian palm civet is protected under Schedule II Part II of the wildlife protection act. Killing an animal under this section can lead to jail term of three to seven years and fine up to Rs 25,000. When contacted, a forest department official under Kharagpur division said: “We have received the information and at the moment, we can’t confirm anything,” he said. In April 2019, Calcutta High Court, while hearing a PIL filed by NGO Human and Environment Alliance League, had ordered: “Taking all the provisions of law into consideration, we direct the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Wildlife, who is also the Chief Wildlife Warden, Department of Forests, Government of West Bengal, to take immediate steps in the matter for effective prevention of atrocities against wildlife during ritualistic hunting festivals.” It also observed: “In order to give full effect to this order, the chief wildlife warden shall be rendered all possible cooperation by district level, sub-divisional level and block level officers, both of the civil administration as well as the police authorities. The concerned railway authorities shall also render effective cooperation in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lens-on-hunting-after-family-of-palm-civets-found-dead/articleshow/76653429.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Meerut||As Covid cases rise, night curfew imposed in 5 west UP districts||MEERUT: With the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, night curfew has been imposed in five districts of western UP -- Meerut, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Gautambuddh Nagar. A decision was taken late on Thursday night that no movement will be allowed in these districts from 8pm to 6am. Praveen Kumar Tripathi, IG (Meerut range), has instructed the police force of all these districts to ensure complete enforcement of the curfew that came into effect on Friday. There has been a sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in these districts. For instance, Meerut alone reported 45 cases on Friday. Speaking with TOI, IG Tripathi said, "People are not taking precautions and there have been instances when people come out at night and loiter. Although the central government advisory is from 9pm to 5am, the district administrations have increased it from 8pm to 6am. I have instructed all the district police chiefs to enforce the curfew strictly." While Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur have been following the central government guidelines ever since Unlock-1 was announced on June 1, Meerut range has started it with a time modification. "We have been strictly following the guidelines since June 1. There used to be a lot of movement at night because there was strict police supervision during the day time, so the curbs were needed," said Saharanpur SSP Abhishek Yadav. Meerut roads that have sprung to life during the day time wore a deserted look as the clock struck 8pm on Friday. "We appeal to residents to take this disease seriously. We don't want to be too strict but at the same time, if rules are flouted, we will have to take strong action," said Meerut SSP Ajay Sahani. Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said, "Disciplining is a must now considering the fact that the Covid numbers are increasing rapidly. For instance, on Friday, Ghaziabad saw 126 cases. Night curfew for extended hours will bring some amount of impact we feel."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-covid-cases-rise-night-curfew-imposed-in-5-west-up-districts/articleshow/76651332.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Bailout package: Rs 27 crore subsidy for 6,000 private buses for 3 months||KOLKATA: The state government on Friday stepped in to provide a Rs 27-crore bailout package to insulate private bus operators from the loss they are incurring owing to the rise in diesel price and bring them back on the road from July 1. The state on Friday announced a monthly subsidy worth Rs 15,000 to each of 6,000 private buses and mini-buses that operate in the city for the next three months. Announcing the subsidy, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the three-month subsidy was to help bus operators to tide over their financial crisis because of the lockdown and the fuel-price hike. “Bus operators are having genuine problems. The prices of diesel and petrol are increasing in leaps and bounds. At some places, diesel is costlier than petrol,” she said. “They are asking for a fare hike. People don’t have money. This is impossible at this stage. The government has some obligation and it cannot work against the interest of people. We also have our limitations. The government has worked out an alternative plan.” Till June 26, there were 20 consecutive rises in diesel price since June 6. During this time, diesel price rose by Rs 9.68 to Rs 75.32 per litre, forcing most of the private buses to stay off the road. The chief minister has also suggested an app so that people can inform the government if there is any delay in supply of buses to a particular area. Buses will be immediately supplied to disperse the stranded passengers. Police are currently doing this job of providing real-time feedback on stranded passengers to the transport department. According to the CM, 1,600 state transport undertaking (STUs) buses are plying in the city. Around 500 more buses will start plying from July 1. Friday’s announcement has elicited a mixed reaction from bus operators’ syndicates. West Bengal Mini-Bus Owners’ Association’s Pradip Narayan Basu, Bengal Bus Syndicate’s Surojit Saha and Paschim Banga Bus-O-Minibus Sammannay Samity’s Rahul Chatterjee welcomed the decision and said that the chief minister had taken historic step to save bus operators. Joint Council of Bus Syndicate’s Tapan Bandyopadhyay, however, said, “We are requesting the chief minister to reconsider her decision. If the subsidy is offered to 6,000 city buses, what would our brothers in the district do? They are also badly hit by the lockdown and the diesel-price hike. Subsidy can be a stop-gap solution. But fare revision is a long-term solution we are looking forward to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bailout-package-rs-27cr-subsidy-for-6000-pvt-buses-for-3-months/articleshow/76652655.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Central Railway resumes parcel train in Matheran||NAVI MUMBAI: Central Railway resumed a parcel shuttle train in Matheran from Friday morning. Four services will run on trial basis with a revised time-table between Aman Lodge and Matheran from Friday to Tuesday. CR had stopped the service from June 3 due to lack of response. CR DRM Shallabh Goyal said a positive response was expected. CR senior PRO Anil Jain said four services a day started from June 26 to 30. The first train will depart Matheran at 8.50am, while it will depart from Aman Lodge at 9.30am. The next departure from Matheran is at 10.50am and Aman Lodge at 11.30am. Meanwhile, a tempo carrying esential goods entered the core eco-sensitive zone area on Friday. Matheran police assistant inspector Prashant Kale said the tempo will ply thrice a week under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-resumes-parcel-train-in-matheran/articleshow/76652684.cms||Umesh K Parida
June 27, 2020||Goa||44 new Covid cases, 2 more Mormugao councillors positive||Panaji/Vasco: Goa reported 44 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking its count of active cases to 667. The new cases were chiefly reported from Mangor Hill linked areas. Four travellers also tested positive, while 35 patients were declared cured. After Mapusa, one isolated case was detected from Nachinola. Ganganagar in Mapusa, where extensive testing was undertaken during the past two days, reported four positive cases. Mapusa MLA Joshua D’souza said three immediate members of the first patient and their neighbour, a 80-year-old woman, have tested positive. “The three family members were moved to Calangute covid care centre, while the elderly was shifted to ESI hospital,” D’Souza said, and appealed to the people of Mapusa not to fall prey to rumours and only rely on official information. Ganganagar being a slum area was cordoned off to contain any further spread of the disease after the first case was detected there. Swab samples of 260 persons were drawn and 190 tests results were received on Friday, while the balance are expected on Saturday. Meanwhile, 13 new cases were detected that are linked to Mangor Hill. On Friday, two more councillors of Mormugao municipal council (MMC) tested positive. Two days ago, two councillors had tested positive. One of the MMC employees has also tested positive. As a result, MMC employees requested acting chairperson Reema Sonurlekar to shut down the MMC office for eight days. However, Sonurlekar told them that the department of urban development had issued instructions not to go for complete shutdown, with 33% staff required to attend office. Three pregnant staffers have been asked to stay at home until further notice. Four cases were also reported from New Vaddem, bringing its total up to 23, while Sada had one case, thus increasing its tally to 59. Sal in Bicholim also reported one additional case. Ambelim in Salcete continued to witness a spike in cases. Three cases were detected there on Friday that increased its count of cases to 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/26-bindiya-covid-cases/articleshow/76653436.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Meerut||UP: Almost extinct, yellow-black Finn’s weavers found in new nesting spot||MEERUT: A chance discovery of a fresh breeding colony of the Finn’s weaver -- a tiny bird clothed in yellow and black -- in UP’s Bijnor by a team of Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has kindled hope among those worried about the future of the species. Of the just 1000 or so left in the world right now, 500 are in India. The Finn’s weaver is a globally threatened species currently listed as vulnerable in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species. It's on the verge of extinction, according to BNHS that is looking to upgrade the species’ status to “critical” in the list. A BNHS team, dedicated to the conservation of this bird, was upbeat after it found the new site in Bijnor’s Sherkot. The experts said restricted human movement in the area may have given a new lease of life to this bird. The Finn’s weaver was first discovered in India in December 1866 by AO Hume, one of the founders of Indian National Congress. He was also an ornithologist and botanist. Renowned Indian ornithologist and naturalist Salim Ali, who referred to Hume as the “father of Indian ornithology”, had rediscovered the bird in 1959 in the Kumaon terai. In Bijnor, the bird species had two nesting areas in Harewali and Bhagwanpur. Now they have been found in Sherkot too. Rajat Bhargava, senior scientist at BNHS and head of the team which located the Sherkot site, told TOI, “Sherkot is a new location where this species has been reported for the first time. We found these birds near the Kho Dam there. Over a period of time, the population of this small bird declined rapidly because of vanishing grasslands, its primary habitat.” The nests of Finn’s weaver are large globular structures, untidily but firmly woven with an entrance on one side near the top. Director of BNHS Dr Deepak Apte said, “This is an excellent development. We need a lot more efforts to save this species by engaging local communities in its conservation.” BNHS, with the help of UP’s forest department, has taken up a conservation breeding project to save the bird now. “These birds start breeding in June. Now we will have to wait for another year because of the prevailing pandemic,” Bhargava said. Divisional forest officer (DFO) of Bijnor, M Semmaran, said, “We are committed to the conservation of this bird and will continue to facilitate the BNHS team’s effort to ensure revival of Finn’s weaver population here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/almost-extinct-yellow-black-finns-weavers-found-in-new-nesting-spot/articleshow/76651314.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC stays government resolution that told schools not to charge increased fees||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday stayed a government resolution (GR) of May 8 which had barred schools from charging new and increased fees for the 2020-21 academic year. Four petitions were filed before the high court seeking the setting aside of the GR for being excessive, unlawful and unconstitutional. The petitioners included Association of Indian Schools, Kasegaon Education Society, Global Education Foundation and Sant Dnyaneshwar Mauli Sanstha. The schools argued that under the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, the state cannot issue directions that are inconsistent with the act and regulation of fees cannot be done in the manner in which it was done by the state. The petitions said that pursuant to the GR, the state education department had written to schools and directed them not to insist on payment of fees for 2019-20 and not to increase the fees for the forthcoming academic year. At the hearing via videoconferencing, the petitioners represented by counsel Milind Sathe, Pravin Samdani, Prateek Sakseria along with advocates Amogh Singh, Nivit Srivastava and Vidhi Partners argued that the GR was not valid as the state had no power under either the Fees Act or the Disaster Management Act to regulate fees for private schools and to decide what fees can be charged for the upcoming academic year. It was argued that such a decision impinged on the constitutional rights under Article 19(1)(g) of school managements “to practise any profession, carry on any occupation, trade or business”. For the state, assistant government pleader B V Samant and Manish Pabale appeared and made brief submissions in the hearing on Tuesday, arguing that the state had powers to issue the GR under the Fee Act and the Disaster Management Act. On Friday, a bench of Justice Ujjal Bhuyan and Justice Riyaz Chagla posted the matter for later but till then stayed the GR and all communications issued by the education department to schools for compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-stays-government-resolution-that-told-schools-not-to-charge-increased-fees/articleshow/76654551.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 27, 2020||Meerut||Youth shot dead by girlfriend’s brother, friends in Bulandshahr||Meerut: A 19-year-old youth was allegedly shot dead by the brother of a girl he was in relationship with on Friday. According to police, Akshay, a resident of Babugarh in Hapur district, was in a relationship with the girl from Bulandshahr against the wishes of her family.According to the FIR, the brother of the girl convinced the youth to come to Bulandshahr to speak to him over the relationship. Moments after Akshay entered Bulandshahr from neighbouring Hapur, he was ambushed by Deepak, brother of the girl, and his friends-- Jeetu and Raju. They shot him dead.Meanwhile, police claimed there was a tension between the two families over the relationship.An FIR against three named accused, Deepak, Jeetu and Raju, was registered at BB Nagar police station in Bulandshahr based on the complaint of the family of the deceased, Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-shot-dead-by-girlfriends-brother-friends-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/76651351.cms||Piyush Rai
June 27, 2020||Goa||44 new Covid cases, 2 more Mormugao councillors +ve||PaNAJI/VASCO: Goa reported 44 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking its count of active cases to 667. The new cases were chiefly reported from Mangor Hill linked areas. Four travellers also tested positive, while 35 patients were declared cured. After Mapusa, one isolated case was detected from Nachinola. Ganganagar in Mapusa, where extensive testing was undertaken during the past two days, reported four positive cases. Mapusa MLA Joshua D’souza said three immediate members of the first patient and their neighbour, a 80-year-old woman, have tested positive. “The three family members were moved to Calangute covid care centre, while the elderly was shifted to ESI hospital,” D’Souza said, and appealed to the people of Mapusa not to fall prey to rumours and only rely on official information. Ganganagar being a slum area was cordoned off to contain any further spread of the disease after the first case was detected there. Swab samples of 260 persons were drawn and 190 tests results were received on Friday, while the balance are expected on Saturday. Meanwhile, 13 new cases were detected that are linked to Mangor Hill. On Friday, two more councillors of Mormugao municipal council (MMC) tested positive. Two days ago, two councillors had tested positive. One of the MMC employees has also tested positive. As a result, MMC employees requested acting chairperson Reema Sonurlekar to shut down the MMC office for eight days. However, Sonurlekar told them that the department of urban development had issued instructions not to go for complete shutdown, with 33% staff required to attend office. Three pregnant staffers have been asked to stay at home until further notice. Four cases were also reported from New Vaddem, bringing its total up to 23, while Sada had one case, thus increasing its tally to 59. Sal in Bicholim also reported one additional case. Ambelim in Salcete continued to witness a spike in cases. Three cases were detected there on Friday that increased its count of cases to 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/44-new-covid-cases-2-more-mormugao-councillors-ve/articleshow/76653445.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Surat||Serial killer on the run for nine years held in Surat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS on Thursday detained serial killer Aslam alias Aman Abdul Karim Shaikh, from Surat’s Vesu area. Wanted for five murders, Shaikh had been on the run for nine years. He lived under a false identity — Lala Kamlesh Patel — married a nurse and had three children. He worked as a ward boy in the same private hospital where his wife worked.  DSP K K Patel said Shaikh was from a well-to-do family which owned a petrol pump and a tractor agency near Devchokdi, Balasinor. He got into bad company and joined a gang that used to kill tractor drivers and then sell off the tractors and trolleys elsewhere. Shaikh committed his first serious crime, a double murder, in 2008, when he and his accomplices intercepted a tractor driver. “They beat up the driver and his helper and threw them in the river after tying their hands and feet. Then they sold off the tractor,” Patel said. After tasting success in the crime, this became the gang’s settled modus operandi. “In a second case, they fought with the driver of a tractor trolley loaded with grass. Shaikh and his associates threw the driver into Dehgam canal after tying his hands and legs,” Patel said. “Once they chanced upon a trailer loaded with five new tractors near Modasa on Shamlaji Highway. The abducted the driver in a jeep, threw him into Halol-Kalol canal after tying his hands and feet and sold off the trailer and the tractors,” Patel said. “In Chhota Udepur, they abducted a tractor driver in an MUV, tied his hands and feet and threw him into the canal near Anand. They sold off the tractor at Himmatnagar. In all, Shaikh is involved in five murders and robbery of 10 tractors, 12 trolleys and one motorcycle,” Patel added. Watch Gujarat: Serial killer on the run for nine years held in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/serial-killer-on-the-run-for-9-yrs-held/articleshow/76654981.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Rains will wreak havoc if old drain not given immediate attention’||Ludhiana: With the arrival of monsoon season, shopkeepers and residents of the old city areas are worried about waterlogging issues. What is more worrisome is that an old drain, which is full of garbage and silt, passes through these areas and needs to be cleaned immediately. The civic body had cleaned the drain two years ago. Shopkeepers in this area said they were afraid of massive waterlogging as more rains were predicted— this means more chaos for residents. Meanwhile, MC officials were seen blaming residents for throwing garbage in the drain. This old drain passes through the heart of the city and over a dozen markets, including Sabun bazaar, Talaab bazaar, Electronic market, Partap bazaar, Chaura bazaar, Gur mandi, Old GT road, etc. “With no initiation from the civic body in getting the drains cleaned, monsoon will be challenging during these unprecedented times. The night curfew imposed due to the lockdown can act as a hindrance to reach the shop on time to save our goods, especially when the area has a history of water entering the shops during heavy rainfall,” said Mahinder Aggarwal, a shopkeeper at Mata Rani Chowk.He added that businessmen have already incurred heavy losses due to Covid-19 and now clogged drainage will only add to their misery.“We are at God’s mercy. Our goods will get damaged if water entered our shops. There is a requirement of cleaning the drain regularly and not once in two years,” said Rahul Malhotra, another shopkeeper. An ex-councillor, Parminder Mehta, said that he had taken up the issue two three years ago, following which the drain was cleaned. Without any proactive steps, the drain is again full of garbage, including plastic and construction waste. He added that two years ago, when the drain was cleaned, not even a single drop of water had troubled the residents. Executive engineer of operation and maintenance cell Pardeep Kumar said, "People do not mend their ways and keep throwing waste in the old drain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rains-will-wreak-havoc-if-old-drain-not-given-immediate-attention/articleshow/76651368.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Goa||Extensive screening taken up in Curtorim ward||Margao: The health department officials have stepped up contact tracing in Curtorim after a number of patients from ward II of Curtorim tested positive for coronavirus. Part of the ward has now been declared as containment zone and the rest as buffer zone. Health officer of the Curtorim primary health centre Dr Vallabh Nadkarni told TOI that while 22 throat swab samples of people suspected to have been exposed to the virus were drawn on Friday, results of 49 samples drawn on Wednesday were awaited. The three persons who tested positive on Thursday were staying in proximity of the ones who were earlier found infected. “We have already done extensive screening of the containment zone and tested all those identified during the contact tracing exercise. As and when new cases come up, contact tracing of these people will be carried out,” Nadkarni said. Nearly 400 people from Curtorim have so far been tested for the virus. In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in South Goa, the district administration has organized awareness campaign programmes across the district, constituency wise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/extensive-screening-taken-up-in-curtorim-ward/articleshow/76653446.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Serial killer on the run for nine years held in Surat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS on Thursday detained serial killer Aslam alias Aman Abdul Karim Shaikh, from Surat’s Vesu area. Wanted for five murders, Shaikh had been on the run for nine years. He lived under a false identity — Lala Kamlesh Patel — married a nurse and had three children. He worked as a ward boy in the same private hospital where his wife worked.  DSP K K Patel said Shaikh was from a well-to-do family which owned a petrol pump and a tractor agency near Devchokdi, Balasinor. He got into bad company and joined a gang that used to kill tractor drivers and then sell off the tractors and trolleys elsewhere. Shaikh committed his first serious crime, a double murder, in 2008, when he and his accomplices intercepted a tractor driver. “They beat up the driver and his helper and threw them in the river after tying their hands and feet. Then they sold off the tractor,” Patel said. After tasting success in the crime, this became the gang’s settled modus operandi. “In a second case, they fought with the driver of a tractor trolley loaded with grass. Shaikh and his associates threw the driver into Dehgam canal after tying his hands and legs,” Patel said. “Once they chanced upon a trailer loaded with five new tractors near Modasa on Shamlaji Highway. The abducted the driver in a jeep, threw him into Halol-Kalol canal after tying his hands and feet and sold off the trailer and the tractors,” Patel said. “In Chhota Udepur, they abducted a tractor driver in an MUV, tied his hands and feet and threw him into the canal near Anand. They sold off the tractor at Himmatnagar. In all, Shaikh is involved in five murders and robbery of 10 tractors, 12 trolleys and one motorcycle,” Patel added. Watch Gujarat: Serial killer on the run for nine years held in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/serial-killer-on-the-run-for-9-yrs-held/articleshow/76653400.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for sodomizing six-year-old son in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Police booked a man for allegedly sodomizing his own six-year-old son repeatedly, under Section 377 of the IPC and charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He is to be tested for Covid-19 before he is formally arrested. Assistant commissioner of police, J Division, Milap Patel, said the man had allegedly been sodomizing the boy for about three months. “The child told his mother what his father was doing and she brought the child to Narol police station and narrated the horror story to us,” a Narol police official said. Police officials said the accused is a daily-wage labourer and has two children. “He seems to be habituated to drinking and we believe he was sodomizing the child after getting drunk,” the official said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Man arrested for sodomising six-year-old son in Ahmedabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-sodomizing-6-year-old-son/articleshow/76653444.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||636 recover from Covid-19 in Hry, death toll crosses 200||Chandigarh: A total of 636 Covid-19 patients were discharged and 421 new cases and 13 deaths were reported in Haryana on Friday. Now, there are 12,884 Covid-19 cases in the state, and the death toll stands at 211. Among those who died on Friday, five each were from Hisar and Gurgaon, two are from Faridabad, and one is from Karnal. With the highest recoveries of the day, the recovery rate in the state has gone up to 62.22% with total 8,016 recoveries. The death rate as well as positivity rate too have gone up to 1.64% and 5.44% respectively with 4,657 active patients. Active patients include 64 critical patients, out of whom 49 are on oxygen support. If Faridabad and Gurgaon topped the table in new cases and deaths in NCR as well as in Haryana, the two districts are dominating in the recoveries as well. Faridabad and Gurgaon have clocked 238 and 226 recoveries so far. According to the health department bulletin, among the new cases, maximum 194 cases have come from Faridabad which crossed the 3,000 to reach 3,134 cases. Gurgaon had 93 cases, where the overall count has gone up to 4,944. Similarly, 35 new cases have come from Sonipat and 24 new cases from Bhiwani district. Rohtak detected 15 new patients and 10 have come from Mahendergarh district. Nine cases have come from Jhajjar, and eight cases have come from Palwal. Seven cases each have come from Ambala and Karnal, six cases have come from Nuh and five cases have come from Yamunanagar. Four new cases have come from Jind, two from Panchkula and one from Kurukshetra district. The testing facilities in the state has gone up to 9,544 cases as total 2,41,941 persons have been tested so far. Out of these 2,23,797 are found to be negative and results of 5,260 are awaited. The overall number of persons quarantined in Haryana reached 1,01,699 out of them 57,024 have completed the quarantine period. Currently there are 44,675 persons under home or institutional quarantine now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/636-recover-from-covid-19-in-hry-death-toll-crosses-200/articleshow/76653947.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Only smart-card holders to be allowed if Metro starts||KOLKATA: Metro Railway will not issue tokens but only ferry smart-card holders if instructed to resume services at the moment. After chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Friday that Metro can resume services if it restricts the number of passengers per train, senior officials said that the issue will be taken up with the Railway Board before discussions are held with the state government on issues like security. “We have come to know of the CM’s statement and the matter will be taken up by our general manager with the Board. We think that the state government will also write to the railways ministry on this matter. It is for the Board to instruct us what to do next. Once we receive instructions, a meeting will be convened with the state government where a final decision will be made along with procedures to be followed,” Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said. According to another official, effective crowd management will not be possible unless restrictions are imposed on the issue of tokens. To start with, Metro will not issue tokens. Even those carrying smart-cards will be stopped at various points before they are allowed into platforms. This will ensure that every train carries only a limited number of passengers. It had been earlier discussed to run end-to-end services but the plan has been dropped. “We realise that the state is facing problems in providing public transport and has now turned to the Metro. We have been keeping our infrastructure prepared to resume operations at a short notice. Since our services will stop at all stations, things like how many people will be allowed on the platform at a time will have to be worked out. The state will have to provide assistance to avoid trouble once restrictions are imposed,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-smartcard-holders-to-be-allowed-if-metro-starts/articleshow/76652673.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Thieves target parts of cars parked in colonies||NEW DELHI: With commuting restricted because of the pandemic, cars parked inside residential colonies have become soft targets for criminals who have been stealing their parts, mainly wheels and batteries. At Jangpura Extension, the wheels of at least a dozen parked cars were stolen in the past week. At Rajouri Garden, police caught two criminals, who were recently released from jail on a 45-day parole, stealing batteries of luxury cars. They were found involved in more than 100 theft cases across the city. Police said that since most vehicles in the city are not being used because people are working from home, by the time the car owners discover that a part has been stolen, the criminals sell it off leaving no evidence. The criminals caught in Rajouri Garden, Raju Mishra and Raja Patel, who called themselves the “Raja Gang”, were jailed for burglaries in south and west Delhi. They turned to stealing batteries of high-end cars as they fetched a handsome sum in the black market. A team led by Rajouri Garden SHO Anil Sharma had been tracking the criminals for the past few months. They spotted the men fleeing with the stolen batteries on a scooter on Thursday night and caught them after a chase. “We recovered six scooters and many batteries that had been stolen recently. We are trying to find out the buyers of the stolen goods,” said DCP (West) Deepak Purohit. During interrogation, the thieves revealed that they would use a stolen scooter to enter housing colonies posing as delivery boys and recce for luxury cars. They would return at night, prise open the bonnets and steal the batteries. They had targeted at least 50 cars last month in different parts of the city. BK Bansal, a resident of Jangpura Extension, had parked his Honda Jazz near a park outside his house. He found the four alloy wheels of his vehicle missing on Wednesday morning. The thieves had rested the car on four stones taken from a construction site. He found at least seven people from the locality having suffered the same fate. “Ever since the lockdown began, many people who don’t live here have been entering and exiting the colonies. We suspect the criminals were using such people to get information about the cars before stealing the parts,” said Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/thieves-target-parts-of-cars-parked-in-colonies/articleshow/76653450.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Village head shot dead, 2 gunmen lynched by mob||AYODHYA: A village head in Ambedkar Nagar district was shot dead on Friday afternoon at a busy market place by three bike-borne gunmen, triggering a violent backlash from the crowd. Minutes after the village pradhan, Dharmendra Varma, fell to a hail of bullets and lay sprawled in blood, the assailants were nabbed and tossed off their bikes by a village mob, who delivered instant justice on a crowded bazaar street in Ibrahimpur. Two gunmen were lynched, while the third survived the assault and was rushed to Trauma Centre, Lucknow, by police. The mob also tried to set two bodies ablaze in a gruesome revenge act, but police intervened and doused the flames. Police have identified the three gunmen, who have a criminal history, and attributed the murder motive to an old enmity between the village head and a hardened criminal, Sansaar Singh, who’s currently lodged in Azamgarh prison. Talking to TOI, inspector general of police, Ayodhya range, Sanjeev Gupta, said, “The village pradhan, Dharmendra Varma, was sitting in his shop at Utretu market in Ibraheempur area, when three assailants came on a bike and opened fire with a pistol and a countrymade gun. While Varma died on spot, the villagers lynched the attackers. Two of them died, while one was rushed to Lucknow in a critical condition. We are further investigating the case.” Angry villagers also tried to burn the bodies of goons, but were stopped, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/village-head-shot-dead-2-gunmen-lynched-by-mob/articleshow/76653944.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 27, 2020||Pune||Ramnadi revival gets a big push this monsoon||PUNE: A group of experts on rivers, the environment, and biodiversity have devised an action plan for the restoration of the choked Ramnadi . The experts, under Ramnadi Restoration Mission launched by organisers of the Kirloskar Vasundhara International Film Festival, have proposed measures to alleviate the flooding along the river, with excessive rains, encroachments, and a poor drainage system affecting more than 3 lakh people last year. “The authorities focused on Ambil Odha, but Ramnadi also needs attention. All the government authorities can take measures to avoid flooding along the river,” Virendra Chitrav said. He is director of the Kirloskar Vasundhara International Film Festival, which is coordinating the report, with inputs from a 100-plus experts. The report has proposed redrawing the flood lines on river maps to prohibit construction near the channels, reforesting the banks and extensive measures to ensure a proper channel, and rehabilitate the four lakes along its course. River experts said its ecological issues start at the source at Khatpewadi in the Sahyadris, right up to its confluence with the Mula in Baner. “We found widespread deforestation with no soil capping, which were cleared out for farmhouses and resorts. Near Bhugaon, there is almost no soil,” Shailaja Deshpande of Jivitnadi group said. A number of temporary hutments have been built right by the river. In the event of any flood, the people living in these hutments stand to lose the most, including their life savings. “We need to make them aware of the dangers of how they live and demarcate the flood lines. They have changed over the years for construction,” Gurudas Nulkar, one of the authors of the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ramnadi-revival-gets-a-big-push-this-monsoon/articleshow/76652681.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||First patient to get plasma therapy in Punjab beats Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: First Covid-19 patient in Punjab to have received plasma therapy has recovered, while two others being treated with the same therapy are on the way to recovery, said a minister on Friday. The therapy was given to a seriously ill patient of Covid-19 on June 12 by a team of doctors at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. The hospital was chosen as one of the institutes in the country to initiate this therapy as a part of National Clinical Trial under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said Punjab medical education and research minister O P Soni. Lauding the efforts of the team led by Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), for successful treatment of critically ill Covid-19 patient with convalescent plasma therapy, he pointed out that this is the first-ever successful treatment of the disease using the therapy in Punjab. A few days back, the plasma of a recovered patient of Covid-19 was collected and stored for this purpose at the medical college, Soni said. He urged that more people, who have recovered from Covid-19, should come forward for this noble cause. Appreciating the feat of GGS Medical College and Hospital, principal secretary of medical education and research D K Tiwari disclosed that GMC, Amritsar has also applied plasma therapy on two patients and both are recovering well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1st-patient-to-get-plasma-therapy-in-pb-beats-virus/articleshow/76653949.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka education minister lauds boy for writing exam with toes||MANGALURU: A boy’s feat in writing the ongoing SSLC exams with his lower limbs has drawn the attention of primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar. Kaushik Acharya, a student of SVS High School in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, is writing the exams with his feet, braving the disability. Born with no hands, Kaushik wrote the Kannada paper using toes on Thursday. After coming to know of Kaushik’s grit, the minister shared on social media his pic of writing the exam. “I appreciate Kaushik, a student of SVS High School of Bantwal taluk, who has written the exam without anyone’s help, and with his toes. Such persons make life meaningful. They represent the humanitarian values of society,” Kumar wrote on his Facebook page and the twitter handle. The photo shows the boy writing the paper on a floormat at the exam centre in SVS High School. Kaushik is the son of Rajesh Acharya and Jalajakshi Acharya, residents of Bastipadpu village in the taluk. He was physically challenged by birth. However, the talented student has, over the years, exhibited his skills in drawing, painting, clay-modelling, sculpture, dance, yoga, swimming, cricket and other co-curricular activities. His major pastime includes creating wooden sculptures, decorative wall hangings and making crafts. All this he does using only toes as he has no arms (his left arm has only a few inches of growth). The disability notwithstanding, he plays volleyball, cricket and even pedals a cycle too. TOI, in its columns on January 2018, had highlighted the talents of the then 13-year-old multifaceted boy. Watch Mangaluru boy writes exam with toes, Karnataka education minister appreciates||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/edu-min-lauds-boy-for-writing-exam-with-toes/articleshow/76651417.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai district ramps up beds for Covid-19 care||MADURAI: As Covid-19 cases in the district rose to 1,477 on Friday, including 944 active cases, the district authorities and health officials continue to make arrangements for additional infrastructure to handle patients. At present, Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has kept 2,000 beds ready for treating Covid-19 patients, including 375 with oxygen supply and 150 ICU beds. Since the hospital is already treating around 800 patients, as many as 2,045 beds in 21 establishments have been identified to be used as Covid-19 care centres. Covid health centres, in a non-hospital setting, with a capacity of 600 beds are also to be set up. Railway Hospital has also kept ready a Covid-19 isolation ward with around 40 beds. According to district health officials, based on the level of treatment required, Covid patients are being identified as mild, moderate and severe cases. “As per this treatment protocol, mild cases will be sent to Covid-19 care centres, moderate cases to the Covid-19 health centres while hospitals can focus on severe cases,” said B Chandra Mohan, monitoring officer for Madurai. He added that currently Covid cases are still manageable in the district with the already available infrastructure and that the required infrastructure for additional care centres will be kept ready as and when necessary. “As cases go up, Covid-19 care centres can greatly help in dealing with asymptomatic patients as home quarantine is currently not advisable as patients tend to flout rules since they feel better and put others at risk,” said a health official. The district administration is also involving five private hospitals with a total capacity of 400 beds for providing care for Covid patients. The treatment at private hospitals can also be covered under the CM’s comprehensive health insurance scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-dist-ramps-up-beds-for-covid-19-care/articleshow/76653447.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Goa||Voluntary lockdown in Goa: Carmona||COLVA: Residents of Carmona in Salcete taluka have gone in for a 10-day voluntary lockdown from Friday afternoon as a preventive measure, although not a single Covid-19 case has been reported in the village. Shop owners have decided to keep their premises open only from 7am to 12 noon. Sarpanch Allwyn George said the panchayat is not involved in the decision to lockdown and it was the locals who took the decision due to the rising coronavirus cases in the neighbouring villages. While stating that the panchayat office will function as usual, the sarpanch said the panchayat will soon launch an awareness campaign in the village. A rumour also spread that Varca villagers were also planning a lockdown. However, Varca sarpanch Reginald Rodrigues that no one has so far approached him with such a suggestion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/voluntary-lockdown-in-carmona/articleshow/76653452.cms||Nisser Dias
June 27, 2020||Delhi||DU’s online session on admission on June 29||NEW DELHI: After holding a live open house webinar on June 23, Delhi University (DU) has announced another webinar on June 29, with a special focus on the admission process through reservations in various categories. According to DU admission branch member Suman Kumar, “During this webinar, we would focus on questions related to the admission process through various reservations.” Kumar said that in the previous webinar, DU had received several queries from applicants about the process for admissions through reservation, while some had raised concerns over their caste certificates and had asked about how to get the certificates on time. “Not just the webinar, we had also been receiving regular queries about the reservation policies on our helpdesk. This webinar would try to dispel the doubts of students. We senior members from the admission branch would participate in the webinar,” Kumar added. Along with DU, some colleges also started conducting open house webinars to attract students and clear doubts. “ARSD college would conduct a webinar on June 30, to tell students about the process,” principal Gyantosh Jha told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dus-online-session-on-admission-tomorrow/articleshow/76667926.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Meerut||UP court staffer gunned down, suspect at large||Meerut: Atul Sharma, a staffer of a fast track court in UP's Bulandshahr district, was gunned down on Thursday evening within the limits of Kotwali city police station.Police are claiming the homicide to be a fallout of an ongoing monetary dispute between deceased Atul Sharma and his partner Saurabh Sharma who is still at large.According to the police, the deceased had a stake in a motorcycle agency and there was a dispute when one of the partners moved the agency to his another in Kurja area during lockdown, without informing Atul. The incident took place when Atul had met Saurabh at their agency."The murder seems to be a fallout of the ongoing monetary dispute as the agency was up for sale after losses during lockdown. Saurabh owed Rs 8 lakh to the deceased and most likely the dispute took a wrong turn. Motive can be clearly ascertained only after the suspect is arrested," Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-court-staffer-gunned-down-suspect-at-large/articleshow/76651372.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Costly diesel, rain in districts push veggie prices up||KOLKATA: The hike in diesel price has impacted transportation cost, which, in turn, has made vegetables dearer. With customers staying away because of the high prices, vegetable vendors have had to resort to distress sale at the end of the day to sell off produce. “Before lockdown, a small goods carriage with carrying capacity of 3 tonnes-4 tonnes of vegetable used to cost Rs 3,000. During the lockdown, it jumped to Rs 7,000. Now, successive rises in diesel price has pushed the cost to Rs 9,000-Rs 10,000. This has led to the increase in vegetable cost. The same amount of vegetables, when brought by train, used to cost Rs 1,600,” said Kamal Dey, member of the state’s market task force and president of West Bengal Vendors’ Association. “The bulk of the vegetables always used to come by train. With services stopped, the supply of vegetables to the city markets suffered a huge setback. The spiralling cost of vegetables is actually causing harm to vendors and farmers as people have stopped buying vegetables except potato,” said agro-economist Sanjib Das. Although this year Bengal had a bumper crop, Amphan destroyed a massive amount of vegetables. “Most farmers are yet to recover from the shock. A majority of vendors who supply vegetables to the city round the year have stopped coming because their losses were mounting. Only big farmers and big traders are still in play,” Dey added. Between June 6 and June 26, there have been 20 hikes in diesel price, rising by Rs 9.68 to Rs 75.32/L. This has forced goods vehicle operators to hike hiring charges. “The operating cost has been spiralling on a daily basis. Initially, we absorbed the losses as we have long-term relations with the vendors. But after June 23, we had to revise the fare,” said Suresh Agarwal of South Bengal Goods Carriers’ Association. The heavy rain in the district is also leading to a large amount of vegetables rotting in the field and the demand-supply gap is also pushing the prices up. “Unless train services resume soon, the cost of vegetables is unlikely to dip,” said Shyamal Karmokar, a vendor at Maniktala Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/costly-diesel-rain-in-dists-push-veggie-prices-up/articleshow/76652702.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 27, 2020||Meerut||Rapid antigen testing begins in Meerut for Covid-19||Meerut: Rapid antigen testing, which can produce results for Covid-19 within 15 minutes, began in Meerut on Friday, after 6,000 detection kits arrived in the district. Officials said the tests would be available for free.The move comes eight days after Union home minister Amit Shah took a video conference meeting of the officials and ordered them to increase the testing through antigen kits.Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer, said, “6,000 antigen testing kits have arrived in Meerut. We have started conducting the tests on Friday itself. This will help in reducing the time taken for testing to 15 minutes. In case a person tests positive, he/she will be sent for treatment. But, if a person tests negative, his/her sample will be sent for another testing to the microbiology laboratory.”According to the norms, the health department would conduct these tests at three places, including the hotspots, quarantine centres and Covid-19 treatment centres.“In case one person tests positive in an area, active case search will be conducted in 300 houses around that point. However, if more than one person tests positive in an area, at least 1,200 houses around that point will be covered,” said Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rapid-antigen-testing-begins-in-meerut-for-covid-19/articleshow/76651388.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 27, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Pb water dept building infra’||Chandigarh: The Punjab department of water supply and sanitation is pitching in the fight against Covid-19 by ramping up infrastructure to handle patients in case of a flare up in cases, said minister Razia Sultana on Friday. The Punjab minister of water supply and sanitation said the departtment, with support of doctors at Guru Nanak Charitable Hospital, set up an isolation centre with 50 beds at Dhahan Kaleran village of Nawanshahr district. The minister said that nine air-conditioning systems had been installed for the comfort of , and ventilation systems set up along with sodium hypochlorite solution tank on the roof. The minister said the department was ensuring that there was uninterrupted water supply and sewage services at isolation centres. She said 40 pump operators in all villages of Banga block had also been trained on precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-water-dept-building-infra/articleshow/76653954.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: MSEDCL webinar to be held to clear doubts on inflated bills||MUMBAI: MSEDCL said on Friday it will host webinars for consumers who have complaints on ‘inflated bills’. This will be besides camps for consumers at housing societies/colonies and setting up of consumer redressal centres at its sub-division offices. The webinar, to clear doubts, will be conducted by the chief engineer and executive engineer, said MSEDCL chief spokesperson Anil Kamble. Some of BEST’s nearly 10.5 lakh electricity consumers in the island city (Cuffe Parade/Colaba to Sion/Mahim) complained of receiving ‘inflated’ bills in June. Few said they were not on the premises for two and a half months but were billed. A senior official said higher bills were expected this month as they were based on “actual meter readings for three summer months”. “We had billed consumers on average basis for March-April-May based on bills of December-January-February. So, the amounts were less than what was consumed during summer when people stayed maximum indoors and used many appliances and computers. Now with actual readings, you can expect higher bills,” the official said. A consumer Ankit Kamat tweeted “Due to lockdown I was not available in the house for 3 months and the bill amount levied is Rs 4,235. How can you impose? Can you please check and revert.” Santosh Kini, who has an office at Marine Lines, told TOI he was shocked to see a bill of Rs3,000 when the office was shut for two and a half months. “I will see a refund,” he said. An official said that in case of premises being shut but still being billed, BEST will look into the cases and adjust the amount with future bills. Power utility firms appealed to consumers to pay bills on time, with MSEDCL offering EMI facility, while Adani has an instalment facility for card payments. Consumers demanded that power supply should not be disconnected till the inflated bill issue is redressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msedcl-webinar-to-be-held-to-clear-doubts-on-inflated-bills/articleshow/76652716.cms||Somit Sen
June 27, 2020||Pune||Blaze destroys four stalls, six cylinders explode||PUNE: Four stalls — two stores for bag repairs, one flower outlet and a cylinder and stove repair shop — along Paud Road near Kothrud police station were gutted in a fire that broke out around 2.45am on Friday. Fire officer Gajanan Pathrudkar told TOI, “Six small cylinders exploded in the incident. The reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained.” Branches of a banyan tree located near the stall prevented the pieces of exploding cylinders from falling on the houses in Shastrinagar, located just behind the stalls, thus averting a major tragedy. The Pune fire brigade doused the fire immediately and prevented it from engulfing more stalls. Autorickshaw driver Kailas Narwade sustained minor burns on his hand while shifting his vehicle to a safe place. Flower stall owner Atmaram Ghare said, “After repeated complaints, MSEDCL workers covered a spark-emanating wire in a nearby electric pole with tape,” Ghare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/blaze-destroys-four-stalls-six-cylinders-explode/articleshow/76652695.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||BSL’s showcause notice to squatters in Balidih||Bokaro: Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL) on Friday issued notices to residents of 200 hutments in Balidih area. The hutments have allegedly been built on land owned by BSL, the PSU said. Balidih, a slum along NH-23, is 13 km from Bokaro town and sits on the catchment area of Garga dam. A team of BSL’s homeguards visited the dwellings and pasted showcause notices served by the PSU’s estate officer J T Kongari. BSL claimed around 200 structures have mushroomed in Balidih on its land comprising mud huts, brick homes, shops and hatcheries without its permission. The dwellers have been asked to reply to the showcause notice within 30 days. The company also warned of levying the cost of razing the homes on the owners if they failed to reply to its notice. The notices were issued at a time when Jharkhand is under lockdown and Covid-19 cases are registering a steep rise across the state. BSL’s chief of communication Manikant Dhan said, “Showcause notices have been served to inhabitants for erecting structures illegally on the company’s land at Larbera, Simabar and Narkera Mouja.” The notices to Balidih dwellers came amid the BSL management’s failure to free one of its premium bungalows within the town premises from Jharkhand Mukti Morcha’s district unit which forcefully encroached upon the property. JMM functionaries occupied the bungalow earlier this week in sector 1/B area and made it their district party office after the BSL management allegedly did not pay heed to their demand of a quarter to set up a party office. Dhan said, “Officials are are looking into the matter.” However, the management remained tight-lipped about the steps they are contemplating to evict the JMM functionaries. Meanwhile, JMM functionaries refused to budge from the quarter unless the BSL management removed encroachments from its quarters across the township. Mantu Yadav, president of JMM’s Bokaro city cell, said, “Encroachment of quarters is a scam and is happening in connivance of senior officials of BSL. A probe must be carried out.” Meanwhile, the residents who are officers in BSL have met chief general manager, BSL (town and administration) Bibhakar Singh and opposed encroachment of quarters by JMM cadres in their locality. They demanded from the management to either remove the party workers or shift them to other places as opening of a party office “breached the peace of their locality”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsls-showcause-notice-to-squatters-in-balidih/articleshow/76653022.cms||Divy Khare
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||Tata Steel closes Jamadoba mine after employee tests positive||SINDRI: Tata Steel on Friday announced the temporary closure of its Jamadoba coal mine after a mine manager tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday night. The mine manager is currently admitted to Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur. “Mining operations have been stopped as a precautionary measure to stop the spread of coronavirus and sanitization work of the coal mine as well as of the surrounding areas has been launched. All mine staff and associates of the mine manager have been directed to undergo necessary health check-ups as per the government protocol,” Tata Steel spokesperson Rajesh Thakur said. The mine manager was posted at Pit number two of the Jamadoba mine which is situated near the general manager’s office. Meanwhile, a woman admitted in the orthopaedic ward of Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The woman has now been admitted to BCCL Central Hospital. “The woman hails from Giridih and was admitted at the PMCH a few days ago,” deputy commissioner Amit Kumar said. Kumar added that the doctors and hospital staff who attended to the woman will be tested for Covid 19. On Thursday, a dental surgeon working at PMCH tested positive. The surgeon came in contact with an employee of a private bank who visited his private clinic recently. The samples of 40 PMCH staff and doctors who came in contact with the surgeon has already been collected, Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tata-steel-closes-jamadoba-mine-after-employee-tests-positive/articleshow/76652941.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||29 fresh cases reported in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Friday reported 29 fresh cases of Covid-19 from across 12 districts. The daily average of new cases in the state has reduced substantially since the second week of June when the average was 102 cases. The number of active cases in nine districts has also reduced to single digits. While Bokaro and Chatra have nine cases each, Godda, Jamtara and Seraikela each have seven cases. Latehar and Palamu remained steady with six active cases followed by Khunti five and Sahibganj with two cases each. Dumka, which was Covid-free till Thursday, detected three fresh cases on Friday. Pakur, too, which had a single case till Thursday detected one fresh case. The total number of cases in the state has now risen to 2,294, of which 635 are active and 1,647 have recovered. Forty-two patients recovered and were discharged on Friday alone. Twelve persons have also succumbed to the viral infection in the state. Among the 29 new cases, Giridih continues to report the maximum with six followed by Hazaribag with five fresh cases. Deoghar, Dhanbad and Dumka detected three fresh cases each while Chatra and East Singhbhum reported two cases each. Bokaro, Godda, Koderma, Pakur and Seraikela recorded one fresh case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/29-fresh-cases-reported-in-jharkhand/articleshow/76652905.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||BJP fact finding team visits Bhognadih||RANCHI/DUMKA: The BJP on Friday accused chief minister Hemant Soren of hushing up the investigation in the death of tribal revolutionary duo Sidho-Kanho Murmu’s descendant Rameshwar Murmu, who died on June 12. A 10-member fact-finding team from the saffron party reached Sidho-Kanho’s native village in Bhognadih on Friday morning and spoke to the family members of Murmu. Bhognadih comes under the Barhait assembly constituency in Sahibganj district, of which Hemant is the MLA. BJP's Rajya Sabha member Samir Oraon said, “JMM uses the names of the revolutionaries to stay relevant in politics. But the government tried to hush up the death of their descendant for the sake of appeasement politics. After speaking to the family members, it looks like a case of murder. But the government is trying to cover it up. We demand a CBI probe.” Murmu’s (28) corpse was found on June 12. In its autopsy, the police cited alcohol abuse and cardiac arrest as the causes of death. But Murmu's family members insisted that he was murdered and lodged an FIR on June 16. Murmu’s family members alleged that he was killed by one Saddam Ansari, with whom he allegedly had an altercation after the latter made an objectionable remark at a village girl. Former social welfare minister Lois Marandi, who was also a part of the team, criticised Hemant for being silent on the matter. “It has been 14 days since Murmu’s death but the CM, who is himself a tribal and hails from Santhal Pargana, did not say a word about it. Neither did he meet the family members of the deceased,” Marandi accused. BJP functionary and former IPS officer Arun Oraon pointed fingers at the way the case was handled. “It was a high-profile case and a board of doctors must have been constituted to conduct the autopsy. But the autopsy was conducted in a hurry,” Oraon said. Ramkumar Pahan, former Khijri MLA and head of BJP’s state tribal cell, demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation and employment for one member of Murmu’s family. The BJP fact finding team’s visit to Hemant’s turf came days before the Hul festival, celebrated every year on June 30. The saffron brigade’s posturing also points at its effort to gain ground in Santhal Pargana ahead of the by-polls to the Dumka assembly seat. On Wednesday, Hemant, when asked about the opposition’s demands for CBI probe in the growing number of attacks against tribal people, he said he is open to recommending a CBI probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-fact-finding-team-visits-bhognadih/articleshow/76653067.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 27, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Experts hail Mukhyamantri Shramik Yojna, say it is important for the country||RANCHI: Well known thinktank of the country comprising developmental economist Jean Dreze, former IAS and social activist Aruna Roy, associate professor at Azim Premji university Rajendran Narayanan and others collectively wrote a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren welcoming the urban employment guarantee scheme —Mukhyamantri Shramik Yojna (MSY). The activists said the scheme will be of great help to the workers in the informal sector and returning migrants in urban areas. “This initiative is important not only for Jharkahnd, but for the country as a whole because it charts a path forward out of the present crisis and sets example for other states to emulate,” the letter reads. Talking to TOI, Dreze said since the initiative of the state government has the potential of being developed into framing an urban employment guarantee Act in the future, it must be crafted with caution taking every minor aspect into consideration. “We have urged the CM to follow a transparent and consultative pre-legislative process to finalise the guidelines for the scheme. As per the directive issued by the ministry of law and justice, the state government is required to publish the draft guidelines, along with requisite explanations for a minimum number of days to invite feedback from citizens.” He added, “The directive also requires the state government to hold consultations and solicit feedback from citizens in general and potential beneficiaries in particular. Developing scheme guidelines informed by ground realities and experiences will benefit the programme and will also ensure that it is implemented effectively.” The activists, which also includes James Herenj, state convener NREGA watch, Annie Raja, general secretary of National Federation of Indian Women, Nikhil Dey, founder of Mazdoor Kisan Sakti Sangathan, Jayati Ghosh, chairperson of centre for economic studies and planning at JNU and others have extended suggestions on the functionality of the proposed Act. The letter said that the right to 100 days of urban employment should be an entitlement for each individual worker. “We strongly recommend that workers whose names appear on MGNREGA job cards should not be excluded from the ambit of the urban employment guarantee. Doing so will unnecessarily exclude deserving and vulnerable workers. Wages for the new programme should be no less than the urban state minimum wage and there should be a provision to regularly revise this rate in line with cost of living changes,” the letter suggests. Underlining the need to weed out touts and private contractors from the system, the activists opined urban local bodies should be the main implementing agencies of the programme. They should be empowered to finalise the list of works to be undertaken in a ward through participatory ward sabhas. The letter suggests that a large variety of works that require a range of education and skills may be undertaken which includes public works such as building and maintenance of roads, footpaths, and bridges; creation, rejuvenation, and monitoring of urban commons (waterbodies and parks); monitoring, evaluation, and surveying of air, water, and soil quality; work in municipal offices, schools and health centres and provisioning of care for children, elderly, specially-abled and those in correctional facilities. The activists, most of whom are masters in their respective disciplines, also offered to support the state government with their academic resources and experiences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/experts-hail-mukhyamantri-shramik-yojna-says-it-is-important-for-the-country/articleshow/76657975.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Experts hail Mukhyamantri Shramik Yojna, say it is important for the country||RANCHI: Well known thinktank of the country comprising developmental economist Jean Dreze, former IAS and social activist Aruna Roy, associate professor at Azim Premji university Rajendran Narayanan and others collectively wrote a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren welcoming the urban employment guarantee scheme —Mukhyamantri Shramik Yojna (MSY). The activists said the scheme will be of great help to the workers in the informal sector and returning migrants in urban areas. “This initiative is important not only for Jharkahnd, but for the country as a whole because it charts a path forward out of the present crisis and sets example for other states to emulate,” the letter reads. Talking to TOI, Dreze said since the initiative of the state government has the potential of being developed into framing an urban employment guarantee Act in the future, it must be crafted with caution taking every minor aspect into consideration. “We have urged the CM to follow a transparent and consultative pre-legislative process to finalise the guidelines for the scheme. As per the directive issued by the ministry of law and justice, the state government is required to publish the draft guidelines, along with requisite explanations for a minimum number of days to invite feedback from citizens.” He added, “The directive also requires the state government to hold consultations and solicit feedback from citizens in general and potential beneficiaries in particular. Developing scheme guidelines informed by ground realities and experiences will benefit the programme and will also ensure that it is implemented effectively.” The activists, which also includes James Herenj, state convener NREGA watch, Annie Raja, general secretary of National Federation of Indian Women, Nikhil Dey, founder of Mazdoor Kisan Sakti Sangathan, Jayati Ghosh, chairperson of centre for economic studies and planning at JNU and others have extended suggestions on the functionality of the proposed Act. The letter said that the right to 100 days of urban employment should be an entitlement for each individual worker. “We strongly recommend that workers whose names appear on MGNREGA job cards should not be excluded from the ambit of the urban employment guarantee. Doing so will unnecessarily exclude deserving and vulnerable workers. Wages for the new programme should be no less than the urban state minimum wage and there should be a provision to regularly revise this rate in line with cost of living changes,” the letter suggests. Underlining the need to weed out touts and private contractors from the system, the activists opined urban local bodies should be the main implementing agencies of the programme. They should be empowered to finalise the list of works to be undertaken in a ward through participatory ward sabhas. The letter suggests that a large variety of works that require a range of education and skills may be undertaken which includes public works such as building and maintenance of roads, footpaths, and bridges; creation, rejuvenation, and monitoring of urban commons (waterbodies and parks); monitoring, evaluation, and surveying of air, water, and soil quality; work in municipal offices, schools and health centres and provisioning of care for children, elderly, specially-abled and those in correctional facilities. The activists, most of whom are masters in their respective disciplines, also offered to support the state government with their academic resources and experiences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/experts-hail-mukhyamantri-shramik-yojna-says-it-is-important-for-the-country/articleshow/76653112.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown extended till July 31 in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government on Friday extended the lockdown till July 31 because of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state. During the period, all educational, religious and recreational activities will be suspended, but social functions like marriage, funeral and other gatherings of importance would be permitted with a host of safety measures, including a cap on the number of people. The government also permitted some relaxations to business establishments but said they have to strictly adhere to public safety norms. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, who is also the chairperson of the state executive committee (SEC), said those activities permitted, prior to the fresh order, will continue. The fresh order said all religious places, schools, colleges, educational institutions, coaching centres, training institutes, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, theatres, bars, parks, assembly halls, shopping malls, hotels, lodges, dharamshala, restaurants (dine-in), spas, salons and barber shops will not be allowed to open. It also barred both inter and intrastate bus movement while individuals coming to the state by private vehicles will require e-passes. Nobody will be allowed on the roads between 9 am and 5 am except for essential services and emergency purposes. “Individuals must maintain a minimum distance of six feet in public places, compulsorily wear masks and avoid gathering,” the order said. A maximum of 50 persons are allowed for a marriage ceremony while 20 people are allowed for funerals with the condition of maintaining social distancing and wearing masks, it said. Spitting in public and consumption of all forms of tobacco products in public places are prohibited. Senior citizens and children below 10 years have been advised to stay indoors, except for urgent medical needs. Shops have been asked to refuse entry to any person having coughs or breathing problems. The shops have also been directed to maintain contact details of their customers daily. All workplaces have to maintain social distancing, ensure less working strength, periodical sanitisation and allow staggered lunch breaks to the employees, the order added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-extended-till-july-31-in-jharkhand/articleshow/76652815.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||250 persons from Jharkhand working on Uttarakhand BRO projects||RANCHI/DUMKA: Around 250 workers from the tribal-dominated Santhal Pargana have been taken by the Border Roads Organization (BRO) to work in road construction projects in Uttarakhand along India’s border with China. The men, who left from Dumka railway station on a special train on June 13, were put under quarantine in Dehradun for seven days before they were taken to Joshimath in 11 buses and put to work, sources in the Jharkhand government said. In all, around 1,600 men were taken to Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir on the special train after offloading a few men in Roorkee. A large number of the remaining 1,350 men will be pressed into BRO projects in Ladakh, while many will be working in Himachal Pradesh. Around 60 roads are to be built by the BRO along the Indo-China border. “The men who disembarked in Udhampur will be taken to the project sites in Ladakh after their 14-day institutional quarantine is over,” a source in the Hemant Soren government said. Ladakh has been on the boil due to the month-long standoff between Indian and Chinese troops over territory, which led to a skirmish 15 between in which 20 Indian soldiers, including two from Jharkhand, were martyred. The Jharkhand government allowed BRO officials to recruit workmen from the state after it promised higher wages and better facilities. However, the skirmish has shelved BRO’s efforts to send more workmen in the region. “The registration process (of persons for working in BRO projects) have been withheld temporarily keeping in mind the situation along the order. It will resume after instructions from the state government,” Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B said. In all, 12,000 workmen were to be taken to the border areas by special trains in between June 13 and July 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/250-persons-from-state-working-on-ukhand-bro-projects/articleshow/76653099.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||Rims acting director meets health secy day after taking charge||Ranchi: A day after taking charge as the acting director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Jharkhand’s only tertiary care centre, Dr Manju Gari met state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni on Friday and said her focus would be to complete the pending works initiated by her predecessor. It may be noted that former director Dr D K Singh was recently relieved from his duties, which many say was an outcome of a fallout between him and state health minister Banna Gupta. The minister had recently asked the hospital to stall all tenders, appointments and promotions without convening a governing body (GB) meeting. Rims’ GB is the highest authority of the hospital and the minister’s order was in contravention to the laid out rules. Interestingly, the state government had recently requested the Centre to extend Singh’s term after his appointment as the director of AIIMS, Bhatinda, keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. However, after the minister’s order, Singh had shot off a letter to him reminding him of the rules and requested him to convene a GB meeting. Meanwhile, the state health department issued an advertisement inviting applications to fill up the post of director at the state’s largest hospital. As per the advertisement, applications have been invited from reputed medical professors who fulfil the eligibility criteria. The last date of applying for the position is July 31 and interested candidates have been asked to check the eligibility criteria on state government’s website www.jharkhand.gov.in. Health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “We have invited applications for the position of director, Rims and after we receive the applications, a scrutiny will be done and eligible candidates will be called in for interviews before a selection committee.” The interview committee is headed by the state chief secretary and other members and after the committee finalises a name, the same will be sent to the state health minister and chief minister. Talking to TOI, Gari, also a professor and head of the department of pharmacology, said, “My priorities as an acting director will be to complete the works initiated by my predecessor. I will ensure that patient care is given top priority.” On being asked about the investigations into the irregularities in appointment of third and fourth grade staff in which Gari herself was a part of the scrutiny and selection committee, she said, “I will have to examine all the documents and will comment on the issue only after that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-acting-director-meets-health-secy-day-after-taking-charge/articleshow/76652760.cms||---
June 27, 2020||Ranchi||Two days on, no headway in tribal activist’s murder case||RANCHI: Even after 48 hours of retrieving the body of tribal activist Ramjiv Munda, who was vocal during the Pathalgarhi movement, from a forest in Khunti, police on Friday are still clueless about his killers. Munda, 27, of Ghaghra village in Khunti district was attacked by unidentified people with sharp weapons on Wednesday evening while he was returning home from Sakedih, a nearby village, on his motorcycle with two others. While his cousin was injured in the attack, the other escaped unhurt. Munda was a social activist who tried to help his fellow villagers when Pathalgarhi cases were lodged “indiscriminately” against them after a police crackdown in 2018. He was also a member of the fact-finding team of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) which went to Burugulikera village of West Singhbhum in February 2020 after an incident of mass killing linked to the movement. Khunti SP Asutosh Shekhar said Munda had no criminal antecedent and no case was filed against him in the Pathalgarhi movement. “Though he belongs to Ghaghra, which was in the news for the Pathalgarhi movement, we have not found him associated with the cases filed,” he said. On Friday, JJM demanded that the state government should ensure an independent and fair investigation into the murder and make the findings public. JJM member Aloka Kujur said in June 2018, police and local administration officials beat up several Ghaghra villagers when they were planning a Pathalgarhi ceremony. Two of the villagers also received bullet injuries and one of them died. After the incident, Munda played an important role in highlighting police “atrocities”, Kujur said. “Munda was deeply committed to protecting and strengthening Adivasi rights. He used to mobilise people for their socio-political rights,” Kujur added. JJM also asked the government to ensure safety and livelihood of Munda’s wife and their seven-day-old daughter. “The government should talk to the traditional head of Ghaghra village and ensure the safety of the villagers who have already suffered a lot in the hands of political activists and local administration in the past,” Kujur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-days-on-no-headway-in-tribal-activists-murder-case/articleshow/76652594.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
June 27, 2020||Mumbai||In some Mumbai metropolitan region satellite cities, 1 out of 2 or 3 tests coming +ve||MUMBAI: Some of the satellite towns in the thickly populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have unusually high positivity rates for Covid-19. As of Friday, the positivity rate for Bhiwandi-Nizampura stood at 49%, meaning one in every two persons tested for the infection has come positive. This is nearly three times the state’s average of 18%. Similarly, the positivity rate in Mira-Bhayander is 36% and Kalyan-Dombivli 33%. The rates for both are nearly double the state’s average. The positivity rates for the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and the Panvel City Municipal Corporation are 31% and 30%. Thane, which has been rapidly adding 350 cases on an average daily, has a positivity of 18%, while Mumbai, where the situation appears to be stabilising, is 23%. TOI had previously reported how most of the corporations in MMR have failed to scale up their testing and barely managed to test even 0.5% of their populations. Officially, there are eight government labs with a capacity of 2,855 tests per day and eight private labs with a capacity of 8,000 to cater to MMR. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with the local administration of Thane district to review Covid spread in the area. He has directed the administration to strengthen the tracking mechanism in the district. In yet another letter to the CM, leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the increasing numbers of cases and deaths in MMR is a cause for worry. As per the health department, about 3,250 Covid tests were carried out in Bhiwandi city, of which 49% (1,588) came positive; there are 94 deaths. The area’s population is 12 lakh. Dr Pankaj Ashiya, the newly appointed commissioner of Bhiwandi-Nizampura City Municipal Corporation said, “The testing numbers could be high because many of the private labs have not reported about patients who have tested negative. We have already written to them and in a few days the exact number of tests will be updated.” In Kalyan-Dombivli, civic body data shows 14,783 tests, of which 4,873 have come positive (33%). (Inputs by Clara Lewis & Umesh Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-some-mumbai-metropolitan-region-satellite-cities-1-out-of-2-or-3-tests-coming-ve/articleshow/76654563.cms||Sandhya Nair
