June 28, 2020||India||Flood situation in Assam worsens; 2 more die, over 4.6 lakh people affected||GUWAHATI: The flood situation in Assam worsened on Saturday with two more people losing their lives due to the deluge, which has affected over 4.6 lakh people across 21 districts, officials said. The two deaths were reported at Balijana and Matia in Goalpara district due to flood waters, the Assam state disaster management authority (ASDMA) said in its daily bulletin. The death toll in this year's floods in the state has gone up to 16. The ASDMA said more than 4.6 lakh persons have been hit by the deluge in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Biswanath, Udalguri, Darrang, Nalbari, Barpeta, Chirang, Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar, South Salmara, Goalpara, Kamrup, Morigaon and other districts. Dhemaji is the worst affected, followed by Tinsukia and Nalbari. The administration has rescued 261 people during the last 24 hours in the three districts, the bulletin said. With incessant rains, Dibrugarh city has been under water for the last four days, the ASDMA said, adding that 1,289 villages are submerged and 37,313.46 hectares of crop area has been damaged. Authorities have set up 132 relief camps and distribution centres in 10 districts where 19,496 people are taking shelter. The Brahmaputra is flowing above the danger mark at Guwahati, Nimatighat in Jorhat, Tezpur in Sonitpur, Goalpara town and Dhubri town. Embankments, roads, bridges, culverts and other infrastructure have been damaged at various places, the bulletin said. Massive erosion has been witnessed in Baksa and Udalguri, the ASDMA said. The bulletin also said that 80 out of 183 camps are affected due to the flood at the Kaziranga National Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/flood-situation-in-assam-worsens-2-more-die-over-4-6-lakh-people-affected/articleshow/76667495.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coronavirus: Gujarat records highest one-day increase of 615 cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat saw its highest single-day increase of 615 in coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the total to 30,773, the state health department said. Eleven of the new infection cases were reported from an army cantonment in Kutch district, it said. With the death of 18 patients, the state's Covid-19 fatalities rose to 1,790. 379 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered patients to 22,417, it said. Gujarat now has 6,566 active cases. 69 of these patients are on ventilator, the health department informed. The recovery rate of the state has improved to 73.08 per cent, while the case doubling rate has improved to 28 days, it said. The mortality rate, on the other hand, has come down to 3.88 per cent over the last few weeks, it claimed. With 211 new coronavirus cases, the tally in Ahmedabad district rose to 20,269. The death toll in the district rose to 1,410 with 12 new fatalities reported on Saturday. Ahmedabad also reported recovery of 218 patients, taking the total number of discharged patients in the district to 15,479. Surat district reported 184 new cases, taking its total to 4,242. Cases in Vadodara rose to 2,121 with 47 new cases, the health department said. During the day, besides Ahmedabad, Surat reported two coronavirus deaths and Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Botad and Junagadh one death each. Among other districts, Navsari reported 21 new cases, Mehsana 16, Anand 11, Kutch 11, Rajkot 12, Gandhinagar nine, Bharuch eight, and Sabarkantha, Surendranagar and Chhota Udepur seven cases each. A total of 3,57,148 samples have been tested in the state so. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 30,773, New cases 615, deaths 1,790, discharged 22,417, active cases 6,566 and people tested so far 3,57,148.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coronavirus-gujarat-records-highest-one-day-increase-of-615-cases/articleshow/76667627.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||FC Goa offer Romeo another chance to rediscover himself||PANAJI: Once he is done with his early morning training sessions, sometimes alone, on the nearby beach, Romeo Fernandes has enough time for the rest of the day to pause and wonder what might have been. Not too long ago, he was the darling of Goan football. Alongside Mandar Rao Desai, he was the poster boy for FC Goa and helped the club to a final appearance in 2015. Who can forget the high praise from coach Zico, and it surprised nobody that Romeo – thanks to a recommendation from the Brazilian legend – became the first Indian footballer to feature for a top-tier South American club when he made his debut for Atletico Paranaense in Brazil. His stint in Brazil did not last long. Eager to return home and continue with FC Goa in the Indian Super League (ISL), the winger didn’t realise what he was leaving behind. And since being left out by Goa in 2017, life has never been the same. "I wonder sometimes. I think about it, but there’s nothing I can do. Brazil was a good experience, but I was still happy to come back and play for FC Goa. Once I was out of here (Goa), it all went downhill," said Romeo, seated calmly at his Ambelim residence in south Goa. In 2017, FC Goa opted to retain Mandar Rao Desai -- who played a record hundred times for the club – and Laxmikant Kattimani, a calamitous decision on hindsight, given that the goalkeeper was eventually forced out. What if Romeo was one of the two players retained instead? "I would have been the happiest if the club had retained me. Everyone knows I love the club and would have taken my performance a notch higher. It’s also true that I am a professional footballer and should be ready to prove myself anywhere," said Romeo. At Delhi Dynamos and later Odisha FC, it hasn’t gone according to script. Under Miguel Angel Portugal and Josep Gombau, Romeo played a total of 26 matches and 1332 minutes of football, poor for any footballer worth his salt. Last season was even worse as he made just three appearances, including one against FC Goa at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. So where does Romeo go from here? Does he still have juice in his boots? How does he rediscover himself? Looks like his romance with FC Goa is about to be rekindled. According to club sources, coach Juan Ferrando will have a look at the player who took ISL by storm during the first two years. Romeo will be part of Goa’s plans during pre-season, and if he can impress the coach, he can extend his stay. "If I don’t get fielded, how will I show what I have? I didn’t get enough chances in the last three years. All that I need is just one chance to prove myself again," said Romeo, who at 27 believes his best football is still ahead of him. Romeo should know that getting into FC Goa won’t be easy. Those days when he would leave his markers gasping for breath are long gone. The game has changed and there are now newer players on the horizon. Assuming Brandon Fernandes – the new poster boy – continues on the left, Romeo will still have to show that he is better than new signings Redeem Tlang, Makan Winkle Chote and Seiminlen Doungel. With Mandar opting to join Sergio Lobera at Mumbai City, FC Goa fans would love the sight of another favourite returning home. How he does it is entirely in his hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-offer-romeo-another-chance-to-rediscover-himself/articleshow/76667757.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||#Unlock1.0: Hygiene, social distancing norms in focus to make dine-out a safe and pleasant experience in Jaipur||During the Unlock1.0, dine-out experience has gone a huge change since the city eateries and restaurants have opened up. Contactless dining, digital payments, reduced seating capacity are some of the post-lockdown strategies that the restaurants are adopting to make dine-out a safe and pleasant experience. Eateries allowing only two guests at a table to maintain social distancingDisposable cutlery, napkins, gloves to maintain hygieneMukul Bhatia, who runs a chain of restaurant Marky Momos, says, “We have seven outlets, out of which six are operational currently. As per the SOPs released for restaurants, we are taking every possible measure to ensure the safety of our guests. We are using disposable cutlery, napkins, etc so that we can avoid contact as much as possible. We have divided our staff into shifts so that they are not jobless and our outlet is not crowded at any given point. Gloves, sanitisers, masks are all integral part of our daily lives now. We are offering an ayurvedic drink made of tulsi, lemon and ginger as a welcome drink, which is complimentary. We are not claiming anything, but its tasty as well as nutritious. Also, we are encouraging takeaways than dine-ins.” Robin Jain of Falahaar adds, “Thermal screenings, sanitisation, wearing masks and gloves, etc, have become a routine for us. We are taking extra precautions, due to which still haven’t opened our outlets for dine-in. We are only open for takeaways.” 'Maintaining social distancing in every possible way' Atharv Pradhan, who runs a fast-food eatery, Khana Khajana, at a city mall, says, “We are trying to maintain social distancing in every possible way. We are allowing only two guests to sit at a time on a table for four. We have reduced the number of staff, so that we can easily follow social distancing norms.” Vishal Jalani, the owner of Brown Sugar, says, “As advised by the World Health Organization (WHO), we are ensuring that our staff members wear mask, cap and gloves. There are daily temperature checks for the staff members and all of them have and Aarogya Setu app installed on their mobiles. We are promoting contactless dining. On each and every table, there will be a QR code and guests can access the menu on their phones and place their orders.” Digital payments is being encouraged to minimise the risk of transmission Digital payments is being encouraged to minimise the risk of transmission Introduced digital menus and digital paymentsTo ensure hygiene, most of the restaurants have reduced their seating capacity. Tables have been spread out to maintain safe social distancing. Shaukat Panwar, the owner of café Lazy Mojo, says, “Nobody wants to visit over-crowded places right now, so we have reduced the number of tables and introduced a digital menu and digital payment system to minimise the risk of infection.” Watch Hygiene, social distancing norms in focus to make dine-out a safe and pleasant experience in Jaipur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unlock1-0-hygiene-social-distancing-norms-in-focus-to-make-dine-out-a-safe-and-pleasant-experience-in-jaipur/articleshow/76666418.cms||Richa Shukla
June 28, 2020||India||8 states make up 85% of Covid-19 caseload, 87% of total deaths: Health ministry||NEW DELHI: Eight states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal — have contributed 85.5% of the active Covid-19 caseload and 87% of total deaths due to the disease in India, indicating where the main challenge in combating the disease lies. The data was shared by the health ministry with the group of ministers (GoM) on Covid-19, which met for the 17th time on Saturday and asked states to ramp up testing and reach full national testing capacity of three lakh samples a day. Health minister Harsh Vardhan, who chaired the meeting, said the doubling time of Covid-19 cases has improved to 19 days from three days before the lockdown even as total Covid-19 cases surged to around 5 lakh on Saturday with the worst single-day jump of 18,552 cases. Coronavirus live: Catch latest updates3 lakh beat Covid, India’s recovery rate at 58%Though total new cases are rapidly adding up to India’s total tally, data shows the daily rise in fresh cases is driven by some states, officials said. Vardhan said with focused efforts to improve clinical management, recovery rate is also constantly improving. On Saturday, India recorded recovery rate of 58.13% with around 3 lakh people cured of Covid-19 so far. The fatality rate is near 3%. TOI reported on Friday that a “natural recession” is to be seen in the Covid-19 pandemic in India with share of active cases declining steadily in the last two weeks. Read AlsoGloves off: Analyse cause of pandemic, says IndiaIndia had, so far, refrained from pressing China on Covid-19’s origin and reports that information on its spread was suppressed, unlike the US and Australia. As a result, Beijing even threatened Australia with retaliation.In an attempt to customise its containment efforts and take steps in focused manner, the health ministry has deployed 15 central teams consisting of public health experts, epidemiologists and a senior joint secretary-level officer to provide support to states, the ministry informed the GoM. Balram Bhragava, director general of ICMR informed the GoM that the samples tested in the last 24 hours have increased to 2,20,479 taking the total cumulative number of samples tested, as on date, to 79,96,707. Tests per day being conducted in India are, however, lesser than daily testing capacity of three-lakh samples. India now has 1,026 diagnostic labs dedicated to Covid-19. Watch 8 states make up 85% of Covid-19 caseload, 87% of total death rate: Health ministry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/8-states-make-up-85-of-covid-19-caseload-87-of-total-deaths-health-ministry/articleshow/76668049.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 28, 2020||India||‘Swarmageddon’ looks like this: Locusts fly into NCR||GURGAON/NEW DELHI: After a pandemic and a lockdown, lakhs of people in Gurgaon and parts of Delhi and Faridabad checked another box on the 2020 list of the unprecedented — a locust invasion. Giant swarms of desert locusts, one of them about 5km in length, burst into Gurgaon around 11am on Saturday and snapped through some of its most populated and upscale neighbourhoods, spreading alarm and awe at a sight associated with a National Geographic programme, not looking out of one’s window. As the pests speckled the city skies for two hours, sirens blared and residents clanged utensils across colonies and scores of highrises — where people in the upper floors saw the swarm fly past their balconies and windows at eye level — to repel the locusts. The wind eventually carried the swarm into Faridabad and onward towards western UP. The locusts invaded parts of Delhi too but largely flew past the outskirts of the capital. The last swarm left the Gurgaon urban area around 1.15pm. Noida sounded an alert later in the day as a swarm was spotted over Dankaur in the evening, flying in the direction of Bulandshahr. Noida administration officials did not rule out another swarm coming in on Sunday morning after slowing down in the fields near Jewar overnight. Locusts give Gurgaon crops a miss The original swarm that entered Gurgaon came from Rajasthan and flew into the city via Rewari. The locusts came in three batches — one from Pataudi around 11am that flew in the direction of Nuh, one via Sector 4 that moved towards Delhi and a third via Kherki Daula that flew in the direction of Cyber City and MG Road and eventually Faridabad. Thick swarms were seen in sectors 4 and 5, the Gurgaon railway station area, Palam Vihar, Cyber City, DLF phases 1 and 2, MG Road and Gurgaon-Faridabad road. Residents flooded social media with photos and videos of the pests on balcony walls, swarming over neighbourhoods and buzzing around highrise residential towers. Locusts are feared because they devour crops, leaves, fruits and even flowers, and can cause large-scale agricultural damage within a few hours. But unlike a few weeks ago, when desert locusts had damaged crops in several western states, the agricultural fields around Gurgaon were spared this time. “There are no reports of damage in the district. The good thing is that the locusts did not settle on the ground, which is why the crops were saved,” said Atmaram Godara, deputy director in the agriculture department. Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said there had been a warning about a swarm of locusts invading Haryana for the past six months. According to him, the insects — from the grasshopper family — had come all the way from Pakistan. The central government issued a statement, saying the swarms were first spotted in Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu on Friday morning and had travelled towards UP by Saturday afternoon. “…The swarm divided into three groups, one of which moved towards Gurgaon, and from there to Faridabad and to Uttar Pradesh. Another locust swarm moved towards Dwarka in Delhi, from there to Daulatabad, Gurgaon, Faridabad and this swarm also entered UP. The third group was seen in Palwal. As of now, no locust swarms are spotted in any city areas,” the statement said. Officials said teams from Rajasthan, Haryana and UP were working along with members of the Central Locust Warning Organisation to track the movement of the insects. After the swarm had entered Rewari on Friday evening, the Gurgaon administration had issued an advisory, asking farmers to keep water pumps handy so they could spray the locusts if they descend on the ground. The agriculture department had also kept 200 tractor trolleys ready to spray chlorpyrifos on the insects. For the city’s residents, though, this was the first time they had seen lakhs of locusts flying within sniffing distance. Many took to social media and posted videos and pictures of swarms flying or settled on their balconies or windows. In Delhi, too, residents were equally surprised. Shamim Khan, a fruit seller near Arjangarh metro station, said the sky had turned dark and he had to scurry under the tarpaulin sheet he had put up to save himself from the rain. “I went under the tarpaulin sheet and stayed there till the locusts flew by. It crossed the metro station and flew towards Delhi. Some also descended on the road for some time,” he added. Watch Locust attack: Swarms enter Gurugram, but may spare Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/swarmageddon-looks-like-this-locusts-fly-into-ncr/articleshow/76668130.cms||Vishakha Chaman
June 28, 2020||India||India has worst case fatality ratio in new Covid epicentre of S Asia||NEW DELHI: South Asia has emerged as one of two regions, the other being South America, in which the Covid pandemic is growing fastest, making them the new epicentres. Both within South Asia and within countries on the top 20 global lists of cases and deaths, India is among those in which the disease is gaining ground most rapidly. Among the countries that are in the global top 20 lists by cases and deaths, India has the second highest daily growth rate of deaths (4.2%) and of cases (3.6%) over the last 15 days. Deaths are growing faster only in Chile at 4.4% a day while cases are increasing more rapidly in South Africa at 5.2% a day. Within South Asia, India already has the highest case fatality rate of 3.1% and it has added to the toll faster than any other country over this period. In Europe, which was the epicentre earlier, the daily growth in cases and deaths since June 12 is less than 1%, except in Sweden where cases have risen by 2% a day, and in some cases like Italy as low as 0.1%. India has added 71% to cases since June 12Even in the US, which was seeing a huge surge earlier, the daily growth in deaths has fallen to 0.6% while cases increased by 1.3% a day over the 15-day period up to June 27. India’s much higher growth rates mean that it has added over 71% to cases and about 85% to deaths in the period since June 12. Within South Asia, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Afghanistan, in that order, have the highest daily growth in deaths and the highest percentage increase in deaths in the region since June 12. Cases have grown fastest in Nepal, India, Bangladesh and Pakistan in that order. While India is somewhere near the middle of the South Asian charts when it comes to deaths or cases per million, it’s case fatality rate of 3.1 is the highest in the region, much above second and third placed Afghanistan and Pakistan with CFRs of 2.2 and 2 respectively. Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Bhutan seem to be the countries in the region least besieged by the pandemic. The Maldives, given their tiny population, have the highest cases per million despite having less than 2,000 cases and a deaths per million figure of 15 compared to the region’s average of 12 though there have been only eight deaths. Watch India has worst case fatality ratio in new Covid epicentre of S Asia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-has-worst-case-fatality-ratio-in-new-covid-epicentre-of-s-asia/articleshow/76668257.cms||Atul Thakur
June 28, 2020||India||Lab diamonds: Pup gulps Rs 1.5 lakh jewels||NEW DELHI: Diamonds may be a girl’s best friend, but what if man’s best friend takes a shine to diamonds? A six-month-old teething Labrador pup (in pic) romping around in a diamantaire’s Pune home did precisely that when he found two stones valued at Rs 1.5 lakh that he couldn’t chew but managed to gulp down. Luckily for the playful pet and much to the relief of his anxious family, a procedure to extricate the diamonds went off well. Veterinary surgeon Dr Narendra Pardeshi, who performed the gastroscopy, also found a needle, two coat buttons, rubber wire and some thread in the pup’s stomach. While the diamantaire’s family wouldn’t speak about the episode, Pardeshi said the sparkling stones apparently caught the curious pup’s eye while he was playing on his own. The unusual menu left the pup in obvious discomfort. Destined to go down in canine lore as the dog who ‘wagged’ the diamonds, the precious pup is back to his sniffy, chewy self. As for his family, they treasure him more than diamonds, the vet said. Watch Teething pup gulps Rs 1.5 lakh diamonds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lab-diamonds-pup-gulps-rs-1-5-lakh-jewels/articleshow/76668295.cms||Alex Fernandes
June 28, 2020||India||Gloves off: Analyse cause of pandemic, says India||NEW DELHI: Stepping up the pressure on China, India has called for a global effort to analyse the “causes and drivers of the Covid-19 pandemic” — the first time after the May 20 World Health Assembly that India is challenging Chinese attempts to obfuscate the origin and spread of the virus, which began in Wuhan. India had, so far, refrained from pressing China on Covid-19’s origin and reports that information on its spread was suppressed, unlike the US and Australia. As a result, Beijing even threatened Australia with retaliation. With China posing a military challenge to India along the LAC in Ladakh, New Delhi is signalling that gloves will be off diplomatically. This comes following remarks by the foreign ministry and the Indian ambassador in Beijing that violation of the LAC will impact bilateral ties. As WHO board chair, India in strong position to drive probeAddressing the “Alliance for Multilateralism”, a group on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, 2019, foreign minister S Jaishankar said India would “strengthen our belief in scientific approaches. That means, we must set aside politics and focus on facts — whether it is the effort to dispassionately analyse the causes and drivers of the current coronavirus pandemic, or to assess what changes our multilateral health mechanisms need to implement to improve preparations for a future pandemic.” The World Health Assembly on May 20 adopted a resolution, supported by 122 countries, which called for the world to “identify the zoonotic source of the virus and the route of introduction to the human population, including the possible role of intermediate hosts…” This resolution, proposed by Australia, was piloted by the EU, forcing China to acquiesce to it. Reports have suggested the virus jumped from an animal host to humans at a wet market in Wuhan. As the new chair of the WHO executive board this year, India will be in a strong position to work on this. “The Resolution adopted at the World Health Assembly last month is an opportunity to use facts and science to assess our response to this pandemic and take those lessons to prepare better for the future. As chair of the WHO executive board, India is ready to work towards these goals.” China understands that these pressures would be building up against it. In fact, a recent extraordinary China-Africa summit organised by Beijing was apparently intended to quell growing criticism among countries in Africa. China promised that when it develops the Covid vaccine, African countries would be among the first to get it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gloves-off-analyse-cause-of-pandemic-says-india/articleshow/76668309.cms||Indrani Bagchi
June 28, 2020||India||Start selling Covid Kavach by July 10: Irdai to insurance companies||MUMBAI: The insurance regulator has designed two standardised Covid-19 health insurance policies which all non-life and health insurance companies have been told to mandatorily offer from July 10. One is a regular indemnity policy covering the disease with the tenure ranging from 3.5 months to 9.5 months, and the other is an optional standard benefit cover, which pays out a fixed amount. The indemnity policy has been named Corona Kavach by the regulator and every insurance company has to follow the same nomenclature. The standard benefit policy is called Corona Rakshak. All non-life companies have been asked to start selling both these policies by July 10, 2020. The sum insured under the policy ranges from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh. The regulator has asked insurance companies to ensure that the premium is kept affordable. There is also a 5% discount for healthcare workers. While the cover is restricted to Covid-19 infection, the policy will include the cost of treatment of any comorbid condition, including pre-existing ones. The policy also covers homecare treatment expenses for up to 14 days per incident. The move by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) comes after it turned out that the Covid-19 claims, at around 8,500, paid out by insurance companies were disproportionately lower than the number of Covid cases in the country. While one reason for this has been a high number of asymptomatic cases, insurers also said that this was a reflection of the low level of health insurance penetration in the country. Also, with the number of cases on the rise, the usage of private facilities is expected to increase. According to Rashmi Nandargi, head, Retail Health Underwriting, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, the policy will benefit those worried about treatment costs. “These policies will cater to people who currently don’t have a holistic health insurance policy and are looking to cover themselves against Covid-19. The policy coverages, terms & conditions are standard across insurers; the USP would be a wide network of hospitals for cashless facility. These Covid-19 specific policies will certainly be a good start and an attractive proposition for people to opt for health insurance, and later, may encourage them to opt for a comprehensive health insurance cover,” she said. Watch Start selling Covid Kavach by July 10, says Irdai to insurance companies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/start-selling-covid-kavach-by-july-10-irdai-to-insurance-companies/articleshow/76668316.cms||---
June 28, 2020||India||Government does not discriminate over faith, caste: PM||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the government does not discriminate on basis of faith, gender, caste, creed and language and added that the message of “togetherness” in the Bible pointed to the need for all Indians to work for advancement of the nation. Speaking on the 90th birth anniversary of Rev Dr Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan, the PM explained the government's approach to short-term and long-term issues relating to the economy. “People-friendly and growth-friendly decisions have been taken in the sectors from sea to space, from farms to factories,” he said and hoped that the call for self-reliant India will ensure economic strength and prosperity for every Indian. He particularly emphasised measures to help the fisher-folk and praised the Order for its dedication to eradicating poverty. The PM said the government is guided by sensitivity and a long-term vision to make India a growth engine. “Decisions are taken not from comfortable government offices in Delhi but after feedback from people on the ground,” he said. Highlighting the “vocal for local” slogan, the PM urged people to ponder on how their actions can contribute to national development. “Today India is saying — we will produce locally and also buy local products. This will light the lamp of prosperity in the homes of many,” he added. The Covid-19 crisis is not only a physical sickness but also highlights unhealthy lifestyles, he said and urged people to work hard for harmony and happiness on the planet. “A global pandemic implies that humanity as a whole needs healing and people should do everything possible to further harmony and happiness in our planet,” the PM said. He said India has always been open to spiritual influences from many sources and quoted Dr Thoma on “Humility which is a virtue, is always fruitful in good works” to say that it is with this spirit of humility that the Mar Thoma Church has worked to bring a positive difference in the lives of fellow Indians, especially in areas such as healthcare and education. The Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church is one of the ancient, indigenous churches in Kerala. The PM said said that due to the lockdown, many initiatives taken by the government and a people-driven fight, India is much better placed than many other nations and India’s recovery rate from Covid-19 is rising. . He stressed that the people should not “let our guard down” in the fight against coronavirus. Watch India much better placed than other nations in Covid-19 fight, says PM Narendra Modi at Mar Thoma church event||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-does-not-discriminate-over-faith-caste-pm/articleshow/76668330.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Business||Ordinance to let RBI revive banks without moratorium||NEW DELHI: The Banking Re- gulation (Amendment) Ordinance, promulgated by the President on Friday, empowers the Reserve Bank of India to undertake revival plans for banks without imposing a moratorium to avoid disruption of the financial system. In case of Yes Bank, for instance, the government and the RBI first decided to put a moratorium which capped the amount of withdrawal by depositors. It was only after a few days that a new set of shareholders, led by SBI were put in the saddle. Over the years RBI has followed this practice. The ordinance amends Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act to enable making of a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation of a banking company for protecting the interest of the public, depositors and the banking system and for securing its proper management, even without making an order of moratorium, so as to avoid disruption of the financial system. In pursuance of the commitment to ensure safety of depositors across banks, the President has promulgated the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The ordinance amends the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as applicable to Cooperative Banks, a government statement said. It said the ordinance seeks to protect the interests of depositors and strengthen cooperative banks by improving governance and oversight by extending powers already available with RBI in respect of other banks to cooperative banks as well for sound banking regulation, and by ensuring professionalism and enabling their access to capital. The amendments do not affect existing powers of the state registrars of cooperative societies under state cooperative laws. The amendments also do not apply to primary agricultural credit societies (PACS) or cooperative societies whose primary object and principal business is long-term finance for agricultural development, and which do not use the word “bank” or “banker” or “banking” and do not act as drawees of cheques. Earlier this week, the cabinet had approved the promulgation of an ordinance to bring all urban cooperative banks and multi-state cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI to provide comfort to depositors and prevent incidents such as the one involving the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC). Last year. the RBI had imposed curbs on withdrawals, appointed an administrator and superseded the board of directors of the bank to restore confidence after major financial irregularities were unearthed and loans were given to a real estate company without following norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ordinance-to-let-rbi-revive-banks-without-moratorium/articleshow/76668349.cms||---
June 28, 2020||India||Sandesara case: ED quizzes Ahmed Patel||NEW DELHI: Officials of ED on Saturday questioned senior Congress leader and party treasurer Ahmed Patel about his family’s alleged links with Chetan and Nitin Sandesara, fugitive promoters of Sterling Biotech (SBL), who have been accused of duping public sector banks and scripting a Rs 15,000 crore money laundering scam. Sources said officials of ED, who agreed to Patel’s plea to hold the session at his place in view of the pandemic and his vulnerability to the virus because of his age, asked him about the statements recorded by his son Faisal and son-in-law Irfan Siddiqui, both of whom had been questioned multiple times over the past one year or so about their alleged dealings with the Vadodara-based Sandesaras. Chetan and Nitin, who were granted huge loans by public sector banks, fled along with their family members to Nigeria where they bought ships, oil rigs, houses and a private jet. CBI filed a case against them in 2017 following which ED, in the last two years, attached assets, including oil rigs, ships and the private jet, worth Rs 9,700 crore belonging to the SBL Group in India and Nigeria. According to sources, Patel had earlier this month expressed his inability to visit the ED office because of the Covid crisis. Patel reacted to ED officials’ visit by accusing the government of vendetta. He said since BJP came to power, investigative agencies, at the instance of “one person”, go after opposition leaders every time there is a Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha or assembly election. “Unfortunately, this time the Modi government’s failure to manage economic, health and national security crisis is so huge that none of the agencies can help spin the narrative,” Patel said. “Rather than fighting the pandemic and China, this government is more keen to fight the opposition. Nonetheless, our conscience is clear. We have nothing to hide nor are we afraid to criticise and expose the government’s failures and their past corruption,” he said. Watch Money laundering case: ED team at Ahmed Patel’s Delhi residence||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sandesara-case-ed-quizzes-ahmed-patel/articleshow/76668373.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Patna||Nana Patekar visits CRPF centre, khadi mill||PATNA: Actor Nana Patekar, who is in the city on a three-day visit for a CRPF programme, interacted with the jawans on Saturday at Mokama to boost their morale. The veteran actor reached Patna late on Friday and arrived at the CRPF training centre on Saturday for the programme where he met the jawans. After the event, he left for Auta village nearby where he tried his hand at ploughing a field with bullocks. Large number of villagers gathered around the field to watch the actor who was dressed in a simple kurta-payjama. A senior CRPF officer said Patekar also visited a Khadi gramodyog centre at the village which was established before Independence and also planted planted a tree near a temple. “He visited the building at our training camp where Jim Corbett had lived for almost 21 years. The place had been preserved and converted into a heritage site by CRPF,” he said. “A few books of Rashtra Kavi Ramdhari Singh Dinkar were also kept there in which the actor took keen interest,” he added. The actor also interacted with the CRPF personnel and is scheduled to attend the ‘bada-khana’, the traditional dinner arranged by armed forces, after which he would return to the state capital. He might also pay a visit to the grieving family of Sushant Singh Rajput.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nana-visits-crpf-centre-khadi-mill/articleshow/76667225.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar government school teacher held with arms||BHAGALPUR: Police on Friday arrested a government middle school teacher, Pradip Ravidas, and seized a country-made carbine and live cartridges from his possession Pradip, a teacher at Lattipur Mushari Middle School under the Bihapur police station area in Bhagalpur district, is allegedly associated with an inter-district arms smuggling gang. He was on way to supply arms to someone when the police arrested him. Bhagalpur SP (incharge) and city SP Sushant Kumar Saroj said Pradip has a criminal background. “Investigations made so far have revealed that he used to procure country-made illegal arms and ammunition from Munger and supply them to the criminals and arms smugglers,” the SP said. Police said the matter came to light after Pradip’s motorcycle collided with another two-wheeler near Jagatpur village under the Lodipur police station area in the district. One Saroj Phuttu Jha was riding pillion to Pradip’s bike. When the riders of the other bike asked for compensation for the damages caused to their vehicle, Pradip and his accomplice thrashed the duo and brandished weapons at them. Soon, locals assembled at the spot in large number got hold of Pradip along with the firearms. Informed by the locals, police rushed to the spot and arrested Pradip. Saroj, however, managed to escape. “Efforts are on to arrest Saroj and others involved in illegal arms smuggling,” city SP Sushant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-school-teacher-held-with-arms/articleshow/76665885.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara patient beats Covid-19 with plasma therapy||VADODARA: A 45-year-old man has become the first Covid-19 patient in the city to recover from the infection using convalescent plasma therapy. The therapy was given to Ashwin Rana, a resident of Waghodiya Road, who was admitted in ICU and was on oxygen support at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri.  Rana had been battling Covid infection since May 11 when he tested positive. The therapy involves taking antibodies from cured Covid-19 patients and injecting them in the blood of infected patients. Although he was given conventional treatment for 10 days, the second test of his samples also tested positive. Later, he was shifted to ICU and provided oxygen support. After the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) permitted the hospital and Indu Blood Bank to start placid trials, Kenya-born Delhi-based UK passport holder Vipul Patel had donated his plasma for convalescent plasma therapy, becoming the first such donor in Central Gujarat. Patel, 58, who was amongst first Covid-19 patients admitted at Gotri hospital, had expressed his willingness to become a donor after he got discharged on April 10. “We had carried out two plasma transfusions on May 21 and May 22. Rana started showing recovery and was later shifted to a normal room from the ICU,” said Dr Vijay Shah, co-investigator of the project. On June 10, Rana was discharged from the hospital. “As per the protocol, he stayed 14 days in home isolation. There are five members in his family but none of them have got infected. The patient too has fully recovered. We will submit our report to ICMR,” said Shah, who appealed to patients who recover from Covid-19 to donate their plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/first-patient-to-get-plasma-therapy-beats-covid-19/articleshow/76666284.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 28, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Navsari suicide victim’s organs to give life to others||SURAT: Organs of a 20-year-old brain dead girl from Navsari is all set to give life to others. Disha Naik, a resident of Gandevi taluka in Navsari and a third-year student of Navsari’s SS Agarwal institute of physiotherapy, will be the first case of organ donation after the lockdown in Surat. Her vital organs including two kidneys, eyes and liver were harvested for transplants on Saturday. Naik, daughter of a farmer had tried to end life by hanging herself with the ceiling fan due to unknown reasons on June 16. She was rushed to the SIDS hospital in Surat where her CT scan report showed severe swelling on her brain as the blood and oxygen supply had stopped due to the suicidal hanging. After five days of observation and treatment, the doctors declared her brain dead and contacted the city-based NGO, Donate Life that counsels people for organ donation. Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of Donate Life and member of State Advisory Committee for Organ and Tissue (SACOT) transplant told TOI, “This was the first organ donation post the lockdown imposed on March 25. After I received a call from the hospital, I asked them to get the Covid-19 test done which turned out to be negative. So we immediately contacted the Ahmedabad-based Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC) for organ donation.” The girl’s father Mani Naik (50) and other family members had to be provide counselling for six days to convince them to go for organ donation, said Mandlewala. “It was very tough to convince Disha’s parents to donate her organs. But, ultimately we were successful in convincing them after six days of counselling,” he added. “Our daughter wanted to become a physiotherapist and serve the people. She is lying on the hospital bed without movement and was declared brain-dead. We want her organs to save the lives of those who are in need of urgent transplantation. At least now my daughter will live in the bodies of other people,” said Mani Naik. Disha’s kidneys and liver were donated to the Ahmedabad-based IKDRC and her eyes were donated to the Surat-based Lokdrashti Eye bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/navsari-suicide-victims-organs-to-give-life-to-others/articleshow/76665972.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||At 4.3%, Covid cumulative fatality rate in MP still high||BHOPAL: Cumulative fatality rate due to Covid-19 is still higher in MP than the national average of 3.2%. The fatality rate in MP is 4.3%, and has remained stable since the unlock 1, says a state government report. A senior health department official said, “The cumulative positivity rate in the state is declining even with increased testing in hotspot areas. Covid-19 management plan is helping in controlling Covid-19 spread.” The report was reviewed by top officials in the Union government recently.Covid-19 tests per million in MP stands at 3,743, as on June 23 against national average of 5,355. Increase in modalities of testing have been introduced by the state government. 51 TrueNat machine (used to test drug-resistant Tuberculosis (TB). The ICMR had approved the use of the tuberculosis testing machine for coronavirus screening tests on April 4) sites have been added to augment testing capacity (of 78 labs, 51 are TrueNat sites). This was coupled with pool testing- pooled sampling for migrant workers, returnees and surveillance in Bhopal. Sero surveillance is in the pipeline, official said. Districts with more than 10 active cases have reduced from 28 to 19 in June, an indication that Covid-19 management efforts by the health department are paying dividends. MP contribution of total cases in the country reduced to 2.8% whereas active cases contribute just 1.3% of cases in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/at-4-3-covid-cumulative-fatality-rate-in-mp-still-high/articleshow/76667472.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 28, 2020||Surat||Wait grows longer for CISF cover in city airport||Surat: The current pandemic situation has thrown cold water over Surat airport’s demands for Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) cover of its premises. After the recent announcement that a force of 360 CISF personnel will take over the security of the Diamond city’s airport, the specialised security force that guard major airports in country has shown its inability to do so till around December 2021. After years of demand, the decision to deploy CISF at the airport was announced around a year ago. In the beginning of this year, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) had even carried out final survey for the purpose. Currently 140 police personnel are posted at the airport police station who manage immigration related work as well. Surat is perhaps the only airport in the country that operates international flights sans CISF security. According to aviation activists CISF cover is one of the most important landmarks to become international airport.Sanjay Ezhava, an aviation activist said that CISF is a highly trained specialised force that guards 26 international airports and few domestic airports as well. International flight operators will not consider Surat for operations in such a scenario.” For city police managing security at airport is a major task when it comes to providing manpower. The city police that are facing severe staff crunch is sparing 140 personnel for airport’s security. “We have been informed that CISF cannot take over the security as it was announced earlier. Police are assuring tight security at the airport but CISF security would have helped city police address its staff shortage issue a little,” city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wait-grows-longer-for-cisf-cover-in-city-airport/articleshow/76666129.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad University gives students option to graduate this year or next||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad University (AU) has given its undergraduate students the option to graduate this year or extend their study by a year and gain an honours degree. University officials said that the move is aimed at augmenting student skills in a post Covid-19 world and to help them secure admission abroad where students need 16 years of formal education for master’s courses. The students can complete a 30-credit diploma or a 15-credit certificate programme, said university officials. Prof Pankaj Chandra, vice-chancellor of AU, said the opportunity is built for the students who may experience delays in starting further studies or jobs. “Others may find that their previously anticipated opportunities are no longer feasible or are rescinded because of the pandemic. We feel it is a responsibility to take care of our students at this tough juncture,” he said. Prof Chandra added that additional courses can help them earn credentials in a new skill area which would become valuable in the post-pandemic work world. University officials said that the decision was taken after a detailed survey of students to identify options available to them, the skills sought by the job market and the way forward. “Even if students are not looking for higher studies abroad, they will be able to pick up additional skills and knowledge through the extended year. They can even try entrepreneurship at our incubator,” said an official. About 700 students of the university are going to graduate this year and can opt for this option, said university officials. The students must enrol before the start of the monsoon semester in August, they added. Students can approach the university for further details on the option, said the officials. “If a student completes 18 credits in a defined minor subject, they will receive a minor in that discipline or area. In some courses, they can opt for more than one specialization,” said a senior AU administrator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/au-gives-students-option-to-graduate-this-year-or-next/articleshow/76667605.cms||Parth Shastri
June 28, 2020||Surat||Muggers’ cannibalistic traits captured in camera||Surat: In what may eventually prove to be a record of sorts, researchers in Junagadh claim to have captured photographic evidence of cannibalism in mugger or the marsh crocodiles. While monitoring breeding among the reptile population in Girnar Wildlife Sanctuary, three researchers – Raju Vyas, Dr Devendra Chauhan and Pranav Vaghashiya – recorded the photographic evidence in June 2019. The Girnar Hills in Junagadh is home to more than a dozen small and large wetlands with a thriving population of more than 200 muggers.The mugger is protected under Schedule I of Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The trio was studying muggers in nature including its courtship, mating and nesting behaviour in the breeding season in the vicinity of a small water body called Lal Dhori in Girnar Wildlife Sanctuary population February through June in 2019. On June 22 the group focused on an adult female mugger that was preying on a common coot, a medium sized water bird found mostly in lakes, reservoirs, slow-moving watercourses. “One week later, we noticed the same female reptile being particularly aggressive towards one of the juveniles and after a struggle for about 30 minutes, she caught hold of the juvenile and disappeared. Thereafter, we tried to locate the injured juvenile but could not find even a carcass or any remains, leading us to conclude that the juvenile reptile was consumed in a clear case of cannibalism,” Pranav Vaghashiya, one of the co-authors of the study paper published in ‘IRCF Reptiles and Amphibians’, told TOI.Luckily, Dr Devendra Chauhan could manage to capture the unique photo of the fight, said Vaghashiya, who has been monitoring mugger population in Girnar for the last three years. “Female muggers can be really aggressive, especially when she has hatchlings. However, we do not know for certain if the attack on the juvenile was out of maternal instinct or hunger. Cannibalism is not rare in crocodilians and was recorded previously in a captive population of C. palustris species. But to the best of our knowledge, this was the first evidence based record of cannibalism in marsh crocodile in nature,” said Raju Vyas, reptile expert and one of the author of the study paper, while talking to TOI. BoxPurpose of the studyMugger is less studied and we wanted to study them by continuing monitoring of their breeding period,'' said Pranav Vaghashiya, a Junagadh-based science teacher, adding that the main aim of the self-funded study was to record nesting and mating behaviour of the muggers. Vaghashiya has been engaged in mugger behaviour study for the last four years. *** can be deleted if necessary****Dr Devendra Chuahan, a nature buff based in Junagadh is a doctor by profession and posted at a primary health centre in Junagadh district. Well-known researcher, Dr Raju Vyas is as Vadodara-based retired Zoo Inspector, whose long-term research for more than 25 years focused on monitoring crocodiles and their habitat as well as issues of human-crocodile conflicts. ******PointersCounting jawsExperts estimate mugger population to be between 1,500 and 1,800Reptile flourishes in lakes, check-dams, ponds throughout the stateForest department does not carry out systematic population count of muggers in stateConservation efforts and legal protections have pushed up mugger population in the state||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/muggers-cannibalistic-traits-captured-in-camera/articleshow/76666449.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 75 locations to get high-end cameras that can read car number plates||KOLKATA: With CCTV cameras in several places still not functional more than 38 days after the Cyclone Amphan had lashed the city, Kolkata Police sought to replace some of them with high-end cameras that can also read the number plates of vehicles even at night. These cameras will be installed at 75 different locations across the city, with special emphasis being put on the areas between Esplanade and EM Bypass via Park Circus. Cops have already floated tenders while the bidders are likely to place their initial bids by the end of this month. Among the 75 proposed places for installation of the automatic number plate recognition system (ANPR) cameras include Esplanade crossing, Tea Board crossing, Hare Street and Strand Road crossing, Shyambazar 5-point crossing, Howrah Bridge, College Street-MG Road crossing, Moulali-Lenin Sarani crossing, Little Russel Street-Middleton Street crossing, SN Banerjee-Rafi Ahmed kidwai Road crossing, AJC Bose Road-Camac Street crossing, Western slope of Maa flyover, James Long Sarani and Ashoka Cinema Hall-DH Road crossing. According to the tender document, the ANPR system will have high speed cameras. They will work throughout the day and capture the number plates of vehicles. “The strategic intent of the ANPR system is to target criminals through their use of the roads. It serves four purposes — increase public confidence, increase the number of detected offences (both criminal and traffic-related), reduce the occurrence of incidents as well as the number of road traffic casualties, said an officer. The ANPR server will be capable of detecting a vehicle’s type and colour, recognising its license plate and detecting the bikers without helmets. It will give 85% accuracy in the day and 65% at night, said police sources. The system will also allow cops to create a special list of offenders whose numbers will send warnings to the control room if detected roaming on the road. “The system will have an option to register certain license plates according to the listed categories like wanted, suspicious and stolen. The system can generate automatic alarms to alert the control room personnel for further action,” said an officer at Lalbazar. ANPR is a technology that uses optical character recognition on images to read vehicle registration plates to create vehicle location data. Ever since the cameras were activated on Maa flyover, AJC Bose flyover, Kidderpore Road, BT Road and some parts of EM Bypass, they have recorded motorists clocking 130kmph-150kmph, especially past midnight. The speed limit set on the stretches is 50kmph-60kmph. “The speed, at which some motorists are driving, is alarming. If a motorist collides with another car or hits the median divider or railings, the chance for survival of those inside the vehicle is negligible,” said a senior traffic officer at Lalbazar. “Based on the readings, we have started imposing fines. Along with the readings, we also have photographs of cars at exact points of rule violation,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/75-locations-to-get-high-end-cameras-that-can-read-car-number-plates/articleshow/76679382.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 28, 2020||Patna||Parties divided over digital electioneering||PATNA: Digital electioneering ahead of the upcoming assembly elections has sparked a debate among political parties in the state. Several opposition parties, including RJD, are against largescale use of digital means while the bigger parties BJP, JD (U) and even Congress are already increasing their digital footprint to stay in touch with their workers and supporters amid constraints imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic. A day after RJD opposed virtual rallies in the all-party meeting convened by the chief electoral officer, senior BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi hailed digital electioneering methods. He claimed that the digital medium requires less expenditure and has far more reach. “Bihar was infamous for bloodied elections during the regime of Lalu Prasad. People used to get killed during booth-loot incidents. Bihar came out of it due to strictness of Election Commission and introduction of EVMs. Covid-19 pandemic has changed the work culture across the world, but Lalu’s party is negating the new normal by opposing virtual rallies. All they care about is power; they don’t have any concern for lives of common people,” SuMo tweeted on Saturday evening. “Virtual rallies are a big conspiracy hatched by the ruling alliance to keep leaders of opposition parties away from voters. It’s a fight between the rich and the poor,” RJD’s state chief Jagadanand Singh had said at the meeting on Friday. While leaders of most mainstream parties have gone digital, the ruling JD (U) has adopted a decentralized manner of using Facebook outreach programme to go at micro level. FB live is being done by party MLAs, MLCs, district presidents, spokespersons, presidents of different party cells and presidents of all the Prakhands in the state. Most of the leaders going live also take up questions asked by the audiences during the live session, which makes it an interactive session. LJP president Chirag Paswan has also been using the digital medium frequently to interact with party workers and functionaries. “All party members should be fully prepared for the election and also for playing a key role in making a new Bihar,” Chirag said. Following instruction from party high command, Congress’s Bihar unit has also started membership drive digitally up to Panchayat level to reach out to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parties-divided-over-digital-electioneering/articleshow/76665874.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Follow ideals of PV Narasimha Rao too, Congress tells TRS||HYDERABAD: Congress has welcomed the decision of the TRS government to celebrate the birth centenary of former PM PV Narasimha Rao, but wants the ruling TRS to follow the ideals of the great leader. TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi tweeted that the KCR government should not only erect the statues of Rao as part of centenary celebrations but also follow in his footsteps. Though Ravi had criticised TRS for trying to own the late leader, he changed his statement later in the day and welcomed the government’s decision to celebrate Rao’s birth centenary. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said Congress party will celebrate the birth anniversary on Sunday. TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar demanded TRS government name one of the districts in the state after Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/follow-idealsof-pv-too-cong-tells-trs/articleshow/76667930.cms||Roushan Ali
June 28, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput's Patna home to be turned into a memorial||PATNA: The family of late actor and Patna boy Sushant Singh Rajput has decided to set up a foundation in his name and to turn his childhood home at Rajiv Nagar into a memorial, which would have on display the actor’s personal memorabilia and belongings for his fans and admirers. “To honour his memory and legacy, the family has decided to set up Sushant Singh Rajput Foundation (SSRF) to support young talents in areas close to his heart — cinema, science and sports. We will put his personal memorabilia and belongings that include thousands of books, his telescope and flight-simulator among others, for his fans and admirers,” Sushant’s family said in an emotional statement released on Saturday. Describing him as free-spirited, talkative and incredibly bright, the family said, for the world he was Sushant Singh Rajput but for them he was just ‘Gulshan’. “He was curious about everything. He dreamed without restraints and chased those dreams with the heart of a lion. He smiled generously. He was the pride and inspiration of the family. His telescope was his most prized possession, through which he fondly gazed at the stars,” the statement read. Sushant, who was all-India seventh rank holder in 2003 AIEEE exam and debuted in Bollywood with ‘Kai Po Che’ in 2013, has left behind a void for the family. “We can’t bring ourselves to accept that we wouldn’t get to hear his easy laugh anymore. That we wouldn’t see his sparkling eyes again. That we wouldn’t hear his endless rants about science again. His loss has created a permanent, glaring void in the family that will never be filled.” His family has also decided to maintain all his social media handles, including Instagram, Twitter and Facebook page, to keep his memories alive. ‘Name Rajgir film city after him’: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who met the family recently, wrote a letter on Saturday to CM Nitish Kumar requesting that the upcoming film city at Rajgir be named after Sushant. “Sushant Singh Rajput was Bihar’s pride. He brought fame to the state with his hard work at a very young age. With his zeal and talent, he marked a place for himself in Bollywood,” Tejashwi said. He added, “The actor’s sudden death has left the entire nation devastated. And given the immense love, his fans have for him; they would want the film city to be named after him. Hence, I would urge CM Nitish Kumar on behalf of the entire state to name the upcoming film city as “Late Sushant Singh Rajput Film city”. This will not just be a tribute to him but will also motivate the young talents and budding actors from Bihar.” Sushant’s cousin and BJP MLA Niraj Kumar Singh ‘Babloo’ has demanded a theatrical release of his last film. “Keeping in mind the sentiments of his fans and admirers, the movie should be released on the big screen. We will certainly oppose it if it gets released on a digital platform,” the MLA wrote on his twitter handle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sushants-patna-home-to-be-turned-into-a-memorial/articleshow/76665790.cms||Archi Rani
June 28, 2020||Patna||Patna: NMCH doctor, 4 PMCH staff test Covid +ve||PATNA: With a doctor of the PSM (community medicine) department of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and four paramedical staff of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) testing positive for Covid-19, the number of affected doctors and health workers in government hospitals in the city rose to 19 on Saturday. It included eight doctors of PMCH, one of NMCH, nine paramedical staff of PMCH and an MBBS student of NMCH. NMCH superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha said the PSM doctor tested positive was sent to home isolation while the entire department was being sanitised. At PMCH, two nurses and two staff were found infected late Friday, said superintendent Dr Bimal Karak. “All precautionary measures are being taken to check spread of the virus in this largest hospital of the state,” he added. However, according to the vice-president of the state chapter of the Indian medical Association (IMA) Dr Ajay Kumar, the number of health workers and doctors contracting the virus in the state could be around 35. “The IMA state chapter will soon write to the health department to conduct antibody test of all health workers, as suggested by the Indian Council of Medical Research on June 23,” Dr Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nmch-doctor-4-pmch-staff-test-covid-ve/articleshow/76665857.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Patna||Temporary office for transport tribunal||PATNA: The Bihar State Transport Appellate Tribunal, premises of which got waterlogged at Punaichak on June 19, will temporarily function from officers’ flat in the same vicinity. Tribunal chairman Manoj Kumar had written to transport secretary in this regard after work at the office was suspended due to waterlogging. Kumar had also marked a copy of the letter to Patna high court registrar general. The state government made the temporary arrangement for the tribunal after the high court intervened in the matter. The tribunal handles all the litigation arising out of central government’s Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/temporary-office-for-transport-tribunal/articleshow/76665884.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Surat||Surat records highest spike at 174 cases in a day, 3 deaths||Surat: In a highest single-day spike, the Diamond City reported about 174 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 4,171 active cases. Meanwhile, three positive patients who also had co-morbidities succumbed at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) and Venus hospital, respectively on Saturday. The deceased include a 52-year-old male from Varachha who was also suffering from diabetes, a 65-year-old male from Adajan who had high blood pressure and a 49-year-old male from Katargam who had heart and kidney problems. Katargam zone again reported the highest number of cases at 54, taking the total in the zone to 1,055 on Saturday, health officials said. Sources also said that about 41 diamond workers and 21 textile workers including traders have tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital) said, “Now, about 50% cases we are receiving relates to the diamond and textile industries. We have started efforts with the diamond and textile industry leaders for taking stringent measures at the workplaces.” Meanwhile, RJ Makadia, retired IA officer and VP Machhar, retired GAS officer, who are appointed as Officers on Special Duty (OSDs) have taken charge on Saturday. COVID-19 CASES IN BHARUCH CROSS 200 MARK Surat: Surat district recorded 21 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total cases in the district to 455 on Saturday. Officials said that two males patients — 38-year-old from Pasodara in Kamrej and 62-year-old from Mandvi, succumbed in the New Civil hospital in Surat on Friday. Bharuch district crossed 200 mark with eight new Covid cases recorded from the district on Saturday with Jambusar continuing to remain the hotspot in the district. Navsari district recorded 11 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 88 on Saturday. Health officials said that about 31 positive cases have been recorded in the last three days from Navsari town, Gandevi, Jalalpore and Vijalpore. A 60-year-old woman from Vejalpore in Navsari who had co-morbid issues succumbed at the Civil hospital on Saturday. So far, the district has reported three deaths due to Covid-19. DNH, DAMAN RECORD 15 POSITIVE CASES Surat: The union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) recorded eight Covid-19 cases, while Daman recorded seven on Saturday. In Daman, of the seven cases, six are asymptomatic patients who were already in the government quarantine facility. With this, Daman has now 78 active cases. The administration has put about 24 areas under containment in Dabhel, Kachigam, Dunetha and Nani Daman. DNH reported eight cases, majority of which are close contacts of positive patients. The fresh cases push the tally at 51. Till now, about 43 Covid-19 patients have recovered, of which 14 were discharged on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-records-highest-spike-at-174-cases-in-a-day-3-deaths/articleshow/76666031.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Cancel registration of old vehicles, get tax rebate||PATNA: The state transport department on Saturday announced that motorists, who dispose of their more than 15-year-old vehicles, will be given rebate on cancellation of registration certificate (RC) and tax penalty. According to transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, the idea behind providing the relaxation is to scrap old vehicles that cause pollution. “A lot of people neither run their old vehicles on the road nor do they dispose them of. We have, therefore, decided to provide rebate on cancellation of RCs and tax penalty so that motorists get rid of their old vehicles,” the transport secretary said. A statement issued by the transport department states that people applying for rebate will have to give an undertaking that they dispose of the vehicle and submit its photographs within 14 days. They will also require to give documents to prove that their vehicle is not stolen and there is no complaint against it. The rebate for registration cancellation for old vehicles has been put in three slots. Those disposing of their vehicles immediately after 15 years will be given waiver on all pending tax and penalty if they pay 20% of one-time tax for 15 years. Similarly, 20%, 15% and 10% of tax payable have been fixed for those with pending taxes for one year, up to five years and above five years, respectively. The transport secretary said rebate on cancellation of RC and penalty waiver will clear a large number of pending cases related to non-payment of taxes. “Many a time, people do not get their RCs cancelled. They also do not pay taxes and continue keeping their old vehicles. However, the government maintains a record of such vehicles even if they are not used. This often leads to certificate cases. Giving rebate on RC cancellation charges and penalty waiver will prevent such cases,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cancel-registration-of-old-vehicles-get-tax-rebate/articleshow/76665821.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Landing in other states? Norka ready to help all deported non-resident Keralites||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With more non-resident Keralites (NRKs) returning home from abroad, Norka department has embarked on proactive steps to facilitate their travel to their native place. Norka has decided to bear the expenses of all expats, who have been deported from other countries under amnesty schemes and have reached various airports across the country and are in quarantine. Norka will bear the expenses for their travel from their place of first disembarkation in the country to their hometown in state. The expenses will be met from Norka emergency repatriation fund that were set apart for emergency repatriation purposes under its plan fund. Principal secretary (Norka) K Ellangovan said that this will help those who couldn’t reach Kerala after being deported from other countries. "Norka has been authorized to undertake the task of bringing those who have completed their quarantine in other locations after their arrival from abroad," he said. Norka Roots has been asked to give detailed information of the expenses and arrangements for their travel to the government. Norka has already extended this aid to 120 persons who were deported from Malaysia, Netherlands, Kuwait and Sri Lanka after they arrived in Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Tuticorin. For other passengers, arriving in nearby airports outside the state, Norka will offer transport facilities to their native place on payment basis. Meanwhile, government has been facilitating the travel of passengers, landing at other airports, to their native place without being quarantined at the point of their first disembarkation by issuing a no-objection certificate. Several NRKs had requested the government to help them continue their journey to Kerala without being quarantined at the place of first disembarkation. In such cases, Norka is issuing NOC to the concerned nodal officer of the state where they are arriving. The government is giving them an assurance that such passengers will be quarantined once they reach their native place here. However, the only condition Kerala is putting forward is that they should obtain a valid entry permit by registering their details on ‘covid19jagratha’ portal. As per MHA guidelines, international passengers who are disembarking in any airport should undergo a 14-day quarantine there itself before proceeding to their home state. Though Kerala has asked the Centre to revise guideline considering the several practical difficulties involved, Centre is yet to make formal changes. As many as 1,20,117 persons have arrived from abroad in 687 flights and three vessels. Of this, 500 were chartered flights and 187 Vande Bharat flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/landing-in-other-states-norka-ready-to-help-all-deported-nrks/articleshow/76666568.cms||KP Saikiran
June 28, 2020||Surat||Cops intensify mask drive as cases soar in city||Surat: With Covid-19 positive cases spiralling in the city, police too have rammed up its operations against people flouting the mask in public rule and in10 days collected Rs 3,015,800 as fines from such offenders. Total 15,079 persons were penalized and Rs 200 fine was collected from each of them, said cops, adding that the drive had started after the state government ordered fines on people not wearing mask on June 16. On Friday, police fined 3,082 persons. Earlier civic officials were collecting cash fine for not wearing mask but for stricter implementation police too have been given the additional responsibility. Enforcing strict implementation of curfew after 9 pm, cops are closing down shops after 7 pm. Multiple offences have been registered in different police stations of the city in past few days for curfew violation and keeping shops open. “Police are strictly implementing all these orders and penalising flouters. This will encourage people to follow rules related to social distancing and wearing of masks to stop spread of Covid-19,” said R B Brahmbhatt, city police commissioner. Total 105 cases were registered and 122 persons were arrested in different police stations of the city for violation of curfew norms on Friday. Police have also detained 255 vehicles. The accused were booked under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cops-intensify-mask-drive-as-cases-soar-in-city/articleshow/76666083.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 424kg ganja seized till June||COIMBATORE: Sleuths of the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau (NIB-CID) have seized 424kg ganja till June 26 this year. The special unit, which covers Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur and Erode, also seized other contraband items and arrested more than 40 people, DSP R Vincent said. “We seized 14.4 grams of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) pills, 1.2 grams of LSD stamps, 4 grams of methamphetamine and 1.2kg of charas. As many as 40 cases were registered and 43 people including two women were arrested.” The NIB-SID unit has been conducting anti-drug awareness programmes for college students, Vincent added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/424kg-ganja-seized-till-jun/articleshow/76667464.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: JNU allows its centres to pick mode of classes||NEW DELHI: The School of Engineering at Jawaharlal Nehru University conducted its exams online without a hitch, the university said in a statement. JNU has allowed all its schools and centres to choose how they would want to conduct their teaching. The SoE had managed to shift its classes completely online after the lockdown and conducted an examination that spanned over two weeks. Inspired by IIT, the school has announced that it will now conduct classes for its next semester totally online as well. In a statement on Saturday, the JNU administration said that its Academic Council has decided that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, its schools and centres will be allowed to choose the teaching modes that suit it — either online mode or offline mode — when the students can come back to the varsity once the situation permits. “Most importantly, the students are being given the choice to choose between either online or offline mode, depending on whether they have the internet access,” the university said in a statement. At the SoE, online classes began on March 18 with two batches of 210 BTech students. “Google Classroom was extensively used to upload course materials and aggregate assignments. Live online sessions were held primarily as tutorials. In some courses, audio clips were uploaded in conjunction with powerpoint slides,” the statement said. The university claimed that by mid-April, 97% of students had joined the Google Classroom and most were regular in submitting assignments. The exams were then conducted in MCQ format from June 5 to June 17 with the use of two digital platforms — Google Forms and Examineer.in and links to question papers were sent to all registered students by e-mail five minutes before the start of the examination. JNU Vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said that the students were quick to adapt to the online procedures for lectures and examinations. “The planning for the courses will be floated in the monsoon semester (August) 2020-21,” JNU said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-allows-its-centres-to-pick-mode-of-classes/articleshow/76667933.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Diary campaign: Note it down to break the chain in Kerala||KOCHI: To support the government’s new ‘Break the chain-diary campaign’, student volunteers of National Service Scheme in vocational higher secondary schools have started a drive to promote diary use among auto-taxi drivers and shopkeepers. Volunteers from over 320 NSS units in state will make and distribute 1.5 lakh diaries by July 1 and make drivers and shopkeepers aware why such a move to break the infection is necessary when cases with unknown sources are rising. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched the campaign on Thursday and urged people to jot down details of their travel in a diary. NSS volunteers are asking shopkeepers and auto-taxi drivers to keep a record of their work by writing down the details of customers. This includes name, address, date and time of visit to place. These details will help health officials to make route maps, know primary contacts if any customer tests positive. “People’s cooperation is needed to find the source of infection. Also, in order to prevent community spread, these details will be helpful. All NSS-VHSE volunteers have started updating their diary at home and we thought of extending the campaign. We will be seeking the support of health department and police. The department has agreed to provide funds for printing diaries. Now, each NSS unit will arrange fund with the support of well-wishers in respective areas,” said state programme coordinator, NSS-VHSE, Ranjith P. VHSE students pursuing printing technology course in their curriculum have designed a diary that has specific format for entering details each day. Also, it provides an awareness note about preventive measures. Each NSS unit will customize the design to include their school name and logo. The diaries will be distributed by volunteers with the support of respective civic body. “The diary needs to be updated by drivers and shopkeepers and customers shouldn’t be allowed to touch it as it will increase chances of infection. NSS programme officers in each school, civic body members, PTA members, former students will accompany students to distribute diaries and give awareness classes,” said Ranjith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/diary-campaign-note-it-down-to-break-the-chain/articleshow/76666580.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
June 28, 2020||Surat||DGCA to hear residents through video conferencing||Surat: The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) scheduled personal hearing of the residents of 198 buildings whose height is obstructing the flight path at Surat airport, through video conferencing between July 7 to July 10. Following the directions of the Gujarat high court on the writ petitions filed by the residents, the DGCA served fresh notices to the residents of the 198 buildings on June 19 and fixed the hearing dates through video conferencing. Sources said that once the personal hearing is conducted, the DGCA will file report placing on record its decision taken on the buildings obstructing the flight path at Surat airport before the HC. The final hearing in the case is scheduled in HC on July 27.Earlier, the DGCA had fixed the personal hearing on March 19, but due to the lockdown the hearing was adjourned. In December 2019, the HC had ordered the Centre, Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on the unauthorised construction obstructing the flight path at the Surat airport.The DGCA’s personal hearing has been organised after the Gujarat HC ordered to take up the issue of the building height obstruction at the war footing. The issue pertains to construction of buildings one metre to 14.3 metre higher than the permissible limits in the inner horizontal surface limit. HC had slammed the AAI and the SMC (Surat Municipal Corporation) for their inaction and ordered them to issue notices for the demolition of construction of the buildings which do not even have Building Use Permission (BUC).The clearance of obstacles in the approach surface of runway-22 at Vesu side means that the aircrafts landing will be able to use the full-length of 2,905 meter runway, instead of the current 2,290 metre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dgca-to-hear-residents-through-video-conferencing/articleshow/76666114.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Patna||Patna municipal corporation men to work at night during monsoon||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) to tackle waterlogging during monsoon in the city, especially in low-lying areas and roads or lanes having no drainage system. It has also decided to expedite the construction of separate drainage channels in low-lying areas of the city. The civic body has asked the executive officers of all six circles – Azimabad, Bankipore, Kankarbagh, New Capital, Patliputra and Patna City – to engage at least 16-20 workers in night shifts to do anti-waterlogging work. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the civic body has drawn out a monsoon plan analysing the recent rainfall in the city. He said blocked manholes or catch pits, defunct sewage lines due to haphazard construction, broken pipelines due to development work and lack of proper drains in several localities are mainly responsible for waterlogging in the city. “We have asked the executive officers as well as ward councillors to depute at least 16-20 workers in night shift during the monsoon. The idea is to allow the workers to drain out accumulated water when the rain stops, even at night,” Sharma said. He added, “Night work will be carried out especially in those areas where there is no drainage pipeline and the localities having defunct sewage and blocked manholes or catch pits. Such areas are Kankarbagh, Bypass, Rajendra Nagar (road numbers 1 and 2), Nala Road, Kadamkuan near Congress Maidan, Bazaar Samiti, Bahadurpur and Patliputra.” To drain out water from waterlogged areas, the PMC has already procured 100 portable diesel-run motor pumps of 10-15hp. The civic body has also placed orders for 100 more such motor pumps. Sharma said for some areas like Ram Krishna Nagar and Rajendra Nagar, the civic body has drawn a different plan to drain out accumulated water. “In Ram Krishna Nagar, where there is no drainage system, we have created a well for the outfall of water. Two motor pumps (one of 83hp and another of 23hp) have been placed at a platform. These pumps will drain out water from different localities and put them in the well. From the well, water will be discharged into the Badshahi Pan,” he said. The Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (BUIDCO) has also constructed 27 temporary sump houses in addition to 39 existing sump houses in the city. Meanwhile, as per the master plan, construction work has started at 25 separate sewage networks. The state government had already approved the proposal of construction of 45 sewage networks at different locations for the outfall of water. The project involves an expenditure of Rs 45 crore. Sharma said four drainage networks at Ashok Nagar, Ram Nagar, Ram Lakhan Path and Indira Nagar have already been constructed. “The drainage network at Nala road, Thakurbari, Bari Path, Postal Park, Arya Kumar Road and East Ram Krishna Nagar is under construction,” he added. The work has yet to start at other 20 sewage line including Rajendra Nagar (road number 1 and 2), Kadamkuan near Congress Maidan and Panchwati Nagar (ward number 47), where 10 sewage line have to come up. Patna mayor Sita Sahu said the construction work of new sewage networks was affected due to coronavirus-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-pmc-men-to-work-at-night-to-clear-waterlogging/articleshow/76665764.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||MC cuts number of vending zones, proposal to be taken up in meet||Ludhiana: The civic officials have reduced the number of proposed sites for setting up vending zones in the city and the proposal will once again be taken up in the MC general house meeting for approval. Apart from this, for registration of vendors too the officials have now written letters to the councillors for getting the vendors registered if their names are in survey list. The officials claimed that last date was June 30 for registration, but many vendors were not in the city at the moment as they are yet to return here. Initially, there were over 100 vending zones identified for the city and the MC house had given nod after which the proposal went to the government for final notification. Before these sites could be notified, the MC and police kicked off an anti-encroachment drive in various markets of the city. During that drive the police officials rejected some of the sites already selected by the civic officials while citing that these proposed vending zones at these locations would lead to more traffic jams. After that a fresh survey was carried out in all four zones and new sites were identified. Following this, the officials reduced the number of vending zones from over 100 to just 64 now. Even this will go to the MC house meeting for approval. The officials claimed that now these sites were selected after long discussions with traffic cops and representatives of vendor groups. The secretary of MC and zonal commissioner of zone C Neeraj Jain said, “We had to reduce a few sites from the shortlisted ones because traffic cops were not in favour of having the vending zones at those locations. Also some were located at short distances from one another, so we clubbed those sites.” He said they would have to take permission from the MC general house before doing anything. Regarding registration of vendors, he said they had involved the councillors as well and had asked them to get the vendors in their areas registered with the MC, so that vending zones could be formed. Meanwhile, the situation has returned where it used to be as after lockdown three to four people from a single family have started selling vegetables or fruits while conveniently stationing themselves anywhere on roads. All this is leading to chaos once again. The civic body officials are taking a long time in finalising things, resulting in chaos everywhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-cuts-number-of-vending-zones-proposal-to-be-taken-up-in-meet/articleshow/76667474.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Set up Covid task force: First plasma donor in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The first plasma donor in Telangana has written a letter to the state government to set up a dedicated task force to cater to the needs of donors and Covid-19 patients. Citing the lack of awareness about donating plasma, Akhil Ennamsetty asked the government to act now to save thousands of lives. Akhil has set up a web portal along with two US-based techie friends — Rajinipriya Pabbathi and Santosh Shankarnarayan — to connect patients and donors in Delhi. He says similar requests in Hyderabad can be done with access to the government database. The Warangal lawyer was one of the initial Covid-19 survivors in Telangana who was successfully treated and recovered at the state-run Gandhi Hospital in March this year. “Through the portal, a month-old initiative, we were able to successfully coordinate about 250 convalescent plasma donations in Delhi-NCR with at least 100 requests in the last one week alone,” said Akhil. He said similar requests from patients’ families in Hyderabad were not being catered to “owing to the lack of survivors’ data and poor awareness among the survivors regarding the therapy”. In his letter addressed to ministry of health and family welfare, he asked for a setting up of a dedicated task force to cater to the needs of the convalescent plasma therapy patients and donors in Telangana, as it seems to be the highly effective alternate treatment for the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/set-up-covid-task-force-1st-plasma-donor/articleshow/76667923.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Surat||Covid cases in Bharuch cross 200 mark||Surat: Surat district recorded 21 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total cases in the district to 455 on Saturday. Officials said that two males patients — 38-year-old from Pasodara in Kamrej and 62-year-old from Mandvi — succumbed in the New Civil hospital in Surat on Friday. Bharuch district crossed 200 mark with eight new Covid cases recorded on Saturday with Jambusar continuing to remain the hotspot in the district. Navsari district recorded 11 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 88 on Saturday. Health officials said that about 31 positive cases have been recorded in the last three days from Navsari town, Gandevi, Jalalpore and Vijalpore. A 60-year-old woman from Vejalpore in Navsari who had co-morbid issues succumbed at the Civil hospital on Saturday. So far, the district has reported three deaths due to Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-cases-in-bharuch-cross-200-mark/articleshow/76666001.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Surat||Surat Diamond Association teams to keep an eye on Covid rule breakers in diamond units||SURAT: The Surat Diamond Association (SDA) has formed six teams consisting five members each to monitor the precautionary steps being taken in the diamond units after spurt in cases. At least 570 people related to the diamond industry have tested positive in June alone, mostly in Katargam. The teams will be deployed in Puna, Katargam, Varachha, Ashwani Kumar Road, Nandu Doshi Ni Wadi and others which have the highest concentration of diamond units. The teams, along with SMC’s health officials will check whether owners are strictly following the Covid protocols including social distancing, wearing masks and other guidelines in their units. SDA president Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “Total 30 SDA office-bearers have been divided into the teams and entrusted with rigorous checking of all units for violation of norms. If any unit is found violating the rules, SMC is free to take action as per law.” Nandlal Nakrani, president of Surat Diamond Brokers’ Association (SDBA) told TOI, “I am part of the five-member team for surveillance in the diamond market in Mahidharpura. Our priority is to prevent people from coming for tea and gossip in the market.” Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “The industry stakeholders have to come forward to ensure workers’ safety and our department will support the surveillance activity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sda-teams-to-keep-an-eye-on-covid-rule-breakers-in-diamond-units/articleshow/76666057.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Two cops return after pasting notice outside Navjot Singh Sidhu’s house||PATNA: A two-member police team, which had gone to Amritsar in Punjab with summons issued by a local court against cricketer and former Congress minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, returned to Katihar after a week on Saturday. Katihar superintendent of police (SP) Vikas Kumar said, “Janardan Ram and Javed Alam returned from Amritsar after pasting a copy of the summon outside the residence of the accused.” Sidhu is an accused in a 2019 case lodged with the Barsoi police station in Katihar district for delivering an inflammatory speech at an election rally on the campus of Dhatta upgraded high school. He had campaigned for Congress candidate Tariq Anwar in the Lok Sabha polls. The SP said, “Now the investigating officer of the case will submit a petition in the court seeking warrant of arrest. The process of attachment of the accused’s property will be initiated after obtaining a relevant order from the court concerned.” The complaint was lodged against Sidhu on the report of a magistrate deployed at the public meeting. Sub-inspector Janardan Ram was assigned to investigate the allegations levelled against the former Punjab minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-cops-return-after-pasting-notice-outside-sidhus-house/articleshow/76665897.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Patna||Revised industrial policy generates mixed response in Bihar||PATNA: A day after the state cabinet approved the amended the Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy, 2016, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said on Saturday that for the first time, wood-based industries have been included in the priority sector, which would provide market to farmers. SuMo said between 2012-19 agro-forestry was encouraged by the state government as a result of which farmers planted 8.8 crore trees of various species, including 5 crore poplar, on private land and timber varieties (banyan, bamboo and teak). “Now, under the new policy, incentives will be given to investors for setting-up wood-based industries in the state. They would also get the Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority land for setting-up lumber plants. Along with this, two tissue culture labs have also established to encourage bamboo cultivation,” Modi said. Further outlining the new industrial policy and linking it with the economy of the state, Modi, who also holds the finance department said, “In Bihar, we do not have raw materials or minerals to boost our economy. So in this policy, we focus on local things and promoting agro-products, electronics, machineries and handlooms among others.” Trade, commerce and industries bodies or organisations in Bihar gave a mixed response over the new industrial policy, which will remain effective till March 31, 2025. Satyajit Singh, a leading Makhana exporter in Bihar said it was not going to promote investment in the state, as the old incentives were still there in the revised policy whereas the new incentives would not benefit much (such as 80% reimbursement of transportation of raw materials and machineries). “For good investment, Bihar needs an aggressive industrial policy because after making rounds of high courts and Supreme Court, the investors still not get the incentives. We need to create confidence among the investors. It is very difficult for the investors to believe in government’s policies after encountering past experiences,” Singh said. Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khetan and Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries president PK Agarwal, on the other hand, appreciated the new policy and said it would boost the state’s economy as major focus was on local products while other states would also invest in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/revised-industrial-policy-generates-mixed-response/articleshow/76665780.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Cops foil bid to marry off minor girl||PATNA: Police arrested parents of a 16-year-old girl hours before they were to solemnise her marriage at Nasriganj under the Danapur police station area in Patna on Friday night. A youth from Sonepur was also arrested. SHO of Danapur police station Rajesh Kumar Sinha said police raided the house of the girl hours before the arrival of the groom for marriage. “The marriage was stopped. Both father and mother of the girl were arrested and taken to the police station. The two were allowed to go home from police station on condition that they would appear before court and procure bail as per law,” he said. Sinha said an FIR against the parents was registered under relevant sections of The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. “Under the Act, there is a provision for maximum two years’ imprisonment to the people found involved in getting a minor married,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-foil-bid-to-marry-off-minor-girl/articleshow/76665843.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 28, 2020||Patna||Will float a new party in Bihar, says Yashwant Sinha||PATNA: Former Union minister Yashwant Sinha on Saturday said he has been trying to “create a strong political centre” in Bihar that will later participate in the October-November assembly elections as a party to remove the present NDA government from the seat of power to build a new Bihar. “We definitely want to create a powerful force in Bihar. Only the future will decide if it will be the first, second or the third front. Our aim is to remove Nitish Kumar-led NDA government from power,” Sinha added. State BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel has, however, ridiculed Sinha’s new initiative as ‘Mungeri Lal ke hasin sapne’. “At present, the platform floated by me is a forum engaged in bringing together likeminded people, leaders and political parties for a better future of Bihar. In course, it would take the shape of a political party,” Sinha said. “We will fight the elections and fight it very strongly,” he added. Sinha favoured the traditional style of campaigning. “Campaigning through digital mode is a costly affair, which only rich and resourceful parties can afford. In a virtual rally, anyone can talk to 500 people and then make loud claims that he has talked to 1 crore people,” Sinha said. Sinha said he had been in Patna for the last fortnight discussing the present situation of the state with various sections of people, including politicians and intelligentsia to cobble up support for his campaign. Sinha, who addressed the media persons on Saturday, was accompanied by former Union minister Devendra Prasad Yadav, former minister Narendra Kumar Singh and former MP Arun Kumar, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-float-a-new-party-in-state-says-yashwant/articleshow/76665835.cms||Abhay Singh
June 28, 2020||Patna||RJD Bihar vice-president quits party||ARA: In yet another blow to Lalu Prasad-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), its state vice-president and MLA from Sandesh constituency in Bhojpur district Vijendra Kumar Yadav resigned from the primary membership of the party on Saturday. Yadav has sent his resignation letter to the party’s state president Jagdanand Singh. “I had been associated with the party for more than 30 years and worked closely with Laluji since 1984. I was elected Sandesh MLA twice in a row. However, dedicated and loyal party workers like me are being sidelined these days. Political greenhorns and new comers are getting prominence in the party. In fact, I was the state vice-president of the RJD on papers only. I had no say whatsoever in the decision-making process of the party. Today, the RJD is in total disarray,” Yadav said. Asked about his next course of action, Yadav said, “Though I am getting offers from all the main political parties like BJP, JD(U) and LJP, I will join the party that gives me due honour and value. I have great regard for the CPI (ML) too as I worked for its candidate supported by the RJD. Right now, I have kept my options open, but there is no question of reconsidering my decision of resigning from the RJD.” On Tuesday, five RJD MLCs had formed a separate group and merged with the ruling JD(U). The same day, party stalwart Raghuvansh Prasad Singh had resigned as RJD national vice-president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-state-vice-president-quits-party/articleshow/76665794.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Markaz chief misled cops about foreigners’||NEW DELHI: Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhalvi had invited members of the Jamaat from Indonesia and Malaysia even after their own governments had refused to give them permission to hold a conference citing Covid-19 fear. In the chargesheet, a copy of which is with TOI, police mentioned that when the first Indonesian national started showing symptoms of Covid-19, a man, Mohammad Shehzad, who was representing Saad, misled cops claiming that apart from the Indonesian national, there were only three people present in the Markaz building, one of whom was a doctor — while nearly 2,000 people were lodging inside. Shehzad was in fact the only person with whom government agencies were allowed to meet or interact. The chargesheet also mentioned that that even as Tablighi Jamaat attendees had tested positive for coronavirus in Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh, the management went on with their programme for three days instead of sending the attendees on quarantine. After police came to know about the religious event being continued, they had asked the Markaz authorities to ensure that foreigners and devotees from other states who had come to attend the conference were sent back to prevent the spread of the virus, but the management had ignored the advice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/markaz-chief-misled-cops-about-foreigners/articleshow/76667936.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Patna||Locust threat: High alert in eight districts of Bihar||PATNA: A high alert has been sounded in eight districts sharing border with Uttar Pradesh to ward off attack by swarms of locusts on plants, as they have been sighted in weak to strong groups in their blocks bordering. The preventive measures prescribed for district administrations concerned include making sharp noise by beating drums and empty tin cans, spraying pesticides and chemicals with fire brigade, among others. In West Champaran district, farmers arranged loud sound by playing DJ on Saturday. “No major damage has been caused to the plants by the locusts in any district where they were sighted. However, partial damage was caused to sugarcane plants in a couple of villages bordering UP in West Champaran district,” Bihar agriculture minister Prem Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/locust-threat-high-alert-in-eight-districts/articleshow/76665872.cms||Abhay Singh
June 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Srijan scam: CBI files chargesheets against 60 accused||PATNA: The CBI on Saturday submitted chargesheets in three different cases against 60 people, including a senior retired IAS officer K P Ramaiah, in the special CBI court in connection with multi-crore Srijan scam. One of the accused, Manorma Devi, founder secretary of the NGO – Srijan Vikas Sahkari Sahyog Samiti – which had its headquarters at Sabour in Bhagalpur, is dead. In the three separate chargesheets, the accused have been charged with lowering their official position and conniving with office-bearers of the NGO to siphon off public funds worth several crore between 2008 and 2014. Ramaiah, who was then posted as DM of Bhagalpur, has been charged with allowing open bank accounts in Srijan Private Cooperative Bank with the help of deputy collector (nazarat) Vijay Kumar and depositing Rs 3.5 crore. Names of altogether 28 people figured in the chargesheet filed in case number RC14A/17. In another case-RC10A/18, chargesheet was submitted against 13 people, including Manorma Devi (dead). The accused, which included bank officials and office bearers of the NGO, have been charged with embezzling over Rs 38 crore. In the third chargesheet in case number RC15A/17, the accused have been charged with swindling funds to the tune of Rs 50 crore. The names of 19 people figured in the third chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/srijan-scam-cbi-files-chargesheets-against-60-accused/articleshow/76665903.cms||Ramashankar
June 28, 2020||Shimla||Centre approves 500 ventilators for Himachal Pradesh, 200 already received||SHIMLA: Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, Centre has approved 500 ventilators for Himachal Pradesh. Of which, 200 ventilators have already been received while 300 more are scheduled to arrive in the next couple of days. Of the total sanctioned ventilators, 178 are transport ventilators while 322 are intensive care unit (ICU) ventilators. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, while attending the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 27, had raised the issue of shortage of ventilators in the state. He had requested Modi to provide adequate number of ventilators to meet out any eventuality. So far, 90% of the cases reported in the state have either milder symptoms or asymptomatic — such positive cases are being treated at Covid Care Centres which have been set up in non health institutions. Of the total 873 positive cases of Covid-19 reported till Saturday noon, 495 have recovered — state’s recovery rate is 56.70% and death rate 1.32%. So far, not even a single patient needed an ICU bed. Additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman said 500 ventilators were made available to state through HLL Lifecare Limited, a Government of India is owned enterprise and were manufactured by Bharat Electronics Limited. He said 200 ventilators have already been received while 300 more are on the way and will be received in the next two days. He said earlier the state had received 102 ventilators taking the total to 610. “These ventilators are being installed in all the medical colleges, district hospitals and other Covid institutions and medical staff is also being trained to operate these ventilators,” he said adding that availability of ventilators will certainly strengthen the efforts of health department to treat Covid-19 patients. He said in case Covid-19 cases increase further in the coming days, these ventilators will help in the treatment of serious patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/centre-approves-500-ventilators-for-hp-200-already-received/articleshow/76667928.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||10 more test positive in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris reported 10 more Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking its count to 66. The district now has 44 active cases. Four of the new cases are from Yellanhalli area in Ketti panchayat, two from Cash Bazar area in Ooty and one each from Puttusamy lane in Ooty, Kotagiri town, Coonoor town and Thuthurmattam in Coonoor taluk. Seven patients are secondary contacts of the infected public relations officer of a private needle manufacturing company. Three of the remaining cases comprise a 43-year-old woman from Kotagiri who travelled to Mettupalayam to attend the funeral of her mother and two secondary contacts of imported cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-more-test-positive-in-nilgiris/articleshow/76667475.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Ticket checking staff at rly station gets safety gear||Ludhiana: Following the demands of the local ticket checking staff to be given face shields and other safety gears in the wake of rising rising number of Covid-19 cases, Northern Railway authorities have finally provided them all important personal protective equipments (PPE) kits (face shield, masks, gloves, goggles and shoes cover) to the local ticket checking staff, which can come in close contact of passengers boarding trains. So far, in the absence of safety gears, the local ticket checking staff has been struggling to manage the work of handling the huge rush of passengers reaching the city railway station for boarding the long-route trains passing through the city station. Also, soon after the demise of a railway official due to Covid-19, the local ticket checking staff has been raising the demand for protective equipment kits. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “After considering the requirement of the ticket checking staff, Northern Railway authorities have provided them all essential advance safety gears for wearing as they are more vulnerable to Covid-19 infection while performing their duty as they remain in close contact with a large number of unknown passengers.” Railway authorities are also planning to install advance safety measure technique of automated ticket checking and managing access system at major stations for strengthening the safety cover among railway officials who have to handle the work of checking tickets at the check-in points of the railway station. “Another development plan of installing automated thermal scanner machines at check-in points of the city railway station has been under consideration of the authorities for early execution as risk of getting infected with the virus during duty hours is the topmost priority in view of a large number of cases being reported,” he said. Railway authorities are also considering the need of the Railway Protection Force for providing them safety gears the same way they would be providing these to the ticket checking staff as they are dealing with security arrangements of the station premises, here hundreds of passengers pass through on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ticket-checking-staff-at-rly-station-gets-safety-gear/articleshow/76667469.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||Mega door-to-door Covid survey begins in Bhopal, 3,000 screened on Day 1||BHOPAL: The door-to-door survey to identify Covid-19 patients in Bhopal began on Saturday with more than 2 lakh people being surveyed. During the day, 3,000 people were screened and 2,300 samples were collected. The two-day mega drive initiated by district administration in state capital is aimed at identification and survey of people suffering from respiratory problems, cough and fever. District collector Avinash Lawaniya led the survey in which more than 1,500 survey workers participated. Close to 5 lakh population living in 51 localities of the city including densely populated areas, slums, and containment areas will be surveyed in this two-day long mega drive. Apart from screening people for Covid-19 related symptoms, malaria survey, sanitization drive, larva survey is also being done under the drive. District collector Avinash Lawaniya said, “More than 2 lakh people were surveyed on the first day of mega drive. It will continue on Sunday also.” Doctors are also the part of these survey teams and medicines are sprayed in places where waterlogging is seen and the teams are also conducting house-to-house larvae survey. The objective of this survey is to timely identify the Covid-19 patients from the vulnerable population so that they could be traced, isolated and provided with timely treatment to avoid further complications and fatality. This would also help in effectively checking the spread of the virus as the survey is covering all municipal wards. Health sources meanwhile apprehend a sudden spike in number of Covid positive cases due to the intensive survey. However, they claimed it would be helpful in containing the disease in the long-term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mega-covid-survey-covers-2-lakh-people/articleshow/76667483.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||School teacher’s body found inside his house in Kheri||Bareilly: A 32-year-old school teacher’s body was found from inside his house in Kanshiram colony in Lakhimpur city on Saturday morning. The deceased, identified as Ajeet Pratap Pal, used to live alone in the house and had severe head injuries. Police suspect that he was killed using a blunt object on Thursday night as the body had started to decay. Additional SP Arun Singh, along with circle officer Vijay Anand and forensic experts, visited the spot to collect evidence. Officers spoke to the deceased’s elder brother Arvind Lal and sent Ajeet’s mobile phone to recover more information.Ajeet lived on the fourth floor and when his neighbours noticed that he hadn’t stepped out since Thursday night, they informed the police and his brother Arvind. They entered the house through the balcony and found Ajeet’s body lying on the bed. There were blood stains on the wall and it appeared that the accused had fled from the window.Anand told TOI, “The victim was killed on Thursday night as the body had started to decay. We suspect that the accused was familiar with the victim and he took the murder weapon along with him. We are making a list of suspects. The accused will soon be identified and arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/school-teachers-body-found-inside-his-house-in-kheri/articleshow/76665676.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Malayali lawyer helps stranded labourers in UAE||Kochi: Ever since the novel coronavirus outbreak in UAE, stranded Indian migrant workers, many of them plagued by a host of issues including expired passports and visas, have had help from Sheela Thomas, a Malayali lawyer who has lived in the emirates for the last 25 years. Sheela, whose family hails from Adoor in Pathanamthitta, along with members of the Women’s Forum in Sharjah, which coordinates activities over WhatsApp, has been able to help hundreds of stranded workers by providing food kits and shelter. “Most of these people are out of jobs. They don’t have proper visas and possess only expired passports. Even those with passports have them retained by employers. Due to the Covid-19 impact they were left without jobs, food and no money for even paying rent and were evicted. Their situation is very pathetic,” Sheela told TOI over phone from Dubai. Sheela also provides legal help for their repatriation. While there are people from states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal in the group the majority hails from Telangana. “I was born and brought up in Hyderabad and I speak Telugu. This makes me very much attached to these people,” Sheela said. “I have files of around 2,200 people who need help but have been able to help only 600 so far. Handling all cases at the same time is virtually impossible. After this, I hope to take up the case of a group of stranded labourers from Chennai and Pondicherry. We have a Women’s Forum in Sharjah and around 800 women are behind me in this endeavour. Without their help we could not have carried out this mission,” said Sheela, adding that they had the help of the government of Sharjah in reaching out to the labourers. During the month of Ramzan they distributed kits on all 30 days, she said. “Ultimately if migrant labourers don’t find help they have no option but take their own lives. That's why we decided to help,” Sheela said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-lawyer-helps-stranded-labourers-in-uae/articleshow/76666598.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Students to get food allowance for missed mid-day meals in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Centre has asked the state government to pay food security allowance to students of government schools in lieu of mid-day meals, which were not served to them due to the educational institutions remaining closed during the 77-day lockdown. The Union human resource development ministry has written to all state governments to make arrangements for payment of food security allowance to the students for the days schools had remained closed during summer and thereafter due to the coronavirus-forced lockdown during which time the mid-day meals were not provided to the pupils. In Telangana, there are over 18 lakh students who are eligible for the food security allowance in lieu of mid-day meals. The state government has been spending nearly Rs 300 crore per annum on the mid-day meals scheme, with financial support from the central government too. A senior official of the school education department told TOI that the state government would take a final call on how to extend the financial benefit to the students in lieu of mid-day meals. “There is no clarity when the schools will re-open due to the rising number of coronavirus cases. So, the modalities have to be worked out to extend food security allowance to the students,” the official added. Enquiries by TOI revealed that Rs 6.17 per day is spent on each student towards mid-day meals that comprises cooked rice and dal. The menu changes every day such as rice and sambar on some day and vegetables along with rice on another day. “Telangana is the only state in the country which provides super fine rice to the students as part of mid-day meals,” an official said.  Centre had a word of praise for the state government, which was spending money from its pocket to provide either an egg or banana to each student thrice a week as part of the scheme||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-to-get-food-allowance-for-missed-mid-day-meals-in-t/articleshow/76667935.cms||Roushan Ali
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Shankersinh Vaghela tests positive for Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: Former Gujarat chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The 79-year-old leader had been suffering from fever and flu-like symptoms for the past three or four days. Vaghela had met and interacted with a large number of supporters before announcing his decision to quit the Nationalist Congress Party last Monday. He had been receiving a constant stream of visitors and supporters since the NCP leadership, earlier this month, removed him from the post of state president of the party. The septuagenarian politician got himself tested in a private laboratory on Friday for Covid-19 and results were made available on Saturday. Vaghela decided on home quarantine, but will get admitted in a hospital if required. He has no complications and is being treated under the guidance of a doctor. Vaghela’s aides said that he did not meet people over the past four days as he was not keeping well. However, Bapu’s aides – his personal assistant, Bhaumik Thakkar, and media in-charge Parthesh Patel will get themselves tested for Covid-19 on Sunday. They have been in constant contact with Vaghela. A number of politicians have so far tested positive for Covid-19. These include senior Congress leader Bharatsinh Solanki, three BJP MLAs and one MLA of the Congress. Senior Congress leader and city municipal councilor Badruddin Shaikh lost the battle to Covid earlier. A number of municipal councilors in Ahmedabad have also tested positive for Covid-19. Vaghela had announced the formation of a new outfit, ‘Praja Shakti Morcho’ on Monday to lend voice the problems of common people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaghela-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76667941.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||PTK leader’s wife tests positive||Coimbatore: Puthiya Thamizhagam Katchi (PTK) leader Dr Krishnaswamy’s wife, who runs a private hospital in Kuniyamuthur, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The hospital, which is attached to their house, has subsequently been sealed. Health officials have also collected nasal swabs from nearly 70 of her contacts – staff members, Dr Krishnaswamy and other family members. They suspect she might have contracted the virus from the hospital. An official said the obstetrician’s sample was among the ones that were sent for test from the hospital as a routine procedure. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director, public health, said, “Among them, only the doctor tested positive. She is asymptomatic. The source of infection must have been the hospital, maybe an attender or an outpatient. Kuniyamuthur already has a few cases.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ptk-leaders-wife-tests-positive/articleshow/76667484.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Copter with desi pesticide sprayer to contain locusts||JAIPUR: In a first, the Union ministry of agriculture will carry out anti-locust operations using a helicopter in Barmer and Jaisalmer districts on July 2-3. The tailor-made helicopter will spray chemical on flying swarms of locusts from above in one sortie, which is equivalent to spraying by 100 tractors in half-a-day. The Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary, while inspecting the locust-affected areas on the outskirts of Jaipur said that the 60-micron air machines that form a cloud of chemicals in the air to eliminate locusts will arrive from the UK next month. Reacting on the reports that the locust attacks will continue throughout the year, Choudhary said the Central government is committed to provide all possible help to the state in fighting the battle against the insects. “The spray from the helicopter is a very effective tool to eliminate the swarms and also to contain them in a limited area. It is also a matter of pride that tools, equipment and other changes made to the helicopter have been made in India. Earlier, these tools were ordered from the UK, but the delay compelled our engineers to develop them in no time,” said Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/copter-with-desi-pesticide-sprayer-to-contain-locusts/articleshow/76668141.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: 4 test +ve in Madikeri||MADIKERI: Four people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district on Saturday, taking the total tally of the disease to 40 in Kodagu. Three patients have been discharged, while 37 are in hospital. All these cases were reported from the 19 containment zones in the district. A senior doctor working in the government hospital in Madikeri, who was also running a private clinic, had recently tested positive for the novel coronavirus here. The police, health and revenue departments are tracing the contacts of the doctor after he tested positive. Earlier, many people in the district used to take treatment at his private clinic regularly. Some of the shops and establishments where this doctor visited for business were sealed in Madikeri. Kodagu deputy commissioner Anies Kanmani Joy has requested the people of Kodagu to quarantine themselves if they had come in contact with the doctor after June 10. The doctor’s private clinic and attached diagnostic centre run by a radiologist have been sealed, and the whole area has been turned into a containment zone. Patients who came in contact with the doctor should get tested in the Covid hospital, if they show any symptoms of the disease, the DC said. A 33-year-old who has a travel history from Bengaluru, and tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday, has been admitted to the Covid hospital in Madikeri. A 35-year-old healthcare worker who hails from Subashnagar, Murnad, a 14-year-old who is the primary contact of a patient from Shirangala, and an 8-year-old who is the primary contact of a patient from Hulase, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. All the shops and business establishments in Kodagu will close from 2 pm from Saturday onwards, as per a call given by the district chamber of commerce, till July 4, to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. New SP takes charge in Kodagu Kodagu superintendent of police Suman D Pannekar has been transferred to Bengaluru as DCP CAR units, and Kshama Mishra took charge as SP for Kodagu on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/4-test-ve-in-madikeri/articleshow/76666596.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC’s Covid fund to help employees||HYDERABAD: The Telangana HC on Saturday created a special Covid-19 fund to help its outsourced and contract employees to meet their medical expenses. The state’s medical reimbursement scheme is not applicable to them. The full court of the HC which met on Saturday resolved to create this fund and all the judges have volunteered to contribute to this fund. The full court also appealed to its judicial officers working in the district judiciary to contribute to this fund as this fund would cover the outsourced employees working in the district courts too. In another important decision, the full court had decided to suspend the judicial work in regular courts till July 20. Urgent cases would be heard through videoconference mode. This arrangement is applicable to both high court and the subordinate courts in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hcs-covid-fund-to-help-employees/articleshow/76667942.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Tribals stop forest staff from taking up plantation||HYDERABAD: Tribals in Kanakanur village in Jayashankar Bhupalpally on Friday prevented forest officials from planting saplings in forest land, claiming they have been raising crops on the parcel of land (podu land).  “We had a talk with the tribals and explained to them that it clearly is forest land. We are having a meeting with police on how to handle the situation and a decision will be taken accordingly,” district forest officer Purushotham told TOI on Saturday. Forest officials had gone to Kankanur village in Mahamutharam to plant saplings as part of the sixth phase of Haritha Haram on Friday. The plantation was planned in 125 acre of forest land and preparations were on for the last six months. However, the tribals claimed the land had been under cultivation. Forest officials found they had recently planted cotton in about six acres of the land. “They have asked for six days time to resolve the issue,” DFO Purushotham said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribals-stop-forest-staff-from-taking-up-plantation/articleshow/76667946.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 28, 2020||Indore||Dewas receives 520mm rain in 24hrs||Indore: Rain wreaked havoc in Dewas district on Saturday. Kalisindh river swelled up after a few hours of downpour leading to submerging of a bridge on Hatpipilya Road that brought traffic movement to a standstill. Dhar, Ujjain and Indore district of Malwa-Nimar also reported rainfall lead to waterlogging in some low lying areas. According to state metrological department, Dewas district in morning recorded total 518.5mm rainfall in last 24 hours. This raised the water level of Kalisindh bringing a bridge constructed on Hatpipliya Tappa Road under water by around 4 feet. After few hours, the water level started declining and passersby started crossing the river by risking their lives. According to local administration, Dewas has so far reported an average rainfall of 304.97mm against average rain of 55.71mm reported this time last year. Meanwhile, Dewas administration has asked all departments concerned to make required arrangements to deal with waterlogging. Water logging was also reported in some low lying areas of Dhar after city reported 110mm rainfall in 24 hours along with Khargone district (around 201mm), Indore district (around 210mm), Ujjain (220mm) and Barwani district, which reported around 160mm rain in last 24 hours. Meanwhile, Mandsaur district administration on Saturday replanted ‘Kalpvirksha’ in famous eight-faces Pashupatinath Temple on Shivana river. The tree is worshiped by people here. Around a week ago, Mandsaur had witnessed strong wind that had uprooted over 100 trees in district including ‘Kalpvirksha’. Priests of Pashupatinath temple and devotees have been demanding administration replant the tree, which was lying at the spot. “Even after a week, leafs on the tree were still green and people believe it to come to life, if replanted,” a devotee Jeevan Goswami said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/dewas-receives-520mm-rain-in-24hrs/articleshow/76667498.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Four-year-old raped by minor cousin in Bhiwadi||Jaipur: A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 15-year-old cousin in Bhiwadi’s Khairthal police station area. On the allegations made by the family, the accused was booked under the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act on Friday. The accused has been detained and is being questioned. According to the complaint, the accused approached the minor when she was near her house. He lured her to a nearby field, where he reportedly raped her on pretext of giving her sweets and money. On return, the minor informed her family members about the crime. The family members approached Khairthal police station, lodged a complaint and demanded immediate arrest of the accused. Police said the accused was caught and brought to the police station for questioning. However, police denied gang-rape in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-year-old-raped-by-minor-cousin-in-bhiwadi/articleshow/76668143.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||Poacher wanted for killing PTR tiger in 2014 arrested||Pilibhit: A poacher wanted for allegedly killing a tiger in Mahof forest range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) in 2014 was arrested in neighbouring Uttarakhand town of Khatima on Friday night.Identified as Mohammad Shahid alias Shahida, 38, the poacher was arrested by a team of forest personnel headed by Mahof range officer Arif Jamal Khan.Shahid is said to have killed the tiger with the help of four members of the Bavaria gang. He had met them while serving a term at Haldwani jail, where he was lodged for brewing illicit liquor.Shahida was planning to flee to Nepal along with key accomplice, Shaqir, when he was nabbed, said forest officer Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/poacher-wanted-for-killing-ptr-tiger-in-2014-arrested/articleshow/76665696.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Intake process challenge: Gujarat HC tells IIM-A to keep a seat vacant||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court ordered the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) to keep one seat vacant after a student challenged the premier institute’s admissions process, particularly the undue weight given to the personal interview. Justice Biren Vaishnav on Friday ordered a seat be kept vacant for city-based student Raghav Gupta, who has an excellent CAT score, in the 99.95th percentile, but fell a little short in securing a berth for IIM-A’s flagship postgraduate programme in management. The institute will have to keep one seat vacant till the pendency of Gupta’s petition in the high court. Gupta is a commerce graduate from Ahmedabad University. The main grievance Gupta raised before the high court was that IIM-A gives undue weight to the personal interview. It is worth 50% of the total points whereas the interview should not have more than 15% weight in the admissions process. The final selection is done on basis of personal interview (50%), AWT (10%), CAT score (25%) and Application Rating (15%). Gupta scored 206.86 marks in CAT 2019 examination, ranking in the 99.95th percentile, enough to easily walk into the premier institute. He was among the top 110 students in the country. However, when the IIM-A declared its admission list, his name was missing. Gupta sought information from the institute under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, about the break-up of his score, but the institute refused to accept the application under RTI laws. Before the court, senior counsel Navin Pahwa, for the student, argued that the institute has given undue weight to the personal interview contrary to the settled position of law. He also asserted that the institute falls under the ambit of the RTI laws under Section 33 of the IIM Act, 2017 and the institute cannot deny information to the student. After hearing the case, the HC ordered that a seat be kept vacant and issued notice to IIM-A, seeking a reply to Gupta’s petition. A further hearing is posted for July 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/intake-process-challenge-hc-tells-iim-a-to-keep-a-seat-vacant/articleshow/76667950.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CBSE students look for clarity about final results||NEW DELHI: Class XII student Raunak Thakur is relieved that he won’t have to take his last paper, computer science, for the final examination amid the Covid crisis. He is now trying to understand the assessment scheme notified by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). “I will ask my teach how I will get my marks. I have also heard that we can give an improvement paper later. Computer science is a scoring subject,” said Thakur, a science student of a Delhi government school who also has physical education. “Will the board include even physical education in calculating the best three?” he wondered. CBSE has said if a student has appeared in more than two or three subjects, the best of two or three subjects, respectively, will be considered in that case. Thakur is not the only student seeking clarifications. Principals and many teachers TOI spoke to said they were being flooded with queries from students. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “I have told them they should now just relax. Many students are thinking that if they have not done well with the fifth subject, they can reappear. But many are relieved that they will get their results and can move on.” CBSE has said it will conduct examinations for only Class XII boards when the situation becomes conducive. Many principals feel it will be tough to conduct any examination any time soon. “By the time the situation improves, the universities will be done with the admission process,” said a principal. Rajpal Singh, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Dwarka Sector 10, said the students would benefit from the plan as any unhappy student could appear in the examination later, while those who had done well in other papers would get good average marks. However, students like Irfan who could appear in just two subjects due to the riots in northeast Delhi are a worried lot. CBSE will decide their results on the basis of internal/practical/project assessments “Does it mean the pre-board exams of the school? The practical and project marks are 30 and 20,” said Irfan, a humanities student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-students-look-for-clarity-about-final-results/articleshow/76667948.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||44 fresh cases take Bhopal tally to 2,818||Bhopal: 44 more people were diagnosed with Covid-19, here on Saturday. So far since the pandemic began, 2818 people have tested positive and 94 have died in the state capital. One more tested positive Kolar, taking the total number of cases diagnosed in the area to over one dozen in the past week. The area has remained largely isolated from the infection spread. Nishatpura, Kolar and Piplani area accounted for seven cases. Same campus in Kolar has now reported six cases of the infection. Meanwhile, four family members in Shahjehaband tested positive for the infection. Three adjacent buildings have been taken under containment by the administration. Sabri Nagar reported three positive cases while, two more people tested positive in hotspot – Khanugoan. Walled city, commercial area, Kotwali reported new cases after a gap of almost two weeks. Three people were diagnosed with the infection. Shahjehanabad are reported four more COVID-19 infection, taking the total number of infection in the zone to over 100. Most of the COVID-19 cases detected in the area have recovered. It began with a private medical retailer getting infected. Since then the infection has spread to areas nearby including Idgah Hills. Isolated infection were reported from Anna Nagar, Labour colony, Indrapuri, Government quarter of Kamla Nagar, Yashoda Nagar,(Saket Nagar), Ahata Rushtam Khan, DIG Bungalow, Tilajampura, Sanjay Nagar (Kamla Nagar), Arjun Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Kasturba Nagar, MP Board Colony (Habibganj) and E-7 Arera Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/44-fresh-cases-take-bhopal-tally-to-2818/articleshow/76667492.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||CBI team in Churu to probe SHO death||Jaipur: A CBI team reached Rajgarh in Churu district on Saturday to investigate the death of SHO Vishnudutt Bishnoi, who committed suicide nearly a month ago. The villagers and relatives of the police officer had asked for a CBI inquiry after two suicide notes were found where he hanged himself at his official residence in Churu. There were allegations that external interference, including from the local politicians, drove the SHO to commit suicide. A CBI officer said, “We have started an investigation into the matter and are looking into all allegations. We can comment further when inquiry will be completed.” Bishnoi, the SHO of Rajgarh police station, was found hanging at his government residence on May 23. Police had recovered two suicide notes but none of them specified the reason for the suicide, barring that he was under stress. On the complaint of his family, an FIR on abetment to suicide was lodged against unidentified accused. He was cremated with state honours. As soon as the news of his death spread, people gathered to protest outside the police station demanding an inquiry into the matter. His family had initially refused to take his body and demanded a CBI inquiry into the death. However, a WhatsApp message started doing the rounds following Bishnoi’s death in which he had apparently written to his friend claiming that he was stuck in ‘internal politics’ at his workplace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cbi-team-in-churu-to-probe-sho-death/articleshow/76668144.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Indore||Jhabua tribals demand proper compensation||Indore: People of tribal-dominated Jhabua on Saturday alleged that authorities did not provide them ‘right’ compensation against farmlands being acquired to develop the ambitious Delhi-Mumbai eight-lane highway and also harassing them to vacate land. Kailash Amliyar, Malwa region head of Janjati Vikas Manch, told mediapersons in a press conference held in Indore that the authorities have marked 1517 hectare of land in 21 villages of Jhabua to develop 48km stretch of 100m wide highway. “We have been demanding Centre to provide us appropriate compensation for taking agricultural land that we have been farming from generations,” Amliyar said alleging that contractors are destroying standing crops of farmers and removing their huts on marked land while their demands have not been fulfilled. “Rainy season has set in and during this, we have demanded administration not to remove our huts and allow us to continue farming on agricultural lands of our possession,” he said. Following this, senior administrative officials in Jhabua claimed to have provided time to farmers to vacate the land of their possession marked for developing road. Besides, they claimed to have also provided compensation of land, which affected farmers provided the documents of. According to officials, ongoing work to develop the ambitious eight-lane highway has already got delayed due to Covid-19 menace and thus, there efforts are on to cover the same by speeding up the works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/jhabua-tribals-demand-proper-compensation/articleshow/76667493.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Three held for killing man in Alwar district||Alwar: Police have arrested three accused who had allegedly shot dead a 32-year-old man in Alwar’s Tijara police station area on June 7. The deceased, identified as Amar Raj Saini, was allegedly fatally shot by Shehzad, Naseer and Sakir. While the former two hail from Haryana, the latter is from Bhiwadi. Amandeep Kapoor, SP, Bhiwadi said, “The three accused have been involved in multiple other crimes and they habitually targetted people on isolated roads in a bid to loot them of their belongings. Based on sources, we found that the three accused had executed this particular crime and were arrested after we received information about their whereabouts.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-held-for-killing-man-in-alwar-district/articleshow/76668142.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Jind resident booked for hiding coronavirus information||JIND: The police have booked a 29-year-old employee of a Delhi hospital, who was tested positive for Covid-19 in the national capital, but he travelled back to Safidon town and also concealed this information from the health authorities here. According to the police, the person — a technician at Dharmsila private hospital in New Ashok Nagar of Delhi and a resident of Basini village of Safidon town — approached the district's Safidon government hospital for testing on June 16, where his report showed him negative for the virus on June 18. After testing positive in Delhi on June 14, he had visited Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan of Sonipat district, but he was allegedly denied admission there. Then he went to the Safidon hospital, where he disclosed only the travel history of Delhi. Talking to TOI, Amarjit Singh, investigation officer (IO) in the case, said, “We have received a formal complaint from medical officer Aruna, alleging that the Covid-19 patient misled them and didn’t inform about his previous report. He didn’t follow the Covid-19 protocol and thus put others’ lives at risk, and therefore, action should be taken against him. We have registered a case against the person.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/jind-resident-booked-for-hiding-coronavirus-info/articleshow/76667949.cms||Vijender Kumar
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||14 new cases from district||Ahmedabad: Fourteen new Covid-19 cases were registered in Ahmedabad district, outside AMC limits, till Saturday evening. Most of these cases were from Dholka, Sanand and Viramgam towns. The outskirts of Ahmedabad city limits have reported 787 cases till now. More than 1,000 tests are being conducted daily by the district health authorities to check disease transmission, isolate patients early and provide medical care. Health authorities said that Saraswati Society, Shivam Society, Maflipur, Darbarfali, Vachali Deli in Dholka area are being monitored closely for cases. Similarly, Navdurga Society, Manipur Elegance and Ginger Hotel in Sanand town reported cases. In Viramgam, Mukhi No Delo area was also put under surveillance after two cases were reported. Over the last two weeks, the district health authorities have begun intensive health surveillance of a almost 3.8 lakh vulnerable people. “This will be the fourth round of surveillance we are conducting in the last two and a half weeks. We have marked the vulnerable population and are conducting visits,” sayid a senior district health official. He said the rapid spread of Covid-19 in the district was largely because of people travelling between districts and to Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-new-cases-from-district/articleshow/76667974.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Lockdown curbs hit plan projects||Thiruvananthapuram: Lockdown restrictions due to Covid-19 have taken a heavy toll on progress of plan projects in the state. With just another week left for the first quarter of the ongoing financial year to come to a close, the plan expenditure remains at a paltry 8.89%, against the rulebook benchmark of 30% for the first quarter. Of the 51 major departments, 41 are yet to hit double digits on percentage of expenditure of Plan funds. At the same time, restrictions imposed in the state treasury have been eased after receipt of funds from Centre. According to finance department sources, there are no restrictions presently for clearing bills up to Rs 5 crore. While Rs 27,610 crore is the state’s Plan outlay for 2020-21 financial year, only Rs 2,453.65 crore has been spent till June 23. Barring the financial progress by local self-government institutions (16.89% of Rs 7,158 crore), the state Plan’s progress is even lower at a meagre 6.09%. Except agriculture development and farmers’ welfare department (which has spent 22.46% of Rs 770.38 crore allotted to it), all other key departments have struggled to make any progress in Plan implementation. Interestingly, the health and family welfare department, one of the most relevant department presently, has one of the highest Plan allocation of Rs 1,480.26 crore, but has been able to spend only Rs 24.08 crore, just 1.63% of the total allocation. In the wake of Covid-19 and serious financial crisis faced by the state, the planning board has asked all government departments to recast their Plan priorities for the first two quarters of the new financial year, that will run till September 30. The Plan priorities of departments have been asked to be categorized as schemes that are to be implemented in next three months, and those in next six months, as per their priority. But at the present rate of implementation, even the target set for September 30 is likely to be a pipe dream, government sources said. The Plan progress also shows that the Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI), for which an allocation of Rs 1,000 crore has been earmarked, remains a non-starter with zero percent expenditure on projects listed under RKI. Meanwhile, treasury restrictions have been lifted with the receipt of revenue deficit grants as per recommendations of the 15th finance commission and some arrears of last year’s goods and services tax that helped ease the immediate financial crisis the state faces. The state had received Rs 1,276 crore as revenue deficit grant while it received Rs 2,000 crore as GST compensation till February. Also, with Centre’s decision to increase the cap on borrowings from 3% of GSDP to 5%, the state can borrow Rs 18,087 crore this financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lockdown-curbs-hit-plan-projects/articleshow/76666622.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||ACB to record statements of cops pestered by DIG ‘aide’||Jaipur: After Bharatpur Range DIG Laxman Gaur was removed from the post and put on Awaiting Posting Orders (APO) on Friday night, more policemen from the range are speaking up against harassment by the officer’s alleged agent Pramod Sharma, who has been arrested. An investigating officer has gone to Bharatpur and other districts to record the statements of these policemen. ACB arrested Sharma for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh by claiming to be an acquaintance of Gaur. “We have got complaints from 18 policemen including inspectors and sub-inspectors who received calls from Sharma. Preliminary investigation revealed that Sharma was extorting and intimidating them. Our investigating officer in the case, who is an ASP rank officer, has gone to Bharatpur to record the statements of these policemen,” said Saurabh Srivastav, ADGP, ACB. The complainant policemen are from Sawai Madhopur, Dholpur and Bharatpur districts. “Since the DIG was put on APO, I think this will help consolidate the case and add more evidence as policemen can freely record their statements now,” Srivastav added. Asked about the sections of Prevention of Corruption Act under which Sharma has been booked, Srivastav said, “He has been booked under Sections 7 and 8 of Prevention of Corruption Act. Even if a private person is involved in accepting bribe in lieu of granting or facilitating a favour to a government servant he too can be booked and arrested for bribery case.” Meanwhile, ACB is planning to get Sharma on police remand. Gaur will also be called to record his statements before the bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-to-record-statements-of-cops-pestered-by-dig-aide/articleshow/76668147.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||In a first, 4 MP shooters selected for Olympics core group training||BHOPAL: Four shooters of Madhya Pradesh, for the first time in the history of Madhya Pradesh sports, have been selected for a 32-member core group who will be training separately for the Tokyo Olympics. The National Rifle Association of India on Friday released the names on Saturday. Selected shooters from the state are Aishwarya Pratap Singh (men’s 50m rifle 3P), Sunidhi Chauhan (women’s 50m rifle 3P), Chinki Yadav (25m pistol) and Shreya Agarwal (10m rifle). Notably, Aishwarya, Sunidhi and Chinki are from MP shooting academy who were selected during the tenure of former sports minister Yashodhraraje Scindia. Shreya is a shooter of Jabalpur’s Gun for Glory academy. Teen shooting prodigy from MP Shooting Academy, Aishwarya Pratap Singh Tomar, 18, had secured India’s 13th Olympic quota for 2020 Tokyo Games by winning a bronze medal in men’s 50m rifle 3 positions at the 14th Asian Championship Doha last year in November 2019, giving the country its best-ever quota haul. Farmer’s son Aishwarya was the second Indian, after veteran Sanjeev Rajput, to have achieved the quota place in the 3P event. He was a part of the junior team trained by chief coach Suma Shirur of MP shooting academy. Electrician’s daughter Chinki Yadav, when she started her shooting career a few years ago, didn’t know the difference between a rifle and a pistol. As a result, she ended up trying shotgun for a month. Within a few years of performance, she managed to attract the eyeballs. She had shot her career-best to clinch India’s 11th quota for the Tokyo Games. Chinki, 21, had secured the berth in women’s 25m pistol category, despite not winning a medal in the Asian Shooting Championships in Doha. Sunidhi was the third shooter from MP academy who have managed to secure a place in the elite club. In this group, rifle shooter Shreya Agarwal of Jabalpur has been selected in the 10 meter air rifle women category. Shreya excelled in previous Olympic team selection trials, scoring 632.4 and 631. 2, finishing first among all veteran shooters. Shreya has been undergoing training under coach Nishant Nathwani for the past 5 years. Shreya has won 19 international medals, 2 world and 2 Asian records and brought laurels to the state and country. Former sports minister Scindia said, “This is a historic day for sports in MP. These shooters have proved that MP shooting academy is producing world class shooters.” Director (Jabalpur’s Gun for Glory), Prashant Jain and others congratulated shooters for their achievement. The new deadline for Tokyo 2020 Qualification in shooting is June 6, 2021 as the International Shooting Sport Federation has called off all its World Cups this year due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-a-first-4-mp-shooters-selected-for-oly-core-group-training/articleshow/76667504.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 28, 2020||Kanpur||35-year-old woman ends life in Kanpur’s Govind Nagar area||KANPUR: A 35-year-old woman Durgesh Gupta, a resident of Govind Nagar area of the city, ended her life after sending out a suicide note to her sister and brother through facebook messenger on Saturday. Police said the woman, who was married to Devansh Gupta of C-block Govind Nagar, hanged herself inside her in-laws' house in Govind Nagar and was found dead on Saturday morning. During preliminary investigation, it came to fore that Durgesh had posted a message on her facebook page during the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, police said. "She alleged in her suicide note that she was taking the extreme step owing to dispute in her family," said inspector Govind Nagar Anurag Mishra. Her sister and brother came to know about her sister’s suicide after they saw the suicide note on the facebook messenger, police said. "We have not received any complaint from Durgesh’s parents or her siblings, but they have verbally stated that she was reeling under depression owing to family dispute for the past few days. Further investigations are underway. Body of the deceased has been sent to mortuary for postmortem examination," the inspector said and added, "The couple has three children."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/35-year-old-woman-ends-life-in-citys-govind-nagar-area/articleshow/76667787.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||FIR against Ramdev, 4 others for their claim over Covid cure||JAIPUR: An FIR has been filed against Baba Ramdev, two of his associates and two top officials of city-based National Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), where the yoga guru’s Patanjali Research Institute had recently carried out a clinical trial on Covid-19 patients, for making “misleading claims” on Covid cure, police said on Saturday. “The FIR, filed by advocate Balbir Jakhar on Friday, has named Baba Ramdev, Patanjali CEO Acharya Balkrishna, Patanjali scientist Anurag Varshney, NIMS chairman Balbir Singh Tomar and NIMS director Anurag Tomar. The complainant has alleged that they have misled people by claiming that they have found a cure for Covid-19 in their formulation ‘Coronil’,” said Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay, station house officer of city’s Jyoti Nagar police station. On Friday, NIMS had claimed that a scientific study was carried out by them for and on behalf of Patanjali Research Institute, Haridwar, on the impact of Indian traditional ayurvedic treatment regime for nCoV-2 (Covid-19). After the study, Patanjali had claimed to have produced the first and foremost ayurvedic remedy ‘Coronil’ for mitigating coronavirus-induced mild and moderate clinical signs and symptoms. NIMS had said that the medicine had cured 100% of the patients who received it.After the clinical trial of ‘Coronil’ was made public, Rajasthan health department had sought a reply from NIMS, questioning why it was not informed about the same since the Covid-19 patients on whom the trial was conducted were sent to the institute by the government. NIMS was supposed to submit its reply by Saturday evening, which it didn’t. Meanwhile, a lawyer has filed a PIL before the Rajasthan high court, seeking a ban on the sale of ‘Coronil’ till the dispute related to authorisation and approvals is settled. The court is yet to hear the PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-against-ramdev-4-others-for-their-claim-over-covid-cure/articleshow/76667954.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||NID goes hands-off with foot door openers!||Ahmedabad: Even as the campus of National Institute of Design (NID) continues to remain off-limits for visitors due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the staff members have resumed work on rotation basis. At many spots, the staffers are baffled when they find the handles missing from the doors. These have been replaced with bright yellow appendages that allow one to enter by pushing the door inside with their feet. NID officials say that the prototype foot door opener has been installed at multiple locations – most frequented by the staff members – on a trial basis to minimize spread of coronavirus. Tarundeep Girdher, activity chairperson (education), at NID, told TOI that post Covid-19, the world has thrown open challenges for designers to think out of the box and devise newer ways in which we interact with the world. “The door handles are one of the most frequently touched objects in the campus. Thus, we made some experiments with prototyping and retrofitting of everyday use objects at the campus. It’s how the foot door opener took shape,” he said, adding that the students have been working on several other innovations to cope with Covid-19 scenario. The design was made in-house and the fabrication was also done at the institute's workshop after it re-opened recently. “It’s definitely a more hygienic way to open doors and the design is so simple, it can easily be replicated,” said a staff member. Minimal contact to surfaces is advised by national and international experts repeatedly to prevent Covid-19 infection. In the past couple of months, several innovations including foot-operated sanitizer dispensers have been popular to prevent use of hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nid-goes-hands-off-with-foot-door-openers/articleshow/76667955.cms||Parth Shastri
June 28, 2020||Indore||Each govt college to get Rs 30,000 to install sanitiser machines||Indore: A budget of Rs 30000 has been sanctioned for as many as 200 government colleges of Madhya Pradesh for purchasing sanitiser machines. Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) has instructed for purchase of two sanitiser machines under Madhya Pradesh Higher Education Quality Improvement project (MPHEQIP) of World Bank project. The higher education department has planned a budget of Rs 60,00,000 for purchase of sanitiser machines for these colleges and each college will be sanctioned with an amount of Rs 30000 for two sanitizer machines. Some of the colleges suggested that more number of machines can be bought with sanctioned amount, therefore, the department of higher education has suggested that maximum four to five machines can be bought. There are 10 government colleges of Indore division including Govt Holkar Science College, Mata Jijabai Girls PG College (Old GDC), Govt MLB PG girls college, Govt Arts and Commerce College (GACC), Govt Arts and Commerce College, Rau, Govt New Law College, Govt College Depalpur, Indore, Govt College, Sanwer, Indore, Govt Nirbhay Singh Patel College (New Science College), Govt girls college Khargone are among the 200 government colleges of Madhya Pradesh. “Those colleges that are under the World Bank’s project have been included for the purchase of the sanitizer machines. Each college will be given an amount of Rs 30000 for the purchase of the machines,” said an official of higher education department wishing anonymity. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/each-govt-college-to-get-rs-30000-to-install-sanitiser-machines/articleshow/76667514.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Union HRD minister Pokhriyal highlights India's efforts to build resilience into the education system before G20 members||Nagpur: Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal today virtually participated in G-20 Extraordinary Virtual Education Ministers’ Meeting. This special session has been convened to discuss the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the education sector, how different nations have dealt with it and how the member states can collaborate to further the cause of education in these difficult times. In his statement, Pokhriyal informed all members about India's efforts to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on all sectors including education. He also shared information about efforts of HRD Ministry to promote digital learning during Covid-19 crisis. "We have developed excellent digital educational content over the years. These are available on various platforms like DIKHSA, SWAYAM , Virtual labs, e-PG Pathshala and National Digital Library to name a few," said Pokhriyal. He added, "We recognize that there are many students who do not have adequate access to digital means of education. To address the digital divide we making extensive use of TV channels — Swayam Prabha, a group of 34 DTH channels, and radio including Community Radio. With the help of these, we have succeeded in providing education 24x7 to students in the remotest areas." The minister said that in order to bring all e resources on a common platform, India is soon going to launch Prime Minister eVIDYA programme. This will include: ONE NATION ONE DIGITAL PLATFORM’ All educational e-resources will be brought on one platform under the concept of One Nation One Digital Program, with easy navigation through single integrated search. ONE CLASS ONE CHANNEL There will be one dedicated TV channel per grade for classes 1 to 12, to provide quality educational material . The PMeVidya programme is expected to benefit nearly 25 crore school children. ONLINE PROGRAMMES IN UNIVERSITIES 100 top ranked universities in the country are soon going to start full-fledged online programmes. ‘Permissible online component in Conventional, Open and Distance modes of education will be enhanced from 20 % to 40% SWAYAM MOOCS COURSES SWAYAM MOOCS courses are being mapped with university curriculum and Higher Education Institutions are being encouraged to make it part of curriculum. REGIONAL LANGUAGES e-learning resources are being prepared in eight regional languages. DAISY Study material for the differently abled is being developed on Digitally Accessible Information System (DAISY) and in sign language . MANODARPAN Manodarpan is an initiative by the Education Ministry for psychosocial support of students, teachers and families for their mental health and emotional wellbeing. A National Helpline has been set up to provide counselling. The Union minister reaffirmed India's commitment to the efforts being taken by G-20 group of nations to continue with its focus on the development and advancement of flexible learning strategies, including a variety of distance and e-learning solutions within different country contexts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/union-hrd-minister-pokhriyal-highlights-indias-efforts-to-build-resilience-into-the-education-system-before-g20-members/articleshow/76667973.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 28, 2020||Goa||Woman, 76, dies of Covid-19 as Goa reports highest single-day spike||PANAJI: Goa recorded its third Covid death on Saturday after a 76-year-old woman from Fatorda with co-morbidities succumbed to the infection at the ESI hospital in Margao. The state also saw it’s highest single-day spike, with the detection of 89 new cases, taking the state’s active Covid count past the 700-mark. The deceased woman was taken to ESI hospital in “very bad shape” with bilateral pneumonia. “When she first fell ill, she was treated at a private hospital in Margao and discharged,” an ESI doctor said. “When her condition deteriorated, she was brought to our hospital. She had shown improvement, but died at 8.45pm.” Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said that the woman contracted the disease from Ambelim. “I have spoken to health minister Vishwajit Rane and South Goa collector Ajit Roy to speed up contact tracing,” he tweeted, adding that he wanted the area declared a containment zone. Ambelim on Saturday saw four more positives, taking its tally to 31, while Margao has 14 cases. Meanwhile, another area in the vicinity of Vasco, Zuarinagar, reported 24 cases. Of the 35 swabs collected from the slums in the area, 16 have returned positive, said Cortalim MLA ALina Saldanha. A dedicated team from the Cortalim health centre has been deployed in the slums. The Zuarinagar cases add to the area’s already alarming tally that includes cases in Baina, Sada and New Vaddem, which together have 153 cases. The Mangor Hill containment zone also reported 12 new cases on Saturday. A Vasco doctor said that some parts of the port town are so thickly-populated, it’s impossible to maintain social distancing. “I’m not surprised by the increasing number of cases in Vasco compared to other parts of the state,” he said. Fifty patients were cured and sent home on Saturday, a day that also saw an isolated case reported in Pilar. A single-digit rise in cases was also reported in Bicholim, Canacona and Sakhali, while Ganganagar in Mapusa added four new cases to its count, taking the town’s tally to six. Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza shot down a demand to close the popular Mapusa market for a few days, saying it was not required. “The market has been allowed to function with social distancing norms in place,” he said. Saturday’s death was the state’s third, after two men aged 85 and 58 earlier died of the infection. The Covid hospital currently has four patients in ICU. All of them have co-morbidities, a doctor said, and their condition is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-76-dies-of-covid-as-goa-reports-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76667961.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University decides to postpone online exams by 10 days||NEW DELHI: After several days of uncertainty, Delhi University on Saturday announced that it would postpone its online open book exams (OBE) from July 1 to July 10. The university also announced that the mock OBE would now take place on July 4. “Examinations scheduled for all final semester/term/year and ex-students of all streams of UG and PG, including SOL and NCWEB, stand postponed for 10 days in view of the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic,” stated a notification issued by the DU examination branch on Saturday. DU claimed that under the prevailing situation, “all concerned stakeholders, especially students, may find it difficult to attend their scheduled activities of examinations.” The new date sheet will come out by July 3 and the basic guidelines for the exam and the facilities of ICT infrastructure available at Common Service Centre engaged by the university shall continue as it is, the notification added. The announcement from DU comes two days after the HRD minister and the UGC hinted at a possible cancellation of exams. While the university claimed that the exams were postponed because of the rising cases of Covid-19, many in DU were unsure about the situation getting any better by July 10. Calling the decision to not cancel the exams as absurd, DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray asked: “The exams have been deferred saying that the condition is not conducive currently due to the pandemic. How can they be sure that the situation would be better ten days later?” Indian National Teachers’ Congress convenor Pankaj Garg added: “The university is making a mockery of examinations. The pandemic situation is not going to improve in the next ten days. This decision will further create an atmosphere of confusion and add to stress of teachers and students. Problems are going to remain the same for students as more than 50% are from outside Delhi. UGC must intervene and send guidelines directing cancellation of exams for final-year students.” Students are also unhappy with the decision. Anusha Mishra, a disabled third year student of Lady Shri Ram College, said that “the last couple of days have been taxing as there has been no clarity about the exams. Now, the varsity is going to postpone the exams despite UGC saying that they may be cancelled.” “In this atmosphere of uncertainty, we demand the DU administration to come clear on issues and let us know if exams are going to happen or not,” said DU students association. Speaking to TOI, dean of exams Vinay Gupta said that “the decision to postpone the exams has been taken so that students have time to prepare for the mock OBE test.” However, a senior DU official claimed that “the decision was taken to buy time and to wait for the UGC’s guidelines. The exam was set to begin from July 1. It would have been problematic if UGC guidelines came a day or two before that.” Watch Covid-19 crisis: Delhi University decides to postpone online exams by 10 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-decides-to-postpone-online-exams-by-10-days/articleshow/76667960.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||CBI files chargesheet against 24 for 2017 Sanwarad violence||JAIPUR: In the high-profile case related to violence and rioting in Sanwarad area of Nagaur district, following the encounter of gangster Anandpal Singh, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet against 24 accused in the court of ACJM, CBI cases, Jodhpur. The persons named in the chargesheet included Rajput and Ravana Rajput leaders from various outfits including Lokendra Singh Kalvi of Shree Rajput Karni Sena, Sukhdev Singh Gogamedi of Shree Rastriya Rajput Karni Sena, Giriraj Singh Lotwada of Shree Rajput Sabha Bhawan Jaipur, Mahipal Singh Makrana of Shree Rajput Karni Sena, Ranjit Singh Mangla, Ranjit Singh Gendia, Ranvir Singh Guda and Durg Singh. The slain gangster’s daughter Charanjit Singh Kanwar, A P Singh and Seema Raghuvanshi, who allegedly organised the assembly at Sanwarad too have been chargesheeted. Other leaders of Rajput outfits named as accused include Hanuman Singh Khangta, Yogender Singh Katar, Okendra Rana, Mahaveer Singh, Pratap Singh Ranawat, Prem Singh Banswara, Bhanwar Singh Reta, Dilip Singh, Jabbar Singh, Mohan Singh Hathoj, Yunus Ali, Rajender Singh Gudha and Ghanshyam Singh Tyod. Following the request of the Rajasthan government and the subsequent notification from the Union government, the CBI registered a case on January 2, 2018, and took over the probe from the Jaswantgarh Nagaur police of Rajasthan. It was alleged that after the encounter with police on June 24, 2017, Anandpal Singh died and his body was not cremated and instead a Shraddhanjali Sabha (condolence meeting) was organised at Sanwarad village, the native village of the deceased, for pressurising the government to accept their demands. It was further alleged that one of the 24 accused invited people to visit Sanwarad, where a large crowd gathered on July 12, 2017. The complaint further stated that the said accused and his supporters came to the police control room at Sanwarad Tiraha and threatened the administration to accept their ‘illegal’ demands. A large number of people allegedly came to the stage and gave hate speeches to instigate the crowd. It was further alleged that the instigated crowd pelted stones on police vehicles in which police personnel suffered injuries. Some of the police personnel were allegedly held captive in a house and the crowd snatched their arms, including .9 mm service pistols, cartridges etc, mobile phones and other items. It was also alleged that the unruly mob attacked the vehicle of Nagaur SP, causing injuries to police personnel and burnt his official vehicle. After an investigation in the matter by the CBI, a chargesheet was filed. With the help of his accomplices, who opened fire on the vehicle carrying him, Anandpal managed to escape while he was being taken from Nagaur court to Ajmer on September 3, 2015. Anandpal had hatched the conspiracy of his escape when he was an inmate at the high security jail of Ajmer. Police claimed the SOG had information that Anandpal was hiding in Churu. According to police, Anandpal opened fire on the cops and was killed in the encounter. His encounter triggered a strong protest from Rajputs and Ravana Rajputs who demanded a CBI probe into the encounter case. The community members gathered at Sanwarad village and the situation went out of control as locals resorted to violence and several community leaders were booked in different cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-24-for-2017-sanwarad-violence/articleshow/76667956.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vadodara||Scrap trader’s chain snatched||Vadodara: A scrap trader living in Karelibaug was robbed of his gold chain near Amitnagar circle on Friday night. Complainant Mayank Shah told the police that two unidentified bike-borne robbers with faces covered with handkerchiefs targeted him when he was out for a walk with his wife. Shah said that the robbers came from behind, slowed their bike near him and before he could sense trouble, the pillion rider snatched his chain worth Rs 70,000. The duo then sped off through Amitnagar flyover bridge, he added. Later, Shah called police control room and lodged a complaint of chain snatching at Harni police station. Police said that Shah did not get the bike’s registration number as everything happened very quickly. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/scrap-traders-chain-snatched/articleshow/76666338.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Another hosp starts satellite unit in hotel, more on cards||Kolkata: Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals (AGH) has acquired a hotel that will serve as its satellite health facility. This is the second such facility in the city by a private hospital. Medica Superspecilaity was the first to set up one a week ago. Some other private hospitals are also looking for suitable places. “Our satellite health facility started functioning from Friday with 18 patients on the first day. We are getting booking requests from many more asymptomatic and mild positive patients,” said Joy Basu, vice president AGH Kolkata. With a rising number of asymptomatic mild cases and Covid beds in most private hospitals running in full, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha during a meeting with private hospitals had mooted the idea of satellite health facility last week. “The health department officials came for inspection on Thursday evening after we applied for permission. They were kind enough to give us the licence within hours. Such a facility is going help the hospital and patients,” added Basu. The hospital has acquired Vistel, a 42-room boutique hotel adjacent to it. While two rooms have been reserved for the doctors and nurses, the other 40 rooms will be utilised for patients who are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. While nurses will be stationed in the hotel 24X7, doctors from the hospital will visit the facility twice a day to check on the patients. If a patient is found to develop any symptom like breathlessness, they will be rushed to the hospital. An ambulance with life-saving equipment has been parked in front of the hotel. Charges per day per patient inclusive of taxes and meal for twin sharing have been fixed at Rs 2,000 while that of single occupancy is Rs 3,000. “We have been searching for a place to set up such a facility. But so far, we have not been able to get one,” said Arafat Faisal, medical superintendent at Fortis Hospital.  AMRI Hospitals that have ventured into homecare for such category of patients too said it has been unable to find an appropriate hotel to start such a facility. “Though it is a good idea to conserve beds for the patients who really need hospital admission, we are unable to set up one immediately as we have acute shortage of manpower,” said a spokesperson at Peerless Hospital. On the same lines, the government too has set up 106 safe homes across the state, including two in Kolkata. The number of such patients in safe homes on Friday was 463.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/another-hosp-starts-satellite-unit-in-hotel-more-on-cards/articleshow/76652880.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 28, 2020||Kanpur||Utkarsh of Auraiya ranks3rd in intermediate exams||Kanpur: Celebrations began at Utkarsh Shukla’s Brahmnagar house in Auraiya soon after the class 12 UP board results were declared on Saturday. He stood third among the state toppers with 94.8% marks. Utkarsh, a class 12 student of Shri Gopal Inter College, told the media that he stayed away from social media during the exam period, and ensured that he studied for at least 12 hours a day. He said he wants to become an IAS officer. His father Sandeep Shukla, a headmaster in a junior high school in Gangdaspur village of Kanpur Dehat district, and mother Sushma Shukla were excited about his achievement. They hugged him and made him eat a laddu, while he was busy attending congratulatory calls of relatives. Utkarsh attributed his success to his parents. When asked about what did he do in the break after studying for long hours, he said that he played cricket and watched comedy serials like ‘Tarek Mehta Ka Ulta Chashma’ on TV. Utkarsh’s father said that Utkarsh had scored 92.4% marks in class 10, and hence, it was expected that he would do well in class 12 as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/utkarsh-of-auraiya-ranks3rd-in-intermediate-exams/articleshow/76667833.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 28, 2020||Varanasi||Criminals enjoying Mukhtar Ansari’s patronage booked under Gangster Act in UP's Mau||VARANASI: Gangs of criminals enjoying alleged patronage of jailed mafia don-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari are also facing the heat of police crackdown on organised crime in east UP region. “In a fresh development, we have booked one Ankur Rai and nine other members of his gang under Gangster Act on Friday,” said SP Mau Anurag Arya, adding that the gang of murderers led by Ankur is registered as D-60, which assists Mukhtar gang in its operation. Ankur is the relative of Mukhtar’s jailed sharpshooters Angad Rai and Gora Rai. Ankur’s gang had come on the target of Mau police after Sahroj village gram Pradhan Poonam Rai, her brother-in-law Yogesh Rai and their other family members lodged an FIR against them for allegedly attempting to kill them on May 6. Arya said after lodging of FIR against Ankur and nine members of his gang, police announced cash rewards of Rs 25,000 on Ankur, Manish Rai, Kifayatulla each, Rs 15,000 on Akhand Rai and Divyanshu Rai each. “They all were arrested in past one and half months and sent to jail,” he said adding, “on Friday they were booked under Gangster Act.” Ankur and Manish were also main accused in the killing of MLA Kapil Dev Yadav in Kopaganj area in 2010, said Arya adding, Ankur is son-in-law of Mukhtar’s jailed sharpshooter Angad, who is currently lodged in Sonbhadra jail. Mau police has tightened noose on the gangs enjoying Mukhtar’s patronage for past many weeks as on May 31 they announced cash rewards of Rs 25,000 on each of the 11 members of a gang involved in extorting money in the name of vehicle stands, after booking them under Gangster Act. Four of them were arrested on June 25. Besides, the cops also cracked down on the operations of illegal slaughter house and fish trade by Mukhtar’s henchmen in past week, besides targetting the economic empire and armoury of the don.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/criminals-enjoying-mukhtars-patronage-booked-under-gangster-act-in-mau/articleshow/76667773.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 28, 2020||Kanpur||Driver’s son emerges as topper in Jhansi dist||Jhansi: The Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP) on Saturday declared the results for class 10th board exams on its official website. The results brought smile on the face of Himanshu Singh who secured the first position in Jhansi district. Himanshu who is the son of the driver of SSP Jhansi, topped the examination with 92.5 percent marks. He is a student of Bhani Devi Goyal School. Himanshu’s father-Rajesh Patel is currently employed with with UP Police and is the driver of SSP Jhansi. After the results were out, SSP Jhansi, D Pradip Kumar also felicitated Himanshu for his achievement and encouraged him to work harder in the future. Talking to TOI, Himanshu said he now wants to clear the IIT examination following which he wants to be an IPS officer. “The coronavirus pandemic has not affected me in any way as I am working even harder by attending online classes,” Himanshu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/drivers-son-emerges-as-topper-in-jhansi-dist/articleshow/76667837.cms||Arindam Ghosh
June 28, 2020||Goa||After opposition to Covid cremations, Goa govt set to sensitise people||PANAJI: They were warriors who died valiantly in the battle against Covid-19, and deserved a funeral fit for a hero. They weren’t terrorists, that their bodies had to be disposed in such a surreptitious manner.” The words of Dr Madhu Ghodkirekar, from Hospicio’s forensic department, underscore the need to sensitise society that the last rites of Covid victims, done by following settled protocol, carry no risk of contagion. He should know. Ghodkirekar is tasked with the proper management of bodies, minimizing the spread of the virus, and guiding authorities, hospitals and local crematorium/cemetery managements about the do’s and don’ts of dealing with them. This week, he led from the front after the South Goa district administration faced challenges as locals opposed the cremation of two bodies at the Hindu crematorium at Bogda, Vasco. Authorities kept changing tack to ensure that the dead were accorded a dignified farewell, and operation Final Rites was kept a closely-guarded secret until well after it was completed. The funerals of the two Covid victims were performed at the Hindu crematorium in Ponda, with support staff, one each from Hospicio and the Covid hospital, and two personnel of EMRI (108 ambulance) services helping in consigning the bodies to flames in accordance with the SOP. Ghodkirekar and Ponda municipality’s chief officer Kedar Naik kept close watch. Now, in order to stave off opposition, the South Goa district administration is in the process of scouting for cremation sites and burial grounds for disposing the bodies of Covid victims. “We are working on it,” said collector Ajit Roy. “We will take into confidence local religious bodies to identify cremation/burial grounds.” Sources said that plan includes having a cremation or burial site in each village. For bodies requiring burial, the grave must be least 8-feet deep. The SOP released by the Union health ministry allows both burial and cremation of the dead body, depending on the wishes of the family. According to the guidelines, the body would be handled by a trained health professional wearing full personal protective equipment (PPE). “Family members are allowed to be present at the funeral, but for (obvious) reasons, the administration is mandated to take care of the body, though the funeral can be conducted as per religious rites (based on the deceased’s faith),” Roy told TOI. Sources said that the directorate of health services will soon start an awareness campaign to educate the public on the issue. “Educating crematorium/cemetery personnel and creating public awareness is part of the SOP governing the management of dead bodies,” a health official said. Incidentally, the two bodies were cremated on land within the Hindu crematorium at Ponda that was notified by the government for disposal of bodies of Ebola victims during the 2014 outbreak. Sources said that the district administration zeroed in on the Ponda crematorium as the area was found to be conducive for the cremation of bodies — the crematorium is in an isolated spot, and the topography is suitable for fire services to sanitise the area as per protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-oppn-to-covid-cremations-state-govt-set-to-sensitise-people/articleshow/76667969.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||Corona count nears 13,000 in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With 167 positive cases reported on Monday tally of positive patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 12,965. Apart from the new cases, four casualties were also reported in the state. All these four casualties were reported from Indore district. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 550. Of the 51 districts where infections have been reported new cases were reported from 26 districts. The districts where new cases were reported in double figures—as per the state health bulletin released on Saturday—includes Bhopal (41 new cases), Indore (32 new cases), Morena (18 new cases), and Gwalior (13 new cases) districts.  On the brighter side 167 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state also recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 9971. Thus, 76.6% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is little less than four times of the active patients in the state as on June 26. There are only 2444 active patients in the state, while 9971 people have so far recovered from the disease. Reports of more than 3.37 lakh samples have been received in the state so far and of those 12965 have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-corona-count-nears-13000/articleshow/76667522.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||We will ensure good health of all, says CM||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that in order to totally eradicate the infection of Corona in the state, ‘Kill Corona Campaign’ is being launched from July 1. Under this campaign, door-to-door survey will be conducted, in which tests related to other diseases will also be done along with corona. “We have to ensure good health of every individual,” he added. Chouhan was reviewing the status of corona virus in the state and arrangements to combat it through video conferencing at secretariat on Saturday. CM informed that under the campaign, 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh tests approximately will be done in 15 days. About 15,000 to 20,000 samples will be taken per day. At present, our testing capacity is 4,000 per 10 lakh, which will be doubled, he said. In the review of Sagar district, Chouhan while issuing a strict warning for negligence at medical college, directed action against the guilty doctor. Sagar district had 328 positive patients of corona, out of these 240 patients have recovered, 68 are active and 20 have succumbed to the disease. He has informed that the state’s recovery rate has reached 76.9%, whereas the recovery rate of India is 58.1 percent. The growth rate of corona in Madhya Pradesh is 1.44, which is less than half of the growth rate of country of 3.69. The corona positivity rate of MP is 3.85% in comparison of country’s positivity rate of 6.54%. Chief minister has said that intensive corona survey work has been started in Bhopal and survey of 51 settlements of Bhopal is being conducted on Saturday and Sunday. Bhopal will become an example for the whole state. Chouhan said that taking into account the number of active corona cases, MP stands at 13th position in the country while overall in the number of positive cases it is at 9th places. As of June 26, Madhya Pradesh has total 12,798 cases of corona, whereas Haryana with 12,884 cases moved ahead. Earlier MP was at 8th place. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, DGP Vivek Johri, additional chief secretary health Mohammad Suleman and other officers were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/we-will-ensure-good-health-of-all-says-cm/articleshow/76667537.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman raped by preacher in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Malkajgiri police on Saturday arrested a self-styled godman for allegedly raping a 27-year-old on the pretext of freeing her from evil forces. The survivor’s husband, who forced her not to report the incident, was also arrested. According to police, the survivor’s husband, a 32-year-old driver from Malkajgiri has been struggling to pay back debts of Rs 5 lakh. He sought advice from Mohammed Younus Khan (59) of Nampally. On Wednesday, he took his wife to a friend’s house in Moula Ali, where they met Younus Khan. Citing evil forces as the reason for their financial problems, the godman asked the woman to remove her clothes and perform a ritual. When she refused, her husband forced her to do it. The latter then raped her. The godman and husband were booked for rape, criminal intimidation and were sent to judicial remand on Saturday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-raped-by-preacher/articleshow/76667959.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Hospitals tie up with hotels to house asymptomatic patients||HYDERABAD: Now, asymptomatic coronavirus patients can opt for a hotel room to self isolate themselves. This with some corporate hospitals in the city roping in hotels to provide accommodation, along with medical facilities, to those willing to quarantine outside their homes. Offering this service at present is Apollo Hospitals, that’s tied up with two hotels — offering 180 beds — which have been converted into exclusive Covid wards. “It’s for asymptomatic patients or those with very mild symptoms,” said Tejas Rao Veerepalli, chief operating officer, Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad explaining the model on offer. “We have a nurse stationed at the hotel who checks the vitals of patients twice a day. The food is provided by hotels and prescription medicines delivered to the patients’ doorstep. We have trained the hotel staff on hygiene standards that need to be maintained,” he added. While the hotels have oxygen cylinders on standby, Veerepalli said that the hospital has arranged ambulances to shift patients to the facility, in case he/she shows any sign of deterioration. Cost of this service: between Rs 2,000 and Rs 2,500 per day including food and medical services. “We have spoken to some hotels but haven’t finalised anything yet. Maybe we will open it up in the future,” said a representative of another hospital with branches across Hyderabad. Dr Bhaskar Rao, president, Telangana Super Speciality Hospitals Association (TSSHA) also confirmed that many hotels have been approaching him to provide quarantine facility for Covid-19 patients. “I have been getting calls from hotels every day,” he said. While some hoteliers say that the model makes great business sense, especially since the footfall at most places, post reopening on June 8, has been negligible., others raise a concern. They say hotels’ infrastructure is not built to be used as hospitals. “Also, in the long term, there is a fear of it adversely impacting a hotel’s sales due to the stigma of being used as a Covid hospital,” said Ashok Hemrajani, president, Hotels & Restaurants Association of TS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hospitals-tie-up-with-hotels-to-house-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76667970.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 28, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Girls outshine boys by over 12%||PRAYAGRAJ: Girls continue to outshine boys in high school and intermediate examinations, results of which were announced by the authorities of Madhyamik Siksha Board (UP Board) on Saturday. While class 12 district topper Pranjal Singh of Koraon with 96% marks stood second in the state, Naman and Shrishti of class 10 topped the district with 94.17% marks each. The overall merit position of the district in intermediate exams was 68. A total of 1,00,447 students had registered for the intermediate exams, including 56,572 boys and 43,875 girls. Out of these, 98,054 (55218 boys and 42836 girls) appeared in the exams. Out of the total number of students who appeared, 64,147 students cleared the exams (65.42%). Students who passed included 33,120 (59.98%) boys and 31027 (72.43%) girls. Thereby, girls outshone boys by over 12%. In class 10 UP board exams, the district stood at 46th position among the 75 districts of the state. A total of 1,08,990 students had registered for the high school exams, including 58,869 boys and 50,121 girls. Out of these, 98,831 (52154 boys and 46677 girls) appeared in the exams. A total of 81,770 students cleared the exams (82.74%), of which 41711(79.98%) were boys and 40059 (85.82%) were girls. Around 6 % more girls cleared class 10th exams as compared to boys, as per the overall result of Prayagraj district. UP board high school exams had ended on March 3 while intermediate exams ended on March 6, after which evaluation of answer sheets commenced at 275 evaluation centres in the state on March 16. However, the evaluation, which was scheduled to be completed by March 26, was stopped on March 18 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Comparision of class 12 pass percentage between neighbouring districts showed Prayagraj stood 68th, Chitrakoot stood 9th with overall pass percentage of 85.52%, Pratapgrah was 59th with 72.25%, Mirzapur was 60th with 71.71% and Kaushambi stood 72nd with 58.94%. In terms of class 10th results, Prayagraj stood 46th while Pratapgrah was 36th (84.65%), Kaushambi was 45th (83.08%), Chitrakoot was 65th (78.72%) and Mirzapur stood 74th (74.84%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/girls-outshine-boys-by-over-12/articleshow/76667582.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribesman dead in wild jumbo attack||Coimbatore: A wild elephant attacked tribal people in the reserve forest who suffered severe injuries. After the attack, a man from one of the tribes was hospitalised and died without responding to treatment. The deceased was identified as S Babu, 45 from Kalkothipathi tribal settlement. On Saturday, six tribes had gone to reserve forest to collect honey. After collecting honey, they were returning home on foot. Meanwhile, they noticed a wild elephant charging towards them. The six tribes broke into a run. After it attacked Babu, the elephant moved away from the area. Babu suffered severe injuries and was taken to a private hospital at Karunya Nagar by the tribes. He succumbed to his injuries at the hospital. The dead body was sent to Coimbatore medical college and hospital (CMCH) for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribesman-dead-in-wild-jumbo-attack/articleshow/76667546.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Directorate seeks details of Covid fund from colleges||Coimbatore: The directorate of collegiate education has demanded reports from regional joint directors on how government arts colleges spent the fund given for buying supplies such as sanitisers, handwash and thermal scanners from the state disaster relief fund.The directorate had given Rs 60lakh to 91 government arts and science colleges, and eight regional director offices in the state to buy Covid-19 protective supplies. After the colleges started working with 50% workforce since May 18, staff members and the public who visited the colleges for inquiries have been using them.A communication from the directorate said it had demanded reports on the details of the supplies and proof of use. “Some colleges have not sent us the reports. We learned that some have not yet spent the fund. The regional directors are asked to get the details of expenditure of the fund in their offices and also in government colleges in their jurisdiction and submit it within June 28,” said the communication. “The colleges that have not used the fund should offer an explanation and return it.”Director of collegiate education C Jothi Venkateswaran said they had disbursed the fund for buying supplies such as sanitisers and sprayers.Officials with the regional directorate of collegiate education in the city said almost 95% of the government colleges used the money to buy sanitisers, handwash, masks and other supplies. “Colleges were allotted fund depending on their size and strength. Bigger ones were given Rs 65,000 and regional offices were given Rs 22,000,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/directorate-seeks-details-of-covid-fund-from-colleges/articleshow/76667551.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vadodara||Over 24 Sanjaynagar residents booked||Vadodara: Over two dozen residents of Sanjaynagar in Warasia were booked for gathering at the site where houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) are to come up. Police said that around 30 to 32 people had gathered at the site to protest as construction under the housing scheme is yet to begin and they are also not being paid any rent. According to the police, the residents had gathered despite a ban on any forms of gatherings in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and neither of them had even maintained social distance. “We have booked them all for violation of public notification and warned them not to gather again at the site,” said a police official. The project has been in limbo since the beginning. Due to a series of complications regarding land as well as technical issues in the change of stakes of partners of the firm that had taken up the contract, work could not start at the site. As many as, 2,637 houses are to be constructed at the Sanjaynagar for the urban poor under a public-private partnership project under PMAY. Vadodara Municipal Corporation had razed 1,841 dwellings there in July 2017 for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-24-sanjaynagar-residents-booked/articleshow/76666361.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Students, teachers slam online classes||Coimbatore: Students and teachers’ unions have opposed online classes, stating several students in government schools and colleges don’t have facilities to attend the same and that the move would divide them into rich and poor. Students’ organizations said the state should conduct online classes only after ensuring network facilities for all students. Representatives of the district chapter of Students’ Federation of India (SFI) said shifting to online classes had crated inequality among students. “The state should ensure free network facilities to all students. Only after that online classes should be conducted.” College teachers’ bodies too said government college students in rural areas won’t be able to afford the devices or network for online classes. They said online classes can’t replace normal classes completely as they couldn’t ever be compared to the presence of a teacher in the class and live interactions. “Students get tired easily after an online session. Also, speaking in an online session is much too monotonous and there is no scope for spontaneous interaction or question and answer sessions,” said a teacher with a government arts college. In April, the All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organization had opposed the Centre’s decision to hold online classes and exams amid the lockdown, stating several students from underprivileged backgrounds would not have access to devices and network. Earlier this month, the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teacher Association had urged the state not to promote online learning, as that would ‘divide students into the rich and the poor’. Its representatives had said only 30% to 40% students was able to get connected. School education department officials too conceded that the availability of devices and network would be an issue if they were to conduct online classes for government school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-teachers-slam-online-classes/articleshow/76667552.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Fears over safety of Covid-19 lab workers||CHENNAI: Lab technicians working at government Covid-19 testing centres in Tamil Nadu have raised safety concerns. In Chennai, lab technicians who collect blood samples from Covid patients in hospital wards for profiling, were also assigned the task of collecting nasal and swabs at out-patient wards in hospitals and testing centres outside. Increased exposure to the virus at crowded testing centres and long working hours at labs have made these technicians more vulnerable. According to the official data, 55 technicians have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last one month. This included 27 from Chennai. One among them from Madras Medical College died two weeks ago. Soon after this, the lab technicians’ association submitted a representation to the government requesting support from others in collecting swabs. “As lab technicians, our role is to do RT-PCR tests at labs and prepare reports. Along with this, we were overburdened with sample collection,” said Elumalai, a lab technician. ICMR guidelines recommend ENT specialists to collect nasal and oral swabs. But in TN lab technicians, who haven’t studied much of anatomy or physiology, are asked to see videos and collect swabs, said a MMC lab technician. “We don’t know where the soft skin is or until what point the swab loops should be inserted inside the nose to collect the samples. While some manage to learn from experience, others do it wrong and result in nasal bleeding or vomiting,” he added. By making them shift between crowded sample collection centres and admission wards, technicians say the government was putting both their lives and others, who come to these centres, at risk. Government authorities in response said lab technicians were advised to self-quarantine after five days of duty and they have provided PPE to all 2,000 technicians on a daily basis. To ensure their safety, health workers have been deputed at all testing centres to sanitise or disinfect their gloves after the end of each test. The association, however, has approached the Madras high court regarding improper quarantining after duty as only 2,000 technicians were available for one lakh beds in hospitals and deputation promised too was incomplete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fears-over-safety-of-covid-lab-workers/articleshow/76667556.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Follow order or pay up, NGT warns Ulhasnagar civic body||MUMBAI: Observing that the “situation was alarming’’, National Green Tribunal (NGT) principle bench in New Delhi directed Ulhasnagar municipal corporation to execute an action plan to handle and clear solid waste and follow guidelines given in its January orders or pay environmental compensation of Rs 10 lakh for areas where population is more than 10 lakh. NGT said Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) would calculate the penalty and recover it. NGT was hearing a complaint filed in 2015 by an activist, advocate Prakash Kukreja, and his NGO Public Kind Trust, which highlighted hazards that uncleared and untreated waste posed in Ulhasnagar. He sought effective implementation of rules for environmental protection across all aspects, including plantation of trees, unauthorized construction, clearing debris, banning plastic, segregation of waste and implementation of rain-harvesting. The matter was before NGT (Pune) but was transferred and disposed of by the tribunal in Delhi on June 23 via a video-conference. NGT observed it had dealt with all issues raised by its January 10 order in another matter filed in 2018, and that order was applicable to all local bodies in the country. That order provided for a penalty on civic bodies for failure to take action after April 1, based on ‘polluter pays’ principle. NGT said, “Time has come to remind state machineries of their duties as all of us need to serve people of this great country,’’ and observing the “potential hazard of dump sites on public health’’ said that the “situation, as explained by the applicant (NGO), is unsatisfactory and must be remedied at the earliest and in a time-bound manner by initiative at the highest level’’. In the Ulhasnagar case, NGT directed “authorities to execute an action plan and follow guidelines... non-compliance of the order may result in penal provision and recovery of compensation’’. It directed that if local bodies cannot bear the financial burden, the state can take “remedial action” against the “erring local body”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/follow-order-or-pay-up-ngt-warns-ulhasnagar-civic-body/articleshow/76667809.cms||Swati Deshpande
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dyes, chemical makers seek support to cut dependence on China||Ahmedabad: To reduce import dependence on China in the dyes and chemicals sector, manufacturers in Gujarat have sought support from the government. During a webinar organized by Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA) on Friday, they discussed measures to reduce the industry’s dependence on Chinese manufacturers and move in the line of PM’s call for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. “Obtaining environment clearances is a major hurdle as far as adding new products and expanding production capacity in India is concerned. Gujarat has good manufacturing capabilities as far as dyes and chemicals are concerned and yet industries here are largely dependent on imports from China. We require government’s support in expediting environment clearances here so that manufacturing capabilities can be built here,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, GDMA, speaking about the discussions that took place during the webinar. A slew of intermediates are often imported from China. However, several raw materials such as H-Acid, J-Acid, Vinyl Sulphone among others, which are widely used as raw materials for manufacturing dyes and intermediates are also imported from China. “Apart from government support, even domestic industries should extend willingness to purchase these products from domestic manufacturers. If demand will grow, production capacities will be ramped up,” Parikh further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dyes-chemical-makers-seek-support-to-cut-dependence-on-china/articleshow/76667981.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||2 docs among 33 new Covid-19 cases||Coimbatore: Two messes, a hospital, a car showroom and the second floor of district police superintendent’s office were sealed as their staff were among the 33 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. While another 26 people were also reportedly tested positive for the virus in the day, the cases were not declared officially. They are likely to be included in Sunday’s list. The district’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 428. Among the new cases are two doctors in the city - a 22-year-old house surgeon at Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital and a private obstetrician from Kuniyamuthur. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director, public health, said, “The source of infection for both doctors, especially the house surgeon, must be from the hospital. We will try tracing their contacts.” Another health department official said they had asked the house surgeon to start tracing all the patients and wards she visited. A 31-year-old administrative staff at the office of superintendent of police has also infected the virus. The woman from Kamakshipuram, already a Covid-19 hotspot, developed a temperature of around 100 deg c on Thursday and informed the health department. “She got tested at a private laboratory and the resuts showed her positive. The second floor of the SP’s office was disinfected and closed for two days,” the official said. The Kottur police station in Pollachi is also turning into a cluster, with three more people in the area testing positive for the virus. Earlier, three police officials in the station had contracted the virus. A source said a patient had died of breathing difficulty in a private hospital in Gandhipuram. While the patient had tested positive for the virus in a screening test, the final polymerase chain reaction had shown him negative for the infection. Hence, the death was not recoded as Covid-19 one. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Tirupur, the north police station was sealed after two police officers tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-docs-among-33-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76667559.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five former Congress MLAs join BJP in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Five ex-MLAs of the Congress party, who quit in the run-up to the Rajya Sabha election for four seats in Gujarat, formally – and predictably – joined the Baratiya Janata Party on Saturday. The ex-MLAs who joined the BJP are Jitu Chaudhary (Kaprada), Brijesh Merja (Morbi), J V Kakadiya (Dhari), Akshay Patel (Karjan) and Pradyumansinh Jadeja (Abdasa). Eight Congress MLAs tendered their resignation to the speaker ahead of the Rajya Sabha election, ensuring that all the three candidates of the BJP romped home while the Congress could send only one of its two nominees to the Upper House of Parliament. The ex-MLAs, who joined the BJP, have sought tickets from the same seats which they have relinquished, to contest by-elections. BJP leaders, however, clarified that the central parliamentary board of the party will decide whom to field as candidates. “The party has its mechanism to decide who will contest. It is only natural that those who quit midway through their term to seek the ticket again. But all have joined without any conditions. Our central parliamentary board will take this decision,” said Gujarat BJP chief Jitu Vaghani. Slip of tongue leaves everyone amusedFormer Dhari MLA J V Kakadiya, while speaking after joining the BJP, goofed up not once, but twice. Thanking the BJP leadership for his entry into the party, Kakadiya referred to deputy chief minister Nitin Patel as CM. “Mukhyamanti Shri Rupani Saheb, Mananiya Mukhyamanti Shri Nitin Kaka. Tamaro khub aabhar maanu chhu (CM Rupani, honorable CM Nitin Kaka, I thank you profusely). He scored another blooper, stating, “People at the helm of Congress party are inept and that is why he left the BJP and joined the Congress.” Kakadiya was quickly corrected by those on the dais, but his utterances left everyone amused and the BJP leaders embarrassed. Akshay Patel, former Karjan MLA, also goofed up. Wanting to thank Union home minister Amit Shah, Patel ending up praising GPCC president Amit Chavda. “Today, the country’s leadership is in the hands of two able sons of Gujarat – PM Narendra Modi and Amit Chavda,” said Akshay Patel. It was only after state BJP president Jitu Vaghani corrected him that he realised the error.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-former-cong-mlas-join-bjp/articleshow/76667675.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Salem||DMK leader targets Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, backtracks||SALEM: A day after Dharmapuri MP Dr S Senthil Kumar said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had orally directed health department officials and doctors at the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital to shift Covid-19 patients in the district to the Karur Government Medical College and Hospital, the DMK leader had to take back his words on Saturday. His tweet on Friday read, “There’s no possibility of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths in Salem district in the upcoming days as the officials and the doctors will be ready to transfer cases from Salem to Karur as per the state’s high command. Even a creeping kid will know, who’s the state’s high command.” When contacted, the DMK MP said the tweet was based on the information that was provided by his friends who were working with SGMKMCH. “It seems he didn’t want his home district to be seen as a Covid-hit area. So, he seemed to have ordered the officials to shift the new cases to Karur so that the number of Covid-19 cases and related deaths in the district will not be highlighted in the bulletin.” Senthil Kumar had also reasoned that the CM would have spared government hospitals in Erode and Coimbatore as he didn’t want the AIADMK’s image get tainted in the Kongu region. However, on Saturday evening, the MP told TOI that five new Covid-19 cases were admitted to SGMKMCH and the remaining to Salem government engineering college. “No plans of shifting cases to Karur,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dmk-mp-trains-guns-at-cm-misfires/articleshow/76667568.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Student who reaches out to those who have no info on Covid||JODHPUR: While the government has been focusing on information dissemination activities on Covid-19 by reaching out to the masses about precautions, there are many who do not have any access to this information because of illiteracy and absence of digital media. In order to ensure that information about the deadly virus reached such people, a journalism student from Tiwari town near Jodhpur has been reaching out to illiterate women visiting MNREGA work sites to not only impart information about Covid-19 but also screening them on the site. “A few days ago, when I visited a couple of such spots where people are poor, illiterate and have no access to digital media, I thought that how would such people know about the threat of the virus,” said Satyendra Singh Rajpurohit. That day, he returned with a determination to make sure that this lot has adequate awareness about the pandemic and precautions that need to be taken. “I got 2,000 pamphlets printed and managed a thermal scanner befroe beginning visiting MNREGA sites in the vicinity of Tiwari,” said Rajpurohit. He goes to these work sites and tutors the women about the precautions like keeping a mask and practicing social distancing during work. He also advised them to get checked up at the health centres on spotting ILI symptoms. “I carry a thermal scanner and the woman who have symptoms. Thankfully, none has been tested positive so far at any of these work sites”, he said. Rajpurohit also distributes pamphlets to them these illiterate women, so that they could carry them along their homes and could share them with their children or any literate person. “I also advised them to paste these pamphlets on the walls of their houses so that it could remind them of the precautions,” he said. Rajpurohit has covered 1,200 women in last 4 days since he started visiting 3-4 sites daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/student-who-reaches-out-to-those-who-have-no-info-on-covid/articleshow/76667982.cms||Ajay Parmar
June 28, 2020||Erode||DMK leader targets Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, backtracks||SALEM: A day after Dharmapuri MP Dr S Senthil Kumar said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had orally directed health department officials and doctors at the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital to shift Covid-19 patients in the district to the Karur Government Medical College and Hospital, the DMK leader had to take back his words on Saturday. His tweet on Friday read, “There’s no possibility of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths in Salem district in the upcoming days as the officials and the doctors will be ready to transfer cases from Salem to Karur as per the state’s high command. Even a creeping kid will know, who’s the state’s high command.” When contacted, the DMK MP said the tweet was based on the information that was provided by his friends who were working with SGMKMCH. “It seems he didn’t want his home district to be seen as a Covid-hit area. So, he seemed to have ordered the officials to shift the new cases to Karur so that the number of Covid-19 cases and related deaths in the district will not be highlighted in the bulletin.” Senthil Kumar had also reasoned that the CM would have spared government hospitals in Erode and Coimbatore as he didn’t want the AIADMK’s image get tainted in the Kongu region. However, on Saturday evening, the MP told TOI that five new Covid-19 cases were admitted to SGMKMCH and the remaining to Salem government engineering college. “No plans of shifting cases to Karur,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/dmk-mp-trains-guns-at-cm-misfires/articleshow/76671514.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Salons, beauty parlours to reopen from today||Nagpur: Closed for 99 days due to lockdown, salons, barber shops and beauty parlours in the district have been allowed to resume services from Sunday. Skin related services at these shops will continue to be prohibited as a precaution to avoid spread of novel coronavirus infection.  Following state government’s notification, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and district collector Ravindra Thakare on Saturday issued a circular permitting these establishments to open shutters. Shops will have to use disposable towels/napkins for customers and compulsorily sanitize the place once in every two hours. An official from Nagpur Municipal Corporation told TOI that salons, spas and beauty parlours housed in shopping malls will not be allowed to reopen as government is yet to give nod for reopening malls. The state government had imposed full lockdown in the district from March 21, thus closing down all non-essential shops. On June 1, when non-essential shops were allowed to reopen, the government had continued the prohibition for salons, barber shops and beauty parlours. Citing financial loss, various associations and owners of these shops had started demanding lifting of restrictions. Now, very few commercial activities like gyms, malls, theatre etc continue to remain closed. The government is likely to come up with more amendments as the existing notification on lockdown norms is valid up to June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/salons-beauty-parlours-to-reopen-from-today/articleshow/76667567.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Disposable bedsheets for Covid patients||JAISALMER: A new disposable bedsheet has been made to be used for corona-infected patients in hospitals and isolation wards. On the initiative of Pali district collector Anshdeep, the district administration through local entrepreneurs, has made use-and-throw bedsheets, which are possibly first of their kind in the state. Doctors checked the bedsheet and found that it met all the parameters, after which it was started being used in hospitals. The disposable bedsheet is very cheap and is proving to be effective. It has been made from the fabric that is pure polypop material with the help of CETP. This will not only save from infections but is also comfortable for patients. Prior to this, the bedsheets used for corona patients was washed and used again and there was a threat of infection. This new disposable bedsheet can be used for maximum two days and is destroyed along with medical waste. Pali district collector Anshdeep said that considering the problem of getting corona patients’ bedsheets washed and reusing them, CETP was asked for alternative for bedsheets like PPE kits, through SDO Rohitash Kumar. On this, CETP ordered cloth from Silvassa (Gujarat) and made these bedsheets. He said that its authenticity at the medical level was tested by the experts and on passing the parameters, these bedsheets were prepared and started being used for patients at Bangur Hospital and Agrasen Vatika. Prior to this, PPE kit was made of cloth used for making umbrellas at Falna, which was found as per the guidelines of Covid-19, after which it was demanded in the entire state. After PPE kits, now innovation has been made through disposable bedsheets. The bedsheets used earlier at Bangur Hospital were for Rs 300 and Rs 150 was spent on washing, while the cost of the disposable bedsheet is just Rs 35 per piece. District collector said that this bedsheet is of 60gsm and after spreading it on the bed, despite body heat of the patient, the bedsheet does not get damp. In summers too, this bedsheet is comfortable and the price is also very less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/disposable-bedsheets-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76667987.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Erode||Man held for killing wild hare in Erode||Erode: The forest officials in Andhiyur forest range in the district arrested a 32-year-old man for killing a wild hare on Saturday. They also seized wire snares from him. The accused has been identified as A Murugesan, of Ennamangalam village. The forest officials were on patrol in Sennampatty forest area when they found Murugesan with wild hare carcass and the snare. “During inquiry, we came to know that he poached the rabbit with the wire snare,” a forest officer said. According to the officer, Murugesan used to kill small wild animals regularly. Based on his confessional statement, they arrested him and imposed a fine of Rs20,000 on him. Later, they released Murugesan on station bail with a strict warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/man-held-for-killing-wild-hare-in-erode/articleshow/76667584.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Govt revises fee for entry into sanctuaries||PANAJI: In a bid to bring uniformity in the rates charged for the different wildlife protected areas in Goa, the government has approved revised rates for entry into such places. An adult will be charged Rs 100 while a child or a student will have to pay Rs 30. Visitors carrying a still camera will have to pay an additional amount of Rs 50. For a video camera or an 8mm handycam, the amount has been fixed at Rs 200. The rates have also been notified for vehicles entering the property. For motorcycle, scooter and three-wheeler, an amount of Rs 50 will be charged. Four-wheeler vehicles on the other hand must shell out Rs 100. Trucks and heavy vehicles have to pay Rs 200. The change in rates is also applicable for adventure activities. On a department boat, the fee is Rs 100 per person while the same on a private boat is Rs 500 per day. For a tour operator per jeep for one year at Dudhsagar, it is Rs 10,000. Night safari in the department vehicle will cost Rs 500. The entry fee for video camera for filming documentary/advertisement, etc, (16 mm or above) per day is Rs 10,000 and camping inside sanctuary at specified spots with their own tents and other equipment per person is Rs 100 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-revises-fee-for-entry-into-sanctuaries/articleshow/76668183.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur breaks all-time record in NREGA labour engagement||Jaipur: Jaipur has broken an all-time record having engaged 1.56 lakh workers under MGNREGA in the district. The labour engagement in the state was 51.10 lakh on Saturday.The previous highest, as per records available with the district administration, was 79,602 labourers in the year 2014-15.District Collector Joga Ram said labour engagement in the district has been the highest in the district since the inception of the scheme. “This time we have done very well in NREGA as far as labour engagement is concerned. Around 16,000 new job cards have been issued after the migrants have returned and 8,000 new works have been sanctioned under the scheme. Also, large number of BDOs and panchayat-level officials have been involved in the job,” he said. “Large number of migrant workers, who have returned to Jaipur district from other states, has been enrolled in MGNREGA. Initially too, the number of job cards issued were quite huge. But, many of them were working in others states or districts. Since, these workers have returned to the district, they have been engaged in various works under MGNREGA,” said Bharti Dixit, CEO, Zila Parishad.Meanwhile, under the chairmanship of chief secretary D B Gupta, the 35th state-level screening committee on Friday reviewed the progress and pending development works under BADP (border area development project). The meeting approved Rs 337-crore action plan for 1338 works in the border districts.BoxJaipur: Divisional commissioner K C Verma on Saturday asked all the schools to put up messages on their social media pages to create awareness among students and their guardians about precautionary measures to be adopted to prevent spread of Covid infection. As a part of Covid awareness campaign from 21 to 30 June, Jaipur district administration officials would visit various schools to create awareness among teachers and and other staff about various precautions to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-breaks-all-time-record-in-nrega-labour-engagement/articleshow/76667984.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||IGNOU opens admission for July 2020 session||NAGPUR: Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has opened admissions for the July 2020 session. The varsity has also introduced MA Sanskrit from the new session. P Sivaswaroop, regional director of IGNOU Nagpur Regional Centre said in an online press meet that all the admissions are being done online only and interested candidates have to apply on the admission portal https://ignouadmission.samarth.edu.in/. To avoid students gathering at study centres, IGNOU is offering various online sessions for benefit of students. Gyan Darshan TV Channel, Gyan Vani FM Radio Channel, Google Meet, Cisco Webex Meeting etc. are used for conducting online classes to the students. Facebook Live sessions are also conducted. Regional Director informed that IGNOU has started a podcast for its learners. The main motto of this podcast is ‘Freedom to Learn’ and the theme is ‘Future of Work: Navigation a Sustainable New World’. IGNOU is offering admissions for 177 programmes starting from 6 month Certificate, 1 year Diploma, 3 year Undergraduate (UG) and 2 years Post Graduate (PG) Degree Programmes. Wide variety of subjects are also offered like Psychology, Anthropology, English, Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu, Nutrition, Computer Applications and Foreign Languages like. French, Russian, Spanish, Japanese, German etc. Last date to apply is 31st July 2020. He informed that IGNOU offers free education to SC, ST candidates in around 100 programmes. It is open for those SC, ST candidates who are unemployed and not getting any other scholarship. Speaking about online programmes, Dr. Sivaswaroop informed that IGNOU is offering some programmes through ONLINE mode also. They include Post Graduate Certificate in Agriculture Policy (PGCAP), Certificate in Tribal Studies (CTRBS), Post Graduate Diploma in Gandhi and Peace Studies (PGDGPS), Post Graduate Certificate in Gandhi and Peace Studies (PGCGPS), Certificate Programme In Peace Studies and Conflict Management (CPSCM), Diploma in Tourism Studies (DTS), M.A. in Translation Studies (MATS), Master of Arts (Hindi) (MHD), M.A. in Gandhi and Peace Studies (MGPS), Bachelor of Tourism (BTS), Certificate Programme in Library and Information Science (CLIS), Certificate in Information Technology (CIT), Certificate in Tourism Studies (CTS), Certificate in Arabic Language (CAL), Certificate in Russian Language (CRUL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ignou-opens-admission-for-july-2020-session/articleshow/76667994.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC worker sweeping roads in Naik Talao-Bangladesh tests +ve||Nagpur: A female sanitary worker of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) engaged in sweeping roads in Naik Talao-Bangladesh containment zone tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, becoming first-of-its-kind case in the district. As per orders of the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, the civic body has started collecting swab samples for Covid-19 test of all front line workers — medical staff, sanitary workers etc — on duty in containment zones. Accordingly, a special camp was organized at NMC Satranjipura zone on Friday and 74 persons including NMC’s front line workers and pregnant women from containment zones gave their samples. As per NMC officials, a 40-year-old female sanitary worker tested positive. She was engaged in sweeping roads in Bangladesh which has registered a large number of cases so far, they said. The worker is a resident of Sweeper Colony near Shanti Nagar which is a containment zone. An employee who was part of NMC’s rapid response team (RRT) also working in containment zones had tested positive from this locality on June 2. But the RRT member’s immediate family members had tested negative. Also, no other case was reported from the locality in the last 26 days. It implies that there are high chances of sanitary worker contracting the disease while on duty. Apart from the RRT member, an employee of NMC Satranjipura Zone working in containment zones too had tested positive. Few more employees of NMC had tested positive but they were not on duty then. A pregnant woman who participated in the camp too tested positive. She is a resident of Naik Talao-Bangladesh containment zone. Five more contacts of earlier positive persons from this zone also tested positive. With this, total cases from this zone have increased to 362, which is the second highest from the district after Mominpura containment zone. On May 27, two persons from this zone were admitted at IGGMCH and tested positive. The NMC team led by additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, assistant commissioner Vijay Humne and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane had quarantined 1,466 persons, out of whom 360 have tested positive so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-worker-sweeping-roads-in-naik-talao-bangladesh-tests-ve/articleshow/76667578.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Man kidnaps 10-year-old nephew to make a quick buck after losing job, arrested||KOLKATA: This lockdown, Md Imran had lost his steady source of income. Hence, he decided to earn quick money by kidnapping his 10-year-old nephew. He took the help of two criminals from Bihar, kidnapped the child and demanded Rs 10 lakh as ransom from his brother-in-law who works in Dubai. Tiljala police, though, thwarted his plan and rescued the child. They tracked the kidnappers to a guest house in Parnasree, Behala. The child was rescued and the accused, Imran, was arrested along with his two associates — Ranjit Kumar and Vishwajit Kumar. According to DC (ESD) Debasmita Das, the child’s mother Chanda Khatoon, a resident of Topsia Rd, reported that her son had gone to a nearby field to play on Friday afternoon but did not return till late. Soon, she started getting ransom calls to ensure the safety of her child. “Imran emerged as the prime suspect. We arrested him and he led us to the guesthouse in Parnasree where we found the boy,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-kidnaps-10-yr-old-nephew-to-make-a-quick-buck-after-losing-job-arrested/articleshow/76666805.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||New Town Kolkata Development Authority comes up with rule for rooftop gardens||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has proposed to make it mandatory for all new buildings in New Town to have provisions for rooftop gardens. “The NKDA will send the policy proposal for approval by the state government in a few days,” said an NKDA official. The rule will be applicable for residential, educational and commercial buildings in New Town. Officials said that the decision taken by the NKDA board is based on one of the suggestions that was discussed earlier in a webinar, ‘Regreening: Post Amphan’, that was organized by the authorities earlier this month. NKDA had, some time ago, set up a rooftop vegetable garden with solar shades and rainwater harvesting at one of the NKDA markets in CB Block. The authorities also empanelled some local agencies who are willing to take up the work of developing rooftop gardens on residential houses. According to the new rule, new houses should have provision for rooftop gardens. The authorities may include cashback and tax incentives for completing the garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nkda-comes-up-with-rule-for-rooftop-gardens/articleshow/76666807.cms||Suman Chakraborti
June 28, 2020||Patna||At 301, Bihar records highest number of Covid cases in a day||PATNA: Bihar recorded the largest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day with 301 new cases registered on Saturday, taking the tally to 8,979 in the state. Two deaths were also reported, raising the toll to 58 while the number of active cases in the state stands at 1,989. With 6,930 recoveries, Bihar’s recovery rate is 20% higher than that of the national average, said State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh. Out of the total number of registered cases, 6,930 people have recovered from the virus and gone home, taking the recovery rate to around 77%. Lokesh said across India, 5,08,953 people have been infected with coronavirus, out of which 2,95,881 have recovered placing the recovery rate at 58.14 %. “Hence the average recovery rate of Bihar is 20% more than the national average,” said the health secretary. As per information shared by the health department, one death each was reported from Begusarai and Rohtas. While this is the fifth death of a Covid-19 positive person in Begusarai district, in Rohtas it is the second death. Lokesh confirmed the death of Rohtas native. “The deceased was 60-year-old and was comorbid. He died on Friday,” he said. However, no detail was given by the department regarding the Begusarai person’s death. Twenty four cases were also reported from Patna, which includes a 55-year-old woman from Rajendra Nagar. Three cases have been reported from Muradpur, one each from Indira Nagar and BMP and four each from Dhanarua, Patna City and Naubatpur apart from others. According to the health department, Covid-19 cases were reported from across 33 districts on Saturday with maximum 43 cases from Bhojpur. Other districts which registered a large number of cases are Bhagalpur with 30 cases and Lakhisarai and Madhepura with 19 cases each. In the past 24 hours, 228 positive cases have been registered and in the same time period 248 cases recovered. The health department has so far tested 1,98,385 samples in Bihar, including 8,742 samples tested on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/at-301-state-records-highest-number-of-covid-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76667265.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC: Can’t stop online classes||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that it cannot intervene in the area of online education in the absence of any circular or law made by the state government, the Telangana high court dismissed a petition that wanted the court to restrain the private schools from conducting online classes and collecting fees. A bench of chief justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing a plea filed by S Mohammed Abdul Rahim Khan who complained that certain private schools are charging parents in the name of holding online classes. Telangana has not made any law nor issued any circular so far to restrain or monitor online education, the judges said. Scores of parents have lost incomes due to Covid-19 crisis, and it is unfair to burden them this way now, Abdul’s counsel Khaja Nizamuddin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-cant-stop-online-classes/articleshow/76667988.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||UGC guidelines awaited, 57,000 sign up for GTU exams||Ahmedabad: As varsities and colleges wait for the new University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines to be announced, some 57,000 candidates are ready to take the annual exams to be conducted by Gujarat Technological University from July 2. The varsity received 54,500 applications from candidates willing to participate in the pen-and-paper exams that are to begin on July 2. About 1,300 students enrolled for the online exams that are to begin on July 17 and 900 students have filled online applications to participate in the special examinations to be held by the varsity once the Covid-19 crisis is over, said GTU sources. “We hope the new UGC guidelines will be announced before July 2, so we can make changes if required,” said Navin Sheth, vice-chancellor of GTU. Many varsities in Gujarat recently decided to postpone the annual college exams after protests by student organizations. Gujarat University, Saurashtra University, SP University, Veer Narmad South Gujarat University and Maharaja Krishnakumarsinhji Bhavnagar University have deferred exams and are yet to announce new schedules. The GTU academic council had a few days ago reiterated its stand on holding college examinations in July. The council said it will hold special examination for candidates who cannot take tests at exam centres due to the Covid-19 situation and do not want to take them online either. The University Grants Commission (UGC) recently recommended that the Union HRD ministry to scrap the final-year examinations for all colleges and universities due to the Covid-19 crisis. A final announcement on this is expected soon. GTU VC Sheth dashed off a letter to UGC chairman D P Singh requesting that varsities be allowed to frame examination guidelines according to their needs and local dynamics. Earlier, some 1 lakh students final-semester undergraduate and second and fourth semester postgraduate candidates were expected to take exams at GTU and its affiliated colleges. “The academic council recently announced that candidates who are to take remedial exams or who have taken ‘special term extension’, will be extended the benefit of ‘merit-based progression’. About 33,000 candidates have been benefited from this and do not need to take the July exams,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ugc-guidelines-awaited-57000-sign-up-for-gtu-exams/articleshow/76667617.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Defence college remembers Field Marshal Manekshaw||Udhagamandalam: The Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington, commemorated the 12th death anniversary of Field Marshal S H F J Manekshaw on Saturday. A wreath laying ceremony was also held at the Parsi Zoroastrian cemetery in Ooty on the occasion. On behalf of the tri-services fraternity, Lt Gen Y V K Mohan, commandant of DSSC, laid the wreath at the final resting place of the soldier. ‘Sam’ Manekshaw took over as chief of Army staff on January 8, 1969. He successfully crafted the country’s greatest military triumph by leading the Indian Army into the 1971 operations which resulted in the liberation of Bangladesh within a short duration of 13 days. In recognition of his outstanding contribution to the armed forces and the nation, he was elevated to the rank of Field Marshal on January 15, 1973. After an illustrious military career spanning over four decades, Manekshaw settled down at Spring Field - overlooking DSSC - near Coonoor. His association with DSSC goes back to the time when he was the commandant of the station. He shared a special bond with the Nilgiris and its people. He breathed his last at the military hospital in Wellington on June 27, 2008 at the age of 94.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/defence-college-remembers-field-marshal-manekshaw/articleshow/76667586.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Reconsider cap on PPE & Covid-19 test rate, hospitals urge West Bengal||KOLKATA: The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI), an umbrella body of private hospitals, is planning to write to the state government, seeking a reconsideration of the price cap on PPE and Covid tests. While hospitals have agreed to stick to the doctor consultation fee cap that has been fixed at Rs 1,000 per day, they have pointed out that it could be difficult to abide by the cap on Covid test and PPE charges. The AHEI has sought an evaluation of their existing charges for these two, which they believe are reasonable, from the government. “We are abiding by the government order. But we will be appealing to the state government to reconsider the charges fixed, especially on Covid test and PPE kits because they are lower than what hospitals are spending on these,” said Rupak Barua, president of AHEI. On behalf of private hospitals treating Covid patients, the association will be presenting a list of expenses they incur on PPE and Covid testing kits for the government to evaluate in the hope that it agrees to revise the price cap on these items. “For example, there has been no reduction in the price of kits for testing in the closed system by GeneExpert and TRUENAT. While it is possible to lower the cost of RT-PCR tests, capping the price at Rs 2,250 for GeneExpert and TRUENAT will be a financial blow for us since it does not even cover the cost of those kits,” Barua argued. A kit for GeneExpert costs Rs 2,900 while that of a TRUENAT is about Rs 2,600 for a positive sample. And then, there is the cost of viral transport medium, PPE kits of lab technicians and microbiologists and other overhead expenses in addition to the cost of the kits, it was pointed out. “Also, it is not only about the PPE suits. There are masks, gloves and other sanitization expenses to ensure protection to each healthcare worker. Hospitals are conducting regular sanitization, fumigation and other infection control activities that are expensive. That is the reason why AHEI has decided to appeal to the government to reconsider the fixed amount,” added the AHEI president. While private hospitals are waiting for AHEI to take up the matter with the government, some have already implemented the price caps. Medica Superspecialty Hospital, for instance, has lowered its consultation and PPE charges to Rs 1,000 from Saturday. “We have followed the price cap and will wait for further instructions from the government,” said chairperson Alok Roy. Another private hospital said it was planning a series of measures, including Covid packages, to stick to the price regulations. “We have already initiated a host of steps, like rationalizing PPE use and reducing hospital stay by shifting suspects and those with mild symptoms to our satellite healthcare units. The test charges prescribed are a bit too low and should be revised. Covid packages are also on the anvil though everything will now depend on how the government responds to our plea,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/reconsider-cap-on-ppe-covid-19-test-rate-hospitals-urge-state/articleshow/76666806.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rare heart surgery conducted in pvt hospital||Jaipur: Jeevan Rekha Hospital Cardiac Sciences team performed its first Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) in a post bypass patient with severe aortic stenosis. A 67-year-old man, who had undergone coronary artery bypass surgery 10 years ago, was admitted to the hospital with shortness of breath and chest pain. Cardiac surgeon Sameer Sharma evaluated the patient and found severe aortic stenosis. Till now, this procedure was performed only by open heart surgery but with latest TAVR techniques, it was done through a small hole in leg artery.After consultation with the heart team, the patient was advised to undergo transcatheter aortic valve replacement in view of high risk for second open heart surgery along with poor lungs capacity which is a high risk for prolonged general anaesthesia. Patient underwent TAVR in conscious sedation and valve was replaced without surgery in aortic position. Patient was discharged 2 days after the procedure and is able to do to all his daily activities. The cardiac team was led by Sameer Sharma, Pradeep Singhal, Ram Chitlangia & Mukesh Garg with active participation of cath lab team of Vikash Sharma, Samarveer singh, Manthan, Rahul, Kajal, Sanjay, Neelu, Priyanka, Himanshu and Meeta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rare-heart-surgery-conducted-in-pvt-hospital/articleshow/76667989.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||No TV at home: Woman poisons her two kids & then self||Nagpur: Mirza Ayesha Baig, 32, made her 11-month-old daughter and six-year-old son consume poison before she gulped it herself at their New Ganesh Nagar residence at Wathoda on Friday. She was disappointed as there was no television at home. The trio is battling for survival at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH). To buy a TV for his family, Ayesha’s husband Naseem sold his two milk-giving cows, the only source of income. It’s learnt that Naseem’s son used to take his mobile phone to watch television. Naseem was on his way to the TV shop but had to rush back when he was informed by neighbours that his wife and children were vomiting outside the house. A neighbour had noticed the six-year-old boy vomiting and sounded an alarm. When the other neighbours rushed to help, they learnt that Ayesha and her two children had consumed poison inside the house. Sources said Ayesha and Naseem had an inter-religion love marriage around seven years ago after which they were abandoned by their respective families. Police said Naseem and some neighbours rushed Ayesha and her children to GMCH where they are said to be in a critical state. It’s learnt that Ayesha told the police that she made her children consume poison and did the same later. The poison was meant to kill lice in the hens they have at home. Senior inspector Anil Takshande of Wathoda police station said that Ayesha has been slapped with charges of attempt to murder and also for making a bid to end her life. GMCH sources said the two children have been admitted to the ICU while Ayesha is in a ward. “The 11-month-old girl is critical,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-tv-at-home-woman-poisons-her-two-kids-then-self/articleshow/76667589.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 28, 2020||Vadodara||66-year-old succumbs to virus, kin allege negligence||Vadodara: The GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri witnessed some anxious moments late on Friday night, when a relative of a 66-year-old positive patient who succumbed to Covid-19, alleged negligence by the hospital authorities. Daughter of the deceased, who was a resident of Bharuch, even alleged that after giving him ice-cream, doctors had tied the patient to the hospital cot so that he could not make a video call. “They killed my father. They gave him ice-cream. There was no ventilator,” the patient’s daughter kept on claiming while talking to an unknown individual on her cell phone. However, the hospital authorities refuted the claims. Administrative nodal officer of the hospital, Dr Sheetal Mistry, however, termed it as an emotional outburst. Mistry told TOI that the patient was admitted at a hospital in Bharuch and the family had later taken him to a Waghodiya-based hospital after which he was brought to Gotri. “When a person is suffering from hypoxia, he is kept on bipap ventilator to stabilize him. He was incubated at around 2 pm on Friday. Patients are tied to the cot so that they do not get hurt because of convulsions,” he said. “We are putting all our efforts to save each and every patient. Doctors don’t kill patients,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/66-year-old-succumbs-to-virus-kin-allege-negligence/articleshow/76666396.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Mixed response from religious leaders on opening shrines||Jaipur: As the state government prepares for Unlock 1.0 amid the corona pandemic, there has been a mixed response from the districts over opening religious places. The religious leaders and the public representatives in some districts want the lockdown to be extended for a month and to open small religious places with restrictions considering the severity of the virus spread. However, in other districts, the religious leaders want to open all shrines with restrictions and social distancing norms.The district collectors have submitted their reports to the state government on the feedback received from religious leaders and public representatives over opening of religious places in the state.The collectors had formed committees in all districts to hold deliberations on the issue. The state government will take the final decision on opening the religious shrines. The guidelines are expected on June 29-30.“There is a general view among the religious leaders to keep the shrines closed in July. In July as ‘Shraavan’ (month of fasting and second month of rainy season) begins, people will gather at the temples on Mondays to offer milk and water on ‘shivlinga’ (representation of the Hindu deity Shiva). This may lead to spread of the virus and community transmission. The religious leaders also pointed out that common buckets and jugs/pitchers will be used for offering water on shivlinga. Hence, religious leaders of all faiths and the officials of Devasthan department have insisted that religious shrines should remain closed in July,” said collector of a district in south-east Rajasthan.Collector of a district in central Rajasthan said there is a mixed response to the idea of opening religious places. “The religious leaders belonging to bigger shrines maintained that they should remain closed as it would be difficult to handle huge crowds. However, those representing smaller shrines favoured opening the religious places with conditions and restrictions.” Meanwhile, a couple of collectors from districts in east and central Rajasthan said, “The religious leaders believe that all the shrines and religious places must be opened as the virus is here to stay for a longer period. They, however, maintained that social distancing norms and restrictions must be followed at these places.”Another collector from a district in south-west Rajasthan said, “The feedback from public representatives and religious leaders is that the lockdown must be extended and religious places must remain closed for at least one more month. We have also seen a rise in the number of Covid positive cases recently. Also, some pointed out that people are still oblivious to the behavior of the virus in monsoon or rainy season. Hence, this option should be considered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mixed-response-from-religious-leaders-on-opening-shrines/articleshow/76667990.cms||---
June 28, 2020||India||‘Government using RGF issue to divert focus from security failure’||NEW DELHI: Accusing the BJP government of throwing a red herring to people by raising the issue of funding to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Congress on Saturday asked PM Narendra Modi if the Chinese incursion into India was provoked by the 2005 donation from the Chinese embassy and would end with its repayment. Congress also rubbished BJP’s charge that fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi had donated money to RGF. Congress member P Chidambaram said, “What does the grant of RGF 15 years ago have to do with the infiltration of Indian territory in 2020 under the supervision of Modi government? Suppose RGF returns Rs 20 lakh, will PM Modi assure the country that China will clear its encroachment and restore the status quo?” Rubbishing Nadda’s allegation as a conspiracy, AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, “No amount has been received as donation from Mehul Choksi personally as has been falsely alleged. Nor has any loan ever been given by RGF to him. The records of RGF reflect receipt of a donation of Rs 10 lakh from Naviraj Estates Pvt. Ltd in 2013 of which Choksi was one of the directors. The entire world knows the connection of Choksi to the Modi government.” Surjewala asked BJP if like RGF, RSS, Overseas Friends of BJP, Vivekanand Foundation and India Foundation will make public the list of domestic and foreign donors and the amounts received. He dared BJP to declare the names of donors who have paid it through electoral bonds. Terming BJP’s questions of RGF’s funding as an attempt to divert focus from its failure on national security, Congress said funds from the embassy were for research on Indo-China issues and handicapped welfare, while the money given by the PM National Relief Fund was used for tsumani relief in Andaman and Nicobar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-using-rgf-issue-to-divert-focus-from-security-failure/articleshow/76668386.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||‘Revisit Chinese collaboration for Zuari bridge work’||Panaji: The BJP should walk the talk and ban all trade with China, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte here on Friday as he challenged the ruling side to take a strong stand against China. Khaunte also challenged the Pramod Sawant-led government to revisit the new Zuari bridge project which is being built in collaboration with a Chinese firm. Khaunte said that he supports Prime Minister Narendra Modi in every decision taken against China after it encroached into Indian territory and killed 20 Indian Army personnel. “BJP being in power in the state must put a ban on highway projects in Goa being done in collaboration with Chinese companies,” Khaunte said. “Breaking Chinese phones will bring no change, we need to take strong actions at the state, national and military levels.” PWD minister Deepak Pauskar himself has said that he would speak to the chief minister Pramod Sawant whether to continue or not with the Chinese consultant for the Zuari bridge. Stating that if need be, new consultant could be appointed, he said that while 65% of the work has been completed, some material for the remaining work is expected to be imported from China Khaunte said that the BJP should act instead of making empty political statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revisit-chinese-collaboration-for-zuari-bridge-work/articleshow/76658703.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Erode||Erode PRO employee tests +ve||Erode: A 35-year-old employee with the district public relations and information department (DIPR) had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. He was posted as a night security at Periyar house and Anna memorial. Following this, all the employees of DIPR were asked to home quarantine for 14 days. “Their samples will be collected in a week for Covid-19 test,” a senior PRO official said. According to the official, the employee was present at the function at Tiruvanchi near Perundurai that was attended by chief minister Edappadi K Palanniswami on Thursday. Sanitary workers fumigated the PRO office on Saturday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-pro-employee-tests-ve/articleshow/76667591.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Bhilwara moves from ruthless to micro containment||JAIPUR: From the ruthless 3km containment zones to micro containment in streets, Bhilwara in Rajasthan has changed its strategy to check the spread of Covid-19. The textile town is conducting tests on twice even on suspects — once immediately on suspicion and the second five days later, which other districts are hardly doing. Despite over 150 migrants testing positive for Covid-19, Bhilwara managed prevent the situation turn worse like in Bharatpur, Dholpur and Pali. As of now, the textile town has 245 positive cases and is currently conducting random sampling to assess community spread of the virus. “Though the size of containment zones has become small, we are still implementing our ruthless containment model to contain the spread of virus,” said Rajendra Bhatt, district collector, Bhilwara. Intense screening, contact tracing and aggressive testing in the textile town have prevented the situation from turning worse. However, the situation has changed a lot in Bhilwara. The kind of ruthless containment, which remained implemented for 55 days in the city in April and May, has vanished with the state government allowing relaxation in movement for encouraging economic activities. The textile town had remained under Section 144 with city borders sealed. Check posts were set up at all entry/exit points and buffer zones were turned into no movement zone in the city. The situation has changed now. “The people in Bhilwara remained under curfew for 55 days. They have played their part. If more persons are tested positive for Covid-19 by their carelessness, the efforts of others who remained indoors will go in vain. Around 95% are following the norms of social distancing, wearing face marks and taking precautions, but because of some people, the efforts of the administration will go waste,” said Bhatt. However, he said the ruthless containment strategy is being maintained and serious action is being taken against those violating the norms. An FIR has been registered against a person who solemnised a marriage attended by over 50 guests, which is against the norms of lockdown. Among those who attended the marriage, one person died of Covid-19 and 15 others tested positive. The district administration sent 58 others to institutional quarantine. Taking futher action against the family, the district administration directed the tehsildar to collect money spent on them, which amounts to Rs 6.26 lakh for their lodging, food, transportation and testing. Initially, in April and May, Bhilwara district had only one ruthless containment zone. “That was spread in the 3km area of the affected part of the city. But now we have 73 micro containment zones. Things have changed, but our aggressive testing, screening and contact tracing hasn’t, which is why we have succeeded in containing the spread of the virus despite increase in cases due to migrants,” said Dr Suresh Chaudhary, epidemiologist, Bhilwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhilwara-moves-from-ruthless-to-micro-containment/articleshow/76667995.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Investigate child rights violations: Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court has directed the superintendents of police in all districts in the state to investigate cases of child marriage during the lockdown and find out if trafficking of children due to economic hardships was involved. In North 24 Parganas alone, 124 cases of child marriage were reported during the lockdown. On learning about the situation, West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights had also started a helpline to prevent child marriages. The court directed the home secretary to file a report disclosing other violations of child rights and steps that the police had taken against the offenders. The HC also observed that reports from district judges and Pocso courts indicated that investigating officers were delaying production of victims and/or recording of statements that helped perpetrators. It directed all SPs to ensure that victims are produced before the magistrate for recording statements within 48 hours of being rescued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/investigate-child-rights-violations-hc/articleshow/76666830.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Salt Lake mayor’s ward reports six cases in 5 days||KOLKATA: Six Covid cases have been reported from Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty’s ward 29 in the past five days with five cases from CJ Block alone. So far, this has been the highest for a single block in Salt Lake. Chakraborty said they were taking all precautionary steps to contain the outbreak. “We are constantly keeping in touch with the affected families and sanitizing the localities,” the Bidhannagar mayor said. Although Covid cases have been occurring in several localities in Sector 1 and Sector III of Salt Lake, ward 29 was one of the few that had remained in the green zone till now. Civic officials said the five persons affected from CJ Block come from two houses with three of them belonging to the same family. A few of them had been visiting their workplaces over the past few weeks. At present, all of them are in home quarantine with mild symptoms, officials said. The other person, a medical practitioner, is from AL Block. He has been admitted to a private hospital, civic officials said. The number of Covid patients is inching towards the 350 mark in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area with new cases being reported from across Salt Lake and pockets of Baguiati and Rajarhat. Civic authorities are laying extra stress on sanitizing the markets as frequently as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-mayors-ward-reports-six-cases-in-5-days/articleshow/76666826.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal schools put security checks in place for online classes||BHOPAL: Schools in the city are taking a lot of precautions to ensure that no miscreants disturb the online class by stealing the login Id and password of the students. The schools have also asked teachers to take special care to ensure that the students attending the class have their videos on to ensure that no other person is using their id and password. “We were apprehensive about hackers and cyber bullies creating troubles in online classes. So we created the login Ids of all students on the school’s domain with their full names. The teachers can then know who all have logged in. The students are also asked to turn on their videos so that the teacher can take the attendance,” said Pankaj Sharma, principal Sagar Public School. Principal of Bal Bhawan School, Rajesh Sharma said that the school sends invites to join the video class to students every day, and only those students who are enrolled with the school can attend the classes. Even if a person gets the password, if they have not received the invite, they will not be join the online class. “Besides, the teacher who takes the class is the host and only after his/her approval can any student join the class. If any miscreant tries to join the class, the teacher can deny them access, preventing any kind of disturbance,” said Sharma. Father Maria Stephen, PRO of Missionary School of Bhopal Diocese, said, “Students attending online classes are given passwords so that only they can enter the class. The teachers also have the authority to see who can attend the class and who cannot. So in case they ever see an unknown person logging in, they will be able to deny them entry in the online class.” “We use a secure platform that only allows students to attend classes they are enrolled for. Not even students can access any other class apart from their own as we have made the online classes on the online software,” director IES Manisha Kawathekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/schools-put-security-checks-in-place-for-online-classes/articleshow/76667599.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents protest schools’ bid to make e-learning gadgets a must||HYDERABAD: After books, uniforms, and stationery, few schools in the city have now started selling electronic gadgets and making it mandatory to buy them from schools to access online classes. While one such school is forcing parents to buy a tablet and pay six months fee in one go, others are asking parents to buy laptops and phones to attend classes, failing which schools are threatening to award low grades/marks to students. “A couple of days back, we received a message from the school saying that they would start e-learning through a tablet. When I enquired further, the schools asked me to pay Rs 25,000 towards fee, out of which Rs 7,500 is for the tablet. They said that unless I pay the entire amount, the tablet will not be given to my son,” said a parent, whose son is studying in Class 8 in a private school, which has branches in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The parent said that the tablet comes with pre-loaded content and software, said to be mandatory to attend classes and appear for exams. The issue is not just with private schools, but Kendriya Vidyalayas too as they too are advising parents to buy laptops if they don’t want their kids to attend classes on mobile phones. “When we raised a complaint about young children not being able to handle phones to attend classes, the headmaster simply advised us to buy laptops. I have three children, how is it possible for me to buy three laptops in the current scenario,” questioned a parent, whose children are studying Class 2 and Class 3 at a KV in the city. Members of Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA), meanwhile, said that if parents are unable to buy electronic gadgets, they are helping them get loans. “We are connecting parents with financiers so that they can buy electronic gadgets for their children to attend virtual classes,” said S Srinivas Reddy of TRSMA. Education department officials, meanwhile, said that they are yet to receive any complaint from parents about schools forcing them to buy gadgets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-protest-schools-bid-to-make-e-learning-gadgets-a-must/articleshow/76667996.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Unhappy with ‘stop-gap step’, private bus operators stick to fare-hike demand||KOLKATA: A day chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a Rs 27-crore bailout package for private bus operators, uncertainty continued to loom over the resumption of their services from July 1 as a section of them showed reluctance to accept the three-month subsidy and stuck to their fare-hike demand. However, all bus operators thanked the chief minister for including bus workers in the Swasthya Sathi scheme. On Friday, Banerjee had offered a Rs 15,000 subsidy to each of 6,000 private bus operators in the city for the next three months so that they can absorb the loss due to the diesel-price hike. The bus syndicates’ leaders, who had attended a brief meeting with the chief minister, had welcomed the move on Friday, terming it as a ‘historic step’. But on Saturday, most of them did a U-turn, saying that they would like to stick to their demand of fare revision rather than opting for the short-term subsidy. Some syndicates conducted a referendum of opinion from different route operators. Majority of them opined against the subsidy. State transport department officers said they also needed clarity on the subsidy issue. “The chief minister must have meant a particular section of buses by mentioning 6,000 buses. We have assumed that she meant buses operating within the city. Kolkata alone has 5,583 private buses. If we take the entire state, the number will be 27,000+. We hope to have greater clarity on Monday,” said an officer. Pradip Narayan Basu of West Bengal Bus-and-Minibus Owners’ Association, who on Friday appreciated the state’s move for subsidy, on Saturday said: “We cannot accept subsidy as a majority of our members went against it and wanted to stick to the fare-revision demand. We have thus decided to submit a fresh memorandum of the demand to the transport department.” Rahul Chatterjee of Paschim Banga Bus-O-Minibus Samannay Samity, said: “We want the same result for all. If only the city operators get the benefits, bus operators in districts will feel deprived. We don’t want any bad blood amongst us. We will make a fresh appeal to the CM for a fare revision, which will benefit one and all.” Majority of the operators said the subsidy might only be a stop-gap solution. But the mounting loss cannot be neutralized by the subsidy. “Moreover, our brothers in the districts are equally hit by the diesel price hike. We cannot have two set of formula for the industry where we always stand united like a family,” said an operator. Majority of the operators said they would ply buses till they drop dead by bleeding. “We cannot force any one to ply bus once he exhausts all his resources,” said another leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unhappy-with-stop-gap-step-pvt-bus-operators-stick-to-fare-hike-demand/articleshow/76666844.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 28, 2020||Goa||Work being done at Aguada not illegal, govt tells HC||Panaji: The state government has told the high court of Bombay at Goa that it isn’t doing any illegal work outside the erstwhile Aguada central jail under the garb of restoration. In an affidavit, the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) said that the work being undertaken at the historic site has the necessary approvals. The government filed its reply following a PIL that alleged that GTDC is engaged in rampant and aggressive hill ravaging, tree cutting and devastation outside the jail in Candolim. On Friday, the high court directed the government to go ahead with the work but to confine it to the jail area and not touch the surrounding vacant area. Meanwhile, referring to allegations that it violates the Town and Country Planning Act, the government said that the Act’s Section 17A (which prohibits hill-cutting and land-filling) is exempted when the work carried out pertains to widening or constructing a road and the associated cutting and filling. The government, in its affidavit, also denied that any construction was proposed in the prohibited area and claimed there was no violation of CRZ regulations. It also stated that the approach road and parking area have been developed for emergencies. “The approach road has no survey number, which is clear from the plan. The respondent shall rectify the necessary approvals,” it said. The petitioners, Roshan Mathias and others, responding to the affidavit, stated that GTDC’s intention to cause an environmental disaster without any scientific and environmental study was dangerous. They pointed out that the property is an ecologically-sensitive area, and it shouldn’t be permitted to be usurped for illegal purposes. It was also submitted that the permission was with respect to the jail premises and nothing else. The Union ministry of tourism had sanctioned Rs 99 crore under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme as financial assistance. The development of Aguada jail is being carried out under this scheme, and involves an approach road, parking space, walls, landscaping, rehabilitation and repair of buildings, a sound and light show, watch towers, jetty and other services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-being-done-at-aguada-not-illegal-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/76668219.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||MP man pulls bullock cart to protest against joblessness||BHOPAL: The Bundelkhand region of the state continued to witness agitations to draw the government’s attention on generating employment. On Friday, a man pulled a bullock cart for five kilometres in Niwari district and urged the administration to do something about wide-scale joblessness and also bring down the price of diesel. The protester also submitted a memorandum to the district collector, which has been addressed to the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind. In the recent past, unemployed labourers also held agitations in the neighbouring Tikamgarh and Chhatarpur districts and urged the government to generate employment for them. A farmer by profession, Sunil Rajput, drew the attention of the whole of Niwari on Friday evening when he pulled the bullock cart. He was accompanied by some more farmers. Shouting slogans against the government, he said he was highlighting the plight of the unemployed labourers across the impoverished region. Placards also hung around Rajput’s neck as he pulled the heavy cart till the district collector’s office. Rajput said that lakhs of labourers have returned home during the Covid-19 lockdown and were sitting idle. The marginal farmers are also stressed due to the continuous hike in diesel price, he added. “This is a double whammy”, Rajput said. “On one hand the government is not opening employment avenues for labourers and on the other hand the hike in diesel price is leading to inflation.” He said the farmers were preparing for the next kharif season and sowing cost has become exorbitant. Exactly a week ago, a large number of women labourers carrying spades, pickaxes and shovels, assembled at the bungalow of the Niwari district collector and raised the demand to generate employment for them. Earlier, unemployed labourers also demonstrated in Tikamgarh, another Bundelkhand district and raised the issue of their joblessness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-pulls-bullock-cart-to-protest-against-joblessness/articleshow/76667610.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
June 28, 2020||Goa||Porvorim to host int’l skill institute for unemployed||Panaji: The department of skill development has proposed to build a new office and an international skill development institute on 12,000 sqm of land in Porvorim where a hybrid IT Park was supposed to come up, said Vishwajit Rane who holds the skill development portfolio. The land in Porvorim, had been transferred by then chief minister Manohar Parrikar to the department of information technology for a hybrid IT park. Rane, who attended the meeting of the State Skill Development Mission (SSDM) along with chief minister Pramod Sawant, secretary for industries Nila Mohanan and director of skill development Dipak Dessai, recommended that the skill development institute should be set up in collaboration with a private institute on a public private partnership (PPP) basis. At the meeting, Sawant directed officials to take proactive steps to impart skills to local youth who are presently unemployed or looking for gainful employment. He also urged departments to work with local industries so that the skill requirements of companies are met. “I proposed to build an international skill institute in Goa through the PPP model on lines of Indian Institute of Skills. The proposed institute will be a four-acre residential campus that shall comprise over 500 trainees providing various courses,” Rane said. Former IT minister Rohan Khaunte had proposed to setup an incubation, acceleration and co-working facility on two plots measuring 4,073 sqm and 8,382 sqm at Porvorim. Rane said that Sawant had agreed to hand over the land back to the skills department. “We shall also be building our new headquarters on the same premises to maintain financial austerity,” Rane said. I proposed to build an international skill institute in Goa through the PPP model on lines of Indian Institute of Skills. The proposed institute will be a 4-acre residential campus that shall comprise over 500 trainees providing various courses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/porvorim-to-host-intl-skill-institute-for-unemployed/articleshow/76658723.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon’s here, JMC yet to clean Walled City lanes||JAIPUR: Monsoon has arrived in the city, but tenders for cleaning the dirty lanes in Walled City are yet to be invited. There are over 6,000 lanes in the city that are cleaned every year before the monsoon, but this year the work has been delayed. Vikas Kothari, a former councillor from Walled City, said the dirty lanes will become a major problem in monsoon. “Usually in the month of April, tenders are invited, but this year the work is delayed probably due to lockdown. A dirty lane is a space between two houses in the cramped areas of Walled City. Water and garbage get accumulated in them and Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) invites tenders to clean these lanes. With the arrival of monsoon, it seems to be an impossible task to complete,” Kothari said. When TOI contacted JMC officials, they assured that the tenders will soon be invited. “It was delayed because of the pandemic as JMC was over-burdened with work. Paper work has been completed and we will invite the tenders soon,” said a senior JMC official. Rajneesh Pandit, a resident of Walled City said if the lanes are not cleaned on time, they will become a source of mosquitoes. “It is of no use if the tenders are being invited now. Foul smell will start emanating from the lanes during monsoon. With rainfall they will become a source for mosquitoes and dengue later on. It is too late to take any action,” said Pandit. Similarly, JMC invited tenders late for cleaning of drains. Usually, it takes five months to clean the city drains. Tenders are invited in February, but this year they were invited in May end and not even 50% of the work is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoons-here-jmc-yet-to-clean-walled-city-lanes/articleshow/76667998.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five cases of suicide in two days||Ahmedabad: Two women and three men committed suicide in the city in two days. One Manu Kori, 21, a resident of Chandlodia, ended her life on June 26. The case is being probed by ACP A Division. In another incident, one Neelam Mistry, 32, of Gota, hanged herself from a fan. Sola High Court police is probing the case. In the third incident, Mayank Agja, 26, of Madhavpura too ended his life on Friday. In the fourth case, Prakash Tudiya, 30, of Amraiwadi, committed suicide by jumping into the Sabarmati river from Sardar Bridge on Thursday. In the fifth incident, Hasmukh Parmar, 27, a resident of Behrampura, ended his life by jumping into Sabarmati from Ambedkar Bridge on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-cases-of-suicide-in-two-days/articleshow/76667669.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||City areas likely to get rain tonight||Ahmedabad: Areas near the Sardar Patel Ring Road reported moderate rainfall at about 8pm, but the city areas did not report any rainfall on Saturday. AMC officials said that since as Bopal and Ghuma are now part of the city, the AMC is yet to set up a rainfall measuring centre there. The weathermen have forecast that the city is likely to receive rain or thundershowers on Sunday evening or night. According to the IMD, the city has so far received 216.2mm of rain. The city on Saturday reported a maximum temperature of 38.2 degrees celsius, which was 1.4 degrees above normal. The IMD has forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers at a few places in all districts of South Gujarat, Saurashtra and North Gujarat for the next five days. According to the state control room, Gadhada in Botad received 35mm of rain from 8pm to 10 pm. Liliya in Amreli reported 22mm and Limbdi taluka in Surendranagar district reported 20mm in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-areas-likely-to-get-rain-tonight/articleshow/76667671.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Physiotherapist sends notice to web series makers||MUMBAI: A city based physiotherapist has sent a legal notice to the makers of the actor Sushmita Sen starrer web series ‘Aarya’, alleging that a dialogue where an actor referred to a physiotherapist as a compounder is derogatory to the entire fraternity and also demoralising for students taking up the profession. The notice sent by Dr Malvika S Batavia’s advocate Swapana Kode sought an unconditional public apology to the medical fraternity from the makers and removal of the dialogue from the series. “The apology should state that physiotherapist are equally reputed and the dialogue has been deleted from the web series and henceforth the statement shall not be used..” the legal notice said. Stating that the dialogue was defamatory, the notice also said that in case of failure to comply with the requirements within 15 days, the doctor will seek legal action against the makers in the appropriate courts. Replying to the notice, in separate responses, producers Ram Madhvani and Amita Madhvani and Endemol India Pvt Ltd called the allegations incorrect and legally untenable. The legal notice had said that physiotherapy in India is acknowledged internationally for the services rendered. The notice also said that physiotherapy is mandatory after major surgeries and worldwide, sportspersons are dependent on physiotherapists for life. “Thus, by making such statements a wrong message is sent to the society which will demoralise the students taking up this professional course and prejudice their status and standards in the entire nation as well as the world, as your web series can be viewed by a larger section of society,” the notice said. However, the Madhvanis said that the dialogue has to be taken in the overall setting of the story where the antagonized character Rajeshwari makes a personal attack on Radhika to hurt her feelings as she is having an affair with her husband. They also added that the remark was not intended and should not be taken as a comment upon the noble profession of physiotherapy. “A film or a web series is a work of fiction and the story as depicted or the dialogues made by the characters are only meant to be taken in the context of a figment of imagination and not as a matter of truth,” the reply said. Endemol India Pvt Ltd said that it had done no wrong and the show is purely a result of creative and artistic freedom. “Your allegations of civil and criminal defamation are completely unfounded and legally untenable. It is further denied that the dialogue gives rise to an offence of defamation in favour of your client,” they said in their response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/physio-sends-notice-to-web-series-makers/articleshow/76667807.cms||Rebecca Samervel
June 28, 2020||Pune||Woman found hanging at home in Pune||PUNE: A 25-year-old woman was found hanging from the ceiling fan at her Dhayari residence on Friday evening. The Sinhagad Road police said that it was a case of suicide, though they have yet to ascertain the reason. No note was found. “The woman was working as an accountant with a private college in Vadgaon Budruk. However, the college has not been functioning due to the lockdown. Her mother works in a private hospital on Sinhagad Road while her brother is a nurse at a hospital in Navi Peth. Her brother and mother had gone to work on Friday and the woman was along at home,” senior police inspector Nandkishor Shelke said. “Her mother returned home at around 5.30pm and found her hanging. She raised an alarm,” he said. Neighbours and police rushed to the spot and she was brought down and rushed to a nearby hospital. She was then taken to Sassoon General Hospital, where she was declared dead, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-found-hanging-at-home/articleshow/76667619.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||‘Housing societies cannot deny entry to people’||PUNE: Some societies in the city have been denying entry to residents returning from different parts of the country or telling them to be in home quarantine or produce medical certificates despite the district collector issuing orders stating that those making their own rules would face action. “Housing societies should not make people’s lives difficult unnecessarily. Societies should take proper sanitization precautions, encourage mask usage and conduct checks at the gate, but they cannot deny entry to residents returning from other cities or to house helps and other service providers. However, those coming from containment zones should be strictly prohibited from entering the society,” Naval Kishore Ram, the Pune distirct collector, said. He said housing societies could not pass orders on home quarantining residents returning from other parts of the country. Such orders could only be given by government authorities. He also clarified societies could not demand medical certificates from residents returning to their homes. Parth Gupta, Kalyaninagar resident, said, “My mother wanted to come from Hyderabad, but society representatives said I will need to take their permission.”  Suhas Patwardhan, the chairman of Pune District Co-Operative Housing Federation, said, “The association received a couple of queries last week from representatives of housing societies inquiring about procedure of allowing residents returning from other districts.” An official from the office of the district deputy registrar for cooperative housing societies said they recently received complaints about societies not allowing domestic helps. “The societies were reprimanded and told they could not make their own rules,” official said. The department of cooperation, marketing and textiles in a recent order directed housing societies in the state to not make their own rules and to follow the government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsg-societies-cannot-deny-entry-to-people/articleshow/76667614.cms||Neha Madaan
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Several areas in district facing risk of dengue outbreak in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Vector surveys have pointed to high density of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitos in many areas in Ernakulam indicating that these regions are at high risk of dengue outbreak. House Index, an indicator for vector surveillance, indicates the percentage of houses infested with the mosquito larvae. If the larvae are present in 10 or more houses out of the 100 houses surveyed in a particular region, the area is categorized as high-risk region. On the other hand, if its presence is found in fewer than nine houses out of the hundred surveyed in an area, the region would be classified as at moderate risk. According to the survey, the House Index of the larvae in many areas in the city, including Pottakuzhy, Karukapally, Karanakodam and Vytilla was found to be more than 10, while it was 23 in many rural areas, including in Pandapilly. “We found the presence of both Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus in the houses of city residents belonging to middle and upper middle-class as well as those who live in rural areas. In houses of well-off people in cities the larvae were commonly found in trays in refrigerators, flower pots, terrace, unused tyres and other places. When we visit houses to take stock of the presence of larvae, many residents behave as if it is the responsibility of the government to get rid of the mosquitoes,” said an official with the vector control unit. The government can eradicate mosquito population outside. But residents need to keep the their houses clean to prevent the spread of dengue within the houses, the official said. “Many people mistakenly believe that the mosquitoes breeding in drains cause dengue. But it is the larvae of Culex mosquitoes that breed in the stagnant waters in drains, not Aedes aegypti or Aedes albopictus. One spoon of fresh water is enough for Aedes aegypti to breed. It is the ignorance on the part of residents that leads to high incidence of dengue cases,” he added. Container Index (percentage of water-holding containers infested with larvae) and Breteau Index (number of positive containers per 100 houses inspected) are some other indicators used for vector surveillance. The Container Index and the Breteau Index are 7 and16 in Pottakuzhy respectively, where a dengue outbreak was reported last year. The district has reported a total 1,453 suspected dengue cases from January till June 25 while 119 cases have been confirmed. Out of them, 845 suspected cases and 57 confirmed cases were reported in June itself. Every year, pre-monsoon cleaning works are carried out in the district but this time around, health workers and local bodies were preoccupied with Covid-19 preventive measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/several-areas-in-dist-facing-risk-of-dengue-outbreak/articleshow/76666900.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||People can add & delete names in electoral roll till July 3: SEC||Jaipur: The state election commission (SEC) announced that the final electoral roll for the elections to 129 municipal bodies, scheduled to be held in August, will be published on July 20. The draft publication of voters’ list was done on Saturday.  According to the schedule, the last date for submission of claims and objections is July 3 and only those who come to the polling stations wearing masks will be allowed to enter. Adding new names, deleting names and making changes in the electoral roll can be done from June 27 to July 3. The disposal of claims and objections will be done on July 10 and the final publication of electoral rolls will be done on July 20, according to the schedule.  State election commissioner P S Mehra said any person who has completed 18 years of age on January 1, 2020 and his/her name is not in the draft voter list, can add his name to the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-can-add-delete-names-in-electoral-roll-till-july-3-sec/articleshow/76668002.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||DEOs warn schools against online classes||Hyderabad: In the Covid-19 situation and lockdown, schools have been warned against conducting online classes for students as officially a fresh academic year has not begun. The district educational officers (DEOs) of Warangal rural, Suryapet and Karimnagar have also said schools should not collect fee from students. The DEO of Warangal rural said on Saturday that strict action would be taken against schools if they reopen during this time as the government has not yet decided on the reopening date for the academic year 2020-21. Parents have been asked to bring to the notice of the authorities concerned of any violation by the schools on phone number 90114428798. Similarly, the Karimnagar DEO has also issued a warning to private institutions against taking up online classes, collecting fee or reopening schools. “Stringent action will be taken against schools for any violations,” the official warned. Education officials of Suryapet issued a similar warning. People have been asked to lodge complaints on 08684-224568 against any school violating the rules. Karimnagar officials also informed government schools that SCERT and women’s protection cell of Telangana has begun an effort to identify issues and problems women and children are facing during Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/deos-warn-schools-against-online-classes/articleshow/76668001.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||70-year-old Satellite woman cheated of Rs 5L||Ahmedabad: A 70-year-old woman, Chandrika Kavi, on Friday accused two persons, Puja Raval and Dhiren Gaur, of cheating her of Rs 5 lakh after promising to arrange a Canadian work permit for her son. Kavi, a resident of Sursagar Apartments on Jodhpur Gaam Road in Satellite, said Raval and Gaur run an agency called HV Immigration, whose office is at Titanium City Centre in Anandnagar. According to Kavi’s FIR, her son Darshit met Puja Raval at a social function in 2019. Raval told the two of them to visit her office and speak to her partner Dhiren Gaur about getting a Canadian work permit for Darshit, whose elder brother Apoorva lives in Canada with his family. Raval and Gaur told them about the procedures involved and said it would take Rs 15 lakh, but they would certainly get Darshit to Canada on a work permit and would put in his application for permanent residence as well. According to the FIR, on April, 25, Raval came to Kavi’s house and asked for the first installment of Rs 5 lakh. “When she was giving Raval a cheque made out to HV Immigration, Raval told her to make the cheque out to her personally instead. She said she would provide a receipt once the cheque was realized,” said a police official. After this, Raval and Gaur ceased all communication with Kavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/70-year-old-satellite-woman-cheated-of-rs-5l/articleshow/76667668.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Surveillance, public engagement key to Covid battle, says Vini Mahajan||The 1987-batch Punjab cadre IAS officer Vini Mahajan, who took over as the state’s first woman chief secretary on Friday, believes that the state is braced up to battle the next phase of Covid-19. As the senior most bureaucrat of the state, she said her focus will be on streamlining the governance initiatives. You have already been involved with Punjab’s battle against the pandemic. How do you see the state’s preparedness to deal with Covid-19? I think substantial effort has been put in during the past few months in terms of getting infrastructure in place, meeting manpower requirements and ramping up testing capacities with more laboratories and sampling teams. Most importantly, making people aware about what they need to do (to stay safe). Not that everybody is compliant, but at least the information is out there. Through campaigns like ‘Mission Fateh’, an effort is being made to ensure that people take it seriously. I think these are good initiatives. We just need to keep a very close watch on which areas are affected and then doing intensive surveillance and continue to keep the public engaged for compliance. You’ve been hailed as the first woman chief secretary of Punjab. You were also the first woman deputy commissioner in the state. For you personally, is the tittle of any consequence or is it mere symbolism? Honestly, I have always seen myself as a professional, as an officer. I was fortunate that I never faced any gender issues which I know many women do. However, I have always been treated with respect as an officer. For me personally, it is more about the role and the position and not so much of an achievement as a woman. I do appreciate that a lot of women do go through difficult times and there are definitely glass ceilings. It is therefore an honour and I’m grateful in that sense. What will be the key focus areas for you?It is important for the state’s holistic development to receive good governance from officers at all levels. There is a lot of activity that needs to be coordinated with streamlining of efforts. These are things that can be tackled and there is a lot of potential for improving citizen satisfaction with improved delivery of services, especially to those not empowered who would rather go voiceless. It’s possible to make a difference for them. Sometimes those who are better off are able to get better services. The opposition parties have raised questions at your appointment. How do you want to react?I wouldn’t want to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/surveillance-public-engagement-key-to-covid-battle-vini-mahajan/articleshow/76668006.cms||Vibhor Mohan
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Anti-Corruption Bureau detects Rs 85 lakh ‘extra income’ of cop||AHMEDABAD: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) initiated a probe against an LCB constable Jagdishchandra Chavda, who was held allegedly for seeking Rs 40,000 as bribe. According to police, Chavda had demanded the bribe through his associate Dashrath Thakor from one Kaushik Thakor for starting ‘matka’ gambling. During initial probe, details of bank balance in lakhs, cars and flats have been found in his and his family members’ names. Chavda is in judicial custody since June 17. ACB has gathered details of movable and immovable properties of Chavda. “From April 1, 2012 to June 8, 2020, we found that the constable had earned Rs 84, 67,624 more than his legal income. The amount is 129% more than his legal income,” said an ACB official. “The accused had taken FDR worth Rs 22,00,000 in the name of his wife and sons and Rs 15, 00,000 were found as their bank balance. The accused has two houses, one worth Rs 26 lakh near Vastrapur railway crossing and one worth Rs 8 lakh at Kesar City in Suyog Sector,” the official said. The sleuths found two luxurious cars in the name of Chavda’s wife. “The value of both the cars is Rs 32, 00,000. The accused has withdrawn Rs 44,36,900 during the check period,” said the official. ACB has registered an offence of disproportionate assets against the accused and the investigation has been handed over to ACB police station, Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acb-detects-rs-85l-extra-income-of-cop/articleshow/76667666.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM editorial blames Centre’s stance for China conflict||Thiruvananthapuram: Unmindful of the growing criticism against CPM’s soft stand on China after the Galwan Valley conflict that claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers, the party mouthpiece, ‘People’s Democracy’, listed out a few acts of India that CPM feared ‘might have contributed to such a situation developing’ in Ladakh. An editorial dated June 28, terms China’s action ‘egregious’, while listing out suspected provocative steps from the Indian side. “The steps to dismantle the state of Jammu & Kashmir and break it up into two centrally-administered territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh led to external repercussions. China saw it from their standpoint. The Chinese government protested twice before India that for them, this amounted to changing an administrative arrangement, which has an impact on an area to which China has claim. But, the Indian government overlooked this response even when China got the matter raised at an informal session of UN Security Council,” stated the editorial. The editorial also quoted Union home minister Amit Shah’s statement in the Parliament on August 6, 2019 – “I want to put this on record that whenever I say state of Jammu & Kashmir in the House, then both PoK and Aksai Chin are part of it” – to allege that the political grandstanding by senior government leaders on this issue had also its impact. “Foreign minister S Jaishankar, at a news conference in September 2019, talked about having physical jurisdiction of PoK one day,” it noted. Other charges levelled against the Centre by the weekly magazine – edited by PB member Prakash Karat – includes speedy steps to integrate India with Indo-Pacific strategy of the US to counter China and India’s association with the US in its diplomatic efforts to corner China at World Health Assembly during the Covid-19 pandemic. “A Union minister echoed the charge of the US that coronavirus was produced in a lab in China”, the editorial said. Mentioning recent disputes with Nepal and Bangladesh, People’s Democracy suggested that the government should ask itself why its troubles with our neighbouring countries are increasing. “India has to figure out a way not only to end the present confrontation but also to chalk out a path to resolve outstanding issues with China. This can be done only through a high-level political and diplomatic intervention. It requires a recalibration of our strategic approach to China,” it said, adding that India must have the resilience to deal with China on an equal, but independent footing. “This does not require giving up our core interests. It only needs a political leadership which recognizes realities and works towards protecting the country’s vital interests and independence,” concluded the editorial, which termed the killing of Indian soldiers at Galwan Valley as ‘shocking and condemnable’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-editorial-blames-centres-stance-for-china-conflict/articleshow/76666949.cms||B Sreejan
June 28, 2020||Vadodara||Combing activities conducted in Panigate||Vadodara: Crime branch sleuths conducted combing activities in Panigate on Friday night to keep a check on the movements of drug peddlers. Cops checked houses, shops and vehicles of suspicious persons in Bhavchavad, Rajarani pond, Shingoda pond, Kotiyatnagar and the neighbouring localities on Friday night. Police said that they had received some anonymous complaints in the past few days based on which they conducted the checking. “We did not find anything suspicious during the combing, yet we will continue to keep a check in the area,” said a police official. He added that most of whom were on their target were medical and paan shop owners who had come under the radar in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/combing-activities-conducted-in-panigate/articleshow/76666441.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Campaigns yield results in Mattancherry||Kochi: Mattancherry shows the way in containing dengue fever while many other areas of Kochi corporation reel under suspected cases. The slum areas in Mattancherry, which used to witness both suspected and confirmed dengue fever cases in previous years, have not reported even a single suspected case this year so far, according to health officials and people’s representatives. Strenuous awareness campaigns last year, continuing vigil, adequate supply of drinking water and behavioural change on the part of residents are attributed to the achievement. A total of 28 suspected cases were reported in Mattancherry last year and 96 in 2016, when an outbreak was recorded in the district. “We conducted door-to-door awareness campaign last year, distributed leaflets, held classes and source reduction activities with the help of councillors. As there was drinking water scarcity last year, residents used to store water in every utensil in the house without covering it and making it breeding grounds of mosquito. To avoid such a situation this year, we ensured proper supply of drinking water. Residents have also covered water tanks with nets,” said an official in the vector control unit. A team of vector control unit worked for three months in Mattancherry last year to spread awareness and their service is still continuing. “In previous years, residents sought treatment for dengue fever at nearby private hospitals, where they had to spend Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000. Now, they have realized the need to do source reduction of the larvae of Aedes aegypti — the main vector that transmits the viruses that cause dengue,” said the official. Mattancherry ward councillor T K Ashraf said all the sources where there is possibility of water getting collected were cleaned with the help of workers. “We had asked cleaning workers to collect unused items. More awareness classes were conducted at Kudumbashree level. Divisions 3 (Earaveli), 4 (Karippalam) and 5 (Mattancherry), which are slum areas, used to report dengue cases. Nowadays, no such cases are being reported from these areas,” Ashraf said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/campaigns-yield-results-in-mattancherry/articleshow/76666932.cms||T C Sreemol
June 28, 2020||Goa||Fake degree case: No relief for Isidore’s son||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Friday declined to grant interim relief on a petition filed by deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes’ son Raymond challenging the government’s decision to withdraw the offer of appointment given to him as Awal Karkun. The government , after inquiry, concluded that the degree claimed by candidate was obtained from an unrecognized university. While admitting the petition , a division bench comprising justice M S Sonak and justice M S Jawalkar observed “Considering the order made, we do not think that any case has been made out for grant of any interim relief. The petitioner was only issued an offer of appointment and thereafter the offer had been withdrawn after the authorities came to the conclusion that the degree which the petitioner claims to have obtained from the university, was not a valid degree” The government had ordered an inquiry in the matter after social activist Aires Rodrigues filed a complaint seeking a probe. He alleged that a fake BA degree was submitted by the candidate from a Lucknow-based university. The Goa University had informed the government about the degree obtained by Raymond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fake-degree-case-no-relief-for-isidores-son/articleshow/76658746.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Congress demands agriculture minister Kamal Patel’s resignation||BHOPAL: State Congress on Saturday alleged irregularities in the acquisition of gram from farmers in Harda – the home district of agriculture minister Kamal Patel. PCC chief Kamal Nath’s media convener and party spokesman Narendra Saluja said, “There were irregularities in the acquisition of wheat in Harda and now there is bungling in the purchase of gram as well. Those responsible for the irregularities are said to be under the protection of the agriculture minister. Patel should take moral responsibility and resign.” Saluja claimed that the bungling was exposed in Chowkri cooperative society’s Khirkiya branch in Harda district where gram was being acquired at minimum support price. “The cooperative society claimed to have acquired 33,339 quintals of gram when all statistics reveal around 29,400 quintals only. It has been revealed that billing of extra quintals of gram was fraudulently made and later the bill was destroyed when the matter got exposed,” he said. Congress said that irregularities were also reported in the same cooperative society last year. “Farmers are wary of this particular branch of the society as a purchasing centre for their produce”, Saluja said. Replying to Congress’s allegation, Patel said, “Congress should first look into its own conscience because the 15-month rule of the party was nothing less than mafia and corruption regime. Congress party is the mother of corruption. As far as the issue of Harda district is concerned, we have ordered an inquiry after the fraud was detected. Culprits will not be spared no matter how influential they are. BJP government always ensure good governance.” Clarifying about the alleged irregularities in the wheat acquisition, Patel said, “During the wheat acquisition, administration officers were sent to the spot after a complaint was lodged. FIR has already been registered against those involved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-demands-agri-minister-patels-resignation/articleshow/76667626.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||Friends kill security guard in Pune over petty dispute||PUNE: Three friends of a 34-year-old security guard brutally attacked and murdered him with iron pipes over a petty dispute at his tin shed residence on an open ground near Vardhaman Lawns in Bibvewadi around 4pm on Saturday. The Bibvewadi police have detained one of the assailants. “The three men hit the security guard, Prakash Kanekar, with pipes on his head and other parts of the body killing him instantly. We came to know about the killing after receiving a telephone call from his brother who reached there soon after the incident,” senior inspector Kumar Ghadge from the Bibvewadi police said. He said preliminary investigations had revealed that the victim and assailants were partying and got into some dispute. “The assailants in a fit of rage attacked Kanekar after the dispute escalated,” Ghadge said. The victim was staying alone at the tin shed. His wife and children are staying in Market Yard. His brother has registered an FIR under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/friends-kill-security-guard-in-bibvewadi-over-petty-dispute/articleshow/76667629.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Carlyle to buy 20% in Piramal for Rs 3,700 crore||MUMBAI: Global private equity major The Carlyle Group will invest a 20% stake in the pharma business of Ajay Piramal-controlled conglomerate Piramal Enterprises Ltd (PEL) for $490 million (Rs 3,700 crore), making it one of the largest private equity deals in the pharma sector. The transaction values PEL’s pharma business at an enterprise value of $2.8 billion, with an upside component of up to $360 million, depending on its FY21 performance. Ajay Piramal, chairman of PEL, said, “This is a strategic partnership with a marquee global investor like Caryle in Piramal Pharma, a subsidiary of Piramal Enterprises. At a time of Covid, this is a reflection about the strength and quality of business we have. I am delighted that we are partnering with a marquee investor like Carlyle, who shares the same values as us, and who has a global footprint in pharma space.” This (process) started when Covid started, and has been completed now. There are many opportunities for the global pharma business like ours, for organic and inorganic growth and, together we can build a strong business.” The pharma business will be carved into a separate subsidiary, Piramal Pharma, from the holding company, PEL, and will be listed in the “near future”. The deal is expected to close in calendar year 2020, subject to customary closing customary conditions and regulatory approvals. Nandini Piramal, executive director of Piramal Enterprises, said it is “a strategic growth investment which will allow us to do both inorganic and organic growth, and create a war chest for our next phase of our strategy. This fresh growth investment into our pharma business will be used as growth capital for the pharma businesses to expand capacity across our sites as well as to tap attractive acquisition opportunities, within and outside India. In the interim, proceeds from this capital raise may also enable us to strengthen our balance sheet through deleveraging in the near term.” The deal under Piramal Pharma includes Piramal Pharma Solutions, an end-to-end contract development and manufacturing business, Piramal Critical Care, a complex hospital generics business, consumer products division, selling over-the-counter products in India; and PEL’s investment in joint venture with Allergan India, a leader in ophthalmology in the domestic market, and Convergence Chemicals Private Limited. Neeraj Bharadwaj, MD Carlyle Asia Partners said, “Given global pharma industry trends, we see attractive opportunities for organic as well as inorganic growth in each of these businesses.” The final amount of equity investment will depend on the net debt, exchange rate and performance against the pre-agreed conditions at the time of closing of deal. The transaction is expected to close in calendar year 2020, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. The company’s debt for FY20 stood at Rs 4,200 crore, and for FY21, it is expected to be around Rs 2500 crore (without any acquisition). The company will use the growth capital for organic and inorganic growth opportunities, and for acquisition opportunities like branded formulations in India. Following the sale of its domestic pharma business to Abbott in 2010 for $3.8 billion, the company has demonstrated its ability to build a solid pharma business over the last 10 years, a company statement said. Leveraging its differentiated business model, PEL’s pharma revenue since the Abbott deal has grown 3.5 times at a CAGR of 15% from Rs 1,537 crore in FY11 to Rs 5,419 crore in FY20. In this period, the pharma business EBITDA has gone up 13 times at a CAGR of 33% from Rs 110 crore in FY11 to Rs 1,436 crore in FY20 (excluding financials of Allergan and CCPL JV), resulting in an improvement in the EBITDA margin from 7% in FY11 to 26% in FY20. Carlyle has a well-established history of investing in the healthcare sector, and recently announced a majority stake investment in SeQuent Scientific, the largest Indian pure-play animal healthcare company. Its other investments in the Indian healthcare sector include Medanta Medicity Hospital, a leading hospital in National Capital Region of Delhi, and Metropolis Healthcare, a chain of diagnostic centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/carlyle-to-buy-20-in-piramal-for-rs-3700-crore/articleshow/76668008.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Two men, one woman held in Fazilka cop murder case||ABOHAR: With the arrest of two men and a woman, Fazilka police on Saturday claimed to have cracked the murder case of sub-inspector (SI) Gurvinder Singh, who was shot dead in Abohar town in Fazilka district on Thursday night. The accused include a woman who the deceased was having an illicit relationship with and her son and brother. Accused Namandeep Singh alias Pintu, his mother Vijay Luxmi and maternal uncle Vikramjit, all residents of Abohar town, were produced in a court, which remanded them in police custody for four days. A fourth accused, Karamjit Singh alias Karma, is on the run. The case had been registered under sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act. The deceased was said to be in an illicit relationship with Luxmi. SSP Harjit Singh said Namandeep shot at Gurwinder three times from an illegal weapon.. The accused were identified through the call details of deceased and CCTV footage collected from around the crime scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-cops-murder-in-fazilka-3-arrested/articleshow/76668011.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||No heavy rainfall in state till July 2, says Met office||JAIPUR: Despite the fact that the southwest monsoon has arrived and covered the entire state, the Jaipur Met office on Saturday said no major rainfall activity would be seen until July 2. The reason is that the upper air cyclonic circulation has proved to be a deterrent for the monsoon winds and cloud formation. Many places in the state witnessed mild to moderate showers, however, by and large widespread monsoon activity has not been witnessed. “Though the southwest monsoon has covered the entire state, there has been very less rainfall. No place in the state has so far witnessed heavy rainfall. Presently, many places in the state have got upper air cyclonic circulation which is the reason why heavy rainfall has not been witnessed. The present pattern is going to prevail in the state till July 2. After this, some places in the southern and eastern Rajasthan will witness heavy rainfall,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office on Saturday. Jaipur Met office said that for proper rainfall during monsoon, humidity levels should be on or above 90%. “Presently, many places in the state have witnessed humidity level of 60 to 70%. Humidity plays a big role and becomes a catalyst in cloud formation and further rainfall. So, we are hopeful that humidity levels will increase from July 2 onwards,” said an officer. Rainfall varying from 10mm to 60mm was witnessed in districts including Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Banswara, Chittorgarh and other districts in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-heavy-rainfall-in-state-till-july-2-says-met-office/articleshow/76668018.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||MIDC banks on local workforce to meet shortfall in industriies||PUNE: The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation would meet the shortfall of 50,000 workforce in 3,200 industrial units by hiring local people and using the skilled workers registered with the skills department. Before the state gives more relaxations, the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) would start a specialised labour bureau web portal to recruit workers for units deserted by migrant workers, said P Anbalagan, the chief executive officer (CEO) of the MIDC. He said among the 1 lakh units, as many as 65,000 had resumed operations with minimal staff. In the coming two to three months, things should be back to normal, he said. To bridge the gap of workers, taluka-wise drives would be conducted to recruit local people. “Of the 50,000 workers needed, about 25% should be skilled workforce. The rest can be semi-skilled and unskilled workers. We are at present seeking help of the skills department as it has around 16 lakh workers registered with it. Even if five lakh of them are employed, we can use the remaining workers to bridge the gap,” Anbalagan said. The MIDC would function as an employment bureau and register taluka-wise skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workforce for about 1,000 identified jobs. The data would be shared with private companies and this would be added service to the investors keen to invest in the state. An assessment done by the labour commissioner for the unorganised workforce showed that 65% of the workforce were from the construction industry, 25% from the service industry and 10% from the manufacturing industry. The MIDC CEO said with only 10% workforce being from the manufacturing industry, there should not be a problem in bridging the gap of workers. He said most of the workers in the manufacturing units were on payroll they would not have quit as in other sectors. Anbalagan said at present 65,000 units were functioning and the industrial electricity consumption was nearly 50-55% and it would only improve in July. On industrial units being shut after some employees getting affected by Covid-19, the MIDC CEO said the necessary sanitising measures were being undertaken at small units as per the government instructions. He said in case of bigger companies, only a particular section was being closed and not the entire firm. Industries have been asked to follow all the protocols through webinars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/midc-banks-on-local-workforce-to-meet-shortfall-in-industriies/articleshow/76668012.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 28, 2020||Pune||Housing society demands fit certificate from new tenants, keeps pregnant woman standing outside for four hours||Pune: A seven-month pregnant woman and her family were forced to stand outside a cooperative housing society in Aundh for over four hours because its secretary questioned the veracity of their fitness certificate, just a day after the state government iterated that housing societies cannot frame their own rules.The woman, with her three-year-old son and her husband, had moved from Mohammadwadi to the housing society in Aundh on Thursday afternoon. The family was allowed inside only in the evening.The trouble for the family did not end there. The society officials told them to remain home quarantined for 15 days. A security guard has been checking on them to ensure that they do not step out.Sunil Shivatare, the secretary of the society having 350 flats, said, “We are just following the government rules. We shall follow only those documents that are signed and stamped. There are other people who complain if they see anyone roaming around.”Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said societies were not entitled to ask for medical certificates.According to officials, the prospect of asymptomatic patients visiting hospitals is fraught with risk and it is one of the reasons why this rule has been done away with.Pune’s joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said he would examine the case and respond by Monday.The TOI verified that the family — moving into the society as tenants — had a valid registered rent agreement and a police verification document issued by the Chatushrungi police.After the couple and their son were denied entry to the society, they went to a nearby hospital in Sangvi and got the medical tests done. When they returned, the society’s secretary, Shivatare, insisted that the medical certificate was not proper. He even contacted the hospital, but the doctor concerned had probably left for the day by then.When the TOI contacted the doctor, Natraj Gute of Makan Hospital, he said he had indeed examined the family and found them to be asymptomatic. “I was told the secretary will call, but no one did. I was reachable on my cellphone even after work hours,” he said.The pregnant woman, Langhu Lukia, said, “I am seven months pregnant and despite meeting all the requirements, they did not allow us to enter the building. The secretary told us that our medical certificate was fake. We have never experienced this kind of behaviour in any society we have lived in. They even took Rs5,000 from us for entering the society. They said it was not a part of the society charges that they take quarterly. I don’t know why such a big amount was charged just to enter the society. We decided to move to this society because of our son’s school. But after this kind of treatment, we feel we have made a mistake renting a place in this society.”The society’s secretary, Shivatare, said everything he did was on written orders of the government, which in themselves were “confusing”, but the “society had decided to follow all of them without question”.He said he was ready to face the law if he had done anything wrong. He also claimed that the workers of the movers and packers firm transporting the tenants’ luggage were not wearing masks.Lukia’s husband, Sudhir Masih, said they themselves were wearing masks and if there was a problem with the workers of the movers and packers firm not wearing masks, the society could have brought it to their notice, and they would have bought some.“It is not something we have experienced ever in our lives. We went without food and water, and kept running around the whole of afternoon,” he said.The guidelines the society issued on June 2 stated that it would not issue any gate pass without rent agreement, police verification and “recent medical fitness certificate”. The tenants were issued the gate pass on June 22, prompting them to believe that it was now safe to enter the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-society-demands-fit-certificate-from-new-tenants-keeps-pregnant-woman-standing-outside-for-four-hours/articleshow/76667635.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 28, 2020||Goa||Man dies, kin allege negligence, go on rampage||Margao: Tense moments were witnessed at a private hospital at Margao, on Saturday afternoon, after relatives and friends of a deceased patient went on a rampage alleging medical negligence. However, timely arrival of police helped in bringing the situation under control. Sources said Prashant Chinchanikar was admitted in the hospital on Friday morning as he was suffering from abdominal pain for the last two-three days. However, by afternoon, considering his precarious condition, doctors advised that he be taken to the Goa Medical College for further treatment. However, the family of the deceased alleged there was considerable delay in shifting him to GMC as the hospital insisted on full payment of Rs 40,000 before discharging the patient. Relatives said that on the way to GMC, the patient started vomiting blood and he was brought back to the hospital where he died minutes later. Friends and relatives of the deceased soon gathered at the hospital and alleged that the ambulance was not equipped with the required tools and equipment, which cost Chinchanikar his life. Hospital sources said that the patient is suspected to have died of pneumonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-dies-kin-allege-negligence-go-on-rampage/articleshow/76668014.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kochi||CPM looks for image brush-up||Kochi: By suspending Kalamassery area secretary V A Zakir Hussain, CPM leadership is looking to repair whatever damage it has incurred as it dilly-dallied on acting against the tainted leader. According to a statement issued by CPM district committee, the local leader was suspended for six months for amassing wealth disproportionate to his income and for going on foreign trips without informing the party. According to a section in the party, when allegations were raised against Hussain over his role in protecting the accused in the flood relief scam as well, the state leadership had put the onus on the district committee to act against him. “Now that he has been suspended, it is certain that his innings is over. Several allegations against him were brought before the state leadership. It is viewed that such acts by party leaders take the sheen off the government’s good deeds,” a source close to the party said. If the party had come out in the open about the flood relief scam, it would have hurt its image, especially at a time when the local body elections are around the corner. Hence, the complaint lodged by a party member about Hussain’s accumulation of disproportionate wealth was considered and the decision was taken to suspend him. The action is expected to boost CPM’s chances in the local body elections in the district. A commission comprising state committee member C M Dinesh Mani and district secretariat member P R Muraleedharan was constituted to look into the complaint raised by the party member against Hussain. The panel found him guilty and the first decision they took was to remove him as party area secretary. But the state leadership insisted on more stringent action. With the party deciding to suspend him, Hussain has lost all the protection he has enjoyed so far and now, and it will be a tough time ahead for him, sources said. “As a party member, I will abide by the party decision,” Hussain said, when asked about his reaction about the development. In November 2016, CPM had removed Hussain as the secretary of Kalamassery area committee of the party after a case was registered against him on charges of abducting a businessman. Later, the party reinstated him. The area committee will meet in a couple of days to elect a new secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-looks-for-image-brush-up/articleshow/76666948.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Roads inundated, trees uprooted as rain lashes Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The heavy downpour that lashed Hyderabad on Saturday evening, came as a huge respite for residents who were reeling under soaring temperatures over the last few days. The rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorm, that started around 6.30 pm intensified soon after and continued for close to two hours. According to Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) data, Narayanaguda recorded highest rainfall of 76.8 mm. The TSDPS forecast showed that light to moderate rain or thunder showers will continue in the Greater Hyderabad region over the next three days. Meanwhile, continuous rainfall led to waterlogging across various areas while several trees were uprooted. An IT professional who used the Durgam Cheruvu road on Saturday evening said that strengthening the existing infrastructure is the need of the hour. “Authorities should come up with a permanent solution to fix commuting woes especially during monsoon,” said Sai Teja. EVDM staff jumped into action to clear roads and uprooted trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/roads-inundated-trees-uprooted-as-rain-lashes-city/articleshow/76668016.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Recovery rate of foreign returnees is around 22%, below 42% for local cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Baffled over the low recovery rate among foreign returnees who tested positive for Covid-19, health experts have called for a genetic study of the strain or strains obtained from their swab samples. While Covid-19 cases reported among locals have shown a faster and better rate of recovery, those returning from other countries in recent weeks seem to be posting a slower recovery. Other states have recorded a similar trend. On May 26, Andhra Pradesh had 111 foreign returnees who had tested positive for Covid-19. Even though the cumulative caseload of this category increased to 377 by June 27, only 85 foreign returnees have been discharged so far in the state. As against a recovery rate of 42.4% for local cases, those returning from other countries have a recovery rate of only 22.5% while migrants from other states who returned to AP have shown a recovery rate of 61.2%. At present, India has six clusters of identified novel coronavirus in circulation. While five of them are linked to Wuhan in China, one cluster is likely to be from Singapore or elsewhere in south-east Asia. Around 60% of cases in the region are caused by the south-east Asian strain. A thorough study of the strain or strains obtained from foreign returnees will help put up a better fight against the virus, health experts said. Apart from the A2a cluster, which is the predominant coronavirus clade or cluster found in Indian samples that accounts for 45% of the genome, scientists have identified A1a, A3, B and B4 clades in India. But a distinct new strain unearthed by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology has aroused curiosity in scientific and medical circles. The new cluster of viral genomes, christened clade I/A3i, accounts for nearly 41% of all genomes sequenced and deposited in the public domain from different states in the country. According to experts, the potential origin of the new strain could be south-east Asia, while the others might have originated in China. Andhra University (AU) senior geneticist Prof G Sudhakar, who has been working on a project related to genetic epidemiology of Uddanam nephropathy, said studying the viral genome is crucial for better treatment. “The gene structure of the virus that emerged in China and Europe seems to be different from that of the south-east Asian variety. We need to understand the gene mutation process of the virus. The virus mutation spreading in India seems to be less virulent compared to the European and American countries which witnessed a high mortality rate,” said Prof Sudhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/recovery-rate-of-foreign-returnees-is-around-22-below-42-for-local-cases/articleshow/76666956.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 28, 2020||Goa||Weed, ganja are being grown in people’s houses now: IGP||Panaji: Inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh said on Friday that drugs are being grown in houses in the state. Speaking on the sidelines of a function to mark the international day against drug abuse and illicit trafficking, Singh said that the Covid-19 lockdown sharply reduced the supply of drugs in the state. The IGP said that despite proper checking at airports and other places, drugs find their way to the state. He added that criminals are intelligent and find ways to escape authorities. “Sometimes, they study loopholes and take advantage of them,” he said. He also said Goa police is alert to the drug problem and that the roadblocks to get supply from outside the state are many. “People now grow drugs like weed, ganja, etc, in their houses,” he said. “They are not synthetic drugs, but police have cracked down on these drugs too.” He said that the force must fight the demand for drugs. “Once we reduce demand, consumption will come down, particularly at tourist places,” he said. “(Tourist places) are a ready market, and that’s w hy we need to focus there.” In the past year itself, Singh said the force has seized drugs worth Rs 10 crore. He said that more drug seizures will attract quality tourists to the state. The IGP said that people too should be alert to the drug problem, and any relevant information should be conveyed to the police. “Goa is not about drugs, dance and beaches, and has more to offer,” he said. “Goa is culturally very rich.” India is located between two drug hubs, he said, and drugs from southeast Asian countries and Afghanistan make their way to the country. He said that parents and teachers must create awareness among children about the ill-effect of drugs. Anti-narcotics cell (ANC) SP Shobit Saxena too stressed on creating awareness to control drugs in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/weed-ganja-are-being-grown-in-peoples-houses-now-igp/articleshow/76658770.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD takes dig at AAP’s Bhagwant Mann||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and its state convener Bhagwant Mann of betraying the interests of Punjabis by colluding with the Congress party and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said even at a time when the state is going through a crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, AAP is singing the tune of the Congress party. “Instead of raising people’s issues and exposing the government, AAP has entered into alliance with the Congress party to take on SAD collectively,” he said, adding that this is apparent from the statements of Mann, who is not interested in targeting the chief minister or the council of ministers for the multi-thousand crore scams taking place during the Congress rule, but only obsessed with attacking SAD. “It seems Bhagwant Mann has forgotten it is Congress and not SAD which is in power in the state.” Stating that this open collusion is not good for the state’s polity, Cheema said AAP has surrendered its position as the principle opposition party in the state. He said the party was working as a B team of the Congress party earlier, but now it has apparently become an unofficial partner in the Congress government. He said the AAP leadership is only interested in petty issues like maintaining their clout in the government and ensuring that the post of leader of opposition remains with them even though a number of their legislators have joined Congress. Cheema said this open collusion was also visible at the recent all-party meeting, in which the chief minister asserted that AAP is in agreement with the government’s viewpoint on the central agriculture ordinances even before Mann gave his views on the subject. “It is a fact that instead of doing duty for the people, Bhagwant Mann did duty for the Congress party,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-takes-dig-at-mann-says-aap-singing-cong-tune/articleshow/76668019.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||15,000 workers returning daily; state home min calls for proper checks||Pune: With over 15,000 migrant workers returning every day to the state, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has asked officials to ensure record-keeping and health screenings are kept up at all entry points, including train and bus stations. “These checks are imperative. The district administration and police have been directed to maintain proper details of all those who are returning from other states,” Deshmukh told TOI on Saturday.Many of the 10 lakh migrant workers who had left Pune during the lockdown are now planning to return, the minister said, while adding that screenings for symptoms and record-keeping will be key to efficient Covid-19 monitoring. Most of the workers are from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Deshmukh’s orders will likely apply renewed pressure on district officials who last week said it will be “practically impossible” to ensure every returning worker adheres to norms such as the 14-day mandatory home quarantine.The minister issued the directions on Friday, during a review meeting. He asked officials to keep monitoring inflow into cities such as Pune where Covid-19 cases continue to remain high in number. Deshmukh said Pune should have similar measures as Mumbai, where the police keep records of every person entering the city through main transit points. The majority of migrant workers are returning to Pune and Mumbai, but regions in Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Nagpur and Godia are soon expected to see an increase in the number of returnees. Migrant workers have to pass through mandatory thermal screenings at train and bus stations. Once they pass this stage, they are supposed to enter a 14-day home quarantine period before resuming duty at places like construction sites. If accommodations do not have enough space for social distancing, the workers can be entered into institutional quarantine facilities. According to rough estimates, nearly 1 lakh migrant workers have already returned to the state. Nearly 8,000 workers have returned to Pune district alone, which is expected to see another 1 lakh workers making their way back.“Those found with fever during thermal screenings will be taken to quarantine measures,” an official said. The official added that with the increase in frequency of trains headed to Pune, the daily tally of returning workers will go up from 8,000 (early in June) to 15,000. “The numbers will only increase as more businesses open up,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15000-workers-returning-daily-state-home-min-calls-for-proper-checks/articleshow/76668020.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 28, 2020||Trichy||‘CM ignored pleas to take precautions against Covid’||Trichy: Accusing the AIADMK government of failing to control the spread of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu, DMK principal secretary KN Nehru said that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had ignored the advice from DMK president MK Stalin to take steps to prevent the outbreak initially, here on Saturday. “When the opposition leader spoke in the Assembly about the Coronavirus outbreak in China and spreading to India, the chief minister made a comment with a laugh saying the virus won’t affect poor but it can infect rich and people above 70 years of age. They went ahead with the Assembly session,” Nehru told the reporters in Trichy. On testing in Tamil Nadu, he said the “government completely failed in disease prevention measures. People of the state have suffered a lot due to untimely action of the state government,” he said. He added that the CM made fun of them when DMK insisted on convening an all-party meeting. “All-party meeting is convened to share the views of experienced leaders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-ignored-pleas-to-take-precautions-against-covid/articleshow/76667649.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Covid-19 turns wedding spoiler in Tikamgarh||BHOPAL: The wedding of Happy Jain was postponed for an indefinite period after a guest, a relative living in the neighbourhood, tested positive for Coronavirus on Friday. Three days ago, a groom-to-be was also found corona positive, and his wedding was postponed indefinitely after his pre-wedding shoot. These two incidents from Tikamgarh showed the importance of social distancing while participating in functions like weddings, said Tikamgarh sub-divisional magistrate (SDM). After a 50-year-old woman was found positive on Friday, the wedding of Happy Jain. scheduled for Sunday, was postponed indefinitely. All the preparations were completed and the wedding followed by reception was set to take place. However, the middle-aged woman, a relative in the neighbourhood, turned out to be positive for Covid-19. “We requested the family to postpone the wedding and quarantine for the period specified as per the new guidelines issued by the central government,” the SDM said. Earlier this week, a young man, who worked in Pune and had returned home during the lockdown, was also set to get married on Sunday. He had arranged a pre-wedding shoot and had travelled in a car with a videographer along with his family to Naugaon. It was also followed by other pre-wedding rituals. However, the photographer died in Jhansi and the cause of the death was suspected to be Covid-19. Subsequently, the groom-to-be also turned out corona positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-turns-wedding-spoiler-in-tikamgarh/articleshow/76667651.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||DMER suspends matron of Sassoon hospital||PUNE: The Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on Saturday suspended the matron of the state-run Sassoon General Hospital after a preliminary inquiry found her guilty of subjecting assistant matron Anita Rathod to excess work and humiliation. Rathod died while undergoing treatment of brain haemorrhage at Sassoon hospital on April 24. Maharashtra State Nurses’ Association (MSNA) had accused the matron of harassing Rathod and sought action against her in the written complaint. MSNA in its complaint had alleged that Rathod had died because she was subjected to excess work and torture by the matron. A senior official of the hospital said, “The hospital’s three-member committee found that the matron was not distributing the workload evenly among the nurses, including Rathod.” A senior doctor said, “Rathod had some underlying medical condition, which had remained undiagnosed. Hence, putting the blame of her demise on the matron would be unfair. Even the committee had not stated that in its report.” “The matron will now have to face the divisional inquiry by DMER,” said a senior DMER official. The matron could not be reached for her comment despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dmer-suspends-matron-of-sassoon-hosp/articleshow/76668021.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Put your political compulsions aside: Punjab CM||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday urged Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to set political compulsions aside and follow their heart in the interest of the state and its farmers on the issue of the Union government’s farm sector ordinances. Claiming that he made the same plea to the Akalis during the all-party meeting, Amarinder said SAD is not realising the grave implications of these ordinances and is putting its political interests before the interests of the state. He warned that if SAD continues to do so, it would end up ruining Punjab. Stressing that there should be no politics on the interests of Punjab, Amarinder recalled that during his first tenure as chief minister, he abrogated water agreements with neighbouring states to save Punjab’s water from being taken out via the proposed SYL canal. Not only did he go against his own party on the issue, he also put his career at stake, he said, adding that “Punjab’s interests are paramount for me, as they should be for the Akalis too.” Pointing out that the three ordinances in question are based on the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, which had advocated end of MSP and dismantling of FCI, Amarinder said during his Facebook Live #AskCaptain session that if the Ordinances are passed and enacted, the Centre will get the green signal to interfere in the state subject of agriculture for all times. It will encourage the Government of India to go ahead and take whatever decisions they want on the subject, including implementing all recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/put-your-pol-compulsions-aside-amarinder-to-sukhbir/articleshow/76668022.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Barbers to scrub and sterilize before they get snipping again||PUNE: Anand Konharkar, who owns a chain of unisex salons on Sinhagad Road, had planned to resume business on June 1. Nearly four weeks later, he is finally all set to welcome customers back this Sunday. “We had made all preparations like buying sanitizers, floor cleaners, hand sanitizer stands, disinfectants for scissors and combs. I am ready to open the salon on Sunday. I hope that things will start smoothly,” Konharkar said. Kiran Shinde, who owns a salon in Kasba Peth, has decided on ways to keep his facility running. “Not more than two people will be allowed in the salon at a time and the body cover used during hair cuts will not be reused. Customers will have to undergo thermal scanning and the salon will be sanitized after every use. We are also working on an appointment system,” Shinde said. The government has given salons permission to reopen but doubts and insecurities remain. “Giving prior appointment is a problem for us so we have decided to take down contact details of customers. We will tell them to call before coming to the salon for the next haircut,” said Mohammed Sarfaraz, owner of a men’s salon in Kondhwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/barbers-to-scrub-and-sterilize-before-they-get-snipping-again/articleshow/76667652.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Construction sites fined for mosquito breeding||AHMEDABAD: With the onset of monsoon, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has started a drive to check mosquito breeding in various parts of the city. The health department checked various construction sites in the city and issued notices to 106 such sites. The AMC collected an administrative fine of Rs 2.95 lakh from these sites. The maximum fine was collected from the North West Zone where 13 such sites were issued notices and a fine of Rs 87,000 was collected. The officials said that the maximum fine of Rs 25,000 was imposed on Shilp Shaligram Construction sites in Bodakdev area. Apart from Shilp, two other sites were issued administrative charges of Rs 15,000 and these sited included PNTC construction site (Vejalpur) and Ganesh Icon (Naroda). Another 11 sites were issued fine of Rs 10,000 and these included Arihant Ora (Navrangpura), Aman Heights (Sardarnagar), SCP site (Shahpur), Ashirvar Flora (Ramol), EWS housing construction site (Chandlodia and Thaltej), Shreya Amalga (Thaltej), Earth Essence (Thalterj) and Hussain Residency (Sarkhej). Among others sites that were issued fine of Rs 5,000 included Krisha Kaybicks (Thaltej), D-1 Type Tower and Aryna Space (Bodakdev), Kohetur Arcade Ambar-III, Amena Palace all three sites in Juhapura. The officials said that this was a regular feature now and such checks will continue in various parts of the city. The officials said that apart from the common sites, the official found that in blocks which were completed, the space for the lift was filled with water and no efforts were taken to clean the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/construction-sites-fined-for-mosquito-breeding/articleshow/76667665.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Borer digging E-W tunnel crosses ‘danger’ zone||Kolkata: The East-West Metro project reached a milestone on Saturday as the tunnel-boring machine reached BB Ganguly Street, after covering the stretch that housed most of the old and dilapidated buildings. “We are relieved that the TBM has safely reached the main road,” said an engineer. The tunnelling will now take place below the thoroughfare, but engineers involved in the project said they would be able to heave a sigh of relief only after passing the Bank of India building at the Amherst Street crossing. The agencies involved in the project, KMRC and contractors ITD-Cementation have their fingers crossed. TBM Urvi is now below a jewellery shop at 106, BB Ganguly Street. It will take another fortnight to dig 200m to reach the Bank of India building and another month to cover around 400m from there to Sealdah station. An East-West station is currently under construction inside the Sealdah station complex. The 2.45km journey of the twin East-West Metro tunnels from Esplanade to Sealdah involved passing below nearly 700 century-old houses, many of which were dilapidated. More than halfway into the zig-zag route, the first machine (TBM Chundee), which was digging the west-bound tunnel, hit an aquifer on August 31, 2019, causing largescale subsidence in Bowbazar. Since TBM Chundee has been damaged because of grouting (sealing of the soil), Urvi will make a turnaround at Sealdah station and return to complete the rest of the west-bound tunnel till Durga Pituri Lane in Bowbazar. Engineers will again have to be careful during this return journey below the ‘danger’ stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/borer-digging-e-w-tunnel-crosses-danger-zone/articleshow/76666984.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 28, 2020||Pune||Salons outside sealed zones in Pune civic limits to reopen on Saturday||PUNE: Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Saturday issued an order allowing salons, barbers and beauty parlours outside micro containment zones in Pune civic limits to resume operations from Sunday. The move is a part of the easing of restrictions under the fourth phase of ‘Mission Begin Again’. While resuming services, the salon operators will have to follow guideline issued by the state and PMC. Shop employees must wear protective gear and sanitize each chairs after attending to each customer, as well as the floor and open space every two hours. Customers should be given appointments, Gaikwad said. District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Saturday issued a similar order for the jurisdictions of the district administration, municipal councils and cantonment boards. Gyms await order Municipal commissioner Gaikwad said a decision on the opening of gymnasiums was yet to be taken, as an order in this regard was awaited from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/salons-outside-sealed-zones-to-reopen-today/articleshow/76667646.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Rain relief likely in Mumbai from next week: Weathermen||MUMBAI: Mumbaikars can expect relief from sultry weather from the coming week as officials expect “on and off showers” to resume on June 29. The intensity is likely to increase around July 3-5, weathermen said. The southwest monsoons officially made an entry on June 15, but Mumbai is yet to witness a continuous downpour. Last week, while there was a day of significant rain, it did not help catchment area lakes much. The seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai have only 9.14% (1.32 lakh million litres) of the required quantum as of June 27. This is slightly higher compared to the water stock of 4.95% (71 thousand million litres) last year on the same day. But in 2017, the water stock was 2.70 lakh million litres (18.70%) of the required quantum. Mumbai gets water from Bhatsa, Tulsi and Vihar, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa and Upper Vaitarna. BMC supplies around 3,500 million litres to Mumbai daily. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet, said, “From Sunday night or Monday, light to moderate rain is expected in Mumbai again, with one or two intense spells. It could be 20-30mm. The intensity is likely to increase around July 3-5. This is due to a feeble trough over Konkan and Goa, which may move northwards. Generally the onset of monsoon is accompanied by good rain over the city, but in the past few days it was intense in parts of Goa and Ratnagiri.” The rainfall recorded so far (June 1-27) by IMD Colaba was 387.7mm, which is 84.5mm below normal, while IMD Santacruz reported 317.2mm, which is 105.7mm below normal. Weathermen pointed out that the deficit was due due to absence of significant rain since the onset of monsoon. The first fortnight of June saw above normal rain due to Cyclone Nisaraga and the active monsoon surge during the onset.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rain-relief-likely-from-next-week-weathermen/articleshow/76667806.cms||Richa Pinto
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Football turf owners fear shutdown in Kochi||KOCHI: The state government’s stand against allowing the functioning of football turfs has put turf owners in the city in a spot with many fearing heavy financial losses. There are around 70 football turfs in a 20 to 30km radius of Kochi and most of them have invested in the range of Rs 30 lakh to Rs 60 lakh to set up facilities. The state government on Friday informed the high court that they cannot allow football turfs to function as the game cannot be played by adhering to social distancing norms. The submission was made in a petition filed by a Kochi-based turf after police refused them permission to operate and registered a case. “There is no clarity in the guidelines. In the lockdown guidelines it is not specifically said that football or cricket should not be played. Some are saying it’s okay to play badminton and tennis but you use your hand to touch shuttlecocks and balls which are shared,” said a turf owner in Kadavanthara who opened his turf after lockdown relaxations. “There is no logic. One section of people is being penalized while another section is enjoying. The banks are acting tough on us,” he said requesting anonymity. The high court was informed by the state counsel on Friday that eight cases have been filed in Ernakulam district. The turf owners are now in the process of forming an association to make their voice heard. “We are taking precautionary measures like checking temperatures and noting down the addresses of people. Hand sanitization protocols are also strictly followed. This is also similar to other spaces which are allowed to function with similar protocols. Take the case of buses,” he said. While many football turfs had resumed operations, a few did not open because of lack of clarity. “We did not open as there is no clarity in guidelines. It would be better for the authorities to bring about rules to make it safer,” said Ajit of Play On, a turf in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/football-turf-owners-fear-shutdown/articleshow/76666982.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Trichy||Trichy collector warns shops against violating norms freely||Trichy: While the police continued to book shopkeepers for not wearing face masks inside shops, Trichy collector also issued a strict warning on Saturday to shops violating Covid-19 prevention measures. Pointing to the state and central guidelines, the collector said all commercial establishments should keep sanitizer, soap and water for cleaning hands at the entrance. Employees should wear face masks compulsorily and maintain social distancing. The warning comes in the wake of shopkeepers on Big Bazaar Street, NSB road, Chinnakadai Street and neighbouring areas easily violating norms. Though shops in other areas were also no better, those under Fort police jurisdiction were attracting more crowds the areas being the main bazaar for Trichiites. Several of them faced police cases for not wearing face masks. Fort police continued to book them under IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu public health Act and Disaster Management Act and arrest them. They were released on bail from the station. Besides for not wearing masks, shops which opened before the stipulated time also faced the music. Police have also expressed concern at the general public also not maintaining social distancing and wearing masks while roaming in the city. Public health doctors point out that the violators not only put their own life at risk but also remained a threat to high risk category people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-collector-warns-shops-against-violating-norms-freely/articleshow/76667654.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu woman sets self ablaze as hubby did not buy her chicken biriyani||CHENNAI: A 28-year-old woman committed suicide at her house near Mamallapuram after her husband refused to buy chicken biriyani for her. Police said the deceased Sowmiya and Manoharan, 32, were residents of Poonjeri village near Mamallapuram and employed at a sculpture-making unit in the tourist town. The two have been married for 12 years and have a son and daughter aged 10 and 11. On Wednesday, Sowmiya had asked Manoharan to buy chicken biriyani from a newly launched eatery, that had floated a buy one get one free offer on the inaugural day, police said. But chicken biriyani was sold out soon and Manoharan returned home buying kuska (plain biriyani). “Sowmiya got pissed off and refused to eat the plain briyani. Later, Manoharan gave the briyani to a neighbour and went to work,” a police officer said. Sowmiya later doused herself with petrol and set her afire on the terrace of a two-storey building they resided in. A neighbour spotted her covered in burns and alerted police, who admitted her in Chengalpet government hospital for treatment. She died on Friday. A case has been registered and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-woman-sets-self-ablaze-as-hubby-did-not-buy-her-chicken-biriyani/articleshow/76666968.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Companies shy away from PMGKY, EFPO beneficiaries decline||Panaji: When the Centre announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), just 50% of eligible Goan enterprises took advantage of it, but the latest round of data released by the Employee Provident Fund Office (EPFO) shows that the number of beneficiaries had declined even further. Of the 1,741 enterprises that are eligible for the scheme, only 50.3% took advantage of it in March, 49.8% in April, and 43.6% in May. “In Goa, prima facie there are 1,741 eligible establishments and 42,251 eligible members,” said regional PF commissioner Ashwini Kumar Gupta. “Out of them, only 877 establishments and their 11,126 employees took benefits to the tune of Rs 1.87 crore for March, while 868 establishments in April and only 759 establishments in May have taken advantage.” The Regional EPFO office said that Rs. 5.4 crore has been borne as PF dues by the Centre during these three months for the companies that claimed the benefit of the scheme. Under the scheme, the Centre pays the employee and employer’s PF contribution, thus increasing the take home salary of employees and liquidity in the hands of the employers. In order to be eligible for the scheme, the total number of employees should not be more than 100 and 90% of them should not be paid more than Rs 15,000. Gupta said that the department is exploring the reason for the poor response to a scheme that would benefit entrepreneurs during an economic crisis. “There are at least 200 eligible establishments that are not taking this benefit. This could be because they have not submitted Aadhar data, or they are unable to meet the 90% criteria,” Gupta said. The commissioner also said that some companies had not updated their employee data on the EPFO portal and had not removed the names of employees who had resigned prior to January. The Union finance ministry has extended the scheme till August. Gupta said that over the past three months, 7,000 advance claims under Covid-19 have been settled, and an amount of Rs 18.75 crore has been disbursed to EPF members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/companies-shy-away-from-pmgky-efpo-beneficiaries-decline/articleshow/76668254.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||No nod yet, but gyms gear up to resume business next week in Pune||PUNE: Owners of gyms in Pune have started making preparations to welcome their clients from next week. Many gyms have installed sanitization units at the door, and have planned regular and frequent cleaning of equipment and other similar tasks. While it was reported that the government will allow gyms to open from Sunday, Nilesh Kale — president of Pune Fitness Club Association and owner of Brawn Fitness — said they have received no official communication to this effect. “We have only seen reports that gyms can open from June 28, but no guidelines or Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) have been received yet,” Kale said. He said they have decided to wait till the end of the month for the government notification. “If not, we will appeal to all gym owners and trainers to open their facilities in the first week of July,” he stated. Kale said the association has already told its members to take all precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 on their premises. “Sanitization and temperature checks are must before entry. Gym bags will not be permitted, so patrons must come in full gear with only a napkin and water bottle, apart from masks. People will be allowed into the premises in batches only and all equipment will be sanitized after each batch,” he said. Rupesh Chavan, vice-president of the association and owner of RC Fitness Club, said they have decided to allow only four people and a trainer per hour. “The bathroom, changing room and steam room will remain shut. We ensuring social distancing in the waiting area for those waiting for their time slot,” Chavan said. Sangram Chougule, who owns PhySC Gym, said it was the owners’ responsibility to ensure safety on their premises. “We started preparing a month ago,” he said, adding, “Air-conditioners will remain shut; we will keep all windows open. Full-sized disinfected towels will be available to patrons. We are still trying to figure out how to sanitize shoes. We also plan to restrict the entry of those over 50-55 years of age, as they are more vulnerable. We also plan to ask patrons to produce a health certificate,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-nod-yet-but-gyms-gear-up-to-resume-biz-next-week/articleshow/76667657.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 28, 2020||Trichy||Civic body nod must to hold events||Trichy: After many people who attended a marriage in the city contracted Covid-19, Trichy district collector S Sivarasu has reiterated that people must get permission from the local body to organise such functions. The collector made it clear that the organisers of such functions should get prior approval from the local body in urban and rural areas. Following the guidelines of the Centre and the state governments, permission will be given for 50 people to attend such functions. Sources said that several such functions were held in the city and the rural parts of the district without obtaining permission from the local bodies. A betrothal function organised in Vellai Vettrilaikara Street in Big Bazaar Street in Trichy city on June 7 has prompted the district administration to come out with the strict instruction. Trichy district administration said on Saturday that as many as 50 people who attended the function and their contacts had contracted Covid-19. A few from the family of the bridegroom who had developed symptoms a few days after the function tested positive for Covid-19. The contact tracing process brought to light that three of his family members also were infected. Further process led to tracing other contacts too. The officials said that the information about the conduct of the functions will help them monitor the crowd.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/civic-body-nod-must-to-hold-events/articleshow/76667660.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||Job aspirant loses Rs 6.21 lakh to fake telecaller||PUNE: A 29-year-old engineer from Navi Sangvi lost Rs6.21 lakh to fraudsters who promised him a job with a prominent German car company’s office in Bengaluru in April. The engineer lodged a complaint with the Sangvi police on Friday. The engineer is a native of Karnataka and was looking for a job in Bengaluru. On April 29, the man received a call from a man identifying himself as an executive of a recruitment firm, police said. The caller took the engineer’s details and promised him a job in the car company’s office located in Bengaluru. The caller asked him to mail his CV and other details. Over various ensuing calls, the suspect then asked the engineer to deposit certain fees so that the recruitment agency could start processing his documents, police said. The fraudster then sent two bank account numbers to the engineer — one with a nationalized bank located in Karnataka and another of a bank in Koregaon Park — via text message. Following the instructions of the caller, the engineer transferred a collective sum of Rs6.21 lakh to the two accounts via three different transactions, police said. But, after receiving the money, the suspect stopped answering the victim’s calls and his documents remained unprocessed, police said. The victim then realized that he was cheated and approached police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/job-aspirant-loses-rs-6-21-lakh-to-fake-telecaller/articleshow/76668025.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||ABVP: Take action against private schools||HYDERABAD: Demanding action against private schools for violating the government order and collecting various fees, ABVP activists on Saturday staged a dharna in front of the Commissionerate of School Education office at Saifabad. “Even in the current situation, majority of schools have managed to collect 50% of total fee. Many collected hostel fees even though residential schools were closed since March. Despite parents complaining about the fee loot several times, no action has been initiated. At least now, education officials should initiate action against schools violating government orders,” ABVP national general secretary Uday Inala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/abvp-take-action-against-pvt-schools/articleshow/76668023.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||Sant Tukaram, Dnyaneshwar padukas to travel by bus||PUNE: The padukas of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram will be carried to Pandharpur in two separate Shivneri buses on June 30, the district administration announced on Saturday. The padukas of the two saints will have a police escort in transit and during the celebration. As per tradition, the ‘mahapooja’ will be performed at the Vithoba temple in Pandharpur on Ashadhi Ekadashi, which falls on July 1. “We have appointed incident commanders to take the padukas safely to Pandharpur without any stops. The Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj and Sant Tukaram Maharaj temple trusts have selected 20 people each to accompany the ‘padukas’. All those selected would have to undergo Covid-19 tests and follow social distancing norms,” collector Naval Kishore Ram said. Their swab samples were collected by the respective tehsil administrations on Saturday. The journey of the padukas of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram will start from Alandi and Dehu, respectively. “As per the tradition, the departure of the padukas from Pandharpur to Dehu starts on the fifth day from Ekadashi. We have requested the authorities to allow us to stay in Pandharpur till July 5 to complete the rituals,” Sanjay More, president of the Sant Tukaram Maharaj temple trust, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sant-tukaram-dnyaneshwar-padukas-to-travel-by-bus/articleshow/76667670.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh HC suspends operations till June 30||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh High Court has suspended operations for another two days till June 30. The high court registrar-general in-charge issued a fresh notification in this regard on Saturday. On June 25, the high court had suspended functions till June 28. The decision was taken by the chief justice. Sources said that all employees of the high court, including the judges, are being tested as part of precautionary measures. The high court has been hearing cases via video conference, except for employees who are required to be physically present as part of court duties. The high court also suspended the functions of Vijayawada metropolitan sessions courts and other judicial functions of the high court till June 30. A massive sanitisation drive has been taken up on the court premises. While district courts are closed for public entry, clerical and other staff are attending court duties. According to Vizag district court staff, middlemen are continuing to bring in persons from Dandubazar, a Covid-19 hotspot, to get affidavits and other legal and official work done. Nor is regular de-sanitisation and mandatory testing of staff taking place at the district court here, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hc-suspends-operations-till-june-30/articleshow/76669007.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC suspends operations till June 30||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh High Court has suspended operations for another two days till June 30. The high court registrar-general in-charge issued a fresh notification in this regard on Saturday. On June 25, the high court had suspended functions till June 28. The decision was taken by the chief justice. Sources said that all employees of the high court, including the judges, are being tested as part of precautionary measures. The high court has been hearing cases via video conference, except for employees who are required to be physically present as part of court duties. The high court also suspended the functions of Vijayawada metropolitan sessions courts and other judicial functions of the high court till June 30. A massive sanitisation drive has been taken up on the court premises. While district courts are closed for public entry, clerical and other staff are attending court duties. According to Vizag district court staff, middlemen are continuing to bring in persons from Dandubazar, a Covid-19 hotspot, to get affidavits and other legal and official work done. Nor is regular de-sanitisation and mandatory testing of staff taking place at the district court here, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-suspends-operations-till-june-30/articleshow/76666990.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||CCTVs help cops arrest 2 chain snatchers||PUNE: The Vishrantwadi police monitored footage of over 200 CCTV cameras to identify and arrest two persons involved in three chain snatchings and two vehicles thefts during the lockdown period The suspects, Vikram Pande (35) and Vikram Jadhav (28), told the police that they resorted to committing the crimes because it had become difficult for them to survive during the lockdown, said senior inspector Arun Avhad of the Vishrantwadi police said. On June 8, the suspects had snatched an elderly woman’s gold chain worth Rs50,000 in Dhanori, while riding a stolen motorcycle. Their images were captured on the CCTV cameras. The police analysed various parts of the city and identified the routes the robbers had used before and after the crime. This helped them trace the bike’s registration number and identify the places where the vehicle was parked in Wagholi. The police laid a trap, but the duo started using another bike to snatch gold chains. After examining more cameras and conducting technical investigations, the police identified Pande and arrested him from Kharadi on June 25 and seized the bike stolen from Yavatmal. His accomplice Jadhav was arrested later that day. Avhad said, “During questioning, the duo admitted to their involvement in snatching three gold chains in Dhanori, Chandannagar and Vimannagar during the lockdown. They also admitted to stealing the bikes from Vimannagar and Yavatmal. We have recovered stolen items worth Rs2 lakh from them.” The officer said the duo would remain in police custody remand till June 29. “We are questioning them about their suspected involvement in other cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cctvs-help-cops-arrest-2-chain-snatchers/articleshow/76668026.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 28, 2020||Goa||Mizoram’s addl DGP to take charge as Goa police chief||Panaji: After a wait of over seven months, Goa’s police force has finally got a new director general of police (DGP) with the posting of IPS officer Mukesh Kumar Meena. Meena, who belongs to the 1989 batch of the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre, is presently the additional DGP in Mizoram. The officer has also served as senior superintendent of police in Puducherry and in the Andaman and Nicobar islands, apart from holding various ranks in the Delhi police including joint commissioner of police — New Delhi range, special commissioner — New Delhi range and chief of the anti-corruption branch. This will be Meena’s second posting in Goa. He told TOI he was first posted here soon after joining the IPS. The post of DGP in Goa had been lying vacant since the death of former chief Pranab Nanda on November 15 last year. Against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh has been leading the force in the absence of a full-time DGP. A senior government official had said that it was for the first time in Goa’s history that the police force was functioning without a DGP for such a prolonged period. The official had also said that while in most other states the respective chief minister has the power to appoint at DGP as the states have their own police cadres, the authority to appoint a DGP for Goa — which is part of the AGMUT cadre — lies with the Union ministry of home affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mizorams-addl-dgp-to-take-charge-as-goa-police-chief/articleshow/76658786.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Mandatory registration needed for all therapy centres in state||Kochi: The state government has issued a gazette notification declaring the guidelines prescribing minimum standards for registration of therapy centres in Kerala. With this, all therapy centres will have to be registered with the social justice department, which will have a state-level monitoring committee set up with secretary, social justice department (SJD) as chairman. The other members include SJD director as convener and director of health services as joint convener and will have six members including social security mission head. The therapy centres include speech and language therapy, audiology/hearing aid centre, occupational therapy, physiotherapy, rehabilitation/clinical psychology and therapy for autism. At the institutional level, monitoring will be done by respective professional agencies, including Child Development Centre (CDC), National Institute Of Speech And Hearing (NISH), Institute for Communicative and Cognitive Neuro Sciences (ICCONS), National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (NIPMR) and Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (IMHANS) TOI was the first to expose the lack of regulation and registration of therapy centres which were handling persons with special needs. Enquiries revealed that neither the health nor the social justice, women and child departments had any authority over therapy centres. Our series of articles began from April 24, 2015 (Group raises concern of special kids). More follow-up stories revealed the shocking fact that therapy centres were functioning under shops and business establishments. Our series of articles led the then Ernakulam district collector M Rajamanickam to order a probe by health department. The state child rights commission also passed directives to the state government seeking regulations. The articles went on to be part of the public interest litigation filed in the high court. During the hearings, the government submitted that guidelines have been formulated for functioning of therapy centres. In its judgment, the court asked the state to issue the guidelines and ensure that all centres are registered with a fixed timeline. The campaign for regulations began with a group of women, some mothers of children with autism and others legal experts, and activists coordinated by a special educator and psychologists under the umbrella of TogetherWeCan.  Under the new notifications, the qualifications of all therapists are defined, and specifications have been issued while setting up therapy centres. Now, all therapy centres providing services to persons with disabilities under a regulatory mechanism need registration before a competent authority notified by government as per Sec.49 of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mandatory-registration-needed-for-all-therapy-centres-in-state/articleshow/76667016.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 28, 2020||Pune||Customers trickle back in stores as people gain confidence to step out||Pune: The city’s streets looked busy on Saturday with more people venturing out as Unlock 1.0 nears its end and the state government offers further relaxations. According to traders and restaurateurs, people are displaying an increased confidence as the month comes to an end. A drive across different parts of the city showed life slowly trudging back to normal with shops open on both sides of various roads, people walking along market areas holding onto shopping bags and numerous vehicles waiting at traffic signals.Appa Balwant Chowk was bustling with people out to purchase textbooks and stationery for the new academic year. “I saw a crowd outside many stores even around 1.30pm, which is considered lunch time in Pune. The market dynamics are changing in the aftermath of the lockdown. I’ve noticed that shops in the Peth areas, which would remain closed on Monday, are open throughout the week,” said Rahul Jain, a city-based student.Member of FC Road Traders Association Shantanu Pansare said, “The street was indeed bustling with people but that did not necessarily translate into sales for us. The last weekend of Unlock 1.0 did, however, see people stepping out of the house more confidently. People know that they have to live with the coronavirus, albeit with all precautions. We saw more people walking around, parking spaces were full and vehicle movement was heavier than usual on Saturday.”Abhishek Shetty, a city-based restaurateur, said, “There was a 10-15% increase in delivery orders this weekend as compared to earlier in the month. Even if the government permits dine-in, we don’t think people will be confident enough to come in. The confidence on delivery though is going up as we fortunately haven’t seen transmission of the virus through delivery services.”Aniruddha Patil, founder of an online food platform, said, “Weekends are better for restaurants as deliveries are increasing. More places are opening but deliveries are far from what restaurants need to survive. The places perceived as hygienic are doing relatively better. Even Pune legacy restaurants are doing good.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/customers-trickle-back-in-stores-as-people-gain-confidence-to-step-out/articleshow/76667678.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 28, 2020||Trichy||64 response teams start inspections||Trichy: The 64 Covid Response Teams (CRT) in Trichy Corporation launched door-to-door inspections in home quarantined and vulnerable localities on Saturday. The teams will check whether returnees and people in hotspots are isolating themselves, apart from providing immunity boosters. The neighbours of home quarantined people were informed by CRT officials to alert them if people under home quarantine step out. Houses and streets adjoining Covid-19 positive cases were provided with Kabasura Kudineer for three straight days. Officials said that the health drink will not be provided to all households but only to those vulnerable. Officials said that the teams will daily track the areas on any symptomatic cases. Samples will be collected from the vulnerable groups if suggested by the medical officer. “Sanitary department will ensure that the waste from Covid-19 positive houses is collected separately,” another official in CRT added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/64-response-teams-start-inspections/articleshow/76667676.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vijayawada||One dead, four injured after ammonia gas leak in Kurnool||TIRUPATI: One person died and four others were injured after ammonia leaked from a fertilizer plant near Nandyal in Kurnool district on Saturday. The tragedy could have been severe had the gas leakage was not plugged in time before it could surround the residential areas. The impact of ammonia was felt only within the premises of the factory. District collector G Veerapandian, who rushed to Nandyal along with SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa and other officials, supervised relief and rescue operation. An inquiry has been ordered into the mishap. Panic gripped the area following the gas leakage as it comes close on the heels of the styrene leak from LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam. TOI had earlier reported on the pollution caused by the plant and the protests by the locals, who alleged that they have been suffering from various ailments due to pollution. The AP Pollution Control Board served a show-cause notice on the plant over the pollution issue. Veerapandian told media that the incident occurred at the factory of SPY Agro Industries Limited near Nandyal. Soon fire services, police and revenue officials visited the plant and brought the situation under control. The district administration ensured the ammonia gas leak was restricted to the factory campus. Factory sources said a pipeline burst while pressure was being reset for operation. The leaked gas, ammonia, is commonly used as a chilling agent in carbondioxide bottling. Veerapandian said the factory was being restarted after executing maintenance works when the leakage occurred at around 9.45 am. While all the factory workers managed to run to safety, manager Srinivasa Rao (50), who could not rush out, died on the spot, while four others - Thimma Reddy, Adinarayana, Tirumala and Ravi - who inhaled the gas were rushed to the hospital for treatment. They are said to be stable. It took nearly three hours for fire tenders to bring the situation under control at the factory. The district collector said the inquiry report will also suggest measures on prevention of such mishaps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-dead-four-injured-after-ammonia-gas-leak-in-kurnool/articleshow/76669409.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||One dead, four injured after ammonia gas leak in Kurnool||TIRUPATI: One person died and four others were injured after ammonia leaked from a fertilizer plant near Nandyal in Kurnool district on Saturday. The tragedy could have been severe had the gas leakage was not plugged in time before it could surround the residential areas. The impact of ammonia was felt only within the premises of the factory. District collector G Veerapandian, who rushed to Nandyal along with SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa and other officials, supervised relief and rescue operation. An inquiry has been ordered into the mishap. Panic gripped the area following the gas leakage as it comes close on the heels of the styrene leak from LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam. TOI had earlier reported on the pollution caused by the plant and the protests by the locals, who alleged that they have been suffering from various ailments due to pollution. The AP Pollution Control Board served a show-cause notice on the plant over the pollution issue. Veerapandian told media that the incident occurred at the factory of SPY Agro Industries Limited near Nandyal. Soon fire services, police and revenue officials visited the plant and brought the situation under control. The district administration ensured the ammonia gas leak was restricted to the factory campus. Factory sources said a pipeline burst while pressure was being reset for operation. The leaked gas, ammonia, is commonly used as a chilling agent in carbondioxide bottling. Veerapandian said the factory was being restarted after executing maintenance works when the leakage occurred at around 9.45 am. While all the factory workers managed to run to safety, manager Srinivasa Rao (50), who could not rush out, died on the spot, while four others - Thimma Reddy, Adinarayana, Tirumala and Ravi - who inhaled the gas were rushed to the hospital for treatment. They are said to be stable. It took nearly three hours for fire tenders to bring the situation under control at the factory. The district collector said the inquiry report will also suggest measures on prevention of such mishaps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-dead-four-injured-after-ammonia-gas-leak-in-kurnool/articleshow/76667680.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 28, 2020||Pune||Traffic cops launch drive against vendors to contain spread of Covid-19||PUNE: The Pune traffic police have launched a drive against vendors selling fruits and vegetables for containing the spread of Covid-19. A large number of people tested positive for the virus after lockdown restrictions were relaxed, forcing the district administration to chalk out a plan to control the spread of the contagion. The PMC has cracked the whip on illegal vendors and the police have started prosecuting them. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Akkanoru Prasad P said, “We have started filing cases against vendors under sections 102 and 117 of the Maharashtra Police Act because a large number of people have tested positive after visiting the vendors. The vendors operating on roadsides create hindrance to the smooth flow of traffic and pedestrians.” He said, “We had made the city free from encroachments by taking action against the vendors before the lockdown was enforced. A large number of vendors hit the roads after the restrictions were relaxed.” Assistant inspector Lekhaji Shinde from Kondhwa traffic police said, “The vendors are not operating at the places earmarked for them by the PMC. Customers are coming in large numbers and no social distancing is being maintained. We are also helping the anti-encroachment squad of the civic body by taking action against the vendors. We want to decongest the roads and contain the spread of the virus.” Citizens are questioning whether such action will also be taken against tea and snacks stalls that have opened across the city. According to Akash Chavan, a city-based working professional, several roadside stalls selling snacks have opened on JM Road, Bhandarkar Road, at Appa Balwant Chowk and other peth areas. “While passing by these areas on Saturday, I saw crowds at several roadside food stalls. People were standing, eating snacks or drinking tea without masks or maintaining social distancing. Have these stalls been permitted to reopen? The sort of crowding I saw, these vendors could turn out to be Covid-19 super spreaders, if not checked,” he said. A vegetable vendor in Deccan said, “I was employed, but my office closed down due to the lockdown and I was out of work. Along with my wife, we started a fruit and vegetable stall. This has been a steady source of income for us. We are taking all precautions to remain safe. In the slums of Wadarwadi, some areas have been sealed, but we stay far away from where cases have been found. We are wearing masks and also washing our hands at regular intervals as a precaution.” According to him, if the police start cracking down on street vendors, many will lose their livelihood. “We are trying our best to stay afloat through the crises. If the police start registering cases against us, we will lose our only means of income. We have taken all precautions since the beginning and will continue to do so in the coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-cops-launch-drive-against-vendors-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/76668029.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Benarasi masks debut in wedding season||KOLKATA: The coronavirus pandemic has turned a medical necessity into a wedding must-have. Several weddings had been pushed back in the initial days, but now people are gearing up to get married, albeit with adjustments to accommodate social distancing measures and basic safety protocols. And, keeping up with the demand, bridal boutiques and traditional stores have started making masks to match the trousseau in quality, colour and elegance. Adi Mohini Mohan Kanjilal, famous for Benarasi saris, have several varieties ready for would-be brides to pick from. “Brides want to look pretty when they get married and the pictures stay with them forever. We have masks made of different lace fabrics, floral fabrics and even those made with the fabric of Benarasi saris to go with the attire on the wedding day,” said the manager at their College Street outlet. Designer Mehek Chopra has also conceptualized several designs for masks that can be used at weddings. “How long can people postpone their weddings? In fact, many couples want to get married during this window because they feel the cases may rise in the coming months. Since masks are mandatory when we are outdoors, they have become a must-have for brides. We have come up with several elegant designs so that they do not stick out among the gorgeous clothes and mingle well with the rest of the wedding attire,” said Chopra, who has her boutique on Convent Road. Not only for the bride, masks are also being made for her sisters, cousins and other women in the family who also have elaborate attire planned for the event. “We even have masks which have “girls’ side” and “boys’ side” embroidered on them just for the sake of fun,” said Chopra. According to the guidelines of the state government, no more than 50 people can attend a wedding. Planners have been carefully incorporating social-distancing measures, PPE usage, sanitizers and masks into the entire party. “The entire service staff has to wear protective gear and surfaces must be sanitized regularly,” said a wedding planner in the city. The grooms, too, seem to have reconciled to the alteration in their wedding clothes. ‘It was definitely odd, but we had to do it for our safety and that of the others,” said Kishan Ojha, a resident of Posta who got married during the lockdown. “We have a good laugh whenever we look through our wedding album now,” he added. The wedding vows proclaim that the spouses must be with each other even in times of adversity, and bridal masks in this time of coronavirus have become a symbol of that promise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trousseau-makeover-benarasi-masks-debut-in-wedding-season/articleshow/76667001.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 28, 2020||Delhi||With 2,889 new cases, Delhi Covid-19 count past 83,000||NEW DELHI: The number of recovered, discharged and migrated patients surpassed the tally of fresh Covid cases on Saturday, showed data shared in Delhi’s health bulletin on Sunday. While the capital witnessed 2,889 new Covid-19 cases taking the total count to 83,077, as many as 3,306 patients had either recovered or were discharged after treatment. There were 65 deaths due to the pandemic on Saturday, taking the death toll to 2,623. According to the health bulletin, Delhi had 27,847 active cases on Saturday. Officials said a total of 6,014 patients were in hospitals, 1,558 in dedicated Covid care centres and 238 in dedicated Covid health centres with different degrees of symptoms. Meanwhile, 17,148 patients with mild or no symptoms were under home isolation on Saturday. Till date, 52,607 people have recovered in the capital . The health bulletin said that Delhi government issued two orders on Saturday regarding operating hospital beds in banquet halls in coordination with the linked hospitals to ramp up the infrastructure and another for operationalisation of 450 beds in Burari hospital in a phased manner. According to government sources, as many as 20,080 tests were conducted in the capital on Sunday. So far, 4,98,416 tests have been conducted in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-2889-new-cases-city-covid-19-count-past-83000/articleshow/76679581.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Pockets in central, south Kolkata get waterlogged in sharp evening shower||Kolkata: The city was drenched by a sharp spell of showers on Saturday evening despite slow ‘monsoon activities’ in Gangetic Bengal. Several areas in south and central Kolkata, where the shower was more intense than other parts, were left waterlogged. The city received 56.1mm rainfall. Some parts of Maniktala, Bidhan Sarani, Topsia, neighbourhoods off EM Bypass, Mominpur and Behala went under ankle-deep water. Camac Street was flooded, too. But civic authorities said the water subsided quickly. While sporadic rain will continue in Kolkata and south Bengal over the next 48 hours, no heavy shower was likely, said Met office. With the monsoon trough being active in north Bengal, Gangetic Bengal would receive light rain till the end of June, it was predicted. “A low-pressure trough across north Bengal and Sikkim has now got converted into a monsoon trough. It will continue to bring heavy showers in north Bengal. But Gangetic Bengal will not receive heavy rain unless we have a system over Bay of Bengal or the trough moves south,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. He added Kolkata would receive short spells of rain till the end of the month. “We have had reasonably good rain in the city so far. But monsoon rain in south Bengal is driven by systems over Bay of Bengal that are yet to form this month,” said Das. Kolkata has received 190.2 mm rain between the arrival of monsoon on June 12 and June 26. He, however, added the June showers didn’t necessarily indicate excess rainfall for the entire season. “Kolkata and south Bengal get moderate rain in June, while July and August are the peak monsoon months. Monsoon currents move in a periodic cycle and at times, get stuck. They have turned relatively inactive over last week that has led to this relatively dry period,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pockets-in-central-south-kolkata-get-waterlogged-in-sharp-evening-shower/articleshow/76667006.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Sharad Pawar slams private hospitals for inflated bills||MUMBAI: NCP president Sharad Pawar on Friday expressed strong displeasure over exorbitant fees charged by private hospitals for Covid-19 patients in the state. “My attention has been brought to exorbitant fees charged by leading private hospitals. Administration must step in, take stern action against erring hospitals,’’ Pawar said. At a high-level meeting attended by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh and health minister Rajesh Tope, Pawar expressed surprise over discreet silence over exorbitant bills. Pawar’s comments assume political importance as public health portfolio is held by NCP’s Tope. For over two months, complaints have been pouring in over exorbitant fees charged by leading private hospitals. The former dean of a government medical college said public health and medical education department bureaucrats were reluctant to take on private hospitals as most bureaucrats and senior IPS officers are treated there. “Complaints are pouring in daily. In fact, a section of media had several times raised the issue but no bureaucrat took suo moto cognizance of complaints,’’ the dean said. The dean pointed out that after the outbreak of coronavirus, public health department fixed charges for all ailments but private hospitals were fleecing poor patients. “Government is reluctant to take on private hospitals although the state government has extended concessions to them,’’ he said. A BMC official said after it received many complaints on bills, it appointed auditors. BMC has checked 134 bills issued by 26 private hospitals and reduced bills by more than Rs 23 lakh. “IAS officers are monitor billing of private hospitals,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pawar-slams-pvt-hospitals-for-inflated-bills/articleshow/76667804.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
June 28, 2020||Pune||Khed cases double in 12 days to 75||PUNE: The number of covid-19 cases doubled in 12 days in Khed tehsil to 75. It had 35 cases on June 15. On Friday, it recorded 17 positive cases in four villages near Chakan. 1st +ve person in Rajgurunagar A woman tested positive for covid-19 in Rajgurunanagar Municipal Council limits on Friday. It was the only covid-free town in the district since the pandemic outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/khed-cases-double-in-12-days-to-75/articleshow/76667688.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Telangana discoms to accept 584 AP employees||VIJAYAWADA: The long-pending dispute over allocation of power sector employees between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana has finally been resolved with Justice D M Dharmadhikari, approving AP’s proposal after some modifications. The one-member committee appointed by the Supreme Court said that Telangana power utilities have to accept 584 employees from Andhra Pradesh. That include 71 employees who were already accepted by T on medical grounds and spousal cases. The committee approved the allocation, proposed by AP, which lists the staff company-wise and post-wise but with modifications. Justice Dharmadhikari said employees who retired in 2020 or will retire in 2020 will be kept out of the allocation process and will stay in their present place of posting. In addition, SC and ST employees’ cases have to be re-examined so that their growth in the respective states are not affected. This means if an SC or ST employee were to lose his reservation in the state he is allotted to, then he will remain in the present state where he will continue to get reservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/t-discoms-to-accept-584-ap-employees/articleshow/76667687.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara’s new peak: 47 fresh cases||Vadodara: The number of Covid-19 cases reported in the Vadodara city and district are clearly headed northwards with a record high number of new cases being registered every other day. Saturday’s data revealed that 47 persons had tested positive in the city since Friday evening, the highest in a day since the pandemic began. With the 47 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city went up to 2,134. The fresh cases in the city were reported from Alkapuri, Akota, Karelibaug, Fatehpura, Shiyabaug, Jubelibaug, Tandalja, Raopura, Tarsali, Makarpura, Gajrawadi, Pratapnagar, Panigate, Waghodiya Road, Maneja, Harni and other areas. The new cases from rural areas of the district outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits were from Padra and Dabhoi talukas. The highest number of cases in the city were reported from the south zone of the city where 12 persons tested positive. This was followed by north zone that saw 11 new cases followed west zone that had eight new patients and east zone that had five new patients. The rural areas of the city also witnessed 11 new cases. Sources said that amongst the new cases since yesterday, the principal of an ayurvedic college and his wife had tested positive. Also, complaints were made to the VMC health officials regarding a man who had tested positive in Wadi moving around freely. The man had been advised home isolation. Seventeen persons where discharged on Saturday leaving 601 persons under hospitalisation. Those hospitalised include 24 on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-new-peak-47-fresh-cases/articleshow/76666485.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||Tally breaches 20,000 in Pune metropolitan region, 996 turn +ve on increased testing||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 996 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, its highest single-day tally so far, taking the total caseload in the region to 20,023 primarily on increased testing. Of the fresh cases, the Pune municipal limits recorded 814 — the highest for the areas so far. While Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits added 128 cases, rural as well as Cantonment areas reported 54 cases. For last two days, the region had reported over 700 cases. On Friday, 787 cases were added to the tally. “The collection of swabs of suspected patients has gone up. It has remained in the range of 3,000 to 3,500 for the last few days. Concentrated efforts are under way to increase swab collection, including deployment of mobile vans, commencement of swab collection centres near to containment zones,” Ramchandra Hankare, head of PMC’s health department, said. 19 succumb to contagionNineteen more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR on Saturday, pushing its death toll to 693. The deceased included a 75-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, a 67-year-old man from Dhankawdi, a 59-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 74-year-old man from Pashan, a 65-year-old man from Ghorpadi, a 77-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, a 56-year-old man form Kasba Peth and an 85-year-old man of Kondhwa. According to the data released by the district health office, 567 Covid-19 patients were discharged in the region in the last 24 hours after they were declared cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tally-breaches-20k-in-pmr-996-turn-ve-on-increased-testing/articleshow/76667682.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Two Covid-19 positive women deliver babies||VISAKHAPATNAM: In two separate cases, two Covid-19-positive women from Vizianagaram and East Godavari districts gave birth to baby boys on Saturday at government hospitals. According to health officials, a woman from Parvatipuram in Vizianagaram district delivered a baby boy at the Covid-19 hospital at Nellimarla in Vizianagaram district, while another woman from East Godavari district also delivered a baby boy at the government general hospital in Kakinada. Speaking to STOI, Kakinada government hospital superintendent Dr M Raghavendra Rao said the woman was admitted to the hospital in an emergency situation on Friday. “Upon instructions from our collector, we set up an emergency system in our hospital and sucessfully operated on her,” Dr Raghavendra Rao said. Dr Raghavendra Rao added that while the chances of transmission of the virus through blood is low as the disease is transmitted through the respiratory system, the baby and the mother are under pecial attention at the hospital, he added. Vizianagaram collector M Hari Jawaharlal said the woman from Parvatipuram was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital where she delivered a baby boy on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-covid-19-positive-women-deliver-babies/articleshow/76667024.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Five-point advisory for safe cycling in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The growing demand for environment-friendly two-wheelers as an alternative to public transport has brought new challenges for Kolkata Police. From straying to no-go zones like Maa flyover and EM Bypass to theft reports of high-end versions, cops are flooded with complaints involving bicycles. Police have now issued a set of dos and don’ts to all traffic guards for the safety of cyclists. “We are counselling the violators but not fining them for the time being. We are telling them to follow basic safety rules,” said a senior traffic guard official. The first rule was to stick to bylanes and avoid arterial routes. “We cannot allow cycles plying on main roads and flyovers,” explained a senior Lalbazar officer. The second rule is to follow basic traffic rules, like sticking to the left lane. “In certain pockets, several cyclists are refusing to fall in line. We are asking cyclists to follow signals and not lean on heavier vehicles to travel faster,” said an officer from eastern suburban Kolkata. However, Lipika Biswas, who had roamed Europe on her bicycle, said: “There might be some aberrations but majority of cyclists are law-abiding.” Thirdly, the cyclists have been told to use reflective lights and wear helmets. The fourth advice is to ensure that cycles are not left out in the open without locks. The fifth and final form of advice has come from Lalbazar itself. “Regulars have now charted their routes with help from local traffic guards. It is advisable that they stick to the set route,” said an IPS officer. Bicycle enthusiasts, however, said they want to help cops in creating awareness among cyclists. They have also appealed for earmarked bicycle lanes in arterial roads and in some connecting roads. “Worldwide, metropolitan cities are promoting cycling as a healthy mode of transport. If Kolkata becomes a part of that global movement, we can be proud of our city,” said Vinay Jaju, an avid cyclist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/five-point-advisory-for-safe-cycling/articleshow/76667012.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two eunuchs held for extortion bid in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Vastrapur police on Saturday rounded up two eunuchs, Naina Pavaiya, 25, and Kamini Pavaiya, 29, for attempting to extort money from a Bodakdev woman. Inspector Manoharsinh Jadeja of Vastrapur police said that Dhruti Panch, 53, had lodged an FIR on Friday stating that the eunuchs had come to her residential complex to demand money. The eunuchs were stopped by security guards at the gate of the complex, Surel Apartments. The eunuchs sat near the gate and announced that they would not move till Panch came down with the money. They allegedly shouted threats and abuses meant for Panch. Eventually, Panch called police but the eunuchs left before the cops arrived. “We knew the eunuchs would return,” a senior police official said. “We deployed cops in plainclothes at the gate of the complex on Saturday.” When the two eunuchs approached the gate, they were nabbed by the cops. Panch stated in her FIR that in 2016, she had given a group of eunuchs Rs 15,000 in alms. Since then, eunuchs had been coming to her house regularly seeking money. The two accused will be tested for Covid-19 before being officially arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-eunuchs-held-for-extortion-bid/articleshow/76667661.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||Eateries seek permission to restart work in Pune||PUNE: The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad hoteliers and restaurant associations have urged the state government to grant permission to resume hotel and restaurant operations. Representatives of the associations met deputy CM Ajit Pawar in Pune on Friday. Pawar has promised to look into the matter and schedule a meeting with the CM in the next 3-4 days. Pune Restaurant & Hotelier Association president Ganesh Shetty said it has been persuading the state to let business resume with certain safety conditions. Padmanabh Shetty, head, Pimpri Chinchwad association, said business at a loss with only takeaways operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eateries-seek-permission-to-restart-work/articleshow/76667694.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three men beat up youth for not wearing mask||PUNE: Three persons from Anandnagar slum pocket in Chinchwad were booked on Saturday on the charge of beating up a youth on Friday afternoon for not wearing a mask in public place. Police said the youth, Sanjay Balu Phalke (24), had ventured out of his house without wearing a mask which led to an argument between the suspects and the youth. “The suspects, who were sitting in a lane, grabbed Phalke and kicked and punched him. He fell down on the ground and suspects issued threats of dire consequences to him and fled,” an officer from the Chinchwad police said. “We have ascertained the identities of the suspects and will arrest them soon,” he said. The Anandnagar slum pocket had witnessed riots on June 7, after the area was sealed by the civic authorities. The number of Covid-19 cases has increased in the area and the local residents had protested against the lockdown measures adopted by the civic administration by pelting stones and holding protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-men-beat-up-youth-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/76668030.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||Staff crunch plagues restaurants as they inch towards regular operations in Pune||PUNE: Restaurants across the city are faced with severe staff crunch as close to 80% of their employees have migrated to their home states during the lockdown. As delivery and take away orders rise, several restaurants are trying their best to fulfil orders with limited staff. “We had our cooking staff from across the country, while the utility staff came from Odisha and West Bengal. With the cooking staff away, kitchen operations are slightly strained too,” a restaurant owner said. “Most of our staff who came from Gharwal region in Uttarakhand or West Bengal have gone back to their native places . They have assured us that would return later. While we are somehow managing with less staff at the moment, the problems will increase once we get permission for dine-in,” said Ajinkya Udane from German Bakery. President of Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) Ganesh Shetty said that with the majority of staff away, restaurants may have to somehow manage even when dine-in is permitted by the government. “With deliveries through like Swiggy or Zomato, less staff is not a hassle. Most employees have assured us that they will return once restaurants resume dine-in operations. However, we are concerned that they will not be able to return till public transportation starts,” he said. Neerav Panchamia, immediate past president, Poona Hoteliers Association, and chief operating executive, E-Square Group of Hotels and Multiplexes, said the staff crunch is set to persist for next few months. “If and when we get permission for dine-in, we will not be able to start without the full team in place. Employees are sceptical about returning until the cases diminish. It will take about 3-6 months until the status quo is restored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/staff-crunch-plagues-restaurants-as-they-inch-towards-regular-operations/articleshow/76667691.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||‘Tough task ahead if Metro in Kolkata starts’||KOLKATA: Should the Railway Board grant clearance for resumption of Metro services in Kolkata from Wednesday, it may prove to be a test of nerves, both for the authorities as well as commuters. While Metro Railway officials have made it clear that entry to stations will be restricted to those holding smartcards, there is bound to be a rush of people, many of who don’t have smartcards, wanting to avail of the services. They may resent the entry ban. “Yes, there may be some commotion initially, but people will have to understand why such restrictions are required. To prevent spread of the Covid-19 virus, human contact has to be reduced to the minimum. If smart tokens are issued, we can’t achieve that. Every token will be touched by several people. Our plans are to restrict the number of people on a platform to 50. To achieve this, movement across the smart gates will be staggered. Even after entering a station, people should not think they will succeed in reaching the platform at one go. If there are people ahead of them, they may have to let go of a couple of trains,” an official said. While trials have been held to ensure that all assets, including rolling stock, are fit for commercial run, Metro has taken the opportunity during the three-month lockdown to replace and repair old and faulty equipment. Stress has been laid on blowers and air-conditioning systems at the underground stations. Even solar panels at stations, which were damaged during Amphan, have been replaced. According to plans, Metro will carry only about a third of the nearly 6.5 lakh daily passengers it used to. “It will be a tough ask and we will require assistance from the state for effective crowd management. There will also have to be regular sanitization of the premises and rakes. Staff will also have to be protected from the virus. There will be screening of passengers, but there can be asymptomatic cases,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tough-task-ahead-if-metro-starts/articleshow/76667025.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Housing society keeps new tenants out for 4 hours over certificate||PUNE: A seven-month pregnant woman and her family were forced to stand outside a cooperative housing society in Aundh for over four hours because its secretary questioned the veracity of their fitness certificate, just a day after the state government iterated that housing societies cannot frame their own rules. The woman, with her three-year-old son and her husband, had moved from Mohammadwadi to the housing society in Aundh on Thursday afternoon. The family was allowed inside only in the evening. The trouble for the family did not end there. The society officials told them to remain home quarantined for 15 days. A security guard has been checking on them to ensure that they do not step out. Sunil Shivatare, the secretary of the society having 350 flats, said, “We are just following the government rules. We shall follow only those documents that are signed and stamped. There are other people who complain if they see anyone roaming around.” Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said societies were not entitled to ask for medical certificates. According to officials, the prospect of asymptomatic patients visiting hospitals is fraught with risk and it is one of the reasons why this rule has been done away with. Pune’s joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said he would examine the case and respond by Monday. The TOI verified that the family — moving into the society as tenants — had a valid registered rent agreement and a police verification document issued by the Chatushrungi police. After the couple and their son were denied entry to the society, they went to a nearby hospital in Sangvi and got the medical tests done. When they returned, the society’s secretary, Shivatare, insisted that the medical certificate was not proper. He even contacted the hospital, but the doctor concerned had probably left for the day by then. When the TOI contacted the doctor, Natraj Gute of Makan Hospital, he said he had indeed examined the family and found them to be asymptomatic. “I was told the secretary will call, but no one did. I was reachable on my cellphone even after work hours,” he said. The pregnant woman, Langhu Lukia, said, “I am seven months pregnant and despite meeting all the requirements, they did not allow us to enter the building. The secretary told us that our medical certificate was fake. We have never experienced this kind of behaviour in any society we have lived in. They even took Rs5,000 from us for entering the society. They said it was not a part of the society charges that they take quarterly. I don’t know why such a big amount was charged just to enter the society. We decided to move to this society because of our son’s school. But after this kind of treatment, we feel we have made a mistake renting a place in this society.” The society’s secretary, Shivatare, said everything he did was on written orders of the government, which in themselves were “confusing”, but the “society had decided to follow all of them without question”. He said he was ready to face the law if he had done anything wrong. He also claimed that the workers of the movers and packers firm transporting the tenants’ luggage were not wearing masks. Lukia’s husband, Sudhir Masih, said they themselves were wearing masks and if there was a problem with the workers of the movers and packers firm not wearing masks, the society could have brought it to their notice, and they would have bought some. “It is not something we have experienced ever in our lives. We went without food and water, and kept running around the whole of afternoon,” he said. The guidelines the society issued on June 2 stated that it would not issue any gate pass without rent agreement, police verification and “recent medical fitness certificate”. The tenants were issued the gate pass on June 22, prompting them to believe that it was now safe to enter the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-society-demands-fit-certificate-from-new-tenants-keeps-pregnant-woman-standing-outside-for-four-hours/articleshow/76668032.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 28, 2020||Goa||Joint site inspections for double tracking: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that it has been decided to conduct joint inspections of potential sites for double tracking by the south western railways. The joint inspections will be carried out by officials of south western railways, panchayat members from Cortalim, officials of the Public Works department (PWD) and the directorate of land and survey, Sawant said. The chief minister also said that during these surveys, photos and videos will be taken to find out the impact of the double tracking work. “If there is any impact then accordingly instructions would be given,” Sawant said. He also said that Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha has some concern over the double tracking of south western railways. Sawant held a meeting with ministers and officers on various issues including the Sanjivani sugar factory, double tracking of south western railways, skill development etc. Speaking to reporters he said that he chaired the skill development board meeting as the chairman of the state skill development board. While the last meeting was held in 2017 he said that he has instructed the director to have a review meeting within 15 days. Sawant said through skill development he plans to implement the pradhanmantri kaushalya yojna in the state. “We want to run various projects under skill development,” he said, adding that around fifty projects would be taken up under Goa pragati along the lines of the central government. “I have asked all departments to provide me the list of projects that have to be taken under Goa pragati, which is a concept and still not finalised,” he said. Sawant said that public interest projects would be taken under Goa pragati. “The CMO will follow these projects and we will complete the projects in 18 months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/joint-site-inspections-for-double-tracking-cm/articleshow/76658812.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Can’t compare ’62 and now, says Congress||MUMBAI: Congress reacted sharply on Saturday to NCP chief and former Union minister Sharad Pawar’s remark reminding Congress of the 1962 war with China, when the latter seized thousands of kilometres of Indian territory, saying there could be no comparison between 1962 and the present and that advising the government did not to amount to politics. Pawar’s remarks had been a rebuke of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s criticism of the BJP-led central government’s response to the India-China face-off in the Galwan valley in Ladakh.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, that former PM Manmohan Singh had advised PM Narendra Modi to measure his words before using them. “It is not politics to advise the government or cite mistakes in the interest of the country. We are all with the government in the battle.” Sawant said in a statement. Sawant said there could be no comparison between 1962, when India had fought a war, and the situation in 2020. The statement of the Indian envoy to China and satellite images contradict the PM’s stand that there is no incursion, he said. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, with (his) assurance of full backing to the government, has asked the PM to fearlessly admit incursion on the border and take on China. In the last 45 years, not a single Indian soldier was martyred on the India-China border. China PM has put the blame on our martyrs. We want the government to back our soldiers,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-no-comparison-between-62-and-now-were-with-govt-in-battle-against-china/articleshow/76668033.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 victim’s body shifted: 4 suspended in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said action has been taken against persons responsible for shifting the body of a suspected Covid-19 patient in Sompeta to a burial ground in a panchayat tractor meant for garbage collection. Sompeta major panchayat executive officer Jyotheswarathe, tractor driver Tenka Anil and two contingent workers, Behara Ravi and A Nellayya, have been suspended. The collector has also issued show cause notices to two revenue officers Sivaji Panigrahi, MPDO Sompeta and S Guru Prasad, Sompeta tehsildar. In a similar incident in Palasa, the body of a 70-year-old man, said to be a Covid-19 victim, was shifted to the burial ground in an earth mover. Palasa municipal commissioner T Nagendra Kumar and sanitary inspector Rajeev have been suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/deceaseds-body-shifted-4-suspended/articleshow/76667040.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Flyers rue high bus fares to go home, cite money woes||PUNE: Many incoming flyers from foreign countries, landing in the city on rescue flights, have complained about the high fares being charged by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses to ferry them to their destinations. “I landed in Pune airport from Jeddah on a Vande Bharat Mission flight on June 23. I had to go to Mumbai and air-conditioned MSRTC buses were waiting for us. For a ride from Pune to Mumbai, we were charged Rs1,200. I believe that the fare is not more than Rs600,” a passenger told TOI under the condition of anonymity. Another passenger, who too was travelling on the same bus, said, “I too was charged a hefty sum of Rs1,000 for a trip from Pune airport to Thane. Many returnees have lost their jobs and are in major financial distress. The MSRTC and the district administration should have given it a thought and lowered the fares or kept them unchanged.” Senior MSRTC officials said there were few options left till inter-district travel resumed. “Transport is available only for essential travels and one needs permission from the district administration. Hence, our buses cannot run as they used to. The buses for transporting passengers from airports are hired by the respective district administrations under casual contract. This means that rates per km, per passenger are applicable, which drives up the fares. Once the inter-district travel resumes, things will return to normal,” an official at the Pune MSRTC said. Shravan Pawar, who returned from Sharjah to Pune last week, shared a similar experience. “With the cabs asking for abnormal fares, many of us decided to travel by the buses being provided by the MSRTC. I was travelling to Sangli from Pune and had to shell out Rs800 for the trip. The normal fare is not more than Rs450. The MSRTC should consider that many people have lost their jobs and have borrowed money to return home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-rue-high-bus-fares-to-go-home-cite-money-woes/articleshow/76668031.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Dinner and a movie on video calls in all that alone time||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Dating has moved to a video call after the lockdown shaped a new trend while recognising the value of companionship. It is a necessity for now, Shalini Singh, founder of a dating platform, said. “ This will be a quick way of screening people and may persist post Covid-19. Going on dates requires investment in time and money. People are likely to opt for video dating to screen potential matches. They will give more importance to getting to know each other and there will be more emphasis in knowing if there is a mental and emotional compatibility.” Since ‘going on a date’ is has not reason enough to travel across the city yet, youngsters are resorting to turning the conventional dinner and movie into an online meeting. Shruti Singh, 21, said, “I have come to prefer the date-on-video-call compared to actually going out on a date with someone you want to get to know. I have the option to turn off and get out of it whenever I want which is an uncomfortable option in a real date. People are more candid this way and you get to connect on a more real level,” she said. Siddharth Chaudhuri, 20, shares how you can watch a movie, together. “I wanted to take my date for dinner and a movie. I ordered dinner for her from a food aggregator and for myself too, and then streamed a romantic movie which we watched together,” he said. The pandemic has blurred the lines between digital and physical lives and people are finding new ways to connect, Taru Kapoor, general manager-India of a dating app, said. “Our members have found virtual ways to replicate all human interactions missing from our daily lives__ cooking together, ‘passporting’ to other cities to check in on each other, having a virtual date-night— shows us how #TogetherisEpic,” she added. The situation is evolving. “We can give our members a way to escape social distancing and self-quarantine and find solidarity with new matches around the world. We need to find a way to maintain social rhythms and build new relationships that will sustain us,” Kapoor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dinner-and-a-movie-on-video-calls-in-all-that-alone-time/articleshow/76668034.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Need to focus on economic growth: Prime Minister Narendra Modi||KOTTAYAM: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the government does not discriminate on basis of faith, gender, caste, creed and language and added that the message of “togetherness” in the Bible pointed to the need for all Indians to work for advancement of the nation. He stressed the need for focusing on economic growth and prosperity of the country even as the country is battling Covid-19. Speaking on the 90th birth anniversary of Rev Dr Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan, the PM explained the government’s approach to short-term and long-term issues relating to the economy. “People-friendly and growth-friendly decisions have been taken in the sectors from sea to space, from farms to factories,” he said and hoped that the call for self-reliant India will ensure economic strength and prosperity for every Indian. Modi said that the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana will increase export earnings and provide more employment to over 55 lakh people. “I am confident my fishermen sisters and brothers in Kerala will gain from this scheme,” he added. The PM said the government is guided by sensitivity and a long-term vision to make India a growth engine. “Decisions are taken not from comfortable government offices in Delhi but after feedback from people on the ground,” he said. Highlighting the “vocal for local” slogan, the PM urged people to ponder on how their actions can contribute to national development. “Today India is saying - we will produce locally and also buy local products,” he added. Modi said that the Mar Thoma Church, which fought the Emergency, is firmly rooted in Indian values. “The contribution of the Church has been recognized at the national level. The former Metropolitan of Mar Thoma Church, Philipose Mar Chrysostom, was conferred the Padma Bhushan in 2018. He inspires many,” he said. He stressed that the people should not “let our guard down” in the fight against coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/modi-need-to-focus-on-economic-growth/articleshow/76667055.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Food outlets raise safety codes tailored to delivery-only models||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: The shift to delivery and takeaway operations has made restaurants to be even more careful in following guidelines for hygiene and strict standard operating procedures (SOP) for packaging and food delivery. “From being a busy dine-in restaurant, where delivery orders made up just over 10% of our business, to now just doing deliveries hasn’t been an easy change. Our operational cost still remain the same and the scope for delivery business isn’t as big. The staff is limited and our vendors aren’t yet fully operational so it’s tough. But slowly things will get better,” said Preet Singh Ahluwalia, owner of a restaurant. Sagar Vishwas Deshmukh, another restaurant owner, said, “We have put strict measures in place, like handwash-sanitation facilities for staff and in common areas, usage of personal safety gear, daily temperature checks for staff members, suppliers and delivery boys and maintaining record books.” He believes that some protocols will remain in place once restaurants open for dine-in service. “We will reduce the seating capacity to half at each of our outlets and extend our operational hours. Maintaining social distancing and personal safety will be the key factors. We will have strict safety procedures in place for our guests too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/food-outlets-raise-safety-codes-tailored-to-delivery-only-models/articleshow/76667699.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||With 796 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 12k in Andhra||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported its highest single-day spike of 796 Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative caseload to 12,285. The state also witnessed its highest single-day Covid-19 deaths with 11 persons succumbing to the disease, increasing the death roll to 157. Covid-19 patients, four each from Kurnool and Krishna and one each from East Godavari, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts, were among the latest casualties. Krishna and Kurnool districts crossed the half-century mark in Covid-19 deaths with 53 and 52 fatalities respectively. As many as 284 Covid-19 patients, the highest one-day recoveries so far, were discharged from various hospitals in the state on Saturday. There are currently 6,648 active cases in Andhra Pradesh with 5,480 recoveries and 157 deaths. Anantapur alone contributed 161 new cases to the table on Saturday, followed by East Godavari 109, Chittoor 84, Guntur 71 and Kurnool 69. The local infections moved over the 10,000 mark on Saturday to reach 10,093, while the cases among the foreign returnees and people who returned from other states stood at 2,192. Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna and Kurnool district account for 63% caseload of Andhra Pradesh. The overall recovery rate has been on the declining side with the ever increasing cases. A sub-registrar of Visakhapatnam district was found positive for the virus and the district official temporarily suspended the registration activities in the sub-registrar office. According to the officials of the King George Hospital, Visakhapatnam, 20 healthcare workers, including doctors, have been infected with Covid-19 till date. Andhra Pradesh screened nearly 24,500 people between 9 am on Friday and 9 am on Saturday to detect the 796 cases. The state has so far conducted 8.16 lakh tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-796-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-12k-in-andhra/articleshow/76667702.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid patients don’t need income certificate; HC tells Somaiya hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh||MUMBAI: Observing that a person with Covid-19 was not expected to produce an income certificate to get benefits meant for weaker sections and indigent persons before seeking admission, Bombay high court directed Somaiya Hospital at Sion (E) to deposit Rs 10 lakh with it within two weeks. The direction by a bench of Justices Ramesh Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdae on June 26 via video-conference, on a petition by a family of seven from Bharat Nagar slums, Bandra (E), who paid Rs 10 lakh out of Rs 12.5 lakh they were billed when admitted to the hospital between April 11-28 for Covid-19 treatment. They said they paid Rs 10 lakh by taking loans from friends, relatives and neighbours after being threatened with discharge. The HC on June 13 directed an inquiry supervised by the charity commissioner on whether the hospital strictly followed reservations of 10% beds for weaker sections and 10% for indigent persons during lockdown. The judges said perusal of joint charity commissioner’s inquiry report “is submitted on the basis of documents called for and submitted by the hospital, and without visiting the premises and inspecting records”. The charity commissioner replied that only three patients had been treated under the hospital scheme since lockdown, till the end of May. Senior advocate Janak Dwarkadas, for the hospital, said the petitioners did not belong to any category and had to produce an income certificate from the tehsildar or social welfare officer. The petitioners’ advocate, Vivek Shukla, said that having suffered from Covid-19 and requiring immediate medical help, they need not produce a certificate while seeking admission. The judges said whether it was the duty of the hospital management to ask if the persons seeking admission were falling under those categories or if they had to produce income certificates in the situation faced by the petitioners, who were patients of Covid-19, were some questions that required consideration. “Prima facie, a person suffering from a disease like Covid-19 is not expected to produce a tehsildar’s certificate or certificate from the social welfare officer before seeking benefits under section 41 AA (4)(c) (weaker sections) and (b) (indigent persons),” said the bench, admitting the petition for final hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-patients-dont-need-income-cert-hc-tells-somaiya-hosp-to-deposit-rs10l/articleshow/76667810.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 28, 2020||Goa||In major reshuffle, govt transfers SPs||Panaji: The state government has effected major changes at the senior level in the police department. South Goa superintendent of police (SP) Arvind Gawas has been posted as SP headquarters. SP North Utkrisht Prasoon will hold additional charge of SP SPCR. SP FRRO Bosco George will hold additional charge of coastal security and DCGHG and DDCD. SP headquarters Shekhar Prabhudesai has been transferred as SP training, principal PTS with additional charge of commandant IRBn. The recently-promoted SPs have also been given postings. SP Sammy Tavares has been posted as SP Konkan railway. SP Mahesh Gaonkar has been posted as SP special branch with additional charge of SP ANC. SP Serafin Dias has been posted as SP ACB with additional charge of SP EOC. SP Lawrence D’Souza has been posted as SP CID.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-major-reshuffle-govt-transfers-sps/articleshow/76658824.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: With courts closed for over 3 months, advocates appeal for financial assistance||VISAKHAPATNAM: With courts being closed, except for special or emergency cases, no proceedings or pending cases have been taken up since mid-March, leaving lawyers without any means of income. Many junior lawyers have left the city for their home towns to curtail the cost of living. The monthly stipend under the government’s YSR Law Nestham scheme has not been paid for the last three months. Senior practising lawyers with a limited clientele have also been hit by the pandemic. The Bar Council of India forbids practising advocates to opt for any alternate or part-time job. Advocates are seeking government aid and an amendment to this rule. With around 3,000 members enrolled in the Bar, Visakhapatnam district has the highest number of lawyers in the state. A junior lawyer, P Bheema Rao, from Mandasa mandal in Srikakulam said, “We have absolutely no work. We received the Rs 5,000 stipend under YSR Law Nestham scheme in the beneficiary accounts for a few months after its launch. But we stopped getting it since March. Whenever we called the helpline number, we got no response. Many junior lawyers including myself were forced to return to their native villages as we could not bear the expense of living in cities.” Nor has the lockdown spared senior advocates. A 62-year-old advocate, T Nagabhushanam, said, “The government is providing relief to various sections but lawyers are left out. Not every lawyer has a lucrative practice or a solid income. We cannot switch to other jobs because the Bar Council does not allow Bar-enrolled lawyers to take up an alternate job.” Citing the example of the Gujarat Bar Council, which has given partial relaxations to advocates to take up alternate jobs till December 31, senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals Kupilli Muralidhar said, “Bar Council of India rules should be amended to provide for emergency funds in cases of unforeseen circumstances. Most lawyers need government’s compensatory allowance to survive in this difficult time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-courts-closed-for-over-three-months-advocates-appeal-for-financial-assistance/articleshow/76667047.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 28, 2020||India||In just 5 days, BRO rebuilds bridge near China border||PITHORAGARH: A crucial bridge on the Munsyari-Milam road near the India-China border in Uttarakhand that collapsed on June 22 when an earthmover was being taken across it has been rebuilt by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) within a record time of five days. Traffic was restored on the stretch on Saturday. A BRO official told TOI that the bridge reconstruction was taken up on priority since it is a “strategically important link.” “Generally, it takes around a month to build a bridge like this but we were able to complete the reconstruction in a record time,” the official said. The 110-foot-long bridge, with a capacity of carrying a weight of around 30 tonnes, is important for BRO’s construction of the 64-km-long Munsyari-Milam Road which once completed will facilitate easy movement of Army and ITBP personnel to the higher Himalayan posts along the China border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-just-5-days-bro-rebuilds-bridge-near-china-border/articleshow/76668393.cms||Prem Punetha
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoist courier held, Rs 17 lakh seized||HYDERABAD: Two persons, including a courier of outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist), were arrested by Mulugu police and Rs 17 lakhs cash was recovered from them. The courier Jagapathi, joined the Maosit party in 2006 was earlier arrested in 2010. After obtaining bail, he started working for Maoists again. Jagapathi was allegedly given the task to collect cash from an employee of a beat leaf contractor and hand it over to top leadership of the party. He is accused of having links with key leaders of state committee of Maoists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-courier-held-rs-17l-seized/articleshow/76667710.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Ban online teaching upto Class IV: PFG||Panaji: The Progressive Front of Goa demanded that the state government should ban online classes for students from kindergarten to Class IV in Goa, adopting the stand taken by the Karnataka government. Pandurang Nadkarni said that prolonged use of gadgets can lead to eye problems in such young children. He said that the organisation is pained by the contradictory circulars and statements by authorities on the issues of reopening of schools, attendance of teaching staff and online classes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ban-online-teaching-upto-class-iv-pfg/articleshow/76668037.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Missing old data makes online tax payment tough in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Citizen groups, residents welfare associations and experts have raised questions about the old property tax data, which was gathered over the last 12 years, not being utilised in the new portal made by National Informatics Centre. The taxpayers, meanwhile, have to feed all the data again while filing their taxes. United Residents Joint Action (URJA) says that the new portal is more inconvenient and defeats the purpose of the entire revamp exercise. A letter in this regard has also been written to LG Anil Baijal highlighting the problems being faced by taxpayers. “They are asking for more information regarding the properties. Mutation, registration, e-mail address and what not. Many senior citizens do not have an e-mail address. There is a large section of population in Delhi which cannot furnish these details,” said Atul Goel, who heads URJA. He added that integrating new features in the previous website would have been a better option. “Everyone is being asked to file a fresh form. If the target is to increase the collection, why are the taxpayers being inconvenienced?” he asked. The letter to the LG states: “The portal asks you to register yourself as a user first before moving forward...This feature is making it difficult for the consumer to pay fast. Even if you try registering afresh, it shows an error.” Sudha Sinha who heads the Dwarka CGHS federation said that they have received numerous complaints about the new portal, especially from senior citizens. “The corporation has UPIC numbers of properties. If we file UPIC number, all the details should be shown,” she added. “I had made the old software 12 years ago on a pro-bono basis. The new software is leading to chaos,” rued Sudhir Vohra who was associated with the development of the old software. “The data collected over the last decade has not been migrated to the new software. Earlier, whenever you put the unique property number in the portal, your ‘last return’ used to come on screen. You could alter the details easily,” he said. “If some changes in existing data occur, such as a new room is built or the ownership changes, then only those data points should be changed. The fact that URJA and RWAs are complaining shows that the new system is not friendly,” he added. Senior corporation officials said that feedback would be taken into account while updating the software and taxpayers, for now, could use the old cheque-based payment methods. “The old data was not in uniform format. If any discrepancy exists in the new entries, we can still cross check it with the old data. Addition of mobile numbers and e-mail addresses will help us in linking properties to particular individuals for more transparency,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/missing-old-data-makes-online-tax-payment-tough/articleshow/76667713.cms||Paras Singh
June 28, 2020||Goa||Govt will decide on Sanjivani factory within 2 months: Gaude||Panaji: The government has not taken any decision to shutdown Sanjivani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana, but a decision will be taken within two months, cooperation minister Govind Gaude said on Friday. It is not possible for the government to set-up a new factory, Gaude said while reacting to reports that the sugar unit would be closed. The minister said that the government has decided to consult all stakeholders before taking a final decision. Chief minister Pramod Sawant held a meeting with deputy chief minister and agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, Gaude and others on Friday. The accumulated loss of the factory over the years is Rs 153 crore, Gaude told reporters after the meeting. It is the government’s responsibility to see various options to take it forward as the factory is run on taxpayer’s money and the machinery at the factory is deteriorating, he said. The minister said that the Goa State Pollution Control Board and inspectorate of factories and boilers are not giving permissions to restart the factory. “When authorities are not given permissions, then it is not right to start it forcibly,” he said. A new plant will require Rs 186 crore and the government is unable to spend that much money, the minister further said. He said that the cost of sugar production is Rs 9,300 per metric tonne and if the government sells sugar in the market then it would get around Rs 2,640 per metric tonne. “The present sugar price in the market is around Rs 36/kg, but the production cost of sugar at Sanjivani is Rs 76/kg,” Gaude said. He said that the factory suffers an annual loss of around Rs 20 crore. “It is not possible to continue to bear the loss as it will continue to rise,” the minister said. Kavalekar said that if the government decides to close the factory then it will consult the farmers before taking any decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-will-decide-on-sanjivani-factory-within-2-months-gaude/articleshow/76658844.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Desert Grizzled Skipper seen in Thar after 67 years||JAISALMER: After 67 years, the Desert Grizzled Skipper species of butterfly has been spotted in Thar desert. This butterfly was believed to have become extinct in India. Zoology assistant professor at SB Government College in Jaisalmer, Dr Shyam Sunder Meena, who is doing a research on butterflies for the last many years, claimed to have found the species in Amarsagar area of the district. Meena has a picture of the Desert Grizzled Skipper, which is said to be is fist photograph in south Asia taken after 1949. Over the years, many species of butterflies in the world have become extinct. Butterfly expert Mohammad Akram Avam, resident of Rawalpindi in Pakistan, has congratulated Meena on his find. They said the species was last seen in 1949 at Deesa in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/desert-grizzled-skipper-seen-in-thar-after-67-years/articleshow/76667711.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Civic body steps up operations to contain vector diseases||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in its bid to contain vector-borne diseases has started cleaning operations on the Musi and are also planting mosquito repellent plants along its banks. As part of their drive, they have also fixed trackers on fogging machines. Clearing stagnant water from residential areas is also one of the activities proposed. GHMC chief entomologist Ram Babu said that two portable fogging machines were being allotted to every division and each machine will cover at least two kilometres every day. As per their records, two vehicle-mounted fogging machines are allotted to every circle and each machine has to cover at least 18 kilometres. Nearly two thousand employees have been pressed into service across parts of the city to execute anti-larval operations (ALOs). Spraying of temephos, creating awareness among locals and emptying containers with unused water are some of the operations as part of this exercise. “Pyrethrum spraying will be done in and around houses where dengue cases have been identified,” said a GHMC official. Dropping oil balls in stagnation points, releasing Gambhusia fish in water bodies are the other activities which are being taken up to fight vector-borne diseases. The civic body is also emphasising on information, education and communication (IEC) among locals. “We will spread awareness about vector-borne diseases and preventive measures that need to be taken,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civic-body-steps-up-ops-to-contain-vector-diseases/articleshow/76667812.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 2 auto drivers get 23-year jail for kidnap-rape||HYDERABAD: Two persons who gangraped a 19-year-old in Musheerabad in 2015 were convicted by a Nampally court on Saturday. The X Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge handed out 23-year of rigorous imprisonment to the duo. Mohammed Osman, 35, and Piyush Jain,30, both autorickshaw drivers, kidnapped the girl by forcing her into an autorickshaw and then raped her in 2015. The survivor had acquittance with Osman, who hatched a plan along with Piyush. Nearly six months after she lodged a complaint, the girl died when the case was still under investigation. The two were convicted for kidnap and gangrape and handed out the punishment on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-auto-drivers-get-23-yr-jail-for-kidnap-rape/articleshow/76667822.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman killed in rock blasting at Kondapur||HYDERABAD: A controlled rock blasting at an under-construction site in Kondapur on Saturday proved fatal for a labourer when a heavy stone flew like a missile and knocked her down. Thankfully, no other construction worker suffered injuries. A case was registered by Madhapur police. The freak incident took place at around 12.30 pm. Lingamma (35) died on the spot. Police said rocks were being dismantled at the site to construct a cellar. “Controlled rock breaking was going on when suddenly a big stone flew in the air and hit Lingamma. Though she was far away from the blasting location, she was flung a few feet away under the impact,” Madhapur inspector S Venkat Reddy told STOI. Police said that the construction company had obtained permission from the authorities concerned to undertake controlled rock blasting. But, officials said they will be checking if mandatory precautions were followed by the construction company while organising the controlled blasting at the site. Police said the heavy stone flew at a high speed and hit Lingamma’s head with great force, leading to her instantaneous death. A case under section 304-A (negligence causing death) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. Police said that they will be interrogating the contractor first. Almost all the stone blocks beneath the surface at the construction site were broken into pieces. The mishap occurred when the rock breaking exercise was being done along the corners. The location of this site is surrounded by several top MNCs. Officials said that they will also verify CCTV camera footage and record the statements of eyewitnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-killed-in-rock-blasting-at-kondapur/articleshow/76667762.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist sees 201 fresh cases||Aurangabad: As many as 201 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were registered in Aurangabad district on Saturday, taking the total number of patients to 4,723. Of the total number of confirmed patients, 2,373 have already been discharged from various hospitals after recovery, said officials of the district administration’s health department. Acording to officials, more cases are being reported from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) limits, whereas the rural areas are registering fewer cases. A total of 125 patients were detected in the city limits on Saturday as against 76 patients from rural parts of the district, particularly those situated closer to the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-sees-201-fresh-cases/articleshow/76666062.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Varanasi||UP board results: Dist toppers aspireto be IAS officers to serve the country||Varanasi: The Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP) on Saturday declared the results for class 10th and class 12th board exams on its official website. The results brought smile on the faces of Dheeraj Patel and Akshay Kumar who ranked first in the district in high school and intermediate examinations respectively. Both the boys who passed with flying colours come from rural belts of the district and belong to a very humble background. Dheeraj, son of an auto-rickshaw driver hails from a remote village in Badagaon area of the district while Akshay is a son of a weaver. Dheeraj, a student of Shri Baldev Inter College, Badagaon gave all the credit of his success to his parents and teachers. He topped the result tally with an overall percentage of 92.83 (557 out of 600 marks). Dheeraj’s neighours were elated after the results were announced and gathered at his house to celebrate the precious moment. Dheeraj’s father-Jaiprakash was not present at the occassion as he was doing his job of running the auto-rickshaw.in the city. My teachers took extra care of my studies and mentored me at every step. I want to continue working hard on my studies as I want to become an IAS officer. Similar celebrations were seen near the house of Akshay Kumar who is a son of a weaver and proved his mettle over 48000 students in the class 12th board examinations. Dheeraj who scored 439 marks out of 500 clelebrated his success with his principal and teachers. A student of Smarak Intermediate College in Mehdiganj area of Rajatalab, Akshay wants to serve the nation by becoming an IAS officer. Vishesh Sonkar of PNGIC Ramnagar and Karan Pal of ABVIC Saravanpur jointly secured the second place in the district while Sabya Pandey was ranked third. Rajan Kumar, Akash Kumar and Naina Kumari stood at fourth position while Vijay Patel and Komal Verma were at fifth position. Priyanka Rajbhar, Akanksha Maurya, Sneha Patel stood at sixth, seventh and eight positions respectively and Divakar Maurya, Ankit Patel, Akshara Kasera and Khushi Singh stood at ninth position. The tenth position was secured by Savita Bind. The pass percentage in class 10th remained 85.72 while in class 12th it remained 77.93. According to the information shared by the UP Board’s Varanasi regional office, a total of 57694 students had registered for the high school examinations, of which 53940 had appeared in the examination and 46238 could succeed. In intermediate examinations, a total of 50929 students had registered, of which 48368 appeared in the examinations and 37694 could succeed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-board-results-dist-toppers-aspireto-be-ias-officers-to-serve-the-country/articleshow/76667723.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Residents suspect poisoning behind death of 2 dogs at Gunrock Enclave||HYDERABAD: The two dogs that died at Gunrock Enclave in Secunderabad on Thursday were suspected to have consumed food laced with poison. The incident came to light after the video in which a few residents from the colony and para veterinarians were trying to revive the dogs went viral on social media. “On June 25, one of the dogs was found lying in the compound of my house around 2.30 p.m. It began convulsing and was displaying signs of a seizure. We immediately called one of the caregivers of the dogs from our colony, who is also a doctor. At first, she said it could be a case of cardiac arrest, but she suspected poisoning after she noticed that the tongue of the dog had turned blue,” one of the residents, N Pradeep told STOI. “The dogs were living in the colony for close to eight years. They are all sterilised and regularly inoculated. They are docile and we have never seen them attack or bite anyone,” he added. “While the dog which was found inside the compound had died within an hour after it was found, the other dog died after suffering for about four hours. I hope the culprits are identified soon. We are concerned the perpetrators may try to poison other dogs too,” said another resident. Volunteers of People for Animals have registered an FIR at Kharkhana police station. A case was registered under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Bodies of both dogs have been sent for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-suspect-poisoning-behind-death-of-2-dogs-at-gunrock-enclave/articleshow/76667794.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 6 arrested for fraud using duplicate SIM||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad cybercrime team arrested six persons for cheating a person and withdrawing close to Rs 2 lakh from their bank account by swapping their SIM card. The accused were identified as Eswar Pavan from Visakhapatnam, Madan Mohan Reddy from Anantapur, Shaik Karim from Vijayawada, Rajendra from Chittoor, Babji Babu from West Godavari and Sandeep Verman from Rajahmundry. The victim Ramakrishnan from Miyapur, while receiving treatment at a hospital, got a message that the amount of Rs 1.85 lakh had been withdrawn from his bank account using his credentials. A case was registered. During investigation, police found out that Pavan had obtained details of the victim from Karim. He then hatched a plan with his associates to use the details to withdraw the money by obtaining a SIM card using the victim’s credentials. While Rajenra collected debit card details and ID proof of the victim, Pavan and Mohan initiated OTP-based transactions and trasferred the money to accounts held by Babji and Sandeep. They then split the amount among themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-arrested-for-fraud-using-duplicate-sim/articleshow/76667817.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Govt’s measures will provide minor relief: GCCI||Panaji: The relief measures outlined by the state government for the industry will provide minor relief as they offer “short-term deferment of liabilities” for the industry which has suffered huge economic setbacks, said president of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry Manoj Caculo. Caculo, who was speaking at GCCI’s annual general meeting, said that the industry is disappointed with the measures taken by the government as the industry expected more relief measures. “Considering the financial health of the state, we had not asked for any grants or monetary benefits which would have cash outflow for the government. However, not considering our repeated requests for relief in various government charges even for the lockdown period was very disappointing and disheartening,” Caculo said. On Friday, chief minister Pramod Sawant spelled out the various measures taken by the state government to aid industry and economic revival. “These measures amount to just short term deferment of liabilities. Industry has suffered and it was hoping that the government would provide actual financial relief and to that extent, we feel disappointed,” Caculo said. The nationwide lockdown, triggered by Covid-19, inflicted a huge blow on economic activity. The industry had made several requests, including waiver of fixed charges, demand charges and electricity duty for the lockdown period when everything was shut. Instead, the state has offered a three month moratorium, which, Caculo said, is not going to really make a big difference. GCCI said that resumption of responsible and sustainable mining activity could help the state exchequer and the industry. “It is a matter of deep concern that the state’s financial condition is in shambles. No revenue from mining, negligible revenue from GST, next to nothing from excise and VAT is a worrisome situation. And with no sign of an immediate recovery it is expected that the state’s financial condition may further deteriorate,” Caculo added. The GCCI president lauded the efforts of Chicalim parish priest Fr Bolmax Pereira, who has promoted farming and Ambelim’s seafarer, Succoro Fernandes who has taken to selling fish to make ends meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govts-measures-will-provide-minor-relief-gcci/articleshow/76668273.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vadodara||Anand registers 14 more cases in 24 hrs||Vadodara/Anand: The spike in the number of Covid-19 cases continued in Anand district which for the second consecutive day recorded 14 fresh cases. So far, Friday was the day when the district witnessed highest single-day spike in cases as 14 individuals had tested positive. On Saturday, too, the district recorded 14 new cases within 24 hours taking the total number of cases to 221. Except one case from Borsad’s Qureshi Mohallah and two cases from Khambhat’s Ambakhad Road and Pirajpur areas, all the other positive cases were from Anand taluka. The fresh cases in Anand have surfaced from Chikodra, Paradise Society, Relief township, Ismailnagar, Moyrui Chisva township, Nutannagar, Polson Dairy Road, Shalimar Society, Juna Dadar, Sahil Park and Fenil Park Society. With this the total number of patients currently under treatment has touched 45, of which 17 are being treated at Shree Krishna Hospital, 26 at Muslim Medical Center, Vadodara and one each at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri and Bankers Hospital, Vadodara. Six patients are currently on ventilator, ten on oxygen support while the condition of 29 is said to be stable. The total number of discharges stand at 155, while 13 deaths due to Covid-19 and 8 for other reasons have been reported by the health officials. So far, 4,875 samples have been tested of which 4,654 have turned out to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anand-registers-14-more-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/76666513.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Southern Railway cancels trains in Tamil Nadu after govt request||CHENNAI: The lockdown and the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the interior parts of the state seem to have hit railways’ plans to run point-to-point special trains. Based on a request from the state government, Southern Railway has from June 29 cancelled Trichy-Chengalpet-Trichy (via Vriddhachalam), Trichy-Chengalpet-Trichy (via Mayiladuthurai), Arakkonam-Coimbatore-Arakkonam, Madurai-Villupuram-Madurai, Coimbatore-Katpadi-Coimbatore, Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore, and Trichy-Nagercoil-Trichy daily special trains that were being operated as part of resuming services. Full refund will be given to those who made advance reservation and those who booked tickets online will get refunded automatically. Tickets bought at counters can be refunded up to six months from the date of journey, said a statement from railways. The trains were not popular among travellers because they were not linked to Chennai. Those towards Chennai were run only up to Chengalpet and Arakkonam to avoid the city. “The restrictions due to the lockdown were also a reason for the low patronage. There were hardly any bookings for AC chair cars for the train from Arakkonam to Coimbatore on June 28. Of the 105 seats, 97 seats were available for booking. Sources said the demand from the government comes when railways was looking at gradual resumption of services by introducing special trains. The next plan was to start a train from Arakkonam to Mangaluru. The routes on which the trains were running were selected by the state government as there were too many demands to start services to locations with low Covid-19 cases. Railway employees have been voicing concern about the need to work to maintain and operate trains from suburbs. T Sadagopan, a frequent traveller and consumer activist, said refunds were getting accumulated as railways had cancelled trains till mid-August. “Railways should try a system to send passengers a message on when they should get the refunds from counters, etc.,” he said. He also said railways should also be flexible to reintroduce trains as and when the situation improves. The arrivals too have dipped on the Delhi-Chennai Rajdhani Express over the last few days. A mere 600 to 800 passengers have reached the city from the national capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/s-rly-cancels-trains-in-tn-after-govt-request/articleshow/76667090.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Dehradun||BRO rebuilds in record time of 5 days crucial bridge near China border that had collapsed recently||Pithoragarh: A crucial bridge on the Munsyari-Milam road near the India-China border in Uttarakhand that collapsed on June 22 when an earthmover was being taken across it has been rebuilt by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) within a record time of five days. Traffic was restored on the stretch on Saturday. A BRO official who did not wish to be named, told TOI that the bridge reconstruction was taken up on priority since it is a “strategic important link.” “Generally, it takes around a month to build a bridge like this but we were able to complete the reconstruction of this bridge in a record time.” The 110-foot-long bridge with a capacity of carrying a weight of around 30 tonnes, is important for BRO’s construction of the 64-km-long Munsyari-Milam Road which once completed will facilitate easy movement of Army and ITBP personnel to the higher Himalayan posts along the China border. Sources said that the BRO had undertaken the bridge restoration on priority as it is the only route for movement of vehicles involved in the road construction. Speaking to TOI, Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said, “BRO has entrusted the work to a private construction company and the bridge collapse occurred when the workers were moving heavy equipment. The bridge collapse had also cut off over a dozen villages in the area. We have now set up an inquiry panel regarding the collapse, under the Munsyari sub-divisional magistrate who will submit a report within 15 days.” Meanwhile, the DM also said that the BRO has completed the construction of two more bridges on the strategically crucial road connecting Dharchula and Lipulekh Pass, inaugurated recently by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh. “The construction of bridges at Bundi and Malap were pending when the road was inaugurated by the defence minister. These have been completed on June 8 and June 26 respectively. Both will be thrown open for vehicle movement on Monday. However, passenger vehicles will be allowed on these bridges only once a week, which is most likely to be Sunday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bro-rebuilds-in-record-time-of-5-days-crucial-bridge-near-china-border-that-had-collapsed-recently/articleshow/76666088.cms||Prem Punetha
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||53,783 people entered Amreli in unauthorized manner: Govt to HC||Ahmedabad: The state government informed the Gujarat high court that as many as 53,783 persons entered Amreli district from other districts in “unauthorized manner”. They were all natives of Amreli district, who returned after the nationwide lockdown. In the latter stage of the lockdown, the state government permitted intra-state migrants to go back to their native places. Amreli district has one of the highest number of intra-state migrant workers, most of whom work in Surat. Amreli remained a zero Covid-19 district for most of the time, and its over-zealous administration blocked roads by digging them up and barricading them with gando bawal. Following an HC order, the authorities were compelled to remove the gando bawal and fill up the dug roads. In response to a PIL filed through advocate Bhaumik Dholaria, challenging the permanent barricading that also restricted emergency movements, the state government told the HC that total 39 roads were kept open for entry into Amreli district for people and vehicles with valid passes. Till date, 1,09,532 persons entered Amreli district from other states and districts of Gujarat. Of them, 53,794 persons entered the district through 39 entry points, where there were screening provisions. The remaining 55,783 persons entered the district “in an unauthorised manner”, the government told the HC in a report. It further said, that most of these persons “have come from Surat, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Vadodara, Junagadh and Botad. All such areas have been notified as Covid-19 hotspots.” Defending its zealous digging up of roads and gando bawal barricades to block vehicular movement, which also hindered an ambulance, the government told the HC that Amreli district has a population of 15 lakh and 615 gram panchayats, but the authorities did not receive a single complaint about the blocked roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/53783-people-entered-amreli-in-unauthorized-manner-govt-to-hc/articleshow/76667632.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||DHE assures students of obtaining seat in first year||Panaji: After the Class XII state board results were declared on Friday, the directorate of higher education (DHE) and Goa University instructed all colleges to make their prospectus available on their respective websites, immediately. Director of higher education Prasad Lolayekar on Friday had appealed to students not to rush to colleges for admission to first year general stream programmes. On Saturday, the directorate said that parents and students should not panic or rush to colleges as the entire first year admission process will be conducted online. “The admission process for first year BA, BCom, BSc, BCA, BBA, etc, will only commence from July 15. The directorate of higher education and Goa University have instructed all colleges to immediately make their prospectus available on their respective websites. The entire admission process will be online. Parents and students are informed that they are not required to physically visit the colleges for admissions,” the directorate said. The directorate and GU have requested parents and students “not to create a panic situation by rushing to colleges for admissions”. “The directorate assures students that the online admission process will be smooth and students need not panic. It is further clarified that all students seeking admissions to the first year courses will get admission and no student will be left out,” the DHE said. Goa University has already sent a circular to colleges telling them that the entire admission process to the first year for the academic year 2020-21 will be held online this year. The directorate of higher education is in the process of testing an online integrated management system and is set to bring all general stream colleges in the state under this system. The admissions to first year of BA, BSc, BCom, BBA and other general streams programmes will be held online through this software. The directorate will bring all colleges under one system, for uniform admission process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhe-assures-students-of-obtaining-seat-in-first-year/articleshow/76668038.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Co-writer withdraws after Aashiq snub||Kozhikode: Ramees Muhammad O, the co-writer of the film Variankunnan, has ‘temporarily’ withdrawn from the project after allegations were raised against him. In a Facebook post on Saturday, Ramees claimed that he will come back to the project once he clears all the allegations. “I have already apologised for certain comments which I myself found improper. But other charges are quoted out of context or misinterpreted,” he said. Ramees said that he is confident that he can disprove all the allegations and prove his innocence before the public. “But the allegations have affected those who are associated with the movie project. So, I have decided to stay away from the project till I prove my innocence. I have officially informed this to the producers of the movie,” Ramees said. Meanwhile, director of the movie Aashiq Abu said that he has no agreement with Ramees’s political belief and that Ramees had the responsibility to clear the allegations levelled against him. “He had apologized for some of them,” Aashiq said. He said Ramees has decided to stay away from the project, but he will move ahead with the film. Later, in an interview, Ramees said the brouhaha is over a comment he made on Facebook on an actress around eight years ago. He admits it was misogynistic and is sorry for making such an immature comment. Reacting to the allegation that he is a supporter of Taliban, Ramees said he loves watching movies and listening to songs, indicating that such a person can never support Taliban. The allegation was raised pointing out Ramees’s Facebook post years ago. Ramees said the target of those levelling allegations is not him but Variankunnath Kunjahammad Haji, who is still giving sleepless nights to many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/co-writer-withdraws-after-aashiq-snub/articleshow/76667153.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Release sterilised strays in the same locality, urge activists||Madurai: Animals activists have urged the Madurai Corporation to release stray dogs caught for sterilization, at the same location, as per Animal Birth Control (dogs) Rules, 2001. They said that when strays are already finding it difficult to get food for their survival, releasing them in different locations would make it even harder for them to survive. According to the activists, usually, dogs are caught based on complaints from residents, but in most cases, the wrong ones are picked up for animal birth control. When they are released in different locations, they find themselves in a different environment. They also come under attack by dogs already existing in the area, as strays are very much territorial animals. K P Marikumar, an animal activist and a resident of Mahatma Gandhi Nagar, said that a four-year-old female dog which was taken care of by him was caught by the corporation. While the complainant had made a call against a different dog, the female dog, which gave birth to puppies only two months ago, was taken away. “When I asked a corporation health official, he said the dog would be released in in a day. But it returned three days later that too after I took up the issue at various levels including petitioning the chief minister’s cell,” he said. Marikumar said the dog should have been handed over to him, but it was released somewhere else. The dog, however, managed to reach him. Corporation staff are frequently involved in such violations, he charged. P R Vishwanath of Oorvanam claimed that dogs are not only released elsewhere, but also not taken care of well at sterilization centres. “Most of the dogs released back develop skin infection as they move closely with other dogs. The infection leads to even death in some cases. In many cases, dogs are caught in one place and released in another place without conducting animal birth control,” he said. A health official said that all the dog catchers will be sensitized about the rules and it will be ensured that they are released in the same locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/release-sterilised-strays-in-the-same-locality-urge-activists/articleshow/76667732.cms||V Devanathan
June 28, 2020||Agra||6.8L UP Board students failed to clear mother language ‘Hindi’||Agra: More than 6.8 lakh students — both Classes X and XII — across the state failed to clear the mother language ‘Hindi’ paper in the UP board exams the results for which were declared on Saturday. According to data available with the secondary education department, 5,27,680 high school and 1,61,753 intermediate students failed in general Hindi — a compulsory subject in the UP board — taking the cumulative figure to 6,89,433. Besides Hindi, this year, students also did not perform well in maths, physics, English, Sanskrit, etc. A total of 56,10,819 students — 30,24,480 in high school and 25,86,339 in intermediate — had got themselves registered to appear in the board exams this year, but more than 3.5 lakh students quit. The pass percentage for Class X is 83.31 while it’s 74.63 for Class 12. According to subject-wise pass percentages, the intermediate result has 84.04 students passing biology, 79.55 chemistry, 76.11 physics, 70.35 mathematics, and 86.64 economics, while 89.77% students cleared general Hindi, 81.55% English, 73.63% Sanskrit and 93.5% Urdu. On the other side, in high school, 81.64% students passed general Hindi, 80.51% English, 72.99% mathematics, 62.5% Sanskrit, 80.4% science and 82.64% social science, whereas Class X students performed comparatively well in computer science with 89.7% passing the exam. Bhojkumar Sharma, district president, State Senior Secondary Teachers Association, said, “As compared to the previous year, students have performed well in most of the subjects. The pass percentages for both high school and intermediate have also improved. But, over 6.8 lakh students failing to clear Hindi paper is unfortunate. Very few students were able to secure marks above 90% in Hindi. One of the main reasons behind the unsatisfactory performance in the subject could be the lengthy question paper as even the brightest of students failed to attempt all questions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-8l-up-board-students-failed-to-clear-mother-language-hindi/articleshow/76666078.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 28, 2020||Pune||Delayed stipend payment troubles research fellows||PUNE: Junior and senior research fellows are unhappy with the inordinate delay in disbursement of stipends. The wait has stretched on for as long as four to 10 months for some of them. The delay may dissuade students from taking up research in future, they said. At a time when research on Covid-19 has taken centre stage, students feel that if the government does not find a permanent solution to the delay in paying stipends, many good students will choose to get a job rather than get into research, especially those from the lower economic strata of society. A senior research fellow said, “My stipend was delayed for almost 10 months. My family can support me but it’s not the same case with everyone else. Many research fellows come from poor backgrounds and remote villages. One student has quit as his family could not support him. There may have been other reasons too but not having money was a big factor.” Students want a fixed date, when the stipend would reach them, and a contact person, who can provide information. “I support my younger sister’s education. I have to pay her fee and make arrangements for other expenses. I also have to pay the institute’s fees here along with the mess fee without delay. If the stipend gets delayed, all our financial planning takes a hit,” said a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research senior research fellow. Another senior fellow spoke about how the delay will discourage good students from taking up research. “One can always learn coding and join an MNC rather than opt for research. If I spend five years at any MNC, I could earn double what I am earning now. We do this because we love it but the government needs to support students so that there is good quality research in the country. The race for the Covid-19 vaccine has shown the world the importance of scientists. We should not lag behind,” said a senior fellow from the National Chemical Laboratory, Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delayed-stipend-payment-troubles-research-fellows/articleshow/76667719.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 28, 2020||Goa||Goa CM’s online classes remark dissuades students: Teachers||PANAJI: After chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement on June 22 that online classes are not mandatory to be held and also attended by students, there has been a marked disinterest in the classes among students, said president of Higher Secondary Teachers Association of Goa (HISTAG) Anant Pissurlekar. Pissurlekar said that he has been getting several calls from distraught teachers complaining him of drop in attendance. He said even those attending classes are showing lower interest than earlier. He also said that teachers like him invested in expensive laptops and on getting internet connectivity at home after the directorate of education initially insisted on online classes. “But then the CM took a stand that teachers should be mandatorily called to school from June 24. I am not getting any network there. Teachers have been left miserable because of such thoughtless statements,” he said. “What was the need for the CM to say that online classes are not mandatory when teachers had already started them following training by the education department to nearly 12,000 teachers,” Pissurlekar questioned. He said that it is not clear what the CM is trying to convey from his contradictory statements. “Some days back he himself had said that due to Covid-19 there will be a delay in opening of schools. But due to his latest statement, students who were paying attention to the online classes are distracted and have started neglecting classes. As a result, the attendance is declining every day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cms-online-classes-remark-dissuades-pupils-teachers/articleshow/76668042.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Lilac butterfly spotted in Kumbhalgarh||UDAIPUR: Scientists from the Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF) and the Mohanlal Sukhadia University working on sloth bear ecology at the Kumbhalgarh Sanctuary in Southern Rajasthan have incidentally identified a new species of butterfly, spotted for the first time here. The pale-looking butterfly was sunning itself on a rock in the morning sun when Swati Kittur, one of the members of NCF recognised it to be a strange species of silverline butterfly. Later it was identified as a very rare lilac silverline. This species of butterfly was discovered in the 1880s, but only one resident population was known from Bengaluru. Dr Vijay, another member of the team, said it was the first sighting of the lilac silverline in Rajasthan, and also for the Aravalli Hills. The scientists have now published their observation in the open-source ‘Journal of Threatened Taxa’ of this new record of a very rare species that is protected by the Indian Wildlife Protection Act under Schedule II. Dr Gopi Sunder, an expert on birds and butterflies also completed a comprehensive literature review of the lilac silverline in the scientific paper. The species had been previously seen in very small numbers in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand states in India, and Rawalpindi in Pakistan. In their paper, the scientists have pointed out that the butterfly specimen they saw was the ‘dry form’ and make a call for more detailed observations of lesser-known animals like butterflies in Rajasthan. This observation shows that sanctuaries like Kumbhalgarh are important not only for mammals such as bears and hyenas, but are also critical for rare insects like the lilac silverline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lilac-butterfly-spotted-in-kumbhalgarh/articleshow/76667717.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Govt, rural schools propel Class XII pass percentage||Panaji: On Friday, a pass percentage of 89.3% was recorded at the Class XII results of the state board. This was one of the highest pass percentages at the exam ever in the history of the board. While, with all the resources at their disposal, city schools are known to do well regardless, a good overall performance of the board is not possible without rural schools outdoing themselves. At this year exam, rural schools put up an exceptional performance, including four government higher secondary schools which recorded pass percentage of over 80%. The institutes said that the trick was to carry out continuous assessment of students through the year, which helped teachers conduct remedial teaching accordingly. The schools said that exposing students to extra-curricular activities, meditation techniques, positive thinking and motivational speakers also helped. “After school hours, we would supervise the students as they studied in the school in the afternoons, as they may not have the same kind of supervision at home. We followed the concept of parenting. We gave each teacher the responsibility of five students. And we got out students to solve different board question papers and we would check the answersheets and guide them accordingly. This built up the required confidence in them,” said Anil Vernekar, principal of Siddharth Bandodkar Higher Secondary School, Velguem, an institute located in the rural area and an active mining belt. The school saw 135 students answer the board exams from the institute and recorded an overall pass percentage of 95.7%, with 100% result in the commerce stream. The institute’s student Akshata Jog scored 91% in the arts stream, a major feat in this rural area. Vernekar said that the school laid stress on both quantity as well as quality results. “Even after the common prelims conducted across schools, we conducted post prelims again to prepare our students. When the board exam was on and there was a gap between two papers, we called the students to school to help them with revision. This is a mining belt and there is no concept of tuitions and they are entirely dependent on school teaching. We kept constant touch with the students and this helped,” said Vernekar. Another rural institute Shri Kamaleshwar Higher Secondary School, Korgao, Pernem, also registered a pass percentage of 98.9%. “Pernem taluka has five higher secondary schools and we do the best always. Rupal Govind Shetye from our school scored 95% in arts stream. Being a rural school, we rarely get academically good students. Our teachers take short tests after every chapter. They take at least three tests a week. It leads to continuous evaluation. We take pre-prelims in December and teachers based on the result guide individual students. And for those lagging behind, we take a post-prelim as well. It keeps them engaged in studies through the year,” said school principal Sudan Barve. He said that the institute’s teachers work through the Diwali and Christmas vacations with the students. “We also holds other programmes to inculcate values in them only then the studies will be absorbed better. I have full cooperation from our teachers. Every 15 days we invite someone to speak to students on different current topics. We lay stress on all-round development of child. It gives the required mental preparation to students,” said Barve. Principal of Government Higher Secondary School, Sakhali, Asha Naik also credited her teachers for home visits as a special effort to find the cause behind the students who were lagging behind. The institute recorded a pass percentage of 82.7%. “We mostly get average and weak students. They require continuous attention. There are students who do not get attention at home. We make sure they participate in extra-curricular activities and focus more on remedial teaching. And if their performance is still not improving then the teachers go to their home on their own to find out what is the cause of this poor performance. My teachers’ efforts are worth appreciating. Our physics teacher Shambu Bandekar has got us 100% results in the subject,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-rural-schools-propel-class-xii-pass-percentage/articleshow/76668041.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rs 50L solatium for family of deceased health worker||Thiruvananthapuram: The family of a 46-year-old health worker who had died in a road accident in Nedumangad have received Rs 50 lakh as insurance coverage. S Kumari, a native of Parandodu near Aryanad, worked as hospital management committee staff attender grade-II at District Hospital, Nedumangad. On May 27, when Kumari was on her way to the hospital for night duty at Covid-isolation ward, she met with an accident and died. The insurance claim was allotted under central government scheme Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana for health workers fighting Covid-19. “Understanding the financial situation of the family of the deceased, the health department could expedite the disbursal of the insurance amount without troubling them. The death of Kumari, who worked sincerely and with dedication in the fight against Covid, is a loss to the hospital,” health minister K K Shailaja said. The insurance certificate of Rs 50 lakh was handed over by Shailaja to Kumari's children R K Sreenath and R K Shruthinath on Friday. District panchayat president V K Madhu, New India Assurance company senior divisional manager Dr Krishna Prasad, state nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Amar Fettle and Nedumangad district hospital superintendent Dr Shilpa were present. S Kumari had been working at District Hospital, Nedumangad, from 2013. She took care of the patients at Covid OP and isolation ward which was started in March at the hospital. She helped in the disinfecting Covid-isolation ward and transporting samples collected from patients. “She was deputed in the isolation ward due to her sincerity. Health department and Arogya Keralam took steps to expedite the insurance claim procedure considering her dedication towards her work,” said a the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rs-50l-solatium-for-family-of-deceased-health-worker/articleshow/76667108.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai college questioned by HC on minimum attendance||MUMBAI: Bombay high court frowned at Mithibai College at Vile Parle (W) for allowing students with 60% attendance to appear for summer exams while asserting before it that minimum 70% attendance was mandatory. Observing that it involved the future of several students, a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Nitin Borkar directed it to take “adequate steps”. The judges on June 26 heard a petition by a student, filed by her advocate Harshad Bhadbhade. She had 58.9% attendance in the fourth semester of SYBCom but the college permitted students with 59% attendance to appear for exams and promoted them to the next year. The HC on March 12 had dismissed a petition by 107 students, observing that it was not possible for court to compromise with attendance discipline. The autonomous college had debarred 550 senior students from arts, commerce, science and self-financing courses. They were to appear for second, fourth and sixth semesters exams. The judges, in their June 26 order, said principal Rajpal Hande had in his June 18 reply stated that students must have 70% attendance in each subject and 75% overall attendance in lectures, tutorials and practicals. Hande said students who had less than 75% attendance had to take readmission in the same semester in the subsequent academic year. The judges said on June 26, for the first time, the college stated that it allowed students with 60% attendance to appear for exams. Hande admitted that a student with 59.2% attendance was allowed to appear. He said the decision was taken on March 6. The judges questioned why this was suppressed in the college’s June 18 reply while asserting 70% attendance was mandatory. And also if the earlier bench, which dismissed 107 students’ petition on March 12 was informed of the March 6 decision. The judges said it was “clear” from the March 12 order that the court was not informed the college decided to allow students with 59.2/60% to appear for semester IV exams. “Keeping in view that the matter involved serious issues pertaining to attendance discipline, which the (Mithibai) college wants to assert, and also as it involved the future of many students, we are granting time to the college to take adequate steps,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-college-questioned-by-hc-on-minimum-attendance/articleshow/76667803.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 28, 2020||Agra||Teenager bludgeoned to death||Agra: A 16-year-old boy was bludgeoned to death by unidentified assailants. He had gone missing on Friday. His semi-naked body was found in an open field near Bada Ukhara area of Sadar police limit on Saturday morning. The victim has been identified as Ali Hussain. He used to work as an electrician to support his family. Shaan Mohammad, elder brother of the victim said, “After having dinner, Ali left home to meet someone but never returned. His face was brutally smashed with blunt object.” SP (city) Rohan Botre said, “It’s a clear case of murder. A FIR of murder under IPC (302) has been lodged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/teenager-bludgeoned-to-death/articleshow/76666100.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Support price for coconuts, cashew, kidney beans hiked||Margao: The state government has notified revision in the assured support price for coconuts, cashew nuts, and kidney beans (alsando) under the ‘assured price for Agricultural Produce–2016’ scheme of the agriculture department. The revised rates will come into effect from the current financial year. The assured support rate for coconut has been hiked from earlier Rs10 to Rs12. Accordingly, “the benefit of assured price shall be provided to the coconut sold to the registered traders to the extent of difference between assured rate of Rs12 and the price received per coconut by the farmer,” the amendment reads. The average minimum price fixed per coconut has also been hiked from Rs4 per coconut to Rs6. The assured support price for cashew nuts has been hiked from Rs100 per kg to Rs125 per kg. “Benefit of assured price of Rs125 shall be provided to raw cashew nuts sold by farmers to the extent of difference between Rs125 per kg, and the price received per kilogram by the farmer,” the amendment reads. The price received shall be the actual price received by sale, or average rate for the week notified by the Goa state agricultural marketing board (GSAMB), whichever is higher. In case the rates are not notified for the week by GSAMB, the last rates as notified would be considered as the rate of sale in the market, the notification read. The maximum limit of difference of the amount between the assured price of Rs125 and the actual sale price below the assured price shall be Rs25 per kg. For kidney beans, the assured support price has been raised from Rs70 per kg to Rs100 per kg. “Benefit of the assured price of Rs100 per kg. of alsando shall be provided for the alsando sold by the grower to the extent of difference between Rs100 per kg, and the actual price received per kilogram by the farmer from sale to co-operative societies,” reads the amendment. While a maximum of 800kg from one hectare of area shall be considered for the benefit provided under the scheme, the minimum quantity to be sold by farmer to avail benefit shall not be less than 50kgs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/support-price-for-coconuts-cashew-kidney-beans-hiked/articleshow/76658855.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Man claims GMCH made him buy meds from pvt shop||Aurangabad: A man has complained that during his wife’s delivery at the Aurangabad government medical college and hospital earlier this week, he was asked to purchase medicines from a private pharmacy. NGOs working at the GMCH have backed the allegations. Shivkumar Balaji Munde, 25, a resident of Gangapur tehsil, has submitted his complaint to the district administration along with the prescriptions that were given to him by the hospital. His wife was initially treated at Waluj, before being referred to the GMCH. She was admitted to the hospital on June 22 and delivered a baby girl. Munde claimed that during his wife’s five-day hospitalisation, he was made to purchase medicines as well as sanitizers, gloves, sanitary pads etc, collectively billed for Rs 7,500. When contacted, GMCH head of gynaecology department Shrinivas Gadappa said, “There are definitely some issues, including short supply of required articles and medicines here.” Aurangabad district collector Uday Choudhary told TOI: “We have taken serious cognizance of the complaint and have sent an officer with orders to initiate an inquiry. I am personally visiting GMCH on Sunday for a first-hand review before taking any action. MP demands dean’s suspension, probe Citing Munde’s complaint, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel on Saturday alleged that GMCH authorities had misled chief minister Uddhav Thackeray by claiming that there was adequate stock of required medicines at the hospital. “A couple of days back, during one of our meetings attended by all MLAs, MPs and senior authorities, I specifically asked about the stock of essential medicines. The GMCH authorities had then said that they had adequate stocks.” Jaleel has demanded suspension of the hospital dean and a high-level inquiry into the incident. He further claimed that the task force, comprising GMCH dean, civil surgeon and private hospitals, has not met since its formation. As a result, patients are not getting benefits of the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-claims-gmch-made-him-buy-meds-from-pvt-shop/articleshow/76666106.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||A day of high jumps as tally job ends; record 2,077 cases in Mumbai||MUMBAI: As the “reconciliation process” to iron out the discrepancies in the number of Covid-19 cases ended on Saturday, the total case count in both the state and the city jumped significantly. The city added its highest single-day tally of 2,077 cases, many of them “reconciled” cases, and registered 105 deaths on Saturday. The total stood at 74,252 cases so far while the death toll rose to 4,284 . The public health department added 6,368 cases to the state count — the highest so far in a day — to take the total to 1.59 lakh cases on Saturday, while deaths numbered 167. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the tally was high because of reconciliation. “These cases were pending due to reconciliation. Today the reconciliation process has been completed with old positive cases added to the total cases,” he said. The reconciliation of the positive patients and death cases of all the districts and corporations was for the period between March 9 and June 7. Earlier in the day, health minister Rajesh Tope said the state had reported 5,318 cases within a 48-hour period ending on Saturday, while 76,600 were active cases. “Of the total 8.96 lakh tests, 1,59,133 results were positive,” Tope said. State officials said the recovery rate was almost 53%. On Saturday, 4,430 patients recovered in the state, with the cumulative tally of 84,245 so far. Of the 167 deaths added on Saturday, 86 occurred in the preceding 48 hours while 81 were from a previous period and which have been shown in the progressive figures instead of daily columns, said the state. The state’s fatality rate was 4.57% and the city’s, 5.76%. The BMC said that of the 105 deaths registered on Saturday, 41 had occurred in the last 48 hours and 64 were from a previous period. The BMC update said 68 patients had co-morbidities. While six of the victims were below 40 years of age, 53 were above 60 and 46 were between 40 and 60 years. The BMC has planned serosurvey in three wards to know the spread of Covid-19 infection. A BMC official said the ICMR had urged all states to take up the independent sero-survey in the community to understand spread of the disease. One sero-surveillance of 500 samples has already been conducted in the. Now, the BMC in partnership with NITI Aayog, TIFR and other institutions has planned to undertake a sero-survey in M-West (Chembur), F–North (Matunga, Antop Hill) and R–North (Dahisar) wards to find the extent of the spread of the coronavirus. After visiting Thane for a review, a central health team met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray and hief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Saturday evening. The team discussed preventive measures to be taken in the state, tweeted the chief minister’sffice. Health minister Tope visited Solapur and reviewed the deteriorating situation there. He directed strict restrictions be palced in containment zones and asked for a focus on more tracing, testing and treatment. The meeting was attended by home minister Anil Deshmukh and Solapur guardian minister Dattatray Bharne along with district collector officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/a-day-of-high-jumps-as-tally-job-ends-record-2077-cases-in-mumbai/articleshow/76668406.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Pandemic has sucked life out of little joys of pregnancy||CHENNAI: The pandemic has mellowed down the happiest moments of motherhood. In the Covid-19 world there are no baby showers, rituals or impromptu meet-ups with friends that help the new mother de-stress. The fear of catching the virus has changed the celebratory moment into one filled with apprehension, add to this higher safety protocols, physical distancing from families and scant staff at hospitals. Thajrin Bhanu, a 29-year-old pregnant woman from Virugambakkam, can neither go for her walks, nor visit family and friends or indulge herself by ordering from her favourite restaurant. “Usually during pregnancy, we are surrounded by people who take care of us. But now it’s a lonely experience. However, we are trying to make the most of it,” she said. Divya who travelled to the city for a short visit and got stuck due to the lockdown had to deliver the child without her parents by her side. “We have no idea how to take care of a newborn. Her delivery was supposed to take place in her native. But we couldn’t travel,” said Rajesh, her husband, who has to take care of Divya and their newborn apart from managing the household chores. The experience at hospitals, with staff working within limitations, suited up in PPEs and under pressure to ensure that the threat of coronavirus is kept at bay, has also been very fraught with tension. When K Vasanthi went into labour, she had to wait for several hours until the doctors responded to her. “The government staff from urban primary health care centre kept checking on us, though,” she said. For Karun Balasubramani, a 30-year-old, the experience during the pandemic was not what he was prepared for. “The hospital staff seemed overworked and in a lot of stress. They were rude and didn’t respond to us properly. While we could sympathise with them, for us the most beautiful moment of our life was more about unnecessary worry and stress. Even the doctors who are usually friendly seemed in a hurry,” he said.  Without the support of families, young mothers often seek comfort in shared experiences, but that option too is not available. “The clinical experience is extremely stressful. The father is not allowed for scans. It has become a lonely affair. Doctors are also not spending much time. Slowly I am getting stressed. It’s only fear everywhere,” she said. “Psychologically people are desperate to socialise but one needs to prioritise and stay safe. They have to find joys in their daily routine such as yoga, cooking andconnecting with the family. Taking up new hobbies and prioritising mental fitness should help,” said Dr Shalini Somesh. So far, more than 500 pregnant women have tested positive for the virus in the city. Gynaecologists and government officials said pregnant women should eat healthy avoiding travel, wear masks and stay calm. “If basic protocols are followed there is nothing to worry. Several neonatal mothers have joined work at corporation,” said Madhusudhan Reddy, joint health commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pandemic-has-sucked-life-out-of-little-joys-of-pregnancy/articleshow/76668407.cms||Komal Gautham
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||All Indians stranded in Pakistan finally return||Nagpur: On Saturday, the last batch of Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan crossed the border. The wait to reach home for over 40-odd from Maharashtra and 100 from Gujarat got longer at Amritsar. Residents of rest of the states went home in vehicles arranged by their state governments. Those from Maharashtra and Gujarat stayed back for seven days of quarantine in Amritsar. They have to undertake Covid tests before travelling further. An official in the Amritsar district administration handling the transfer said state governments like Jammu & Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana sent their vehicles and UP asked the Punjab government to make arrangement for its residents’ transport. “This was line of directions sent by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) to the concerned state governments. However, Maharashtra has advised Punjab government to keep its residents under quarantine for seven days. On reaching the state they will have to be home quarantined for remaining period. It’s the same for Gujarat too,” said the senior official requesting anonymity. There were just about five persons from Telangana and Tamil Nadu, so no transport was arranged for them. Bringing back stranded Indians from Pakistan became a long-drawn affair. There were Vande Bharat flights to bring back Indians held up in other countries including Bangladesh but there none for Pakistan. There were 748 Indian nationals stranded there, including students from J&K and those on visit visas. Finally they were allowed to cross the border from June 25 to 27. Deepak Bajaj, who had gone to Kashmore in Sindh lost his father during the trip. His father, Ashok Virumal Bajaj, a patient of Parkinson’s disease had gone to Pakistan to meet his brothers. Deepak who reached there on March 5 to bring back his father was stranded too. “The wait got difficult after my father’s death. Each day was an ordeal. Finally I am back in India,” he told TOI, “We will be tested for Covid and then let go further.” Bajaj said while process was done quickly on Pakistani side, there was chaos on Indian side. There was no arrangement for water or food and it took an entire day to reach the hotel, he said. Sanjay Bart from Amravati said a letter from the Member of Parliament Navnet Rena that he should be allowed to go did not help though he was happy he could finally reach India. “I had gone to Pakistan after 20 years and got stranded. On coming back, there were no porters even to help the elderly,” said Mahesh Chawla from Ahmedabad. “The people were in a hurry to reach their homes and did not follow instructions well leading to chaos” said a Punjab government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-indians-stranded-in-pakistan-finally-return/articleshow/76686128.cms||Shishir Arya
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||12 more teachers under STF scanner||Lucknow: In the ongoing verification of documents of all teachers in government schools ordered by chief minister Yogi Adityanath following TOI report about how 25 women got appointed using educational certificates of one Anamika Shukhla, the UP Special Task Force has found 12 more such cases. In Gonda, UP STF has come across one Mrityunjay Mishra, a government teacher for past 10 years, but could not be traced at the address given by him in government records. STF has found 12 more such instances. Basic Shiksha Adhikari, Gonda, Indrajeet Prajapati said a probe was conducted on STF inputs. “During probe it surfaced that Mrityunjay had got job of primary teacher in 2010 in Sravasti. In 2014, he was promoted to senior section and transferred to Gonda in 2016,” said Prajapati. In 2017, Mrityunjay joined as a senior teacher in Colonelganj. “We did not find any person by the name of Mrityunjay Mishra on the address mentioned in records and so lodged an FIR,” he added. Police teams are tracking the offender. A senior STF officer said 12 other instances of applicants using someone else’s marksheet to get job were detected are being probed. These 12 are currently working in Deoria, Maharajganj, Gonda, Sitapur, Gorakhpur, Balrampur, Hardoi and Unnao districts. The Basic Shiksha Adhikaris of these districts are conducting probe and if anyone is found to have used academic documents of someone to secure job fraudulently will be booked, said STF officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/12-more-teachers-under-stf-scanner/articleshow/76668051.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: No shortage of goats for Bakrid, says minister||MUMBAI: City guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said there will be no shortage of goats and sheep for Eidul Azha or Bakrid festival, which will be celebrated in July-end. Apart from BMC-run Deonar slaughter house, where the largest bakra mandi or goat market is held before Bakrid, many small mandis, close to Muslim pockets in the city, will be temporarily held to enable people to buy goats. “To avoid crowding at Deonar and risking spread of coronavirus, we will allow traders to hold small mandis in open spaces close to areas with a big Muslim population. There will be no shortage of goats and sheep. Social distancing norms and precautions will be taken by traders and buyers,” said Shaikh. Gulrez Qureishi of All-India Jamiatul Qureish (Mumbai) wrote to Shaikh demanding that sufficient goats be made available. He added it would be better if traders can take goats to markets many days before the festival. Samajwadi Party leaders and MLAs Abu Asim Azmi and Rais Shaikh on Thursday called a meeting of community leaders at Islam Gymkhana to discuss issues, including inconvenience in buying and sacrificing goats during the three-day festival. “The government must open Deonar slaughter house, closed since lockdown, as soon as possible. Facilities to stock animals and measures to maintain social distancing must be spelt,” said Azmi. Advocate Mobin Solkar maintained that the high court must be approached for clarity on purchase and slaughtering of goats at society buildings. Ever year, organizations opposing animal sacrifice petition the HC to stop sacrifice of goats and sheep during Bakrid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-shortage-of-goats-for-bakrid-min/articleshow/76667738.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Army of young artists join to feed needy during lockdown||CHENNAI: What happens when a Silambam practitioner and a bunch of inspired young artists come together to help those in need? Some beautiful artwork and loads of goodwill. Aishwarya Manivannan, city-based Silambam artist and founder of Maisha Studio, Nungambakkam, has started ‘Art for Covid Relief’, a project that brings together 40 underprivileged kids and 24 students of her own, in an artistic collaboration to help marginalised communities during lockdown. Together, the kids have created 50 paintings, from the comfort of their homes, that are up for sale to raise funds for the vulnerable affected by Covid lockdown. “It is important for young people to understand that skill and knowledge – not just money – bring about change,” says Aishwarya. The participating artists, aged between 14 and 22 years, include Irula children and those affected by HIV, who have been part of Maisha Studio’s art workshops in the past. Through the initiative, a total of 265 grocery kits have been distributed to the poor since April in neighbourhoods across Chennai and Vallalar Nagar in Ramachandrapuram near Gummidipoondi. Each grocery kit costs Rs 1,000 and includes rice, tamarind, toor dal, and spices. The last batch was distributed on June 18, the day before the current lockdown began. Most of the beneficiaries are daily wagers and guest workers who do not own ration cards. Even before they got down to selling the paintings, Aishwarya decided to pledge about Rs 2,65,000, as there were families that couldn’t afford their next meal. “Now, we are hoping to raise the amount through the sale of these paintings and donations,” she says. Aishwarya says she has always tried to encourage collaboration between her students and kids from disadvantaged sections of society in order to transcend barriers and teach them about teamwork. “It is vital for my students to have a sense of responsibility and give back to society. It is equally important for kids from underprivileged sections to feel a sense of ownership and involvement in working towards developing their own communities,” she says. The paintings can be bought on https://change.maishastudio.com/ where additional donations can also be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/army-of-young-artists-join-to-feed-needy-during-lockdown/articleshow/76667136.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
June 28, 2020||Agra||UP Board: Girls outshine boys in high school and intermediate exams||Agra: In the UP Board high school and intermediate exam results, which were declared on Saturday, it was observed that girls outperformed boys. In the intermediate level, about 83% girls qualified the exam as compared to 66% boys. In the high school level, 93.8% girls qualified the exam as compared to 83.9% boys. In the high school level, Anshika Baghel of Fatehabad block topped the district and secured fifth rank in the state with a score of 94.6%. Akash Kushwah of Etmadpur block secured second position in the district and ninth rank in the state with 94%. In the intermediate level, Ajeet of Fatehabad block topped the district with 91.4% marks. Abhishek Kumar of Fatehpur Sikri block secured second position with 89%. Class 10 topper Anshika Baghel said, "I disciplined myself and studied diligently throughout the year. Repeated revisions ahead of exams helped me achieve a high score." Anshika said that she kept herself away from social media and mobile phones to focus on studies. She aspires to become a doctor in the future. Class 12 topper Ajeet said, "This was completely unexpected. I worked very hard but I never thought I would be the city topper. Whenever I had some doubts in class I discussed the topics with my teachers and that really helped me clear all my basics. I used to revise my lessons regularly and put in two hours of study every day." Speaking about his future plans, he said, "My aim is to crack the NDA exam and become an Army officer." In Agra district, passing percentage for high school was recorded at 88.3% and for intermediate 72.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-board-girls-outshine-boys-in-high-school-and-intermediate-exams/articleshow/76666108.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 28, 2020||Goa||Congress protests fuel price hike||Panaji: With oil marketing companies continuing to incrementally increase fuel prices, Congress on Saturday took to the streets and pulled a car as a symbolic protest against the hike in petrol and diesel prices in the country. The party workers said that imposing higher fuel prices on people is a further blow when they are already struggling with the Covid-19 pandemic. The party workers towed a car and pushed along two scooters to draw attention to the plight of locals. Congress has demanded that the state government should reduce VAT on fuel to provide relief to the citizens. “The Prime Minister and the Goa government have increased petrol and diesel prices so much that the common man cannot afford to buy petrol. This is a loot and this is insensitive,” said Youth Congress president Varad Mardolkar. Congress has written to Goa governor Satya Pal Malik and President Ram Nath Kovind and have asked them to intervene. “Our demand is that the state government should remove VAT and meet its promise that was made by Parrikar. Even people who don’t have a vehicle will feel the impact of the fuel price hike. Eggs, vegetables, groceries will become expensive,” Mardolkar said. Congress said that the Modi government is profiteering from the “misery of the people” by repeated increasing fuel prices and excise duty on petrol and diesel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-protests-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/76668043.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Education department to withdraw all complaints of violations on private schools||DEHRADUN: The education department has decided to withdraw all the complaints levelled against the private schools of Uttarakhand regarding violation of norms regarding fee payment during Covid-19 lockdown. The department officials said that with a new order being issued which asks parents to submit their ward’s tuition fees, all previous accusations are now dismissed. The officials added that all the complaints will be registered on the basis of the order dated June 22, 2020 from now onwards. Notably, several private schools were accused of pressuring parents to submit their ward’s fees during the lockdown period despite the state government’s earlier directive to not ask for fees from parents. However, parents were allowed to pay fees voluntarily on a monthly basis. Apart from forcing parents, many schools were also accused of implementing costlier non-NCERT books, change in fee structure, non-payment of staff salaries, and others. The latest order asks the parents to inform the respective school management if they are currently incapable of paying their ward’s tuition fees due to financial constraint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-to-withdraw-all-complaints-of-violations-on-private-schools/articleshow/76666128.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||11 wards in city declared as hotspots||Thiruvananthapuram: As the source of positive cases are yet to be ascertained, the district is on high alert and eleven wards in corporation area have been declared as containment zones. In the latest proceedings issued by district collector declaring containment zones, it was pointed out that after a family of four members residing at Iranimuttam in Attukal ward, Manacadu Village turned positive, serious efforts are being made to trace the source of the infection. However, no such epidemiological link, like confirmed travel history or contact with known Covid positive patients could be established till now. The contact tracing is underway and more than 120 primary contacts have been identified so far and sent to home isolation, which spreads along Attukal, Kalady, Kuriyathi, Kalippankulam and Manacadu wards in Thiruvananthapuram corporation. Sample collection and testing among the primary contacts are ongoing as per Containment Zone Activity plan and on Friday, three others from among the contacts of patient turned positive. Among them, two persons have a good number of contacts in the public and their primary and secondary contacts are being traced and have been sent to isolation. The source of infection of two other persons who were tested positive on Friday and are residents of Muttathara ward and Thrikkanapuram wards could not be detected. In the meeting of the district core group for contact tracing, it was decided to recommend declaring the entire wards of Attukal, Manacadu, Kuriyathi, Kalippankulam to the existing containment zone and to include Tagore Road in Thrikkannapuram ward and Puthenpalam in Muttathara. The city corporation conducted disinfection measures at Manacaud, Kuriathi and other containment zones on Saturday. Restrictions in markets at Palayam and Chalai imposed by city corporation and police are in effect in the city. Four more cases were confirmed in the district on Saturday. These include a 28-year-old man who came from Jammu and Kashmir and a resident of Parassala, a 23-year-old man from Tajikistan who is a resident of Manacaud, a 28-year-old man from Delhi and a resident of Thannimoodu and a 51-year-old man from Kuwait and a resident of Edava. Meanwhile, 1,361 persons were brought under disease surveillance in the district on Saturday. As many as 405 persons completed observation period without showing any symptoms on Saturday. As many as 23,975 persons are under quarantine in houses and 1,683 persons are in institutional quarantine in the district. Thirty-five people were admitted to hospitals in the district on Saturday. On Saturday, 27 persons were discharged. As many as 383 samples were sent for testing on Saturday and 389 samples came out negative. In a press note issued by VSSC after one employee tested positive, 13 persons (5 permanent employees and 8 contract personnel) who are suspected to have come into contact with the infected person have been advised to be in quarantine. Based on attendance records, the employee had last attended office on June 15. The restrictions imposed in Palayam market and Chalai market where only 50% shops are opening, continued on Saturday also. However, only a few people visited the market as most preferred to keep away from the crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/11-wards-in-city-declared-as-hotspots/articleshow/76667147.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Trichy||One-way violations continue even after death of man, 60||Trichy: Undaunted by the fatal accident in which a 60-year-old man died due an autorickshaw coming in the wrong direction in the city, one-way violation continues near the Chathiram bus stand. Two-wheelers often fall victim to one-way violations as the trailing vehicles fatally knock them down. On June 22, a 60-year-old man and his 70-year-old friend, from Pichandarkoil, were travelling on a bike when an autorickshaw came in the wrong direction near the Trichy-Chennai trunk road near Mainguard gate water tank. To avoid hitting the auto, they swerved to the right, only to be mowed down by a truck behind them. The 60-year-old man riding pillion was crushed to death on the spot. An eyewitness said that the autorickshaws frequently violate the Chathiram bus stand one-way traffic rule to approach Melachinthamani instead of taking a U-turn at Kamarajar statue. “Such fatal threats persist on all one-way stretches in the city. Heavy penalisation can only stop offenders from repeating the offence,” said P Aiyarappan, Trichy-based road safety activist. Even now the one-way violation continues on Trichy-Chennai trunk road. Same is the case at Melachinthamani Anna statue roundabout. The one-way rule on Rockins road near Periyar statue roundabout at the Central bus stand also face similar violation, mostly by autorickshaws. To save fuel and time, the autorickshaws break the law. “We have planned to penalise one-way offenders including autorickshaws heavily up toRs 700 per offence,” a traffic police officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/one-way-violations-continue-even-after-death-of-man-60/articleshow/76667744.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Vijai Sardesai for micro zone in Fatorda||PANAJI: After Goa reported the third confirmed Covid-19 fatality, this time a 76-year old woman from Chandrawaddo, Fatorda, GFP president Vijai Sardesai demanded that the area be declared a containment zone. Sardesai also urged the health department to speed up contact tracing in Fatorda and other places. “The third confirmed Goan victim is from Chandrawaddo and she reportedly contracted the Covid-19 virus from Ambelim,” said Sardesai while speaking to TOI. According to Sardesai, the woman’s family has also tested positive for the coronavirus and is currently undergoing treatment at one of the Covid care centres. Authorities have already sanitised the area where the woman was living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sardesai-for-micro-zone-in-fatorda/articleshow/76668045.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Goa sees its biggest spike with 89 cases||Panaji: Goa witnessed its biggest spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday with 89 persons testing positive, taking the state’s active case tally to 706. Twenty four cases were reported from Zuarinagar in Vasco, which has emerged as a major location after Baina, Sada, and New Vaddem. The four areas have together reported 153 cases. While Baina, Sada and New Vaddem have registered a continuous rise in cases in the last 15 days, Zuarinagar reported the biggest spurt in a single day. Mangor Hill reported 12 cases. All areas of the port town that have witnessed a speedy rise in cases have a high population density. Parts of these areas have already been declared containment zones. A Vasco doctor said some parts of Vasco are so thickly populated that it is not possible to follow the social distancing norms there. “So, I’m not surprised by the increasing number of cases reported from Vasco as compared to other parts,” he said. The day also saw 50 patients cured and sent home. An isolated case was reported from Pilar in Tiswadi. Ambelim in Salcete continued to report a rise in cases with four testing positive. As of Saturday, it has reported 31 cases. Navelim too, had three persons test positive. A single digit rise in cases was reported from Bicholim, Canacona and Sakhali, the new areas from where cases were detected this week. Four from Ganganagar in Mapusa tested positive, increasing its count to six. After detection of the first case there three days ago, the slum area was barricaded. There was a demand to close the Mapusa market for a few days. However, MLA Joshua D’Souza, on Friday, said that it was not required and that people should take measures to protect themselves when they step out. The market is functioning with social distancing norms in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sees-its-biggest-spike-with-89-cases/articleshow/76668047.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nashik||Nashik to have Covid info, edu & communication campaign||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has said the district disaster management body will soon launch information, education and communication (IEC) campaign focussed on Covid-19, so that people are better-equipped to deal with the infection. Speaking to the reporters during a webinar, the collector said: “The administration’s role in the Covid fight in Malegaon ⁠— that has found mention in one of the PIL in Aurangabad on Covid-19 management ⁠— is only up to 10%. Citizens have a bigger role. Unless they understand how the contagion spreads, not much can improve. Therefore, we will soon launch an IEC campaign,” Mandhare said. The collector said there is no reason to panic though. “We have to evolve and live with Covid-19. There are simple measures we must follow, including the ‘No touch’ policy. These measures can go a long way in checking the spread of infection,” the collector said. Responding to question about the lack of coordination among the officials, Mandhare said the NMC limits are the domain of the NMC commissioner and the government has made him responsible for the activities to be carried out there. “Through the DDMA, we have appointed additional municipal commissioner Praveen Ashtikar as the incident commander for NMC areas, while NMC commissioner Radhakrishna Game will be in control of affairs in the corporation on a whole. Similarly, in rural areas, we have appointed Leena Bansod, the Nashik ZP CEO, as incident commander, while the collector will be in control of the district affairs. We are working in coordination,” he said Box About no police force being visible on the streets, the collector stated that there were no regulatory orders from the central government or the state government. Therefore, the police personnel have returned to their daily duties. “However we (including police commissioner and NMC chief) will consult each other before arriving at any decision,” Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-to-have-covid-info-edu-communication-campaign/articleshow/76667742.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 28, 2020||Pune||Stuck in UAE, more than 15,000 Maharashtra residents to return soon||PUNE: Thousands of people from Maharashtra stuck in the UAE can look forward to returning home soon, with sources in the Consulate General of India in Dubai confirming on Saturday that many flights will repatriate such people in the days to come. “Rough estimates indicate that about 10,000-15,000-plus people from Maharashtra are stuck in the UAE due to the flight restrictions following the Covid-19 situation. But the situation is improving and more repatriation chartered as well as Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights are expected to be operated in the coming days, including one from Dubai to Pune on June 30,” a spokesperson from the consulate told TOI. He said three charters had reached Maharashtra on June 24, 25 and 26. “Since the last couple of days, process of getting approvals from the Maharashtra government to operate flights has also speeded up. In the days ahead, the situation is likely to improve,” the spokesperson said. Talking about the Indian government’s new standard operating procedure (SOP) of June 25, 2020 for chartered flights from the UAE and some other nations to India, the official clarified, “If applicants have already applied to the consulate for charters to India before June 27, they need not reapply as per the new SOP. Upcoming charters for which applications have not been received before June 25-27 will have to follow the new SOP of application.” Under the old SOP, the charter facilitator used to apply to the consulate, who would send the application to the ministry of external affairs, who in turn sent the request to the state, procured all permissions and then the go-ahead came from the consulate. As per the new SOP, the air transport operator or the airline will now have to get the state clearance on its own, among other changes. Rahul Tulpule, vice-president of the Gulf Maharashtra Business Forum, had earlier this month arranged two flights to Mumbai and Pune. He is also coordinating with other community organizations for applying for 2-3 more flights in the next two weeks. A hepatitis patient from Thane stuck in Dubai needs to urgently return to the state by month-end as his medication supplies are almost over. "My medicine will be over by month-end and I can’t get the same in Dubai. They have their own system of examination here and they might prescribe some other medicine. I cannot risk changing medication as I am taking this since the last 12 years," he said, adding he went to Dubai on January 29, where he was employed in a firm as logistics in charge, but was later told to leave following the pandemic. “I have no money and I can’t afford to stay in Dubai now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stuck-in-uae-more-than-15000-maha-residents-to-return-soon/articleshow/76667741.cms||Neha Madaan
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Digha, Darjeeling set to welcome back tourists||Kolkata/Digha: Two of Bengalis’ favourite tourist destinations—Digha and Darjeeling —are set to reopen from July 1.While the government has given the nod to open beaches and allow bathing in the sea, across Digha-Shankarpur-Tajpur and Mandarmoni, certain restirctions will be in place to minimize the risk of the spread of the novel coronavirus. Not more than 50% rooms of a hotel will be allowed to be booked together, sanitization of rooms will be compulsory, tourists and hotel employees will have to undergo thermal screening before entry and will have to sanitize their hands, food will be served only in rooms and tourist vehicles will have to be sanitized. Swimming in the sea will be allowed, but no picnic can be held on the beach. In the Hills, where some hotels had opened last month, they soon shut down. Tourist spots under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration will now see phased reopening.  Digha-Shankarpur Development Board on Friday gave the green signal to open all hotels. “Everyone has agreed to comply with rules across the area. We hope even tourists will cooperate,” said Biprodas Chatterjee, joint secretary, Digha Hoteliers’ Association. The coastal area witnessed trouble earlier in June, when some tourists was allegedly driven out of a hotel in Mandarmoni and a protest was later staged against tourism in Digha during Covid times. Sujan Dutta, administrator of the Digha-Shankarpur Development Board, said a five-member committee would monitor if the hotels followed rules. “The panel can ask for action against rule violators,” he said. Several hoteliers said they would weigh all concerns, including sanitization cost, before taking bookings. “We are working out the economics,” said Shankar Sarkar, a Mandarmoni hotel manager. The tourism department is set to open all spots under GTA in phases from July 1, following the state’s unlock directives. A helpline desk, run by Darjeeling Police, is operational at every entry point to the Hills and tourists can seek help there. Following a meeting among tourism stakeholders at the GTA secretariat in Darjeeling, concrete steps are set to be announced. “The department will take all initiatives to revive tourism in the Hills. Hotels will reopen, following government SOP,” an official said. The reopening news elicited a mixed reaction from Kolkatans. While some advocated for the need for a break and boost for economy, others argued about health hazards. Several seemed to prefer day trips to Digha. “We have waited for so long. At least now we can go on a trip,” said Sayantan Chatterjee, a member of a travel group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digha-darjeeling-set-to-welcome-back-tourists/articleshow/76667148.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Education department collects details of students for Class XII re-test||TRICHY: The school education department is collecting details of students, who could not appear for the Class XII state board examination held a day before the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was announced in March. Though all exams for Class XII state board were over, the last examination scheduled for March 24 was held amid lockdown. However, many students could not make it to the examination centres. Following this, the school education department is collecting details of students willing to appear for the re-examination, who could not write on March 24. “In Trichy district, five students have expressed willingness to appear for the exam,” said Trichy district chief education officer, S Santhi. A source from the school education department said that a total of 652 students from across the state have expressed willingness to appear for the re-examination. Since the numbers are less, the students may be given an opportunity to appear for the exam by allotting one centre each in a district, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/education-dept-collects-details-of-students-for-class-xii-re-test/articleshow/76667739.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Aurangabad||City police book MNS office bearer||Aurangabad: The city police have booked Suhas Dashrathe, a senior office bearer of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, on Friday for allegedly threatening deputy municipal commissioner Ravindra Nikam. Dashrathe went to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s office to raise questions over the increasing Covid-19 cases and deaths. When he did not get a satisfactory reply, he became angry and lifted a chair to hit Nikam. The security staffers prevented him from doing so. After which Dashrathe got into an argument with Nikam . The MNS office bearer asked the AMC officials to mend their ways,. Dashrathe said, “We went there to ask why the civic body is not serious about the surging Covid-19 cases and deaths. Our act was in the public interest.” Based on the complaint lodged by security officer Babu Jadhav, Dashrathe and six party workers accompanying him have been booked under sections 353, 188, 269, 270, 506 of the IPC among others. The entire interaction was caught in the CCTV cameras and will be a strong piece of evidence, said an officer privy to the investigation. The video of the incident went viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/city-police-book-mns-office-bearer/articleshow/76666124.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||For mentally ill, uncertainty is terrifying||CHENNAI: My son now touches the switches at home with his toes, not fingers, a distressed father told psychiatrist Dr R Mangala of the Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF), when he called her. The father then went on to describe how the boy refuses to touch utensils or food cooked at home (eating ‘sterile’ packaged food instead), stays locked in his room for the better part of the day, and washes his hands only with shampoo. "It is a case of exacerbation of the boy’s already existing Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) for which he was being treated," says Dr Mangala. "For a person who already has an OCD about cleanliness, the emphasis being given now to hygiene reinforces that pre-existing disorder. It even validates it, thereby worsening the condition." CLICK TO READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-mentally-ill-uncertainty-is-terrifying/articleshow/76668408.cms||Kamini Mathai
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Surge in sales of musical instruments as city youngsters unlock new hobbies||At a time when every business is struggling to survive the impact of lockdown, the sales of musical instruments — both eastern and western — seem to have gone up in the city. Since many people are still confined to their homes, they are turning to their musical hobbies to kill time. When we visited Lalbazar, the biggest hub for musical instruments in Kolkata, with more than 30 shops, the area was buzzing with activity. Shubham Sardar, co-owner of Sarat Sardar and Sons, said that during lockdown people rediscovered ways to spend time and many among them have started learning new instruments. “There are two kinds of people wanting to learn music. While some are beginners, there are also a few who left midway due to some reason, but want to start again from where they had left. We are getting enquiries from people across ages asking for instruments.” Akash Mondal from BCM Music Palace agreed that most people are now taking up guitar (70% western and 30% Hawaian), digital piano and ukulele as hobbies. “There are many visiting our store for guitars and pianos. However, ukulele is trending mostly among youngsters,” he informed. We spotted Jayaanta Das, a young school teacher, buying a guitar from one of these shops. When quizzed, he said, “I know how to play a mouth organ. But recently, during the lockdown, I decided to learn guitar. I want to try playing ukulele too.” Rise in demand of Indian classical instruments Given the fact that Indian classical instruments are a bit difficult to handle, western instruments have been the usual choice for new learners so far. However, during the lockdown, these shops have seen a sudden rise in demand for Indian classical instruments, especially sitar. Shubham explained, “Youngsters, who are coming for Indian instruments, are into fusion music. Besides, the younger generation has seen performances by Veena Srivani and Rishabh Seen. Now, they know that Indian classical instruments can be played in several other ways.” Purnendu Mondal from Super Music Shop said that most people visiting his store have taken up the hobby after a long gap. “They either come with their old instruments to get them exchanged or to repair. The age group is between 30 and 50 years,” he said. No bulk orders from music schools, other states However, business is not going smooth at NN Mondal & Sons. This century-old violin shop mostly survives on bulk orders from school and music institutions, which are shut as of now. Sudam Mondal, the third-generation owner, said, “Since classes are now being held online, we have not received any order. Besides, due to this pandemic outbreak, bulk orders from neighbouring states, like Jharkhand and Odisha, have also stopped. The demand for concert instruments has gone down too.” More repair works Musical instruments need regular maintenance and repair. Ever since the shops reopened in June, more and more musicians are going for repairs. While the repair of Indian makes is not very complicated, workers are facing problems with Chinese instruments like digital piano and keyboards, due to unavailability of spare parts. Box Instruments priced between `5,000 and `15,000 are more in demand. Demand for sitar, sarod and esraj are high among Indian instruments No takers for drums or percussions as of now Digital piano is fast overtaking keyboards in terms of sales||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surge-in-sales-of-music-instruments-as-city-youngsters-unlock-new-hobbies/articleshow/76666185.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Power consumers accuse KEDL of inflated billing||Kota: Kota Electricity Distribution Limited (KEDL) has been accused of issuing bills with raised tariff leaving lakhs of consumers miffed. The Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (RERC), in view of the pandemic, had issued an order on June 3 and directed power distribution companies to comply with the state government directions on relief and relaxation to consumers. In a press statement issued on Friday, KEDL refuted the charges and claimed that the company strictly complied with RERC directions. “The KEDL has issued the bills in June as per the direction by RERC and no additional or raised charges were added in it,” KEDL commercial head Ravishankar Sukhla said, adding that the rebate given by the state government and the average bill issued earlier have been adjusted as minus amount. “The company informed about relief and relaxation by the state government till June 30 to its consumers time to time through various media platforms,” he added.Consumers, however, disputed KEDL claims. “The electricity bill I received in June had additional Rs 2,000 as dues, while I have always paid my bills on time,” said Sajjan Singh, a resident of Sakatpura here. The consumers alleged that in the electricity bills issued in June, KEDL not only charged the consumers at new rates, but also added permanent service charge, fuel surcharge, electricity fee and urban sub tax. The consumers alleged that the KEDL instead of billing on meter reading, issued the bills for the months of April-May on basis of average reading with highest units. It was alleged that wrongly calculated due amount was added in some bills even though consumers had been regularly paying electricity bills. “A high-level probe should be ordered into the electricity bills issued by KEDL in June and appropriate action should be initiated against the responsible officials,” said Brijmohan Gupta, resident of Mahavir Nagar -III .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/power-consumers-accuse-kedl-of-inflated-billing/articleshow/76667748.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||SSLC results on June 30 to be available online||Thiruvananthapuram: Arrangements have been put in place for the online release of SSLC examination results scheduled to be announced on June 30. The results would be available on cloud based website www.result.kite.kerala.gov.in and on Saphalam mobile app, Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) CEO K Anvar Sadath informed here on Saturday. Apart from individual results, school, education district and revenue district-wise results would be available on both the portal and mobile app. Saphalam 2020 may be downloaded from Google Playstore in advance as it would help avoid last minute rush and spike in data traffic. Broadband facility is available in 11,769 schools from primary classes, as part of the high-tech school programme. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the original schedule for SSLC examinations had to be revised by the government. As per the original schedule, SSLC examinations were to be held from March 10 to 26. However, following the health crisis, three of the last examinations had to be postponed to May last week. Around 4.25 lakh students attended the examination this year and evaluation of answer books were held in 54 camps. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sslc-results-on-june-30-to-be-available-online/articleshow/76667169.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Girl drowns in farm well near Madurai||Madurai: An 11-year-old girl drowned in a farm well in Madurai on Thursday evening while practising swimming, police said. The deceased has been identified as S Megavarshini of Vellanayagampatti village near Melur. She was a Class V student. Megavarshini’s father, S Soundaram, 33, had been teaching her swimming in the farm well for the past one month. The well belonged to Senthil of the same village. The girl went missing on Thursday evening, and her family members launched a search for her. On Friday, she was found dead in the well. Police said that the girl had gone to practise swimming without informing her parents. She had not fully learned swimming and drowned. Based on a complaint filed by Soundaram, the Keelavalavu police registered a case under CrPC section 174 (suspicious death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/girl-drowns-in-farm-well-near-madurai/articleshow/76667746.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Waluj GP asks residents not go to work at MIDC||Aurangabad: The gram panchayat (GP) of Waluj village has unanimously passed a resolution discouraging its residents from going to work at the MIDC Waluj industrial area fearing the spread of Covid-19. The GP also warned of action including registration of offence against those violating the order. This resolution comes after a surge in the number of Covid cases among workers who have returned to work at different industrial units like. Bajaj Auto Ltd plant. Bajaj Auto on Friday issued a statement confirming that around 140 workers tested positive with two deaths. Village Sarpanch Jaikumar Mane told TOI, “The resolution has been passed to put a check on the spread of the infection. We are worried that those going back to work in the industries may get infected, and when they return there are chances of spread of the contagion in our village.” SC Lavhale, the village development officer, said, “Our village has reported 26 Covid-19 cases so far and six areas have been marked as containment zones.” The move has come as a shock for the industrial houses that heavily depend on the workforce from the surrounding areas, especially the Waluj village. The primary health centre (PHC) under neighbouring Daultabad area, that covers Wadgaon Kolhati and Bajajnagar, have reported 540 Covid-19 cases. Waluj village, that houses majority portion of MIDC Waluj industrial area, is situated on the outskirts of the city falling under Gangapur tehsil, and has over 23, 000 voters. The village has a total population of about 1.75 lakh people with the majority of them directly or indirectly dependent on the industrial area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/waluj-gp-asks-residents-not-go-to-work-at-midc/articleshow/76666140.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 28, 2020||Pune||Fireflies blink in unison sans fanfare||PUNE: The Jungle Resort in foothills of Bhimashankar, about 45km from the city, was booked completely for nearly 15 days around this time last year to catch a sight of the fireflies. The once-a-year courtship display during the first two weeks of June — with males blinking out their signals in form of a few bioluminescent light flashes in the hopes of attracting females — has been a popular attraction for tourists from Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and other areas. The fireflies have doubled in numbers this year, but there are no visitors in the wake of the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus spread. Villagers in the Bhorgiri jungles, where the resort is located, said that the tourism was hit badly due to the non-essential travel restrictions. They said that the first two weeks of June was the best season for them to make some money as visitors from across the state visited the site to witness thousands of synchronous fireflies put on a stunning light show. The villagers said that a dozen of trekking clubs used to organise treks to the foothills during the first two weeks in June for visitors to view the spectacle in person. Akshay Kate, the caretaker at Jungle Resort, said, “This place used to be overbooked from May-end till June 20. But this year, we had to lock the resort owing to the lockdown.” A forest guide at Bhorgiri, Rushikesh Wable, said, “This lockdown has disappointed many regular visitors. They have been calling us from Pune, Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Nashik and all nearby cities to know if the fireflies have come. All we can do is send them videos.” Researcher on insects Vishal Solanki said, “The number of fireflies here have doubled because of no human disturbance this past few months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fireflies-blink-in-unison-sans-fanfare/articleshow/76667749.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man arrested for suicide of wife||Thiruvananthapuram: Vattappara police have arrested a 32-year-old man for abetment charges after his wife allegedly committed suicide three days ago. The arrest of Rajesh Kumar alias Pradeep, 32, of Pachalloor was recorded on Friday and a local magistrate remanded him in judicial custody on Saturday. His wife, Arya, 23, was found hanging in her residence at Prasanth Nagar under Vattappara police station limits on Thursday night. Vattappara station-house officer inspector T Binukumar said relevant sections for dowry harassment (IPC 498) and marrying again while still married to another person (IPC 494) were also charged against the accused. Kumar and Arya were in a relationship and got married seven months ago. She met him while working as a saleswoman in a shop. Though her family opposed this relationship, they finally agreed after she became pregnant. The couple have twin sons aged one. “It was only after marriage that the woman came to know that he was already married and had a child,’’ said the inspector. Moreover, she learned that he was having affairs with more women. She kicked him out of the house when he started to harass her younger sister too. On the day she died, Arya had called him on phone multiple times but he did not attend her calls. At night, he finally answered and allegedly shouted at her for disturbing him. It was after this she got inside her room and allegedly hanged herself using the rope of the cradle of her sons, Binukumar said. The inspector added that the accused was a habitual offender involved in multiple crimes. He has a total of 14 cases pending against him at various police stations. Of this, three are attempt-to-murder cases. These include a case related to attempted murder of Thiruvallam police sub-inspector in 2018. He is included in the rowdy list of three police stations in the city, including Thiruvallom, Vanchiyoor and Pettah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-arrested-for-suicide-of-wife/articleshow/76667172.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nashik||224 new cases identified in a day||Nashik: On Saturday, the district registered the highest number of single-day patients with 224 new cases. The tally of the district now is 1,499. At the same time, 92 patients have been discharged – which is also the highest since May 13. Of the 224 new Covid-19 patients, 121 were from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits while 64 were from rural areas. The Malegaon Municipal Corporation registered 35 new cases, Sinnar town got 14 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/224-new-cases-identified-in-a-day/articleshow/76667751.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 28, 2020||Madurai||TN tops in testing, over 34,000 done on Sat: Min||Madurai: The chief minister has sanctioned the purchase of expensive medicines to treat Covid-19 patients in Tamil Nadu and as many as 34,805 tests were conducted across the state on Saturday, making it the state conducting the most number of tests, health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar has said. Counselling facilities for patients would be made available from Sunday. He told reporters after a Covid-19 a review meeting with ministers and district authorities here on Saturday that the rising cases were due to the aggressive testing across the state. So far, 10,77,457 people had been tested, and in Chennai, about 10,000 tests were being done a day. Madurai, which was conducting about 500 tests, had now raised it to 1,500, he said. The rise in cases in Madurai was due to the aggressive testing and 80% of them were those who came from other districts, states or countries. “There is absolutely no community spread,” he said. The actions being taken in Madurai were appreciable and rapid response teams had been constituted by bringing together the departments of community medicine and general medicine. They were identifying symptomatic and asymptomatic cases, males, females and children. Discharge was also high in Madurai with 563 people, including those with comorbidities having been treated successfully. In terms of beds, Madurai Medical College had 1,400 including 150 in the ICU with a ventilator. High flow oxygen which is required for most patients was also kept ready. Taluk hospitals had 400 beds apart from 2,040 in Covid care centres with oxygen facilities. The mortality rate in Tamil Nadu was also low at 1.3 %. Of the 68 who died on Saturday, only eight were directly related to Covid-19 and the remaining 60 had comorbidities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-tops-in-testing-over-34000-done-on-sat-min/articleshow/76667753.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Welfare associations issue diktats to keep Covid-19 out, irk residents||CHENNAI: While many residents associations are proactive, ever since the Covid-19 pandemic pushed the city into lockdown, several residents’ welfare associations including those in gated communities, have framed rules seen as too strict by residents. This, in turn, has increased conflicts within apartment complexes. P Kavitha, an IT professional, was stuck in Kancheepuram with her child due to the lockdown. When she returned to her apartment near Nolambur recently, she was stopped at the gate by the guards and the association secretary, who asked her to find another place to quarantine herself and her child for two weeks and only then return to her house. “I tried to tell him that I will isolate myself in my own house and would be of no trouble. But he wouldn’t listen, started to raise his voice and asked me to leave,” she said. Kavitha called police, with whose intervention she and her child were let in. But since then, Kavitha has been walking on eggshells. “The association members are finding ways to trouble us. I am being extra careful now,” she said. This isn’t the only case. Since the city went into lockdown, several allegations against resident welfare associations imposing diktats have come to the fore. Accountant R T Selva Kumar said his building association members had asked people to not go out to work. “But there are people like me who have been asked to come to office once in a while,” he said. A few days ago, he got into a heated argument with the association members as they asked him to either work from home or vacate. “They had also called up my flat owner, who lives in North India, to complain. But I refused to comply,” he said. Sujatha Y, secretary of The Central Park Apartment Owners Association at OMR, which has 192 apartments, said while it is normal for residents and office-bearers of welfare associations to have conflicting opinions, it is important to find a middle ground. “We get all residents’ viewpoints when there is a special requirement or demand. We also have a moderator who helps keep discussions civil when it hits the precipice,” she said. V Raghupathi, a senior advocate in the Madras high court practicing civil cases including society laws, said residents’ welfare associations do not have the right to pass arbitrary rules that are against the rules of the land. “It is not legally permissible,” he said. Also the president of VGN Mahalaxmi Nagar residents association, he said, “Though I understand that the crisis has spread panic, creating conflicts is not the way to get through this. We need to have a collective effort and respect every resident’s opinion and need.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/welfare-assns-issue-diktats-to-keep-covid-out-irk-residents/articleshow/76667163.cms||Aditi R
June 28, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Yatri Nivas is now isolation centre||TRICHY: The first isolation centre in Trichy city has been established at the Yatri Nivas in Srirangam after initial resistance from the residents. The centre will accommodate primary contacts of Covid-19 cases. So far, around 18 people have been shifted. The Trichy Corporation and the district administration held peace talks with the residents, who feared the spread of infection. Health department officials said that family members of Covid-19 positive patients will be shifted to the centre to curtail the spread. They will be closely monitored and tests will be conducted, if any one develops symptoms. If the results are positive, they will be shifted to hospitals or Covid care centre at the Bharathidasan University Khajamalai campus. Earlier, the primary contacts were home quarantined. But, the civic body officials acknowledged that some of them were venturing out, putting others at risk. The civic body has hired a vehicle to transport the contacts from all four zones in the city to the centre. “Only those without Covid-19 will be accommodated at Yatri Nivas,” a corporation official said. Food and other refreshments will be provided by the district administration. Though Yatri Nivas can accommodate 1,000 people, corporation said that only 400 people would be accommodated to ensure social distancing. Four dormitories in the facility will be utilised to lodge male and female inmates separately. “Three more institutions on the outskirts have been identified to establish isolation centres,” district collector S Sivarasu told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/yatri-nivas-is-now-isolation-centre/articleshow/76667750.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 28, 2020||Goa||Curbs return to Nachinola after first case||Saligao: Nachinola has once again decided to impose restrictions on the movement of people after the village recorded its first Covid-19 case on Friday. A police personnel from the village attached to the outpost at GMC tested positive on Friday. The panchayat had decided to observe a self-imposed lockdown from June 15 to 21 after a Covid-19 case was detected in the neighbouring village of Aldona. However, the decision was reversed. “We have decided to restrict the movement of people. They can come out only to buy essentials between 6am and 11am or if it is urgent,” Nachinola sarpanch Pooja Mayekar told TOI. She said that the patient has been shifted to the Covid care facility in Shiroda. The panchayat members visited the patient’s residence and told his relatives to remain indoors, Mayekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curbs-return-to-nachinola-after-first-case/articleshow/76668050.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man ends life after killing 25-year-old son||TRICHY: A 54-year-old man committed suicide after beating to death his 25-year-old son at Thirumayam in Pudukottai district on Saturday. The deceased are identified as Balachandran, 54 and his son B Arun Kumar. Police at K Pudupatti said they arrived at the house after being alerted by neighbours of the deceased who had found Balachandran hanging from the ceiling. They broke open the door only to find Arun Kumar also lying dead in a pool of blood. They recovered the bodies and sent them for postmortem. Balachandran was working in a hotel in Chennai and had returned home a few days ago due to the lockdown. He was living with his wife Indira Gandhi and younger son Arun Kumar. Police said the man and his son were not on good terms because of the latter’s alcoholic habits. Preliminary investigation revealed that they picked up a quarrel and the father would have beaten his son to death and hanged himself. Indira Gandhi had gone to her mother’s place a few days ago unable to see the bitter fighting between the two almost every day. A case has been registered in K Pudupatti police station and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-ends-life-after-killing-25-yr-old-son/articleshow/76667755.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Digha, Darjeeling set to welcome back tourists||KOLKATA/DIGHA: Two of Bengalis’ favourite tourist destinations—Digha and Darjeeling —are set to reopen from July 1. While the government has given the nod to open beaches and allow bathing in the sea, across Digha-Shankarpur-Tajpur and Mandarmoni, certain restirctions will be in place to minimize the risk of the spread of the novel coronavirus. Not more than 50% rooms of a hotel will be allowed to be booked together, sanitization of rooms will be compulsory, tourists and hotel employees will have to undergo thermal screening before entry and will have to sanitize their hands, food will be served only in rooms and tourist vehicles will have to be sanitized. Swimming in the sea will be allowed, but no picnic can be held on the beach. In the Hills, where some hotels had opened last month, they soon shut down. Tourist spots under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration will now see phased reopening.  Digha-Shankarpur Development Board on Friday gave the green signal to open all hotels. “Everyone has agreed to comply with rules across the area. We hope even tourists will cooperate,” said Biprodas Chatterjee, joint secretary, Digha Hoteliers’ Association. The coastal area witnessed trouble earlier in June, when some tourists was allegedly driven out of a hotel in Mandarmoni and a protest was later staged against tourism in Digha during Covid times. Sujan Dutta, administrator of the Digha-Shankarpur Development Board, said a five-member committee would monitor if the hotels followed rules. “The panel can ask for action against rule violators,” he said. Several hoteliers said they would weigh all concerns, including sanitization cost, before taking bookings. “We are working out the economics,” said Shankar Sarkar, a Mandarmoni hotel manager. The tourism department is set to open all spots under GTA in phases from July 1, following the state’s unlock directives. A helpline desk, run by Darjeeling Police, is operational at every entry point to the Hills and tourists can seek help there. Following a meeting among tourism stakeholders at the GTA secretariat in Darjeeling, concrete steps are set to be announced. “The department will take all initiatives to revive tourism in the Hills. Hotels will reopen, following government SOP,” an official said. The reopening news elicited a mixed reaction from Kolkatans. While some advocated for the need for a break and boost for economy, others argued about health hazards. Several seemed to prefer day trips to Digha. “We have waited for so long. At least now we can go on a trip,” said Sayantan Chatterjee, a member of a travel group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digha-darjeeling-set-to-welcome-back-tourists/articleshow/76667149.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||NLIU students seek to offer legal aid to needy||BHOPAL: Legal Aid Clinic (LAC) of NLIU launched the Saarthi scheme on Saturday wherein they will provide free legal assistance for people online. This is an initiative so that people would not require to run from pillar to post for legal aid in the times of Covid-19. LAC's convener Pranjal Agarwal said with this initiative, LAC hopes to help those people to move forward and seek justice who have been locked in their homes without any recourse to a remedy. "Project Saarthi adopts a three-pronged approach by launching the NLIU-LAC helpline number to provide pro-bono legal aid, mediation and mental health counselling services to people," he said. He added, "Home is a place where one should feel safe and secure. But sometimes, when the perpetrators of the crime live with you, it becomes difficult to report it. This is primarily for the victims of domestic violence. Our first step would be to make them aware of their rights and the legal provisions, which protect them." About the working of Saarthi another member of LAC said, "We will connect the needy to qualified advocates who will advise them on the proper course of action. Lastly, we also offer mediation as an alternative, which has proved to be useful in such cases." LAC team members are Pranjal Agarwal (convener), Aditya Goyal (co-convener), Prashasti Singh (secretary), Shiuli Mandloi (joint secretary) and Parth Tyagi (treasurer).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nliu-students-seek-to-offer-legal-aid-to-needy/articleshow/76667166.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Defer reopening of mosques till July 31’||PANAJI: The Association of the All Goa Muslim Jamats issued an advisory on Saturday recommending that the reopening of masjids be delayed till July 31 due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. On June 6, the association had requested masjid committees across the state to delay the reopening of masjids till June 30. The advisory on Saturday, however, stated that masjids that are in safe zones and are in favour of reopening them from July 1 for namaz, five times daily, will have to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the ministry of health and family welfare. “The safety of every person coming to the masjid, the masjid staff, committee members and families at home should not be risked. Masjids may be opened only for the residents living in the vicinity,” the advisory stated. Masjid committees have been requested to open the prayer hall five minutes before the sound of the azaan and close five minutes after the farz namaz has been offered. According to the SOPs, no large gatherings will be allowed till further instructions from the government. Also, the entry and exit should be from separate doors. Moreover, the masjid wudu-khaana where ablutions are conducted will be closed. “Every person is requested to perform wudu at home before going to the masjid for prayers. Please remove hand or face towels from the masjid. Every person going to masjid should carry their own prayer mat and take the same back along after namaz. No sharing of caps in masjid,” the advisory stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/defer-reopening-of-mosques-till-july-31/articleshow/76668052.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn to start swab tests in all UPHCs||Madurai: With Madurai witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases for the past two weeks, the city corporation has decided to do swab tests in all its 31 urban PHCs, as part of widening the test coverage. With the mounting number of Covid-19 cases, the number of calls received by the corporation in its helpline number also started increasing. Till Friday, Madurai Corporation was conducting swab tests in 12 out of its 31 UPHCs, where contacts, mostly family members of the positive people, were summoned for testing. Medical superintendent for the corporation, Dr Ismail Fathima, said that they had been conducting swab tests in 12 out of the 31 urban PHCs, each covering roughly about ten wards. But, now they had decided to conduct the tests in all the 31 PHCs and also the dispensaries in the corporation limits. Also, the 16 mobile testing units, which had been allotted to the corporation, had to conduct four camps per day, as per the instructions of the monitoring officer for Covid-19 Dr B Chandramoham, she said. However, while the procedures were done meticulously by the health workers and doctors, people who came for swab tests usually flout physical distancing norms. Kannan, (name changed) of Iyer Bungalow, says that he had become tensed when his mother developed fever and cold and called up the corporation helpline number 8428425000. He was asked to come the next morning to a fever clinic near his house, which was about half a kilometer away. The workers were prompt, and collected all details of his mother, filled up a form and asked them to go to the Kodikulam Urban PHC for a swab test. To his shock, he saw around 60 people waiting under a tree outside the PHC for their turns throwing social distancing norms into wind. Most of them were family members of a person who had tested positive and had been summoned to the PHC for contact tracing,” he said. Even though the workers and police personnel asked them to maintain a safe distance, they flocked together after just a few minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-to-start-swab-tests-in-all-uphcs/articleshow/76667758.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Dehradun||DM directs officials to cover open pits||Dehradun: District magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava on Sunday inspected the Pathribhagh area where the teams had conducted an anti dengue-malaria campaign on Saturday. During the inspection, DM Srivastava found stagnant water around the water tank in Pathribagh area and asked the officials from Jal Sansthan to cover the pits to avoid water from getting collected. He has also asked the officials to identify pits in other parts of the city and get it covered and submit a report. Meanwhile, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation carried out sanitisation drives in several parts of the city on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dm-directs-officials-to-cover-open-pits/articleshow/76666149.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Faridabad||Government on alert as locusts cross Delhi borders||NEW DELHI: With a swarm of locusts entering the geographical boundary of Delhi on its way to Faridabad and further down from Gurugram, Delhi government put the district machinery on high alert on Saturday to guard against the insects. The government asked the residents of affected areas to beat drums and utensils, play loud music and burst fire crackers to deter the locusts. The swarm did not affect operations at Indira Gandhi International Airport. Environment minister Gopal Rai called an emergency meeting with the development commissioner, divisional commissioner and agriculture director and other officials to discuss a potential locust attack and later issued an advisory for officials as well as citizens. “We have information that a segment of a swarm of locusts heading towards Palwal in Haryana entered the Jasola Bhati region on Delhi’s border,” Rai said. “We have directed the forest department to take measures such as high-decibel noise to get rid of the locusts.” He added that an advisory issued by the agriculture department has asked the South and South West district authorities to be on high alert and go for chemical spraying to save vegetation, if required. The government said that apart from making loud sounds to frighten the insects, residents should keep doors and windows closed, cover outdoor plants with plastic sheets and spray melathion or chloropyriphos, taking care to wear PPE suits while handling the chemicals. An official said, “Since the locusts travel in the day and rest at night, the government has also advised people to not allow them to rest by making loud sounds and spraying insecticides on vegetation. Rai said the government was monitoring the situation closely. “Currently, the wind direction is towards the south, but the swarm route can change. Our development commissioner will be in regular touch with the central government officials and will alert us if the flight of the locusts changes in Haryana,” the minister said. Fortunately, flight operations were not impacted at IGIA despite the locust swarm reaching Gurgaon, which is close to the airport. However, a notice to airmen (NOTAM) was issued, with the Delhi air traffic control asking all incoming and outgoing flights to be on high alert during the day and to take all necessary precautions along the Gurgaon-Dwarka expressway. Monitoring teams were set up to aid incoming and outgoing flights, officials said. “We were on alert for the last 24 hours, and had the swarm reached the airport, the operations would have been halted,” an official said. Only last month, the Union ministry of civil aviation had issued a circular warning of high risks to flights from locust swarms. “Generally, locusts are found at lower levels and, therefore, pose a threat to aircraft in the landing and take-off phases. Almost all air intake ports of the aircraft are prone to ingestion in large numbers if the aircraft flies through a swarm,” the circular said. The aviation ministry had also pointed out that since locusts fly with the wind current, their path and direction could change with any change in wind direction, making it difficult to pre-determine their path. Though an individual locust is small in size, the impact of a large number on the windshield is known to have impacted the pilot’s forward vision in the past, it added. “This is a grave concern during landing, taxiing and take off phase. Use of wipers at times may cause the smear to spread even more, and pilots should consider this aspect before opting to use wipers to remove locusts from the windshield. Large swarms can also obstruct visual ground contact over a large area, therefore flights under Visual Flight Rules also need to be aware of their presence. Air traffic controllers, when aware of locust presence in the vicinity of their aerodrome, are advised to share the information with all arriving and departing flights,” added the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/govt-on-alert-as-locusts-cross-city-borders/articleshow/76669091.cms||Atul Mathur
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Government on alert as locusts cross Delhi borders||NEW DELHI: With a swarm of locusts entering the geographical boundary of Delhi on its way to Faridabad and further down from Gurugram, Delhi government put the district machinery on high alert on Saturday to guard against the insects. The government asked the residents of affected areas to beat drums and utensils, play loud music and burst fire crackers to deter the locusts. The swarm did not affect operations at Indira Gandhi International Airport. Environment minister Gopal Rai called an emergency meeting with the development commissioner, divisional commissioner and agriculture director and other officials to discuss a potential locust attack and later issued an advisory for officials as well as citizens. “We have information that a segment of a swarm of locusts heading towards Palwal in Haryana entered the Jasola Bhati region on Delhi’s border,” Rai said. “We have directed the forest department to take measures such as high-decibel noise to get rid of the locusts.” He added that an advisory issued by the agriculture department has asked the South and South West district authorities to be on high alert and go for chemical spraying to save vegetation, if required. The government said that apart from making loud sounds to frighten the insects, residents should keep doors and windows closed, cover outdoor plants with plastic sheets and spray melathion or chloropyriphos, taking care to wear PPE suits while handling the chemicals. An official said, “Since the locusts travel in the day and rest at night, the government has also advised people to not allow them to rest by making loud sounds and spraying insecticides on vegetation. Rai said the government was monitoring the situation closely. “Currently, the wind direction is towards the south, but the swarm route can change. Our development commissioner will be in regular touch with the central government officials and will alert us if the flight of the locusts changes in Haryana,” the minister said. Fortunately, flight operations were not impacted at IGIA despite the locust swarm reaching Gurgaon, which is close to the airport. However, a notice to airmen (NOTAM) was issued, with the Delhi air traffic control asking all incoming and outgoing flights to be on high alert during the day and to take all necessary precautions along the Gurgaon-Dwarka expressway. Monitoring teams were set up to aid incoming and outgoing flights, officials said. “We were on alert for the last 24 hours, and had the swarm reached the airport, the operations would have been halted,” an official said. Only last month, the Union ministry of civil aviation had issued a circular warning of high risks to flights from locust swarms. “Generally, locusts are found at lower levels and, therefore, pose a threat to aircraft in the landing and take-off phases. Almost all air intake ports of the aircraft are prone to ingestion in large numbers if the aircraft flies through a swarm,” the circular said. The aviation ministry had also pointed out that since locusts fly with the wind current, their path and direction could change with any change in wind direction, making it difficult to pre-determine their path. Though an individual locust is small in size, the impact of a large number on the windshield is known to have impacted the pilot’s forward vision in the past, it added. “This is a grave concern during landing, taxiing and take off phase. Use of wipers at times may cause the smear to spread even more, and pilots should consider this aspect before opting to use wipers to remove locusts from the windshield. Large swarms can also obstruct visual ground contact over a large area, therefore flights under Visual Flight Rules also need to be aware of their presence. Air traffic controllers, when aware of locust presence in the vicinity of their aerodrome, are advised to share the information with all arriving and departing flights,” added the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-on-alert-as-locusts-cross-city-borders/articleshow/76667769.cms||Atul Mathur
June 28, 2020||Varanasi||UP board exam results: Maharajganj girl stands 6th in state in class 12 exams||Gorakhpur: Diksha Pandey of Maharajganj district stood sixth in the state with 94.5 % marks in class 12 UP board exams. Meanwhile, Abhishek Singh topped class 12 UP board exams in Gorakhpur district with 87.4% marks. Swati Sahni aced class 10 UP board exams in Gorakhpur with 91.83% marks. UP board results of class 10 and 12 were announced on Saturday. All the three students aim to serve the country as IAS officers.. Diksha is originally from Madhopur village of Deoria district, and has two sisters and a brother. “I aim is to clear the UPSC exam and become an IAS officer so that I can serve my country. I love to play cricket. I give credits for my success to my parents and teachers,” she said. “There is no shortcut to success and dedication is the only key. Although there was no fixed study time for me, I ended up studying 15-16 hours a day and also took tuition for Maths,” added Diksha. Diksha’s father Pankaj Pandey, who is a head constable at Maharajganj district jail, said, “I am feeling proud as my daughter has proved me that sky is the limit. I’m sure all her dreams wil come true.” Meanwhile, Swati Sahni topped Gorakhpur district with 91.83% marks in class 10 UP board exams. Swati said, “I used to study at least 4 hours a day. Science and Maths as my favourite subjects. I feel it is not important to study for10-12 hours a day to score good in board exams. Instead, complete focus during the little time you study is of utmost importance.” Swati’s father Satish Chand is a technician in NE Railway workshop. She loves playing badminton and sketching. In class 12 UP board exams, Abhishek Singh topped Gorakhpur district with 87.4 % marks. He lives in a village in Pipiganj area of Gorakhpur. Abhishek said that he worked hard the entire year because he wanted to make his parents, teachers and village proud. “My father Ramkesh Singh is a driver and my mother is a house wife. It’s heartening to see my parents and teachers happy,” said Abhishek, whose favourite subject is Maths. Ritu Singh stood second in Gorakhpur with 87% marks in intermediate UP board exams. She said she wanted to become a doctor. Her father Rajendra Singh is retired junior engineer in the irrigation department. “Ritu was among the top ten students of the district in high school exam too. She worked hard and was determined to be in the top ten again,” her father said. Sachin Yadav and Saurabh Kumar Sahni secured second position in Gorakhpur in class 10 UP board exams with 91.17 % marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-board-exam-results-maharajganj-girl-stands-6th-in-state-in-class-12-exams/articleshow/76667756.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nashik||Test labs to come up in rural parts of Nashik division||NASHIK: Covid-19 testing laboratories are set to come up in the rural areas of the five districts falling in the jurisdiction of Nashik division. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Nagpur has given the approval to the rural hospital at Sangamner in Ahmednagar to start Covid-19 tests based on the Truenat technique that has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research. If patients test positive by this method, then a confirmatory test has to be done by real-time PCR test. Speaking to TOI, secretary of state medical education and drug department Sanjay Mukherjee said that the focus of the state government was to set up Covid testing labs in rural areas across the state so that postive patients could be identified quickly and treatment could be administered at the earliest. “The Covid test lab in Sangamner is the first one in the rural areas of Nashik division. We will have more such labs in other districts of the division. “It is not possible for private labs to carry out Covid-19 tests in the rural areas. So the medical infrastructure of the state public health department has to be identified for establishing such labs in the rural areas,” added Mukherjee. Currently, the samples of Covid-19 suspects from rural areas are sent to the testing labs established atn the medical colleges in Nashik, Jalgaon and Dhule and the lab reports arrive at least after 24 hours. In the Truenat technique, the test results are available in a few hours. Sources in the rural Hospital in Sangamner said that atleast 30 tests could be conducted in a day with the help of Truenat method. “We shall start conducting the tests from Monday,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/test-labs-to-come-up-in-rural-parts-of-nashik-divn/articleshow/76667759.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Huge rush to collect Rs 1K dole in Madurai||Madurai: Large crowds were witnessed in the city on Saturday as people vied with each other to get the Rs 1,000 cash dole announced by the government due to the second intense lockdown in Madurai. When the first round of cash dole was given two months ago, people were given tokens specifying the time and date they can collect it. However, this time there were no such arrangements. It was announced that the cash would be given at the doorsteps of the cardholder, but was given to them in a public place covering many streets. A large number of people gathered at Villapuram Housing Board colony and when they came to know about the dole distribution, throwing physical distancing norms to the winds. Door-to-door distribution was done in some places like Sellur, Vandiyur, and some parts of Jaihindpuram. In Gomathypuram, the people were asked to come to a ration shop in Melamadai to get the dole where the distribution was almost completed by afternoon. People who had relocated and still haven’t changed the address in the smart card had to take a detour and figure out where the money was being given. “My shop is in Yagappa Nagar and I was told to go to Melamadai, and when I went there I was directed to go to a tea shop in Yagappa Nagar,’’ said Selvi, a cardholder. When she reached the locality after almost five km walk, she found that the day’s distribution was over. “The government should come up with a solution, for people who have changed address and phone numbers to get their dole without delay,” said P Baskar, general secretary of CPI(ML) In some places like Jaihindpuram, the ration shop salesman pleaded with the photographers asking them to refrain from taking photographs as he would lose his job if the authorities came to know that they were doing the distribution at a commonplace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/huge-rush-to-collect-rs-1k-dole-in-madurai/articleshow/76667764.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Nanded MLA tests Covid-19 positive||AURANGABAD: In another case of a political figure contracting the Covid-19 infection, an MLA from Nanded has tested positive for the contagion. The public representative had come in contact with a former mayor and his son, who had contracted the disease recently, health authorities said on Saturday. “The MLA had already gone into self-isolation a few days ago as he had come in contact with individuals who later tested positive for Covid-19. The MLA’s throat swab samples tested positive on Friday evening, following which the politician started treatment,” said the Nanded unit president of the party the MLA belongs to. Health authorities said all high-risk and low-risk contacts of the MLA are being traced for health screening. Meanwhile, the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the district so far has gone up to 349. This includes 275 recovered patients and 16 causalities, official records show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-mla-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76666148.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Government on alert as locusts cross Delhi borders||NEW DELHI: With a swarm of locusts entering the geographical boundary of Delhi on its way to Faridabad and further down from Gurugram, Delhi government put the district machinery on high alert on Saturday to guard against the insects. The government asked the residents of affected areas to beat drums and utensils, play loud music and burst fire crackers to deter the locusts. The swarm did not affect operations at Indira Gandhi International Airport. Environment minister Gopal Rai called an emergency meeting with the development commissioner, divisional commissioner and agriculture director and other officials to discuss a potential locust attack and later issued an advisory for officials as well as citizens. “We have information that a segment of a swarm of locusts heading towards Palwal in Haryana entered the Jasola Bhati region on Delhi’s border,” Rai said. “We have directed the forest department to take measures such as high-decibel noise to get rid of the locusts.” He added that an advisory issued by the agriculture department has asked the South and South West district authorities to be on high alert and go for chemical spraying to save vegetation, if required. The government said that apart from making loud sounds to frighten the insects, residents should keep doors and windows closed, cover outdoor plants with plastic sheets and spray melathion or chloropyriphos, taking care to wear PPE suits while handling the chemicals. An official said, “Since the locusts travel in the day and rest at night, the government has also advised people to not allow them to rest by making loud sounds and spraying insecticides on vegetation. Rai said the government was monitoring the situation closely. “Currently, the wind direction is towards the south, but the swarm route can change. Our development commissioner will be in regular touch with the central government officials and will alert us if the flight of the locusts changes in Haryana,” the minister said. Fortunately, flight operations were not impacted at IGIA despite the locust swarm reaching Gurgaon, which is close to the airport. However, a notice to airmen (NOTAM) was issued, with the Delhi air traffic control asking all incoming and outgoing flights to be on high alert during the day and to take all necessary precautions along the Gurgaon-Dwarka expressway. Monitoring teams were set up to aid incoming and outgoing flights, officials said. “We were on alert for the last 24 hours, and had the swarm reached the airport, the operations would have been halted,” an official said. Only last month, the Union ministry of civil aviation had issued a circular warning of high risks to flights from locust swarms. “Generally, locusts are found at lower levels and, therefore, pose a threat to aircraft in the landing and take-off phases. Almost all air intake ports of the aircraft are prone to ingestion in large numbers if the aircraft flies through a swarm,” the circular said. The aviation ministry had also pointed out that since locusts fly with the wind current, their path and direction could change with any change in wind direction, making it difficult to pre-determine their path. Though an individual locust is small in size, the impact of a large number on the windshield is known to have impacted the pilot’s forward vision in the past, it added. “This is a grave concern during landing, taxiing and take off phase. Use of wipers at times may cause the smear to spread even more, and pilots should consider this aspect before opting to use wipers to remove locusts from the windshield. Large swarms can also obstruct visual ground contact over a large area, therefore flights under Visual Flight Rules also need to be aware of their presence. Air traffic controllers, when aware of locust presence in the vicinity of their aerodrome, are advised to share the information with all arriving and departing flights,” added the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/govt-on-alert-as-locusts-cross-city-borders/articleshow/76669090.cms||Atul Mathur
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Bander coal block: Cast open for disaster||State ministers Aaditya Thackeray and Vijay Wadettiwar, and MPs Balu Dhanorkar and Jairam Ramesh have appealed to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar to have a rethink on putting up Bander coal block for private auction. The area lies cheek by jowl with Tadoba’s buffer area and even butts into it a bit. In the eco-sensitive zone of the tiger reserve are two villages, farm land, a national highway and several power transmission lines. Bander has a thriving ecology of thick trees and lush green cover. It also serves as a wildlife corridor for tigers dispersing from Tadoba to other parts of Vidarbha. TOI does a spot visit, and speaks to villagers and experts on the potential damage mining would cause in Bander Nagpur: The waistbelt-wide National Highway 353 is a well-planned connector for north-south human movement. Bhiwapur, famous for its red chillies, lies to the north and Warora, popular as Baba Amte’s abode, is in the south. Parts of the road are in a permanent state of alternate repair and despair. Machinery, some of it immobile, conveys the effort being taken for the smooth movement of man and goods. As you negotiate pothole-ridden Chimur town and head towards the popular Navegaon gate of Tadoba and Andhari Tiger Reserve, a fading welcome arch passes as a blur in the whizzing foliage. ‘Happy New Year 2014’, it reads — in letters that appear older than just six years. ‘Welcome to Shivapur Bander’, reads another line. They are twin villages located on either side of a narrow road off the highway. Bander suddenly caught national attention after the area was designated as a milch cow for coal. One of the 41 coal blocks in the country, it is to be gift-wrapped for the highest private bidder. Bander derives its name from monkeys in permanent residency there. The village is a tiny, insignificant blip with around 1,250 poverty-ridden, unlettered and malleable folks. The Bander coal mining area is 1,644 hectares, or 16.44 sq kms, which is five times the size of the Lonar crater and the sanctuary around it. Around 12 sq kms of this expanse is virgin forest. This humongous parcel of land is replete with tall, magnificent green monuments and thick ground cover more congested than a traffic jam in Delhi, Mumbai or Bengaluru. The area is a well-documented, ancient natural route used by wildlife for smooth and unhindered dispersal from Tadoba to other sanctuaries of Vidarbha like Umred-Karhandla, Pench, Bor and Melghat. The only human intervention it required was deliberate neglect. While the protected areas of Tadoba and its buffer zone lie on the left side of the highway as one travels from Chimur to Warora, Bander village is just across the road from this legally protected forest. The buffer of a forest protects the core area. Outside it lies the eco-sensitive zone which provides the ‘suraksha kavach’. The Bander coal block lies smack in the middle of this area and even juts into the buffer like the rounded edge of a jigsaw puzzle. Coal mines too have a core and buffer. The core is the area where mining activities take place, which, in the case of Bander, will be both opencast and underground. The 10km buffer is where its ill effects — pollution and destruction of green monuments — are seen. The core of Bander coal block gnaws into the buffer of Tadoba. “The core of Tadoba too will take a significant hit, perhaps even as far as Tadoba lake,” says Bandu Dhotre of Eco-Pro, an NGO of Chandrapur which works for green conservation. When TOI first reported about Bander coal block going for auctioning on June 19, it was felt that the area is an already unsafe 7-8 kms from Tadoba buffer. Referring to several maps, Dhotre and Prafulla Bhamburkar — who works with Wildlife Trust of India — now say there is clinching proof that a part of the coal block core is inside the buffer of Tadoba. “These forests cannot be recreated with any amount of mandatory compensatory tree plantation,” says Bhamburkar. “It will have to be written off as a big loss to the environment”. In the thickets, there is a rustling sound. Disturbed by human presence, an adult wild boar leaps like a spotted deer to safety. Its brood ducks into the undergrowth, quietly munching away at the abundant food. Dhotre spots not-very-old tiger pugmark in a puddle of overnight rain. Droppings of other herbivores signify the healthy wildlife that Tadoba harbours. A few years ago, Bhamburkar had set up camera traps in the forest beyond Bander village for the forest department. Last week, state minister Vijay Wadettiwar said there are six resident tigers here. “The forest extends to Wardha and Nagpur districts, offering excellent opportunities for the spillover wildlife population of Tadoba to migrate or even claim territories to set up new homes,” says Bhamburkar. Just outside Bander village, Manoj Kamdi (35) is with a herd of cattle. He is a professional shepherd taking the village cow population out to graze. “Last year, 16 cattle were killed by leopards. No, I haven’t seen any tigers but several other wild animals, yes,” he says. Kamdi adds that villagers are dependent on minor forest produce like tendu and fuel wood found in the forest. “The mining will put an end to our livelihood,” he says. The public works department is undertaking road widening of NH 353. Near Bander village, it has agreed to build an underpass 750 metres long for unhindered wildlife movement. “The highway will have to be diverted through some other nearby area as it cuts through the coal block. So do the transmission towers now standing on the farmland of Bander villagers. This means more forest diversion. The total loss is unimaginable and irreparable,” says Dhotre, who sowed the first seeds of protest by undertaking a motorcycle rally in Chandrapur district last week. A shop selling essentials for villagers and passing motorists also serves as a gossip stage for the stained dhoti-and-vest-clad, and those in three-quarters and sleeveless Tees. The word that Bander is up for auction again — the last time being 10 years ago — has got tongues wagging, but in no specific direction. Grocery shop owner Devidas Shrimane says, “Mining will be opposed. Today, we have water in abundance due to the forests. Farmers grow cotton, soyabean, gram (chana) and paddy in two crop cycles.” Haridas Meshram (82) says, “I’m breathing fresh air due to these forest patches. Mines will completely destroy the ecology.” A younger Suhas Purankar, a sarpa mitra (snake rescuer), says, “Mining companies provide jobs to only those whose farmland falls in the project. Agricultural land of many farmers in the surrounding villages will virtually become useless due to pollution.” Shivapur sarpanch Shribhrosh Dhok says, “I feel mines can bring in some employment for village youth even though past experiences with mining companies have been scary. We are in no hurry to say ‘yes’ to mines.” What Dhok is referring to is the ordeal of neighbouring Murpar village, where a government-run underground mine has been functional since 1990. At a time when renaissance in green consciousness was probably not even born, the mines got the sanction to function despite being just 5 kms from Tadoba buffer. “Murpar is facing severe water crisis due to the underground mining,” says Dhok. Bharat Jambhule (65), a former contractual worker in Murpar mine, laments the decision to allow mining in Murpar 30 years ago. “We thought our fortunes would change. On the contrary, the underground mine has turned the village completely dry. All the village wells have dried up and the water table has drastically depleted. The village has remained underdeveloped over the years,” he says. Nothing less than the moon is promised to villagers by companies and politicians, for whom mining is a symbol of progress ushered in to show off in their epitaphs. Murpar is still waiting for a bus stop, school, doctor and medical facilities, good roads and, more importantly, jobs. Village youths have failed to get jobs in the project. “I have an ITI certificate in electrical trade. I tried thrice to secure a job in Murpar mines but have always been turned down, don’t know why,” says Sachin Chaukhe (26). Another kilometre away is Minzari village. Sundarabai Nannaware (80) says, “My nephew used to harvest bumper crops before the mine came up. Now, the water table in the area is depleting and the yield too has dwindled.” Abundance of wildlife also results in crop destruction. “But this is a lesser evil. The dense forest ensures ecological balance, but the mines directly impact water, crops and the environment,” says Minzari sarpanch Kavita Nannaware. The loss of this thriving biodiversity is what the country will rue, according to Dhotre and Bhamburkar. “No cost can be pegged nor will any amount of money restore it. It will take years to even assess the entire loss,” they say. Watch Maha ministers appeal for rethink on Bander coal block private auction||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bander-coal-block-cast-open-for-disaster/articleshow/76667780.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Child porn: Statewide raids net 47 persons||Thiruvananthapuram: Police on Saturday raided 117 locations across the state and arrested 47 persons, including a government doctor, for storing or electronically sharing child porn videos. The raids were conducted as part of Operation P-Hunt, a drive to check child porn. Besides registering 89 cases, police have also seized 143 electronic devices used to store or transmit sexually explicit content of children, who appeared to be aged between six and 15. Police said the arrested were in the 18 to 45 age group. Among those arrested were a 31-year-old doctor of Primary Health Centre at Kamakshi, Idukki, and three men from Perumbavoor, Rayamangalam and Muvattupuzha. Officers from the Countering Child Sexual Exploitation (CCSE) Cell of the police Cyberdome conducted the raids. ADGP (headquarters) Manoj Abraham, who heads the Cyberdome, said there has been a spike in online salacious activities ever since the Covid-19-necessciated lockdown. Police, monitoring such activities, found the sharing of child porn materials, which led to the raids and subsequent arrests. “Most videos we seized showed children, who appeared to be residents of the state, being sexually exploited. All those videos appeared to be shot in recent times. We are investigating the source of these videos,” Abraham said, adding that the perpetrators might be someone within in the families or neighbours with access to the children’s households. The officer added that most videos were shared over private groups on WhatsApp or Telegram. Abraham also raised concern over the possible sexual abuse of children within their houses. As many as three inspectors general—Ashok Yadav, Harshita Attaluri and S Sreejith—were part of the raids. More arrests are likely in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/child-porn-statewide-raids-net-47-persons/articleshow/76667193.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nashik||Martyr laid to rest amid cries of ‘Shahid Jawan Amar Rahe’||Nashik: Martyred jawan Sachin More, of the Engineering Regiment, was on Saturday laid to rest with full military honours amid cries of “Shahid Jawan Amar Rahe” at his village, Sakuri (Zap), in the Malegaon taluka of Nashik district. The soldier, who had served the country for 17 years, was martyred in the Galwan valley in Ladakh while attempting to save his colleagues from drowning at a bridge construction site. His remains were shipped to Pune by air on Friday and transported to his village on Saturday morning. It was a long wait for More’s wife, seven-month-old son Kartik and two daughters Arya and Anushka, as the news of his demised reached them on Thursday. Since Friday night, people started trickling into the village as they waited for the arrival of the soldier’s remains. In the morning, the body was taken home for a brief period and then to an open ground where the administration had made special arrangements. Nashik district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, agriculture minister Dada Bhuse (who represents the Outer Malegaon constituency), MPs Subash Bhamre (Dhule), Bharti Pawar (Dindori), MLA Suhas Kande and collector Suraj Mandhare paid homage on behalf of the citizens. Bhujbal said the state government would do all it can to provide support to the martyr’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/martyr-laid-to-rest-amid-cries-of-shahid-jawan-amar-rahe/articleshow/76667767.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||2,500 beds kept ready in Ramnad||Madurai: The Ramanathapuram district has kept ready 2,500 beds for Covid-19 treatment in the district, Ramanathapuram district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said on Saurday. The collector inspected the dedicated Covid-19 care centre established in a private engineering college in the district, on Saturday. He said that Covid-19 prevention activities had been stepped up in the district and as many as 11,233 people had been tested in the district so far and 546 of them had tested positive. Out of them, 162 had recovered and returned to their homes. This district has 380 active cases currently, he added. Covid-19 health care centres were being established to treat people who test positive based on the seriousness of their condition. Around 900 beds were already kept ready in the Ramanathapuram headquarters government hospital, the Paramakudi government hospital and Parthbanur and Devipattinam primary health centres (PHCs). Now, another 1,600 beds had been added in the dedicated Covid-19 care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2500-beds-kept-ready-in-ramnad/articleshow/76667772.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai CoP warns personnel against violating Covid protocol||Madurai: Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham has warned police personnel of disciplinary action if they leave Covid-19 treatment facilities disobeying medical staff.Police personnel, who have been tested positive for Covid-19, were admitted to the Railway hospital. Those who have tested negative and asymptomatic have also been quarantined in the facility. Some of them have also been home quarantined.In a memo issued on Friday, the police commissioner stated that he has noticed that those in treatment, isolation and quarantine have been wandering outside. It is the responsibility of police personnel to follow the guidelines and protocol properly. Such irresponsible attitude of police personnel would result in the spread of infection.“If any such violation of the treatment protocol by any police personnel comes to notice, it will be viewed seriously and erring people would face disciplinary proceedings,” the memo sent to all inspectors and assistant commissioners said.He further stated that all police inspectors were directed to instruct all the policemen during the roll call to follow the Covid-19 protocol and guidelines of the government.Police sources said that more than 25 police personnel in various ranks have been infected with Covid-19 so far. Their close contacts were tested for Covid and asked to be in isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-cop-warns-personnel-against-violating-covid-protocol/articleshow/76667770.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Neyyattinkara council meet: Tension continues||Thiruvananthapuram: The political tension, which was generated after a pandemonium broke out at Neyyattinkara municipal council on Friday when the ruling front and the opposition were caught up in a brawl, is yet to subside. The police on Saturday arrested a Congress worker for allegedly trying to start another clash by vandalising party symbols, including flags, posters and placards of CPM activists, who were staging a dharna at Punnakkad near Neyyatinkara. Jose of Punnakkad has been charged under Section 153 of IPC (wantonly giving provocation with intend to cause riot). He was later let off on bail. Police said Jose tried to damage the flags and posters around 11.30am at the protest venue of CPM activists. The protesters had dispersed to take a break, when he vandalised the party symbols. The CPM activists were protesting seeking justice for Neyyatinkara municipality chairperson W R Heeba, who sustained injuries after she was allegedly attacked by Congress members. Meanwhile, police registered two cases, one against Heeba and another one against opposition leader Lalitha teacher, along with a few of their party workers, for attacking each other. Relevant Sections of verbal abuse, physical harassment and wrongful restraint were invoked against both parties. Neyyatinkara station house officer inspector Sreekumaran Nair said the cases were registered after recording statements of Heeba and Lalitha. Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Union strongly condemned the attack faced by Heeba. In a statement released here on Saturday, the union said its members will organise a protest meeting on Monday at Neyyatinkara demanding strong action against the perpetrators. The union leaders also said that the opposition were trying to create unnecessary issues frustrated over the good governance at the municipality in the past four years under Heeba’s leadership. A clash had broken out at the municipality after the council meeting on Friday when the chairperson refused to hold discussions on allegations of corruption levelled against her. The clash turned violent when the Youth Congress activists, who were staging an indefinite protest for the past three days joined the fray. They were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/neyyattinkara-council-meet-tension-continues/articleshow/76667188.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Agonda to shut down for 8 days||Quepem: Panic spread in the beach belt of Agonda after four Covid-19 cases were reported within three days, including three in a family. After a nurse from Val, Agonda, who works at the private hospital in Margao, tested positive on June 25, her mother was detected with the virus the next day, and on Saturday her younger sister too was also declared Covid-positive. The two sisters and their mother are admitted shifted to the MPT covid care centre at Vasco. Sources said the nurse contracted the virus after an elderly woman who had visited the hospital for treatment had tested positive. Agonda sarpanch Pramod Faldessai told TOI that the panchayat has decided to observe an eight-day lockdown in Agonda, starting from Saturday. Only outlets selling milk will be allowed to remain open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agonda-to-shut-down-for-8-days/articleshow/76668055.cms||Johnny M
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid-19 challenge will make us work harder, say toppers||LUCKNOW: Adversity is the best teacher and we should look for positives amid the Covid-19 pandemic situation, believes Abhimanyu Verma, who bagged the second rank in the state with 95.8% in class X. A student of Sri Sai Inter College of Barabanki, he said, “The pandemic had me worried that people are losing jobs and it might be difficult to study in a bigger city to pursue my dream of becoming a doctor but now, because of this disease, I feel more motivated to pursue medicine to help the nation,” he said. Yogesh Pratap Singh, who has scored 95.3% and got the third rank, says that if excellence and hard work are your friends then one does not need to worry even in adverse situations. The student of Sadbhawna Inter College, Barabanki, said he was initially worried that academic institutions are closed. “When I saw the positive attitude and energy of corona warriors like civil servants and doctors, I decided to become an IAS officer who can help the government in tough times and teach students of my village,” said Yogesh. He said his good results had flushed out all negative thoughts about his future. Akansha, who was ranked fifth in UP with 94% in class XII, is worried though. “I want to crack NEET in my first attempt and had planned to go to Delhi for coaching but Covid-19 has hit my plans,” said the student of Shri Vishwanath Inter College in Sultanpur. “I was in great stress but my good scores have come as a stressbuster for me. I will work harder wherever I am to become a doctor now,” she said. Pooja Maurya, has is ranked seventh in UP with 93.6%, said, “At times I worry that novel coronavirus will be a hurdle in my dream to study in IIT and there is an economic slump too. However, my board results and my father, a vegetable vendor, have set an example for me that there is no replacement for hard work which can win over adversity.” Keshav, who has bagged ninth rank with 92.8% in UP, said, “I am preparing for IIT-JEE and had plans to get coaching in Kota or Delhi but now I can’t travel. However, these are uncertain times for every body and I am not scared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-challenge-will-make-us-work-harder-say-toppers/articleshow/76668058.cms||Aditi Singh
June 28, 2020||Goa||Zuarinagar lockdown kicks in||Vasco: A complete lockdown was observed in the Zuarinagar slum, Housing Board and the area from Upasnagar to MES college in Sancoale on Saturday. The otherwise overcrowded areas in Zuarinagar were deserted. A decision to lockdown the three areas for seven days, from Saturday, was taken by the Sancoale village panchayat on Friday. Almost all shops, except pharmacies, were closed, while general stores were open only for two hours in the morning and evening. Panchayat member Narayan Naik said, “It is very heartening that people are cooperating. This shows that they have realised how deadly the virus is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zuarinagar-lockdown-kicks-in/articleshow/76668054.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 28, 2020||Nashik||Five booked for abetting suicide||Nashik: The Ambad police have booked five people of a family on the charges of abetting the suicide of a family member. According to police, on Thursday at around 4 pm, Varsha Ahire (24) committed suicide by hanging at her residence in Patil Nagar. The woman was found hanging from the ceiling fan of the kitchen. Though she was immediately rushed to a private hospital, she was declared brought dead by the doctors. However, on Friday, the deceased woman’s parents accused her husband and in-laws of torturing her, resulting in her death. According to police, the deceased woman’s brother, in his statement to the police, stated that Varsha was tortured by her husband and in-laws. They often fought with her over household work. He also told police that Varsha’s in-laws often demanded money from her for constructing a house of their own. Ambad police said that they investigating the case and would look into the allegations made by the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/five-booked-for-abetting-suicide/articleshow/76667771.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 66 new Covid-19 cases, tally in hill districts higher than plains||DEHRADUN: With 66 fresh cases reported on Saturday, the Covid-19 tally shot up to 2,791 cases in Uttarakhand. And with 90 patients conquering the disease on the day, the total recovered cases has now reached 1,912 in the state. Among the 66 fresh cases, 29 were reported from Nainital, followed by 11 cases from Almora, eight from Dehradun, seven from Bageshwar, three from Rudraprayag, two cases each from Tehri and Chamoli, and one case each from Champawat, Udham Singh Nagar, Chamoli and Uttarkashi," Abhishek Tripathi, in charge of Covid-19 Control room, told TOI. The officials added that the recovery rate of Uttarakhand is now 68.51%. Meanwhile, among the hill districts, Tehri has reported the maximum 412 Covid-19 positive cases in the last one month, followed by 176 cases in Almora. However, patients from hill areas are recovering more steadily as compared to the ones in plains. Till Saturday, Tehri and Almora had 88 and 44 active cases respectively. “Among 81 cases in Bageshwar, 55 had recovered till June 27. This means, almost 70% of the total cases have recovered in the district. In Chamoli too, only 19 of the total 71 total cases are active at present,” informed Tripathi. He added that the recovery rate of Pauri is the worst among all hill districts where 141 total cases have been reported till date and only 64 cases (not even 40% of the total) have recovered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-66-new-covid-19-cases-tally-in-hill-districts-higher-than-plains/articleshow/76666165.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 28, 2020||India||China grabbed 45,000 sq km of our land after 1962: Sharad Pawar||KOLHAPUR: NCP chief and former defence minister Sharad Pawar on Saturday said the Galwan Valley incident should not be politicised as it is a matter of national security and added that one could not forget that China had captured about 45,000 sq km of Indian territory after the 1962 war, a remark aimed at former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi’s criticism of the government on the China issue. The remarks of Pawar, Congress’ coalition partner in Maharasthra, came while responding to a query from reporters in Satara on Gandhi’s consistent criticism of the Modi government over the face-off in Ladakh, and marked a repudiation of the latter’s stand on the border conflict with China. “I am not aware whether China is occupying any (part) of our area now, but it still continues to hold 45,000 sq km of Indian land (from 1962). Those who are making allegations today should take into account what happened when they were in office (in 1962),” he said in a reference to China’s capture of Aksai Chin under the Congress government led by first PM Jawahar Lal Nehru. The NCP chief said the close-quarters fight that broke out in Galwan Valley only indicates that the Indian Army was vigilant, otherwise nobody would have come to know that they (the Chinese) had come and gone. Describing the situation as “sensitive”, the ex-Union minister said China certainly is at fault but added that he did not see any possibility of war. “India is constructing a road in Galwan Valley in our own territory,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-grabbed-45000-sq-km-of-our-land-after-1962-sharad-pawar/articleshow/76668419.cms||Satyajit Joshi
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Dinner’s from next door||CHENNAI: For the past five years, Subhashini Sen has been whipping up her signature dishes for friends and neighbours. But since the lockdown began, the self-styled home chef is getting more requests from other residents of the sprawling apartment complex she lives in. "People are tired of their own cooking, and want something different, tasty and safe," says Subhashini, who lives in Anna Nagar. "Earlier, I didn’t do it on a daily basis. Now, I put up the menu for the week on the WhatsApp group for residents, and take orders twice or thrice a week." Sen, whose culinary repertoire includes meat loaf, shepherd’s pie, lasagne and stuffed vada pav, says she has been selling plenty of bread, brownies, ice cream, and soups like minestrone which is filling. With the lockdown getting extended, many families are not just tired of the daily cooking but also eager to try out different dishes. So home chefs and bakers are doing brisk business, especially in their own apartment complexes and neighbourhoods as, with a pandemic raging, people feel getting their grub from the neighbour is safer than ordering it from hotel kitchens. "Mondays are busy for me, so every week, I order food from a home chef. I know where the food is coming from and it’s healthy, wholesome fare," says academic coordinator Seema Balachandran of Pallikaranai. Mohamed Ismail, who launched www.watscooking.com, which connects clients to home chefs, says they have been deluged with calls during lockdown. "We have tied up with 11,500 home chefs across India, and have 66,000 registered users. We have been getting requests from people who want to get in touch with a home chef in their locality, as they will know if the area is safe or not," he says. Shantha Sridharan, 77, for instance, has been providing food to people in her locality in Saidapet for about 40 years. "I do it on a small scale and generally stick to my regulars. But now, I am getting new requests, and don’t turn them down if it’s from families who really need help. Recently, someone had a death in their family, so I agreed to provide food," says Shantha, who supplies breakfast, lunch and dinner. Home bakers are also very much in demand now. One of them is Vanditha Kamal, who lives in an apartment complex in Mogappair. "Earlier, my orders were for parties. Now, families who want desserts such as cupcakes, brownies or celebration cakes for birthdays or other special occasions, get in touch with me," says Vanditha, adding that there is also more demand for healthy cakes made of alternate flours and sugar. "I use whole wheat flour or ragi, and brown sugar or jaggery." Home bakers and chefs are consciously restricting the orders they take on. "I get about 15 orders every time I post a menu and I keep it that way," says Subhashini. "After all, the ingredients have to be available and I also have the washing up to do."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dinners-from-next-door/articleshow/76668420.cms||Priya Menon
June 28, 2020||Nashik||Cash & articles worth Rs 1.14 lakh stolen||Nashik: Cash and articles worth Rs 1.14 lakh were stolen in a house burglary, in Avte Nagar, Jai Bhavani Road between June 19 and June 26. The complainant, Vishwas More, said that he had gone to his farm in Lasalgaon along with his family at the time of the burglary. After completing the routine farm work, More returned home on Friday at around 12.30 pm and found that someone had broken the lock of the main door of his house. He found that Rs 20,000 cash, a gold bracelet worth Rs 65,000, two gold earrings worth Rs 25,000 and other jewellery were missing which were kept inside a wooden cupboard. The Upnagar police are investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cash-articles-worth-rs-1-14-lakh-stolen/articleshow/76667777.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Rathi re-elected VIA president||Nagpur: Suresh Rathi has been re-elected as president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) while Gaurav Sarda has got another chance as secretary. Elections of VIA were held during the 56th annual general body meeting of the association. RB Goenka, Aditya Saraf and Suhas Budhe were elected as vice-presidents, Naresh Jakhotia as treasurer, Anita Rao and Ashish Doshi as joint secretaries and Hargovind Bajaj, Prafull Doshi, Suresh Agrawal, Rohit Bajaj, Varun Bajaj, Pravin Tapadia, Prashant Kumar Mohota, Satyanarayan Nuwal, Girish Deodhar, Vishal Agrawal, Pankaj Bakshi, Pankaj Sarda, Akash Agrawal, Anil Parakh, Rohit Agrawal, Rakesh Surana, Ashit Sinha, Hemant Lodha, OS Bagadia, Girdhari Mantri, Pratik Tapadia and Kirit Joshi as office-bearers. Earlier, Rathi and Sarda presented the annual report for 2019-20. The report contains a brief mention of the activities of the various VIA forums: Agro & Rural Development Forum, Coal Consuming Industry Cell, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Forum, Defence Cell, Economy & Finance Forum, Energy Forum, Entrepreneurship Forum, EXIM Forum, Food Processing Cell, HRD Forum, Industry Institute Interaction Forum, Knowledge Forum, LEW Forum, Marketing Forum, MSME Forum and Taxation & Corporate Law Forum. In his address, Rathi spoke about how the coronavirus pandemic had hit the industries. “Covid is something which has not shaken us, but the whole world. Temporary closing down of our units was a tough time. VIA tried its best to ensure that industries reopen as soon as government permitted it. Meetings were held with authorities at all levels – right from chief minister to district authorities,” he said. The VIA chief admitted that many industries were still facing challenges. “Many may be still facing the problem of demand, working capital, migration of labour, missing supply chain link and derailed global trade. For this, talks are going on with various authorities and we hope that all the industries are back to normal by July 15 or 20 subject to following strict lockdown relaxation guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rathi-re-elected-via-president/articleshow/76667788.cms||Ashish Roy
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai reports 7 of 10 south TN deaths||Madurai/Trichy: Southern districts reported 509 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and 10 deaths, the highest in a day in the region, while in the central region, the eight districts contributed 160 cases. The total cases in the southern region now stand at 5,865 and the deaths at 48 while central districts have a total of 2,375 cases. Madurai reported 218 cases and seven deaths taking the district total to 1,703 and deaths to 20. The dead included two with co-morbid conditions. A 29-year-old man passed away on June 25, four days after admission to GRH while a 37-year-old man from Madurai with no co-morbid conditions died on June 24, just over five hours after admission. Five more patients with co-morbid conditions died at GRH as well. They were a 63-year-old woman with diabetes (June 17) and two men aged 66 and 62 with diabetes and hypertension on June 24. A woman, 38, with hypertension and chronic kidney disease and a 73-year-old man from Madurai, both died on June 26. The 218 cases reported on Saturday in Madurai comprised 90 ILI cases, 88 contacts of patients, 32 frontline workers, three pregnant women, three others with travel history to other districts and one imported case. A 37-year-old-man from Virudhunagar with chronic kidney disease died on June 26, while a 63-year-old man with diabetes, coronary artery disease and hypertension died in Dindigul on June 25. A 67-year-old man from Sivaganga with comorbidities died on June 25. Three delta districts – Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam — had 102 cases on Saturday with Tiruvarur topping with 46 cases while Nagappattinam came closer with 40 cases. Thanjavur had 16 cases. Five of the 46 cases in Tiruvarur were women police constables. Trichy recorded 31 cases taking its total to 503. On the positive side, MGMGH discharged 43 patients. A total of 19 people tested positive in Pudukottai district while seven tested positive in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts on Saturday. A 67-year-old man from Pallapatti tested positive in Karur taking the district total to 136 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-reports-7-of-10-south-tn-deaths/articleshow/76667775.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Man commits suicide, relatives accuse police of torturing him||Tuticorin: The family of K Ganeshamurthy, 29, a construction labourer from Ettayapuram in Tuticorin district, who ended his life by hanging in his house on Friday night, has accused police of torturing him on June 20, which, they claimed, drove him to the extreme step. According to police, Ganeshamurthy, who was going on his bike in an inebriated condition on June 20, fell down and sustained injuries. However he managed to get on to his bike and rode to a Tasmac outlet. A perplexed fellow alcoholics in the bar who saw him with blood injuries alerted the Ettayapuram police. Special branch constable, Karthik, and a few policemen went to the spot. Police said they conducted an inquiry with him, took away his bike and asked him to go home by walk as he was drunk. However, his kin alleged that police beat him up before seizing his vehicle. Upset over the turn of events, he hanged himself. Meanwhile, the family refused to receive the body and staged a demonstration putting forward various demands including Rs10 lakh compensation and job for his widow. After talks with revenue officials, the family was give Rs 4 lakh as settlement, after which they received the body in the evening. Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi and Tuticorin MLA Geetha Jeevan consoled Ganeshamurthy’s family.  Superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district, Arun Balagopalan told TOI that the man was drunk the day the incident took place and that the police only tried to help him. Denying harassment charges against the police, he added that allegations by the family are being probed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-commits-suicide-relatives-accuse-police-of-torturing-him/articleshow/76667782.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Dehradun||Case against Ramdev, associates over Covid ‘cure’ claims||HARIDWAR/JAIPUR: Police have registered a case against Patanjali founder Ramdev, two of his associates and two top officials of Jaipur-based National Institute of Medical Sciences for allegedly making “misleading claims” about having discovered a drug for Covid-19. “The FIR, filed by advocate Balbir Jakhar on Friday, has named Baba Ramdev, Patanjali CEO Acharya Balkrishna, Patanjali scientist Anurag Varshney, NIMS chairman Balbir Singh Tomar and NIMS director Anurag Tomar. The complainant has alleged that they have misled people by claiming that they have found a cure for Covid-19 in their formulation ‘Coronil’,” said Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay, station house officer of Jaipur’s Jyoti Nagar police station. The complainants said that the government had through its notifications issued from time to time prohibited publication of any false information regarding the prevention or cure of Covid-19 which has been declared a pandemic. They added that Patanjali attempted to mislead people by making false claims about having a cure for the disease. Hence, they sought action against the accused under the relevant sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/case-against-ramdev-associates-over-covid-cure-claims/articleshow/76666173.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
June 28, 2020||Nashik||Heavy rain lashes parts of Nashik city||NASHIK: Heavy rainfall lashed parts of Nashik city for about an hour on Saturday afternoon, resulting in waterlogging at many places, including chowks such as MICO Circle, CIDCO, Satpur, Mahatma Nagar, among other areas. The downpour that started at around 3.30 pm was accompanied by thunder and lightning. It took the city and parts of the district under its stride, officials of the district administration said. The city-based Indian Meteorological Observatory registered 10.5 mm rainfall by 5.30 pm. “Though the rainfall did not last for a long time, the torrential downpour completely disrupted the city life for some time. Nothing beyond 15 feet was visible. In addition, the city streets were also waterlogged,” Snehal Ranade, a businesswoman, said. The situation in the Saraf Bazaar and the adjoining areas was relatively calm as the rainfall stopped quite early. “We also witnessed waterlogging in our area,” Abhishek Patil, a vendor from the Old City area said. According to the district administration, several parts of the distict experienced rainfal. “There is no report about loss of life or property so far,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-nashik-city/articleshow/76667791.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||New core subject groups will harm students’ higher education: Teachers||MADURAI/TRICHY: The new subject groups for Class XI from the 2020-21 academic year, where students can opt for three core subjects for 500 marks instead of the present four for 600, will affect the prospects of students for higher education, say teachers. “Though the current CBSE board model follows 1 + 4 subject system as well with similar 500 marks, it has more flexibility. Unless there is an option to omit a language paper, the three core subject model’s ability to reduce stress on the students and provide a level-playing field will be only on paper. In reality, one needs to be cautious while choosing, otherwise it will limit the students’ choice of higher education courses substantially after Class XII,” said M C Abilash, secretary, Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation. Teachers expressed fears that Class X students, especially if parents are not educated enough, may not be able to make well-informed decisions on choosing subjects. Though the new system still offers the choice of opting six subjects too, students may not prefer it as it would mean studying an extra subject compared to other groups. “Mathematics occupies a very important space in both science and arts group. Further, learning physics without mathematics base will be very difficult,” said V Jayendran Mani, president, Tirunelveli Matriculation Schools’ Association. He added that parents and students need to consider prerequisites of subjects not only at undergraduate level but also postgraduate level courses. A student opting for three core subjects without Chemistry is neither eligible for admission to state-run engineering colleges nor can he apply for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for centrally funded engineering institutions and deemed universities. “In case the state government brings in a policy decision to admit students to engineering colleges who have not studied Chemistry in higher secondary, students will have to face Chemistry subject in first year engineering. Without studying Chemistry in higher secondary, they cannot cope with the subject in college level,” said a Chemistry teacher from government school in Trichy. On the other hand, some government school head masters said the new system can help students narrow down better on their career when they enter Class XI instead of focusing on it only in Class XII. “It reduces the burden, lets them focus better and score well especially when it is now a bigger challenge for students from government schools considering that we have no blue print too,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. The move will adversely impact students who aspire for NEET from the state board, says A Venkatesan, Trichy district president, Tamil Nadu Higher Secondary Post Graduate Teachers Association (TNHSPGTA). A NEET aspirant who opts for Biology, Physics and Chemistry – three core subjects -- without mathematics may not be able to clear NEET as the exam has Physics questions with mathematical calculation and he should have studied Mathematics to increase his prospects. Though the government says it is purely optional school headmasters may persuade most students to take less subjects to pass the exam as they are pestered only to generate cent per cent results every year, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-core-subject-groups-will-harm-students-higher-education-teachers/articleshow/76667789.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 28, 2020||Kochi||3 youth held as 2 girls attempt sucide||Kottayam: Three youth were arrested in connection with the suicide attempt of two minor girls in Mundakayam in the district on Saturday. An investigation into the girls’ suicide attempt led to the arrest of the three youngsters. The arrested include Anandu and Mahesh, both hailing from Koruthodu, and Rahul Raj hailing from Cheruvally Estate. All three are aged 20 years. On Monday, the two girls had jumped into a river from Vallakkadavu bridge after consuming poison. They were rescued by local residents. The girls had given a statement to police that they resorted to the act after they were scolded by family members for taking photos in their mobile phones. However, police did not believe this and subjected the two to counselling and medical examination. It was found that one of the girls was sexually abused. On examining the girl’s mobile call details, police identified the youth. Rahul Raj sexually abused the girl for the first time while she was in Class 7. Police are probing if more are involved. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-youth-held-as-2-girls-attempt-sucide/articleshow/76667213.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Toons to launch a superhero who fights for diversity||Thiruvananthapuram: How can grownups help ensure a child understands sensitive issues such as race, colour or gender? In order to help build right attitudes in children, including respect for race, culture and gender, Technopark-based Toons Media Group (TMG) is introducing an animated superhero who fights for diversity. The firm has joined hands with US actor Janet Hubert, a Daytime Digital Emmy nominee and star of popular sitcom of 1990s such as The Fresh Prince of Bel Air, for the project. The project was conceptualized by Hubert herself who is also co-producing it. According to TMG, the new animation project focuses on representing special kids from diverse backgrounds. The project titled JG and the BC Kids is about a woman superhero who travels around the world nurturing special kids from multicultural communities. TMG, Elijah Rock productions and Ericka Nicole Malone Entertain have started preproduction on a feature length animated movie, which will be followed by a TV series based on the superhero. Hubert said the project was born out of the need to represent kids from all backgrounds and cultures in mainstream children’s content. As an African American mother herself, she said even before her son was born, she knew that she would never find the kind of toys, accessories or even story narratives that truly reflected who he was. In a world where his identity was starkly under-represented, Hubert said, she wanted to create something to inspire him and millions of other kids like him. The lead character of the animated feature is Janet Granite aka JG, a super intelligent and athletic scientist and inventor who travels the world to find special kids. JG shows these special kids to be confident about who they are, irrespective of their looks and interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/toons-to-launch-a-superhero-who-fights-for-diversity/articleshow/76667222.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Man held for raping minor||MADURAI: The Silaiman police, on Saturday, arrested a 22-year-old man from a village near Sakkudi in Madurai district for raping a 15-year-old girl. According to police, M Satheesh fell in love with the girl a month ago and proposed to her. She accepted the proposal and often met him in secluded places. Her parents learnt about the affair a few days ago and warned the youth to stay away from their daughter. Meanwhile, the youth took the girl to a secluded place and raped her multiple times on Wednesday and Thursday. Based on a complaint from the girl’s mother, a case was registered against the man under sections of Pocso Act. He has been arrested and remanded in a prison. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-raping-minor/articleshow/76667792.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Dehradun||Shops to now remain open till 8 pm in U’khand||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, in a review meeting on Covid-19 and dengue prevention with district magistrates (DM) of 13 districts on Saturday, announced that shops in the state would now remain open till 8 pm. Till now, the shop owners were only allowed to keep their stores open from 7 am to 7 pm. Also, Rawat said that shops can open during weekend days — Saturday and Sunday. For the last few weeks, the shops and market areas in Dehradun had remained shut during weekend days for sanitisation drive. During the meet, it was also decided that people can go out for morning walk from 5 am. Rawat, however, added that people must follow social distancing norms and wear masks. For effective monitoring, he directed authorities to further improve the surveillance system to keep an eye on those who were on home quarantine or home isolation. The CM further said that the recovery rate of Covid-19 cases has improved in the state. He said that the state at present has the capacity to conduct 1,700 sample tests per day. The sample testing unit in Muketeshwar - with a capacity of 100 tests per day - is set to open from Monday. To curb dengue outbreak, he directed the DMs to launch mass awareness drives in their respective areas. “I have asked the DMs to conduct weekly cleanliness drive and awareness campaigns regarding dengue,” the CM said. He instructed the urban local bodies for regular fogging in their areas. Authorities were directed to ensure that the hospitals have required platelets for dengue patients. CM Rawat also added that one day in every week should be fixed in each district for large-scale cleanliness and awareness drives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shops-to-now-remain-open-till-8-pm-in-ukhand/articleshow/76666197.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 28, 2020||Madurai||Destitute elderly woman rescued from roadside||Madurai: A 69-year-old woman, who was left to fend for herself on the roadside in Madurai city, was rescued and admitted to a home with the help of the district administration. S Vallimayil was staying in a rescue home, after her only daughter died a couple of years ago while her husband Shanmugam had died several years ago. As the home was closed three months ago, Vallimayil found refuge in the temporary shelter for the stranded set up in March by the city corporation. Last month, that too was closed by the corporation after lockdown restrictions were eased leaving virtually the woman on the road. On Friday, Jaya Alagesan, a resident of Palanganatham who saw her plight, brought her water and food. As the elderly woman explained her difficulty, Jaya brought her to the district collectorate with the help of her son and daughter. District collector T G Vinay got in touch with Red Cross officials who helped the woman get a medical certificate stating she did not have Covid-19 symptoms, and admitted her to a home in Thirunagar. As she does not have Aadhaar or ration card for address proof, efforts are on to get old-age pension for her with the help of the district administration, said Red Cross secretary M Gopalakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/destitute-elderly-woman-rescued-from-roadside/articleshow/76667790.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hubballi||Non-Kannadiga students celebrate Kannada and how||Hubballi: Thanks to the efforts of Kannada Language Chair (KLC) at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU, Delhi), many non-Kannadiga students and foreigners are learning Kannada. Sample this: a Chinese student recites the Kannada rhyme ‘Aane bantondaane..’; Vaibhav Salunkhe, a non-Kannadiga, writes a bit on Hubballi; Vikas Yadav from Bihar speaks in Kannada fluently; Sthira Battacharya from Jharkhand is well-versed in Kannada reading, writing and speaking. Purushothama Bilimale, professor at KLC, said that 68 students and Kannada enthusiasts have learnt basic Kannada through their evening classes over the last two years. “Actually, their number is 5,000 if we include Kannada enthusiasts learning online,” he added. Recalling why the Kannada teaching course was launched, Bilimale said though KLC was set up at JNU in 2015, MPhil or PhD seats were not allotted to it. “We continued with research works by putting in place a Kannada library, translation, conferences, workshops, outreach programmes and publication. However, we felt the need of teaching basic Kannada to non-Kannadiga students. So we started evening classes thrice in a week,” the professor said, adding: “With financial support from the Kannada and culture department, we launched website www.kannadakalike.org and it paid off. Now, many Kannada enthusiasts from across the world are learning the language. They do and send us the assignments given on the website.” Two nationals each from China, Japan and the US are among the learners. The website contains 30 short-duration video clips that enables the enthusiasts to enhance their skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing. The clips have been categorised under rhymes, Kannada papers, yakshagana, communication at Devaraj Market in Mysuru, dasara pada, folklore, and the like. IAS officer K M Janaki said that she, as the director of the Kannada and culture department, visited KLC last year. “I was thrilled to listen to Chinese, Bihari and other non-Kannadiga students speaking Kannada. KLC is doing a good job in spreading Kannada and culture among enthusiasts of other states and countries,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/non-kannadiga-students-celebrate-kannada-and-how/articleshow/76667216.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Barring 2 dists, Marathwada records surplus rainfall||Aurangabad: Several parts of Aurangabad and Marathwada continued to witness occasional spells of light to medium rain over the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The region has witnessed 19 rainy days so far. Apart from Nanded and Osmanabad districts, which are showing rainfall deficiency of 23% and 8%, all other six districts have reported a surplus rainfall. As per the official data, Aurangabad district has recorded 179% of expected rainfall so far, followed by Jalna (154%), Beed (126%), Hingoli (117%), Parbhani (114%) and Latur (109%). The region as a whole has reported 164 mm of rainfall in June which accounts for 117% expected rain. As per the weather bulletin issued by Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani, eight districts of Marathwada are likely to witness rainfall during the next 48 to 72 hours at least. Districts such as Nanded, Latur and Parbhani are expected to get relatively more rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/barring-2-dists-mwada-records-surplus-rainfall/articleshow/76666190.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to bring Mughal-era lake back to life at Roshanara Bagh||NEW DELHI: An old lake, which sits against the backdrop of 17th century Mughal monuments and pavilions in historic Roshanara Bagh, is soon going to get a new lease of life. Under its “City of lakes” project, Delhi Jal Board will revive the lake in the gardens built by the daughter of emperor Shah Jahan. The working permission has been granted by the north corporation and the plan approved. “A physicochemical treatment plant will be set up with a capacity of cleaning 2.25 million litres of effluent per day. The total estimate of the project aimed at rejuvenation of Roshanara Lake is around Rs 11 crore,” a senior DJB official explained. In its pristine condition, the lake was fed by rainwater and channels from Najafgarh drain. But because of change in slope surfaces in the surrounding area and increased concretisation, it is lying in a dried-up state from the last one decade, a senior corporation official said. The rejuvenation of the lake will be done by filling it with treated effluents reclaimed after treating the waste water flowing in the drain and sewer network in the surrounding areas. The project will run parallel to diversion of water from Metro Phase-4 which has already been announced by the north corporation. Delhi Metro has agreed to feed its lake with extra ground water seepage which will come up from digging up the line section for Phase-4. Since the ground water levels in this area are very high, the excess water from seepage will be disposed off in the lake bed. DMRC will lay down pipes from nine locations along Pulbangash to Ghantaghar stretch and 18,000KLD water supply to 5-acre lake bed is expected from the DMRC project as reported earlier by TOI. DJB will use a compact treatment facility so that minimum land is used in the park. “Alum will be used to reduce pollutant load and then water will pass through four advanced filters. The quality of water in the area and local sewage treatment plant has already been tested,” added the official. Situated in Shakti Nagar, Roshanara Bagh is a Mughal-style garden built by Roshanara Begum, the second daughter of the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan. The lake inside the lush garden was once a hotspot visited by migratory birds during winters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-to-bring-mughal-era-lake-back-to-life-at-roshanara-bagh/articleshow/76667798.cms||Paras Singh
June 28, 2020||Dehradun||New research from Johns Hopkins, AIIMS Rishikesh identifies 3 potential drugs for Covid-19, one of them in use for HIV||Dehradun: A PhD scholar at AIIMS Rishikesh and an Indian scientist at Johns Hopkins University in the US are part of an international team of researchers which has proposed three potential drug molecules to treat Covid-19, including one that is already in use for HIV. The team has also identified new sites on a 3D model of the Sars-Cov-2 that could be targeted for improved drug delivery. In the study published in peer-reviewed Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics, the co-authors — including research scholar Rohitash Yadav at AIIMS Rishikesh, Dr Kapil Suchal, a postdoctoral fellow at Johns Hopkins University in US, and Dr Mohammad Imran, professor in pharmacology department at Shaqra University, Saudi Arabia, among others — said they used virtual screening, molecular modeling and checked reactions of drug molecules against target proteins on Sars-Cov-2. “We were able to identify three possible drug molecules, two of which are unnamed drug molecules while Zidovudine — a drug used for HIV infection — emerged as a strong contender for clinical trials,” Yadav told TOI on Saturday. In fact, the team is now planning to approach PGIMER Chandigarh for a potential collaboration to conduct laboratory studies of the efficacy of Zidovudine against Sars-Cov-2, said Yadav. Talking to TOI from the US, Dr Suchal said, “The Covid-19 outbreak has taken a toll on the human population which is why there is an urgent need to identify potential drugs. It took us over two months to complete the study.” Dr Shailendra Handua, head of the department of pharmacology at AIIMS-Rishikesh, and Dr Puneet Dhamija, additional professor, department of pharmacology, who were part of the study said they started with identifying five sites on a 3D model of the virus to serve as potential targets for drugs. “We tested 265 known drugs and 8,722 unnamed drug molecules against these sites. We were able to identify three sites that could be targeted for checking drug activity against the virus and three potential drugs that would be effective. Zidovudine gave the best results,” Handua said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-research-from-johns-hopkins-aiims-rishikesh-identifies-3-potential-drugs-for-covid-19-one-of-them-in-use-for-hiv/articleshow/76666209.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 28, 2020||Goa||Nauxim villagers chalk out strategy to oppose marina||Panaji: Nauxim villagers along with local fishermen and activists plan to meet with panch members of nearby villages and MLAs of St Andre, Cortalim, Dabolim, St Cruz and Taleigao to discuss the marina that has been proposed at the fishing village. Locals also plan to draft a petition to convince the government to cancel the public hearing for the project, which is scheduled on July 26. Local stakeholders met on Friday night to chalk out a strategy for the public hearing called by the Goa State Pollution Control Board. “On one side the government has imposed Section 144 and says that mass gathering is not permitted and then they themselves go and decided to hold a public hearing where hundreds of people will come,” said Rama Kankonkar. Professor Ramarao Wagh along with advocate Suresh Palkar are among the prominent locals who have opposed the marina in the eco-sensitive zone. “We met late night at Nauxim and what we decided after a meeting with the villagers was that we should call the 10 sarpanchs of the other villages which have been notified by the pollution control board,” said Wagh. In April 2015, the Goa Investment Promotion Board cleared 11 proposals—including two marinas—worth a total of Rs 1,137 crore. While Yatch Heaven (Goa) Pvt Ltd has proposed to build a marina at Sancoale in Mormugao taluka, Kargwal Constructions Pvt Ltd intends to build a marina at Nauxim village in Tiswadi taluka. The board said the marinas would still require environmental clearances before the firms could go ahead with the proposals. In November 2019, the state attempted to hold the public hearing for the marina at Nauxim, but backed down in the face of stiff protests. Palkar is drafting a memorandum, which will be circulated among the villagers as part of a signature campaign. The memorandum will be submitted to the Goa State Pollution Control Board and the government. “Ten village sarpanchs are named in the public hearing...to inform them about the implications of the project and what has been past. There could be people from other places. We need to chalk out a strategy,” said Wagh. Locals said that they have not received outright support from local MLAs though Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha has been vocal about her opposition to the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nauxim-villagers-chalk-out-strategy-to-oppose-marina/articleshow/76668281.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kanpur||15 quintal marijuana seized in UP's Jhansi, three arrested||JHANSI: In a joint operation by Special Task Force (STF) Lucknow, Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) and Jhansi police, 15 quintal of marijuana was seized from a truck in Jhansi and three persons were arrested on Saturday. As per details, the by STF team and NCB team received a tip-off about the movement of a vehicle containing ganja in the city. While watching out vehicles on Gwalior Road, they team stopped a truck with a number plate of Rajasthan laden with medicines. After a thorough search, they found sealed bundles containing ganja weighing 15 quintal. The weed, camouflaged as medicines, was being transported from Orissa to Aligarh. This is the third long-distance-consignment caught in Jhansi in the past few months. Three persons on board the truck were arrested. They have been identified as Basudev Singh of Mathura, Rinku and Bobby Kumar of Hathras. Sipri Bazar police station SO Sanjay Gupta said, “We will lodge an FIR soon after preparing a detailed list of seized items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/15-quintal-marijuana-seized-in-jhansi-three-arrested/articleshow/76667813.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||NGT disposes of Jaypee’s plea on Chandigarh municipal corporation waste plant takeover||CHANDIGARH: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has disposed of the plea of Jaypee Associates on the issue of taking over the city’s lone garbage processing plant by the Chandigarh municipal corporation last week. The tribunal has clarified that their domain is only to look after the exercise related to proper management of solid waste in the city and not to indulge in any kind of administrative issues. They said the above matter needs to be taken up at appropriate level. Since the Punjab and Haryana high court has appointed an independent arbitrator, the hearing on related issues will now be taken up before him. The development took place during the hearing before the NGT on Wednesday. During the hearing, all the issues related to management of solid waste were discussed. There were around 11 issues and those were directly or indirectly related to solid waste management, including disposal of legacy waste, processing of solid waste at garbage plant etc. Later, the issue related to taking over the plant by the MC was raised and in its order, the NGT said, “The MC may take further steps in accordance with the law. Though, a learned counsel for the contractor wants to raise the issue about his rights against the corporation and his claim has to be considered at an appropriate forum. The claim can be of money and not of obstructing arrangement which the corporation may make for garbage management to enforce right of citizens for a cleaner environment.” The Jaypee has already moved the Punjab and Haryana high court, which has appointed an arbitrator to listen to both the parties, namely Jaypee and the Chandigarh municipal corporation. The next hearing will be held in the coming few days. Sources in the MC revealed that they have already done the entire documentation work to present their case before the arbitrator to run the plant, as Jaypee was not doing satisfactory work from the last many years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ngt-disposes-of-jaypees-plea-on-mc-waste-plant-takeover/articleshow/76667206.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Parents unhappy with child panel online class rules||JAIPUR: Guidelines issued by the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights to schools for conducting online classes have been termed incomplete/insufficient by private school principals, experts and parents. Most principals and educators feel that the guidelines miss out on advocating activity-based learning, advisory for parents, no two-day offs and does not focus on measures to reduce the screen time for children. “The authorities have to curate and create creative teaching-learning methodology as it is seen that the lecture method is leading to boredom. It is the uncharted territory for everyone and we have realised that attention span on the teaching of a child during online classes is a bit more difficult than teaching in the classrooms. It is extremely important to add an element of humour in the class to keep it from getting dry and boring,” said Urvashi Warman, principal of Palace School. Stressing the need of having an advisory for parents on how to handle their wards during and after online classes, Lata Rawat, mentor of Cambridge Court group of schools, said online classes cannot be compared with classroom teaching. “Parents have to play an active role in ensuring that their wards follow the online class with discipline and share the feedback with the teachers regularly,” said Rawat. She further advised that pre-primary and primary kids are having the best of the animation-related content. “The classes have to be a mix of audio and visual content added with some characters to make a direct connection with the students. A teacher asking students to repeat after her/him has long become an outdated form of teaching,” said Rawat. Objecting on the 30-40-minute duration of the classes, Anjana Kumar, principal of Rukmani Birla Modern High School, said every class should be inter-spread with a breathing activity or ask the students jump up and down to make them feel comfortable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-unhappy-with-child-panel-online-class-rules/articleshow/76667802.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Air India flight from Ukraine brings 129 passengers||MOHALI: An Air India flight carrying 129 passengers from Borispol in Ukraine landed at the Chandigarh international airport at 12.50am on Sunday as part of the Vande Bharat Mission of the central government to evacuate Indians stranded abroad during the coronavirus pandemic It was the second flight —first was from Kiev — from Ukraine to arrive in Chandigarh. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all the passengers were asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their districts and their passports were taken into possession. All passengers, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives and quarantined. The airport on the verge of losing its international status has now hosted flights from Ukraine, New Zealand, Dubai and the US, all thanks to the Vande Bharat Mission A total of six flights — from US, Ukraine, Auckland, New Zealand and three from Dubai — have arrived so far. Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said an Air India flight arrived from Auckland on June 17 with 98 passengers on board. The flights from Dubai arrived on June 2, 15 and 21, with 180, 165 and 177 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ai-flight-from-ukraine-brings-129-passengers/articleshow/76667211.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||Baghpat’s Riya Jain, Anurag Malik top Class X and XII of UP Board||LUCKNOW: Riya Jain and Anurag Malik, both students of Shri Ram SM Inter College, a private school in Baraut, Baghpat, have topped the class X and XII examinations of UP board. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who also holds the education portfolio, announced the results in Lucknow on Saturday. Riya scored 96.67% (580 marks out of 600) in high school, while Anurag notched 97% (485 out of 500) to claim the first rank in intermediate merit. The results of both class X and XII have improved with pass percentages this year being higher than in 2019. The pass percentage of class X rose to 83.3%, increasing by 3.24% from last year, while that of class XII was recorded 74.6% this year, an increase of 4.6% from 70.06% of last year. In high school, Abhimanyu Verma, a student of Shri Sai Inter College, Barabanki, claimed the second rank in the merit by scoring 95.83%. Yogesh Pratap Singh, a student of Sadbhawana Inter College, also in Barabanki, scored 95.33% to bag the third position in class X. In intermediate, Pranjal Singh, a student of SP Inter College, Prayagraj, obtained the second position by securing 96%, while Utkarsh Shukla, a student of Shri Gopal Inter College in Auraiya claimed the third rank with 94.8%. Sharma said the trend of girls outshining boys continued this year too. In class X, 87.3% girls cleared the exam in comparison to 79.9% boys. In class XII, the pass percentage of girls was far better at 82% than 69% of boys, Sharma told reporters. In class X, private schools performed better than government and aided ones. Around 85.1% students of private schools cleared the exam against 82.1% in government and 79.8% of aided schools. The result of 114 schools out of 27,373 was less than 20%. On the contrary, in class XII, students of government schools outperformed others. The pass percentages of students from government/aided and private schools stood at 78.3% and 72.4% respectively. However, 136 schools out of 17,344 recorded below 20% result. District-wise, in class XII, Mahoba (89.2%) and Shamli (88%) recorded highest pass percentage. Lowest pass percentage of 56.4% was recorded in Aligarh and Ghazipur districts. In class X, Amroha (93%) and Shamli (92.2%) had the best result among all the districts while Chandauli and Mirzapur were on the last two rungs with 73.5% and 74.8% students clearing the exam. Among jail inmates, 92.5% cleared the high school exam, while 84% appearing in intermediate also succeeded. Total 93 jail inmates appeared in class X and 75 in class XII exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/baghpats-riya-anurag-top-class-x-xii-of-up-board/articleshow/76668063.cms||Isha Jain
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Cong to hold statewide protest over fuel hike||Jaipur: Pradesh Congress Committee has directed its district units to organize a protest against the rise in petrol and diesel at district headquarters on June 29. The protest will take place from 10 am to 12 noon. After the protest, the senior leaders have to submit a memorandum to the district collector on behalf of the President of India. It is also directed to the Congressmen that they should follow all Covid-19 protocols like social distancing and wearing a mask. “In the last three months, the Central government is repeatedly increasing the price of fuel adding more financial burden on the people who are already suffering from the ill effects of Covid-19,” said Sachin Pilot, president of Rajasthan Congress. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-hold-statewide-protest-over-fuel-hike/articleshow/76667795.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||2 killed after bike rams into stationary truck||Panchkula: Two men on a motorcycle were killed after their bike rammed into a truck, which was parked in the middle of the road without reflectors, in Pinjore on Friday. A complaint was given to the cops by eyewitness Madan Singh alias Mintu, 28, a resident of Nawanagar village in Pinjore. He told the cops that he was going for some work around 9.40 pm and suddenly saw that two men on a motorcycle hit a truck, which was parked in the centre of the road. There were no reflectors on the truck and the parking lights were also off. Both the men fell unconscious on the road. The police were called on the spot and both the victims were rushed to PGI, Chandigarh, where they were doctors declared them brought dead. The police have started tracing the family members of the victims. The bodies will be handed over to them after the post-mortem. The police have registered a case under Sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304-A (death caused due to negligence) of the IPC at Pinjore police station. Head constable Sanjeev, investigation officer, said, “The truck driver will be traced and arrested. We are investigating the matter.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-killed-after-bike-rams-into-stationary-truck/articleshow/76667217.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s share in Maharashtra’s daily Covid caseload slides from 68% to 25%||MUMBAI: When the Covid-19 outbreak started in early March, most cases were confined to Mumbai, which has high population density and vast slum pockets. But the city’s share in the state’s daily caseload has reduced considerably over the past few weeks. If the city was responsible for 60% of Maharashtra’s tally of 232 cases on April 15 and rose to account for 68% on May 18, data on June 27 (Saturday) morning showed Mumbai had contributed 25% to the total Maharashtra tally for the previous 24 hours. The Covid load is now growing quickly in Greater Mumbai’s satellite cities and Maharashtra’s other big cities such as Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad and Jalgaon. While the impact of the lockdown is showing on Mumbai, the exodus of migrants has put the onus now on the tier-2 cities. “There has been a significant change in how Covid is affecting various districts in Maharashtra,’’ said an official. “Initially, it was 70% Mumbai, 20% Pune and 10% rest of Maharashtra,” he said. The decline in Mumbai’s share began in late May; but its satellite cities began paying the price for sharing a porous border with the capital. State monitors Covid-19 situation in Jalgaon, Aurangabad, SolapurOn May 4, when lockdown 3.0 began, Mumbai threw up 441 (65%) cases to Maharashtra’s daily tally of 678 cases. Its satellite towns – from Navi Mumbai to Thane to Palghar – had barely 70 cases that day. When the latest lockdown began on June 3, Maharashtra’s daily tally of 2,287 cases had 1,117 cases from Mumbai (49%) and 559 cases (24%) from the satellite towns. However, the scene was different on June 27 morning, when Maharashtra’s daily tally of 5,024 cases had only 1,297 cases (25%) from Mumbai. The state is now keeping a close watch on Covid cases in Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Solapur and Nashik. “The rise of cases in Mumbai’s satellite towns and rest of Mumbai coincide with the government’s decision to allow inter-district travel from May second week onwards,’’ said another state official. There were single-digit cases recorded in almost 20 districts and municipal corporations on May 9, the day when the first train was started from Mumbai to Basti in Uttar Pradesh, during the lockdown. Following this, the state has also allowed inter-district movement by state transport buses and private vehicles maintaining social distance norms. “One of the key reasons for increase in number of cases in rural Maharashtra is the migration from cities to rural parts—mainly from Mumbai or Pune to other districts. The drastic trend of increasing number of cases in rural areas coincides with the incubation period of 14 days post-migration,” said the official. He added that since March until May second week, not a single case was registered in Gadchiroli and Wardha districts whereas only 1 each was recorded in Chandrapur, Gondia, Buldhana, Washim and Beed. On Friday, Aurangabad recorded 4,354 cases while on May 9 there were 437 cases, almost 10 times in one and half month. Nashik had 3,433 cases on Friday which had only 73 on May 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-share-in-states-daily-covid-caseload-slides-from-68-to-25/articleshow/76668409.cms||Malathy Iyer
June 28, 2020||Chennai||New launch pad in Tamil Nadu to help Isro save fuel||CHENNAI: The geographic location of the country’s second spaceport to be set up at Kulasekarapattinam in Tamil Nadu has a strategic advantage over launch pads in Sriharikota — small satellite launch vehicles (SSLV) can fly straight to the south pole without burning fuel to swerve around Sri Lanka on the way. Isro chairman K Sivan, at a video conference on Saturday, said during polar missions, big launch vehicles follow a trajectory where they fly in the southeast direction after lift-off from Sriharikota to avoid flying over Sri Lanka, protecting the landmass from rocket debris. The rocket then takes a sharp manoeuvre and proceeds towards the south pole. This dogleg manoeuvre that results in the rocket deviating from a straight flight path requires more fuel that eats into the rocket’s payload capacity. When launched from Kulasekarapattinam, this manoeuvre is not required thereby saving the rocket’s fuel as well as improving the payload capability. "The payload loss in big vehicles is manageable. When it comes to small satellite launch vehicles, such manoeuvres won’t give any payload capability. We selected Kulasekarapattinam because it gives us the benefit of launching straight in the southward direction," Sivan said. "But when it comes to the launch pad, Kulasekarapattinam launch pad will be nothing different from Sriharikota," he said. The new spaceport is expected to launch smaller satellites weighing 500kg into low-earth orbit less than 2,000km above the earth’s surface in a SSLV. The Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota, spread over 145sqkm, has two launch pads for PSLV and GSLV flights. On the ground at Kulasekarapattinam, Isro is one step closer to setting up the spaceport, as local officials expect the TN government to pass an order that will allow Isro officials to enter the property and start work. TN began the land acquisition process for the spaceport in December 2019. Around 2,300 acres of land has been earmarked across three villages — Mathavankurichi, Padukapathu and Pallakurichi for setting up the space station. Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri said they had sent a proposal to the state to pass an order allowing entry to the site. "We hope to get the government notification this month. We will then give permission to enter the land, and then the land value will be settled, following which, technically, Isro could do whatever they want in the land," he said. Officials said much of the land, for which the proposal has been sent, is at Mathavankurichi. At the video conference, Sivan elaborated on the setting up of the new Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) approved by the Centre to encourage greater private participation in the country’s space activities. The chairman also said all projects including the Gaganyaan unmanned test flight are delayed to the Covid-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-tn-launch-pad-to-help-isro-save-fuel/articleshow/76668427.cms||U Tejonmayam
June 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Seven held for trying to sell 2 pangolins in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: The forest department, Nanded, caught seven people in Biloli red-handed while they were trying to sell a female pangolin and her baby on Wednesday. Forest authorities sent a dummy customer and exposed the racket, whose kingpin—a former army officer from Pune districts—is allegedly on the run. District forest officer, Nanded, Ashish Thakare said on Saturday that the smugglers had posted an offer for selling pangolins on You Tube. “The female pangolin and her baby were illegally confined in a poultry farm in Shirur taluka of Pune district. The owner of the farm approached people from parts of Marathwada for sellin0g the animals,” said Thakare adding that the two pangolins have been recently released into the wild. Honorary wildlife warden for Nanded forest division, Anand Katti said, “Nearly 6,000 pangolins have been poached between 2009 and 2017 globally as per official records.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-held-for-trying-to-sell-2-pangolins/articleshow/76666215.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath hails toppers, announces Rs 1 lakh, laptop for top 10 rankers||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath congratulated the UP board class X and XII examinees who cleared their exams on Saturday. The government also announced Rs 1 lakh cash and a laptop each to top 10 merit rank holders. The CM hailed the secondary education department for timely completion of evaluation despite Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown. In a video message, CM hailed the students who made it to the merit list and appreciated their hard work and said the top 10 rankers will be felicitated by government. He also expressed pleasure on girls outclassing boys in exams. “It is heartening to see that despite Covid-19 pandemic, results of both class X and XII have improved from last year,” the chief minister said and added that students will get their marksheets from July 1, but appealed students to cover their face with mask and maintain social distancing. Before the results were declared, Yogi said in a tweet, “Exam and results are a way for self-analysis. Hence, it’s important to accept the results the way they come.” Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma announced the Uttar Pradesh Board class 10 and 12 results on Saturday and said that on the instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the top 10 merit rank holders of both class X and XII will get Rs 1 lakh cash and a laptop each. Meanwhile, deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya said roads would be constructed up to the houses of toppers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-hails-toppers-announces-rs-1l-laptop-for-top-10-rankers/articleshow/76668074.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers can avail crop loan without insurance||Jaipur: The Rajasthan government has made crop insurance voluntary from Kharif 2020 season while availing loan from financial institutions under PM Crop Insurance Scheme, an official said.  Farmers will have to fill an application requesting to keep them separate from crop insurance while taking crop loan from financial institutions, Agriculture Commissioner Dr Om Prakash said. Farmers can give their application to the financial institutions by July 8. A form will be made available by the financial institution or bank, he added. The Centre has decided July 15 as the last date to get the crop insurance by the farmers, Prakash said. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-can-avail-crop-loan-without-insurance/articleshow/76667808.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Lawyer booked for raping client in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: A lawyer from Gevrai tehsil of Beed district has been booked on the charges of threatening a woman with dire consequences and raping her on multiple occasions.  Gevrai police have booked the lawyer on the charges of rape, voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and under relevant sections of The Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. In her complaint, the woman alleged that after her husband deserted her in 2014, she moved the family court in 2015 seeking alimony from him. Unable to pay for a private lawyer, she took the help of the legal services provided by the state but was not convinced with the progress of the case. In 2017, she moved a fresh application at Gevrai family court, following which another lawyer was appointed to her case. After initially representing her, the lawyer allegedly started demanding sexual favours. Initially, she turned him down politely. One day, when she went to the lawyer’s house seeking the to know about the progress in the case, he raped her.  The woman stated in her complaint that while threatening her with dire consequences, the lawyer raped her on multiple occasions between 2017 and 2019. He even assaulted her when she warned of lodging a complaint against him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lawyer-booked-for-raping-client/articleshow/76666224.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nashik||Erring motorists slapped with fine of Rs 71 lakh||NASHIK: Ever since the lockdown was clamped in Nashik city on March 25, police have slapped a total fine of Rs 71.70 lakh on erring motorists, adding that though the unlock process has begun, they are ensuring that people abide by lockdown rules. According to the rules, not more than two people are allowed to travel in an autorickshaw while only one person is allowed to ride a two-wheeler. With the rush of vehicles on city roads increasing, the traffic personnel are back on duty in full numbers to ensure that the vehicular traffic is streamlined. At the same time, they are also taking strict action against motorists who are violating traffic rules. In addition to this, the police are also booking people who are not wearing face masks while moving around in public places. On Friday, police booked 41 people for not wearing masks in public. Police said that so far they have taken action against 3,527 people who were found moving out without wearing masks. Police have appealed to people to abide by traffic rules as well as follow all social distancing and lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/erring-motorists-slapped-with-fine-of-rs-71-lakh/articleshow/76667816.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 28, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand forest department develops India’s first lichen park in Munsyari||Pithoragarh: Uttarakhand forest department has developed what it claims is the country’s first lichen park in Munsyari. The park is developed across 1.5 hectares in Patalthor. The department had started developing the park in 2019. “The park has been developed with an aim to conserve, protect, and cultivate lichens and to create awareness among locals regarding their importance. The park has been developed as a research centre and can also help locals with their livelihood activities,” Sanjiv Charturvedi, conservator of forests, told TOI. “More than 20,000 species of lichens are found in the world and India has around 2,714 of them. Uttarakhand is home to more than 600 species of lichens,” said Charturvedi. According to recent classification, a total of 246 species of lichens are found in different districts of Kumaon region. Also, Munsyari has been identified as the hotspot where 150 species (approximately) of lichens are found, Chaturvedi informed. Forest officials have said that a proposal has been sent to the state government to obtain permission and open the park for researchers and the public. A Jurassic era plant — lichen — is a composite organism that emerges from algae or cyanobacteria living among the filaments (hyphae) of the fungi. In local parlance, these are called “jhula” or “pathar ke phool”. Lichens need clean air to grow as they perish when the air is polluted. “Lichens have the ability to separate minerals by eroding rocks. Lichen is also a key ingredient of the famous Hyderabadi Biryani. Further, lichens are used to prepare an indigenous perfume in Kannauj. They are also used in sunscreen creams, dyes, and some medicines,” Chaturvedi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-forest-department-develops-indias-first-lichen-park-in-munsyari/articleshow/76666225.cms||Prem Punetha
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||48 special trains likely from July||Jaipur: Though the railways has decided not to operate regular superfast and express category trains till August 12, the NWR is likely to run some more trains as ‘specials’ from July 1. These trains won’t have general class bogies and passengers only with confirmed reservation would be allowed to board. North western railway is waiting for nod of railway board to get these trains to operate. According to sources, NWR has submitted a list of trains to the railway board which they believe should start. Though, there won’t be regular trains till August 12, these trains would operate as specials.Sources added that at least 48 trains will run from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Ajmer and Bikaner divisions of North Western Railway (90% area of Rajasthan). “Out of these trains, we have demanded to get 32 trains to pass through Jaipur. Thus, Jaipur would have better connectivity to rest of India including southern parts of the country,” said a senior officer of NWR. Authorities added that since these trains are likely to run as specials from July onwards, there would not be general coaches and unreserved coaches in these trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/48-special-trains-likely-from-july/articleshow/76667815.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Shamna case: Racket kept women in confinement at least six times in the past||Kochi: The complaint of extortion bid filed by the family of actor Shamna Kasim have led the police to a network of conmen who allegedly have a long history of cheating multiple aspiring actors and models. A senior police officer with Kochi police told TOI that as per the latest information received by the cops, the accused has pulled off crimes similar to the confinement of about nine women at Palakkad, at least six times in the past. Soon after news of Shamna’s case hit headlines, women have been coming forward with complaints against the gang. Most of the complainants are connected with the illegal confinement of about 9 women in a hotel in Palakkad where they were taken in the guise of audition shoots. “As per our latest information, prior to the Palakkad incident, this has happened multiple times in the past and we are probing when it happened, to whom and where it happened. Investigation is on in those lines,” said a senior officer. On Saturday, police arrested one more person, Mohammed Sharif, who police said was one of the key accused. With his arrest, the total number of arrests rose to 7 and at least two more are left to be caught. “Including the case relating to Shamna Kasim, as many as eight cases have been registered against the gang so far. Two more cases would be booked soon. The accused are imposters who have posed as casting agents, gold smugglers and even police personnel to con the gullible women,” said IG and Kochi commissioner Vijay Sakhare. Accused even posed as cops On Saturday, a video emerged on social media in which the accused Sharif, can be seen sitting on a police vehicle. Cops said that this was used to make the victims believe that the accused were close with the cops. “After taking them to the hotel in Palakkad with the acting offer, they were asked to act as carriers in gold smuggling, which was another con. To make them believe that the ‘gold import’ was legal, the phone number of one among the accused was saved under a senior police designation in a phone and a call was made to this phone of another accused. When receiving the call, the accused showed the screen of this phone to the women to gain their trust. They then tricked them into giving them their money and gold by telling them that it was for making some ‘legal documents’,” said a senior officer. Primary motive monetary “So far, the evidence suggests that the primary aim was cheating and not sexual abuse or gold smuggling. However, one woman has complained of molestation and another has complained of indecent behaviour. Probe is on in these lines. Only the culprits are booked for the sexual offences while all accused have been booked for human trafficking,” said an official. Confinement even affected the marriage of one victim Police sources said that the confinement at Palakkad hotel happened between March 2 and March 10. “They were made to believe that their business was legal when they were kept in confinement at the hotel. They were not allowed to go anywhere. One of the girls had her marriage scheduled for March 8 and she wanted to go. However, the accused did not allow her to go. They told her to give money to them to let her go. Since, she didn’t have any money she gave them her gold chain. As she was away from her home for so long, her marriage got cancelled. She went back to get the chain but they did not give it to her,” said a senior official. Why Shamna? Kochi City police commissioner, IG Vijay Sakhare said that the police are looking into why actor Shamna Kasim was chosen as a target by the accused, who were earlier targeting small time actors. “We are probing into why she was chosen as a target and if they had any larger plan behind attempting to entice her with a marriage proposal,” said Sakhare. Even as one among the victims told a television channel about facing pressure and threats for withdrawing the complaints, commissioner Sakhare said that he was not aware of it and anyone facing such threats would be given police assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shamna-case-racket-kept-women-in-confinement-at-least-six-times-in-the-past/articleshow/76667238.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai businessman on a mission to ensure dignity for the dead||CHENNAI: Adversity could bring out the best or worst in you, and on April 4, when Covid took away his friend’s family member, Chennai businessman Mohamed Rasheed made a clear choice — one that he has stood by two months down. The 36-year-old exports businessman, who has had little luck with work since flight and cargo services were suspended following the lockdown, now spends his energy ensuring those dying of the disease get a dignified end — with or without the presence of family considering these circumstances. “It started with my friend’s 63-year-old relative, who had left behind a mentally unwell son, wife and aged mother — none of whom could step out of home. With some friends we laid him to rest at the Washermanpet ground,” says Rasheed. “My family was quite upset with me that day, but I asked them if they’d still be had it been one of our own.” After the burial, Rasheed quarantined himself in one of their empty apartments for four days before going back to his wife, mother and two sons – aged 6 and 10. What began with about 12 people, has now grown into a strong team of 80 volunteers across the city who have helped bury 72 Covid victims as of June 26. “We get a minimum of three and a maximum of nine deaths a day,” he says. The volunteers get calls late into the night, coordinate with sanitary inspectors in areas where deaths occur and burials happen, get the required documents and facilitate the rituals with the help of priests if need be. They’ve pooled in money to get close to 650 PPEs and gotten themselves checked about thrice in these months. “There’s just a couple of requests we have – better packed bodies from government hospitals and passes to move around freely. Right now, we get by producing WhatsApp videos of the work we have, but haven’t been able to procure official permits. A little help from officials would make all the difference,” says Rasheed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-bizman-on-a-mission-to-ensure-dignity-for-the-dead/articleshow/76668430.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: As 15-minutes rapid tests start this week, spike in cases expected||MUMBAI: This week, the civic corporation will start using rapid tests, which can reveal a person’s Covid status within 15 minutes. Currently, the real-time polymerase chain reaction test gives results in six to eight hours. While rapid tests are synonymous with blood tests that look for antibodies, the BMC has chosen an antigen-based test that will work on nose swabs. This test has been developed by a South Korean firm, S D Biosensor, currently the only company approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to perform rapid antigen-based tests. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told TOI the antigen test kits are expected to arrive via air cargo in Mumbai from Gurugram by Sunday. The first consignment will contain one lakh test kits. The rapid test is in keeping with the BMC’s “chase the virus” strategy. The kits will be used to test people in containment zones and quarantine centres as well as health care workers in hospitals. There is fear, though, the number of cases could significantly increase as more tests are conducted. The BMC plans to increase tests conducted daily by 50% from the 4,000-odd now. Chahal said there is no reason to panic. “Even if the number of patients rises, we do not anticipate additional testing will cause any burden on hospital beds,’’ he said, as many may be asymptomatic. Currently there are 6,417 beds available of the total 18,412. Chahal also said the protocol they plan to follow is that the test kits would be distributed to various laboratories in the city. They would be asked to use the kits to test patients from containment zones or those currently in quarantine. On the next consignment of antigen test kits, Chahal said it would be a continuous cycle of procurement after the first one is over. BMC officials, though, have said with monsoon here, they need to be more cautious about where the screening camps are organized. Some corporators have been critical of the BMC's screening camps in containment zones. “We find many people gather together at one place, which is not a good practice in these times,” said Borivli's former corporator Abhishek Ghosalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-as-15-minutes-rapid-tests-start-this-week-spike-in-cases-expected/articleshow/76668423.cms||Richa Pinto
June 28, 2020||Kochi||Ayurveda in demand, but doctors cautious||Classic ayurveda treatments like oil massage, medicate baths and learning to inculcate an ideal lifestyle at therapy centres are popular choices of corporate young for sustainable health. While Kerala houses some of the oldest and most recognized ayurveda treatment centres in the country, almost every city and town across the country now has similar centres. Like every business ‘unlocking’ after the Covid-19 lockdown, ayurveda treatment centres too are gearing up to adapting to the ‘new normal’ situation. It is a medical science in which human touch is of paramount importance. TOI spoke to leading ayurveda therapy centres in the country as they are likely to be the torchbearers of new good practices. “We are gradually starting admissions as demand is growing. But, we are not allowing patients from other states so far,” said Dr P M Varier, chief physician and chief superintendent of the more-than-100-year-old Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala. Prior booking is a must now, according to Dr Varier. “We screen patients for their travel history, contact history and health complications they experienced in the last three-four months. Admission is allotted only on the basis of our medical team’s recommendations,” he added. Many special treatments ‘dhara’ (using warm oil for general health improvement), ‘navarakizhi’ (relieves pain, stiffness, improves muscle strength), ‘nasyam’ (medicated powder/oil applied through nostril for detoxification) are prescribed in the ancient medical classics for some of the most distressing diseases. How to ensure minimum contact during these treatments is the challenge for the doctors. “Doctors working in our OPDs are wearing PPE kits. Mask is necessary for every patient. Therapists concerned are trained for new normal situation. We ensure complete sanitization of room, patient and therapist. Entire room is fully sanitized after every two hours,” said Dr Varier. Dr Chaithanya, from the research foundation of Coimbatore’s Arya Vaidya Pharmacy, said that online counselling has started for distant patients. “During the lockdown we received a huge number of phone calls for counselling as well as for admission enquiry. After online consultation, medicines too can be ordered online. But, for admission, you have to ensure booking at least one month in advance,” she said. If a patient is coming from red zone district, entry is barred. The entire therapy centre is sanitized after every two hours. To ensure Covid distancing, only one patient is treated in one therapy room at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ayurveda-in-demand-but-doctors-cautious/articleshow/76667252.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Man held for moneylending & kidnap||Kolhapur: Satara police have arrested a central government undertaking employee on the charges of lending money to his colleague and kidnapping him. The accused, Dnyandeo Anandrao Godse, has been remanded in police custody for four days. Godse was arrested following a complaint lodged by Deepak Subhash Jadhav, who is also a Central government undertaking employee. As per the complaint, Jadhav had borrowed Rs. 10.40 lakh from Godse between November 2018 and June 2020 for his daughter’s education and his father’s medical treatment. He promised to return the amount with 10% interest every month. Jadhav said that Godse had taken four blank stamp papers and signed cheques when he was given the money. Though Jadhav had paid Rs 31.2 lakh in two years, Godse was still harassing him for more money. On June 5, Godse kidnapped Jadhav and forcibly took him to a hill. Godse harassed him and threatened to kill him. Jadhav somehow managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-moneylending-kidnap/articleshow/76666235.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||Murder convict is jail topper: Most prisoners in UP clear test||LUCKNOW: Prison inmates in Uttar Pradesh notched up a near-100% success rate in both high school and intermediate Board exams this year. In high school exams, 83 of 93 inmates cleared the exam, taking the pass percentage to 92.47. In the intermediate examination, 63 of 75 jail inmates, including two women cleared the test, taking the pass percentage to 83.56. Last year, 77.42% convicts and undertrials passed high school and 77.59 % cleared the intermediate exam. However, performance of two inmates was a moment of pride for the prisons department. Shiv Pratap Singh, 45, convicted for murder and serving life sentence passed high school with 76.5 %, crowning himself the topper among jail inmates who took Class X exam. Arun, 27, is the intermediate topper with 70.8% marks. Shiv is lodged in Varanasi Central Jail after being convicted for murder of his brother, Ajay Pratap, over a land dispute in Kushinagar in 2004. “He was illiterate when he was imprisoned in 2008. But, he began studying to develop his skills. He took help from educated inmates and jail officials to learn Maths, English, and Hindi. As his confidence grew, he decided to take the Board exam,” said a jail official. To everybody’s surprise, he secured 80 marks in English and 77 marks in Mathematics. Arun, an accused in the murder of his girlfriend in Hapur, has been languishing in Ghaziabad district prison since 2015. He worked hard and took the high school test, scoring 81% in 2018.  “He wishes to study further,” said the jailor. “More and more inmates need to take up academics for self-reform,” said DG Jails, Anand Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/murder-convict-is-jail-topper-most-prisoners-clear-test/articleshow/76668089.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Joy of rain dimmed by power cuts in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The downpour on Saturday resulted in power cuts across various parts of the city. Some areas saw outages of almost four hours. Key residential areas in Khairatabad, Banjara Hills, Somajiguda, Miyapur and Masab Tank were among the several places to report outages. The power cuts affected those working from home the most. “I was unable to attend the online session scheduled at 5:30 pm due to power cut and had to cancel a meeting with a client scheduled at 7:00 pm as I missed the session in which employees were briefed about the client,” said B Ranjith a resident of MLA Colony, Road number 12 Banjara Hills. Rohan Patnayak, a filmmaker, said that he had to cancel a webinar. “Due to poor lighting conditions after powercut, we were forced to cancel it. I have to start from scratch and invite all the participants again,” Patnayak said. Discom officials attributed disruptions to fallen trees and cables being snapped as a result. “In GHMC limits, 297 feeders were tripped of which 75 are yet to be restored....all complaints will be solved” said a TSSPDCL official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/joy-of-rain-dimmed-by-power-cuts/articleshow/76667821.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Outbreak plays spoilsport for lakhs of warkaris this year||KOLHAPUR: The district administration of Solapur has sealed all the borders of Pandharpur tehsil to ensure the devotees of Lord Vithoba do not enter the pilgrim place on the occasion of Aashadhi Ekadashi, which falls on July 1 this year. Home minister Anil Deshmukh and health minister Rajesh Tope were in Solapur to review the preparations undertaken by the administration for Ashadhi Ekadashi. Lakhs of warkaris from all over Maharashtra congregate in Pandharpur every year. The annual pilgrimage has been cancelled this year because of the outbreak of Covid-19. While the administration has recommended curfew for five days beginning from Monday, no decision was taken in this regard for Saturday. However, police have sealed all the borders of Solapur district. Police have made massive arrangements to stop the entry of any vehicle or group of people. Officials said that three-tier system would have 1,500 police force, including home guards. While the entry points of Pandharpur will be sealed, the roads leading to Pandharpur tehsil will be barricaded. Police are exploring the possibility to press into service drones to monitor movements in Pandharpur town. The local administration has already served notices to all the establishments in Pandharpur not to give accomodation to anyone coming from outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/outbreak-plays-spoilsport-for-lakhs-of-warkaris-this-yr/articleshow/76666258.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu toll zooms past 1,000-mark with 68 deaths on Saturday||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 death toll breached the four-digit mark to touch 1,025 with 68 fatalities reported on Saturday. The fatality rate has gone to 1.3% from 0.9% a fortnight ago. The state added 3,713 fresh cases, 1,939 cases in Chennai, taking the total to 78,335. However, the active cases numbered 33,213, including 19,877 in Chennai. TN is the fourth state, after Maharashtra (7,273 deaths), Delhi (2,558) and Gujarat (1,790), to have more than 1,000 fatalities. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said TN’s fatality rate is much lower than Maharashtra’s 4.5%, Delhi’s 3.1% and Gujarat’s 5.8%. TN’s fatality rate could increase to 1.63% if it includes more than 200 Covid-19 deaths recorded by the Greater Chennai Corporation but left out of the state’s count. The increase in death rate in Tamil Nadu is because more people with the comorbid conditions and people above the age of 60 are getting infected, the health minister said. “Some patients seek treatment six or seven days after the onset of symptoms. Ailments such as heart and kidney diseases, lung disorders along with diabetes and hypertension hamper treatment outcomes,” he said. For instance, on Saturday’s list three men — aged 65, 42 and 50 years – were declared “brought dead” by doctors at the Government Royapettah Hospital on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. At least 14 people died within a day of admission across both government and private hospitals. Eight out of 68 people whose deaths were reported on Saturday did not have comorbidity. “More than 80% of people who died had comorbidities. In many cases, people were in palliative care. They died with Covid, not because of it,” Vijayabaskar said. The state offers free treatment to all patients in government hospitals. “The treatment protocol has some expensive medicines such as remdesivir (antiviral) and tocilizumab (immune modulator). These two drugs have saved many lives. We do door-to-door screening for early diagnosis and treatment,” he said. Infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, who is a member of the state expert committee said, the death rate will increase with the number of cases. The state reported 831 deaths in June, compared to one in March, 26 in April, and 167 in May. “It has happened across the globe. The death rate will stabilise, when the viral load decreases,” he said. Chennai has reported 776 deaths so far. With the increase in incidence, other districts have also started reporting more deaths. On Saturday, 46 deaths were from Chennai, while seven each were in Madurai and Chengalpet, which have seen a rapid increase in the number of cases. There were three deaths in Tiruvallur and one each in Villupuram, Erode, Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Sivagangai districts. Barring Virudhunagar, all districts recorded fresh cases. Five of them reported a three-digit rise. Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet and Tiruvallur reported 248 and 146 cases respectively. Kancheepuram was two short of 100. Madurai logged 218 cases, Vellore had 118 and Tiruvannamalai registered 127 cases. Ramanathapuram and Ranipet recorded 93 and 96 cases respectively. Of the fresh cases, 81 are returnees from other states and countries. Eight of them were passengers from abroad -- two each from Saudi Arabia and Singapore and one each from Malaysia, the Maldives, Qatar and Ukraine. Among domestic passengers who came by flight, road and rail, there were 40 from Karnataka, 11 from Kerala, eight from Telangana and five from Maharashtra. Others were from Gujarat, Delhi, UP, MP, Uttarakhand, WB, Odisha, J&K, Bihar and Puducherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-toll-zooms-past-1000-mark-with-68-deaths-on-saturday/articleshow/76667823.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Norwegian vessel to dock at MPT tomorrow||Panaji: Norwegian Escape, a cruise ship operated by Norwegian Cruise Line, is expected to arrive at Mormugao Port on Monday early morning with 474 seafarers who were stranded at Miami, Florida. The ship crossed the Suez Canal on Saturday and is heading to Goa from where the vessel will head to Mumbai. This is the second cruise vessel to sail across the oceans to Goa in order to repatriate its crew members. “The estimated time of arrival for the cruise vessel is June 29 early morning. The crew aboard the ship will be screened and then allowed to disembark,” said a government official. On July, 1 a flight with 280 Goan seafarers is expected to land at Goa airport, said a government official. The vessel left Miami on May 23 and sailed to Italy to pick up crew employed with with Norwegian Cruise Line. The vessel also stopped at Greece and Port Said before passing through the Suez Canal. The vessel is expected to remain at MPT for two days before departing for Mumbai where more Indian crew members will be allowed to sign-off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/norwegian-vessel-to-dock-at-mpt-tomorrow/articleshow/76668287.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Sudden surge in Akola’s neighbouring districts, 2 deaths recorded in Amravati||NAGPUR: After wreaking havoc in Akola with more than 1400 positive cases and 74 deaths, it seems that the novel coronavirus has made its way into the rural areas of the neighbouring districts – Buldhana and Washim. On June 27, Akola recorded 57 new cases, Buldhana (15) and Washim (10) out of the 142 cases reported from Vidarbha region. Two women Covid-19 patients died in Amravati while undergoing treatment, taking Vidarbha’s death toll to 146. Vidarbha’s Covid-19 cases touched 4286 on June 26. With 67 patients recovered in a day, the number of recovered patients also surged to 3171. The recovery rate of the region was 73.98% which is way higher than the state’s 52% and the national average of 58%. Two deaths in Amravati took the total death toll of this district to 23. While the death rate in Vidarbha remained around 3.41%, the national fatality rate was 3%. Akola recorded 57 new cases on June 27. The only bright spot was that no death was reported from the district for the second consecutive day. The situation is turning out to be alarming in the neighbouring Buldhana and Washim districts. With 10 cases on June 27, Washim is just 3 short of 100. Buldhana also reported 15 cases. All these cases were either from remote villages or from tehsil places in these districts. Most cases had connections with returnees and already positive patients. This development hints at the rural spread of Covid-19 in Akola, Washim and Buldhana districts. AMRAVATI: Two covid deaths and 22 new cases, 9 of them from the rural belt and 2 from Akot town in Akola district, have taken the district’s death toll to 23 and Covid patients’ count past the 500-mark to 508 on Saturday. The 9 cases from the rural belt also took the rural Covid-19 count to 51. According to the civil surgeon’s office report, two women, aged 77 and 40, both from Sabanpura locality, died at the Covid ward. The former tested positive on June 24 and died on Saturday afternoon at the Covid ward of Best Hospital, while the latter, reported to be a eunuch, died on June 25, but her report was positive. Sabanpura has 15 cases against its name, including these two deaths. Amravati crossed the 500 mark and became the third such district in Vidarbha after Akola and Nagpur. The first case was reported on April 4 and the 100th, 43 days later on May 16. The 200th and 300th case were recorded in 13 days each on May 29 and June 11 respectively, while the 400th came in the next eight days on June 19. Eight days later, the 500th case was recorded on Saturday. In a relief of sorts, 27 patients recovered and were discharged on Saturday to take the count of recovered patients to 377, including nine discharged from Nagpur and four from Best Hospital here. Now, there are 105 active cases, including six in Nagpur. CHANDRAPUR: 9 more people were found positive, taking the total to 80 in on Saturday. After the recovery of 51 patients, the total of active patients now stands at 30. Four of them are from Bramhapuri town and two others from Gangalwadi. YAVATMAL: Yavatmal recorded four new positive cases, taking the tally to 67. One of the already admitted patients has recovered and was discharged. The GMCH has received 138 reports in the last 24 hours of which 134 were negative and 4 were positive. Of the 4 new positive cases, two (one male and one female) are from Yavatmal city while the other two are from Darwha and Wani and they are females. WARDHA: A 29-year-old woman from Arvi tested positive on Saturday afternoon. As a result, the number of active patients in the district has increased to 3 and the total number of corona patients is now 15. The woman, who was diagnosed with coronavirus, had travelled to Buldana and Amravati for a wedding and returned on June 17. She was placed under home-quarantine. On June 25, she complained of a headache and cough. Her swab sample was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Sewagram for testing. Her report stated coronavirus positive. She was rushed to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital in Sawangi for treatment. People close to her as well as low risk persons are being traced and the process of restricting the Jajuwadi area (Arvi) where the patient was staying is under way, informed the district administration. GONDIA: A Mumbai returnee was found corona positive in Gondia on June 27, taking the number of total cases to 105. As 102 of them have already recovered and discharged, active cases in Gondia district are 3. Reports of 394 samples are awaited. BHANDARA: Bhandara was the only district in Vidarbha’s 11 districts on June 27 to report no new case at all. Seven patients recovered from Bhandara and were discharged. With 58 out of 71 patients at home, Bhandara has only 21 active cases at present. GADCHIROLI: A 19-year-old boy from Armori in Gadchiroli tested positive on June 27, taking the total cases in the district to 65. However, 49 patients have already been discharged. Only 15 active patients are in hospitals and they are also recovering fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sudden-surge-in-akolas-neighbouring-districts-2-deaths-recorded-in-amravati/articleshow/76668284.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||As Taj food deal ends, BMC may cut amount from doctors’ allowance||MUMBAI: Four civic hospitals’ resident doctors were relieved to get afternoon meals from BMC on Friday, a day after an extended agreement with Taj ended. But their relief was shortlived. Few hours later, the hospital administration told them money for arranging meals could be deducted from a daily allowance of Rs300 they get for Covid duty. The administration has sought feedback from doctors on whether they want to avail the meal and forego the allowance. A decision may be taken next week. Many resident doctors, who are in the frontline of the battle against Covid-19, plan to boycott the meal service. On Friday evening, a mail from director of medical education, BMC, to deans of civic hospitals, was being shared among doctors. The mail recommended that hospital administrations deduct the money for meal services from the daily allowance given to healthcare workers. “It is unfair that BMC invokes the pandemic act to get doctors to work, but cannot ensure basic needs are taken care of. Many canteens are still shut and only takeaways are permitted. KEM’s central canteen is still a Covid hotspot. Many still travel to hospitals on their own. That allowance is for such people. In such circumstances, they want to deduct the allowance to give us two meals!” said a doctor. A dean said BMC never provided meals to healthcare workers. “Only during lockdown, when tiffin services and canteens were hit, we looked for alternative arrangements. Now, options are available. Canteens started opening up, so an accounting officer raised a query on disbursal of allowance,” said the dean. Meals are free till the month-end but BMC will take a decision on whether to continue it for free from July 1, the dean added. The allowance was for daily food and travel, the dean said. Another resident doctor said they have been seeking a Rs25,000 hike in stipend for almost two years. “Stipends were hiked by Rs10,000 only for Covid period. The Rs300 daily allowance was meant to be a motivation incentive for resident doctors. They then issued another order that it was an allowance for food and travel for healthcare workers. There is confusion over the allowance’s purpose, but for many it was an incentive to work during the pandemic,” said the doctor. Some representatives are looking for alternative arrangements by approaching NGOs and others. Taj provided free meal services to healthcare workers for three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-taj-food-deal-ends-bmc-may-cut-amount-from-docs-allowance/articleshow/76667814.cms||Yogita Rao
June 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Exodus of migrant workforce compels builders to hire more expensive local labourers||Mangaluru: That the construction industry has borne the brunt of the drastic change in the way businesses function in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis is a given and numbers help put in perspective the scale of the difference in the functioning of the sector. In Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, for instance, the exodus of 30,000 migrant workers who returned to their respective home states, has left the builders and realtors pinched for labourers. Consequently, the builders have been forced to turn to the local labour pool in order to keep the work chugging along. However, hiring local workers is costing them comparably more, and this is eating into their significantly reduced capital. Where a skilled labourer from another state was paid Rs 800 for a day’s work, a local worker seeks Rs 1,000 to work between 9am and 5pm. Chairman of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), Mangaluru DB Mehta said that skilled local workers were asking for Rs 1,200 and unskilled labourers were demanding Rs 800 in daily wages. “Although we are paying the local workers more money, their productivity is not on a par with that of their migrant counterparts,” Mehta said. However, the realtors said that they could live with paying better wages to local labourers as long as they deliver in terms of work. “The migrant labourers were regular to work whereas there is always uncertainty about the local workers. The migrant workers are very prompt and committed. The deadlines in our sector are sacrosanct, and we are in dire need of both skilled and unskilled labourers,” said Mehta, who pointed out the sector was already reeling under a massive spike in the cost of construction materials following the lockdown. Mehta said that there were nearly 100 residential and commercial building projects yet to be completed in Mangaluru. Allan Fernandes, who has been involved in the construction industry for more than three decades, opined that the migrant workforce was unlikely to return till the end of the monsoon. “We will have to manage with local labourers for now,” he said. Karthik Salian, another builder, too complained of the higher cost of hiring local workers. “We are focusing only on those areas that need to be completed immediately. We are bearing the additional expenses, which we cannot pass on to our customers,” Salian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/exodus-of-migrant-workforce-compels-builders-to-hire-more-expensive-local-labourers/articleshow/76666259.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Chikungunya cases in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Sporadic cases of chikungunya have been reported from some areas in the the city. The health officials of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) have appealed to the citizens not to confuse other viral infections with dengue or chikungunya and get the blood samples tested immediately if symptoms start showing. The appeal has come after several residents from Balaji Park area complained about chikungunya-like symptoms. Last week, seven cases of chikungunya and eight cases of dengue have been reported in the city. The health officials said that measures like fogging and disinfecting, coupled with finding suspects, have helped control spread of the vector-borne diseases. KMC’s chief health officer Dilip Patil said, “We have had sporadic cases of both dengue and Chikungunya. Once the suspects get admitted to the private hospitals with symptoms, the hospitals have to immediately inform us so that appropriate measures can be taken in the concerned suspect’s locality. ” Both dengue and Chikungunya have similar symptoms. However, the latter is accompanied by pain in the joints. “In viral infection, body ache can be severe but should not be confused with Chickungunya,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/chikungunya-cases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76666264.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||Door-to-door Covid survey in UP from July 1||LUCKNOW: In a bold move to flatten the spiralling Covid curve, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to launch a mammoth door-to-door survey across 75 districts to screen and detect hidden cases for swift quarantine and capping virus spread. The Union ministry of health and family welfare too had sent a directive to UP to conduct micro screening of patients and the state government may use its successful pulse polio campaign template to conduct the survey, which will kick off from Meerut division. Health teams would also map vulnerable persons, including pregnant women, patients with co-morbid conditions like cancer, renal disease or diabetes, the elderly and children below 10 years of age. The exercise is similar to the campaign recently launched in Delhi, but replicating the model in UP is a herculean task, considering the state’s massive population of 23.15 crore. Neighbouring Madhya Pradesh too is gearing up for house-to-house mapping, but it has just one-third the population of UP. “The drive will begin on July 1 from Meerut division and health officials will fan out to other districts from July 5,” additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said on Saturday. Choosing Meerut division in the first leg stems from an urgency to curb virus spread in the six districts, which account for maximum covid cases in the state. “Over 47% cases reported in past 24 hours are from Meerut division,” said Prasad. The Meerut division comprises districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, which are a part of the national capital region and have witnessed a surge in cases. Meerut, Hapur and Bulandshahr too recorded a spike in June and accounted for Covid deaths, said health officials. State government’s targeted random sampling exercise is also being seen as the key reason for the house-to-house exercise. “Samples were taken from vulnerable sections like health workers, slum dwellers, vendors and frontline corona warriors. The effort revealed active cases in many places, which compels immediate assessment of the situation,” said a senior health officer. The monsoon could trigger a spurt in other diseases like influenza and infections and further accentuate the crisis. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered setting up of one lakh teams to raise surveillance across the state. “Health teams would knock at every doorstep, the way they did during the polio exercise. We hope people will cooperate with them in their individual interest and for a larger social good,” said a senior surveillance team staff. The survey would be undertaken with the help of district administration, who are using the pulse polio campaign template for the purpose. “Also, health staff like ASHA and auxiliary nurse, midwives, civil defence volunteers, booth-level officials (BLO) and municipal staff, will be used to conduct the survey. The district machinery and police will also be engaged to supervise and ensure safety of teams," a district magistrate told TOI. A senior government officer revealed all staff would be provided with sanitisers and protective gear. Crowd-sourcing ideasUP government has decided to launch ‘crowd-sourcing of ideas’ to aid the ongoing battle against coronavirus. “Slated for launch on July 1, the campaign aims to gather unique ideas to curb the virus spread. Anyone in the state can share their idea in a one-minute video or a 150-word description and share with the health department. The best ideas will be rewarded,” said additional chief secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. Details of the campaign will be shared over the week and 100 best videos will be featured while a small group would be given a cash prize of Rs 10,000 each. Watch UP govt to start door-to-door Covid from July 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/door-to-door-covid-survey-in-up-from-july-1/articleshow/76668094.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Agriculture department sees spike in demand for seeds as farming gathers steam||PANAJI: Copious rainfall and a 50% subsidy on the purchase of seeds have given farmers much to cheer about as agriculture picks up pace in the state. The agriculture department, which has been selling paddy seeds to farmers through it various zonal agricultural offices, has managed to distribute 530 tonnes of seeds so far. Deputy director Chintamani Perni said this was a 25% increase in sale when compared to last year. The department has also witnessed a manifold increase in the demand for vegetable seeds, which are being sold at 50% subsidised rates. As a result, one tonne of such seeds have been sold this year as opposed to just 300kg distributed during the last kharif season. These seeds are of monsoon vegetables such as cucumber, lady’s finger, bitter gourd, ridge gourd, pumpkin and red amaranth, among others. Small packets of seeds weighing anywhere between 10-25g each are being distributed in this process. Interestingly, besides farmers, there is a rising demand among kitchen gardeners for vegetable seeds. This is especially because they can be purchased without a krishi card or land documents. “However, in case of big quantity purchases, we carry out checks to verify whether the farmers really have that kind of area to grow those crops,” Perni said. Horticultural crops are also being distributed at various farms to ensure that farmers make most of the abundant rain Goa has been receiving this month. These are saplings and grafts of crops like mango, coconut, cashew, chickoo, guava, lime and arecanut. So far, 90,000 saplings, seedlings and grafts have been distributed among farmers across the state. Sources said saplings are usually distributed after Vanamahotsava in July. However, anticipating that gatherings may have to be suspended owing to social distancing norms this year, the crops were distributed from April onwards. The annual distribution of plants for homestead gardens to each MLA in July has also been advanced. From the third week of June, 2,000 horticulture plants were handed to each MLA unlike the usual 1,000 plants every year. The individual MLAs are to distribute these among the farmers in their constituency. So far, Priol, Shiroda and Taleigao constituencies have started distributing the plants, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-dept-sees-spike-in-demand-for-seeds-as-farming-gathers-steam/articleshow/76668289.cms||Nida Sayed
June 28, 2020||Meerut||63 bonded labourers rescued from 2 brick kilns of Punjab rescued after HC intervention||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Sixty-three bonded labourers — including 13 who hailed from UP’s Muzaffarnagar — have been rescued from two brick kilns in Kapurthala and Jalandhar in Punjab after the state’s high court acted on a non-profit’s plea and intervened. Among those who reached their native villages in UP, empty-handed and with bruises sustained after months of being thrashed by their employer, were Danish Ahmed, his wife and three children. “I came in contact with a contractor who told me I could earn well if I worked at a brick kiln in Jalandhar. I went there with my family in June last year,” said Ahmed. “But instead of wages, we got beatings. We worked for over 12 hours a day and were given just enough food to stay alive,” said the 21-year-old, who hails from Sikhreda village. Another rescued worker, Ahsan Mohammad, said his wife and four young children were also made to work by the brick kiln owner. “Once my children got sick but they were not given any medicine. We were threatened and abused when we dared to speak of leaving during the lockdown. The owner kept promising to pay our wages but he didn’t," he told TOI. The families along with other bonded labourers were rescued just in time by ActionAid and the National Committee For Eradication of Bonded Labour (NCCEBL). “The brick kiln owner had sold us to a contractor in Kashmir and preparations were being made to send us there,” said Ahmed. The NGOs had petitioned the Punjab and Haryana high court this month after learning that brick kilns in the two cities were keeping bonded labourers. The high court had directed the district magistrate concerned to rescue the labourers. Along with NGO representatives, police went to the two brick kilns to rescue 63 bonded labourers. Apart from UP, 50 bonded labourers hailed from Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and had been working in the Kapurthala brick kiln since February last year. Nirmal Gorana, convener of NCCEBL, alleged he knocked on the doors of the high court after approaching local administration did not yield any results.”No police case has been filed in the matter yet and no compensation given to those rescued. Our fight for justice will continue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/63-bonded-labourers-from-2-brick-kilns-of-punjab-rescued-after-hc-intervention/articleshow/76667832.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Admissions for GU 5-year law course from Monday||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University on Saturday announced that online forms for admissions to the five-year integrated law programme can be filled from June 29 to July 19. The university commenced the centralized admission process for the programme by uploading the information booklet on its website on Saturday. The university has already initiated the admission process for undergraduate programmes in science, arts, and commerce. As for the law programme, there are about 550 seats in five GU-affiliated colleges. The PINs for the programme’s admission process will be available online for Rs 125, according to a media release. The first online counselling session will be held on Monday at 11am. Students who have cleared Class 12 exams are eligible to apply for this programme. Earlier this month, GU had begun the process to enrol candidates in BSc courses across 32 colleges affiliated to it. Many parents and students had complained that they faced problems while generating PINs. In the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020 released by the Centre recently, GU stood 60th among higher education institutes in the overall category. GU was 44th in the list of top varsities in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/admissions-for-gu-5-year-law-course-from-monday/articleshow/76667642.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Centre asks Tamil Nadu govt to scrap Rs 2,000 crore tenders for Bharatnet||CHENNAI: Leaving Tamil Nadu government red-faced, the Centre has directed the state to scrap the Rs 2,000-crore Bharatnet tenders floated by state government firm TANFINET saying the bidding conditions were ‘restrictive and discriminatory in nature’. In a communication on Friday night, the department of promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) directed the department of telecom to take corrective action, immediately cancel the tenders and float re-tender with changed and non-restrictive qualification criteria. The advisory should be sent before opening of tenders on June 26. The project, designed to connect more than 2,500 panchayats in the state, was plagued from the beginning. In January, a month after the tender was floated, the then IT secretary Santosh Babu IAS was shunted out. In May, Arappor Iyakkam complained that the corrigenda brought in April had changed tender conditions to favour a few companies. While Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam said a major corruption had been averted and crores of public money had been saved, DMK president M K Stalin sought a detailed response from chief minister K Palaniswami on the issue. “What action will be taken against officials?” he asked. The decision to scrap the tender came after DPIIT held a video-conference on complaints received from Arappor Iyakkam and companies Tejas Network and TEPC New Delhi on June 23, against the tenders for procurement of ICT system. The videomeet was attended by Hans Raj Varma, additional chief secretary (IT) of Tamil Nadu government, also. On Saturday, however, Varma did not respond to telephone call and text messages from TOI, for his comments on the development. On April 30, the DPIIT wrote to Tamil Nadu government asking it to decide on the tenders only after disposing off the complaint filed by Arappor Iyakkam, which alleged that corrigenda made in April narrowed down participants in the tender process. They had also alleged that the changes were made to favour a foreign firm, thereby violating the Make in India clause of the project. This has been taken up by DPIIT to question the Tamil Nadu government. It also alleged that the permission of TN infrastructure development board, which consists of top secretaries of the government, was not taken while revising tender conditions. In May, Arappor Iyakkam wrote to the central and state governments stating that the tender conditions modified through corrigenda were to favour a few firms, as turnover and experience clauses had been changed. “This had narrowed down competition,” Arappor had stated. After the Centre took cognisance of the complaint, the board members withdrew their consent saying their original approval for the tender was not required. TOI reported this in an exclusive article. Jayaram Venkatesan said scrapping of the tender has vindicated their complaint on arbitrary changes made to the tender and also disproved the state government’s claim that there was no favouritism or irregularity in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-asks-state-govt-to-scrap-rs-2000cr-tenders-for-bharatnet/articleshow/76667831.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Greens tear into Centre’s 2020 impact assessment notification||HYDERABAD: With three more days left to file objections to the draft Environment Impact Assessment 2020 notification issued by the Centre, Hyderabad-based activists have raised their voice opposing it. In a statement released on Saturday, the activists asked the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) to withdraw the notification as it is against India’s stance to protect biodiversity, and against the agreements made in the Paris Climate Accord. It said the draft proposes to fundamentally alter India’s current environmental rules, assessment and public participation and goes against the legal convention in environmental law. Priyanka Kota, from the Hyderabad chapter of Fridays For Future said, “EIA is supposed to be the barrier which makes sure biodiversity isn’t affected for projects sprouting in the name of development.” D Pal, general secretary, Democratic Traditional Fisher Workers Forum (DTFWF) said, “If the EIA is diluted, such biodiversity rich areas will be lost in the name of development. This will further affect communities dependent on environment such as fishermen, nomads and tribals.” Kaajal Maheshwari, environment conservationist and founder of Citizens for Hyderabad, said: “The EIA 2020 draft is nothing short of an attempt to legalise destruction. The Indian government is clearly moving in a regressive direction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/greens-tear-into-centres-2020-impact-assessment-notification/articleshow/76667828.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Rajkot||Woman’s nose fractured after leopard attack||Rajkot: A 60-year-old woman’s nose was fractured after she was attacked by a leopard in Harmadiya village of Gir Somnath district early Saturday morning.The victim Sakruben Mer suffered several injuries on her face and throat and is admitted to the Junagadh civil hospital for treatment. According to forest officials, the incident took place around 3am. The house of the victim is located on the outskirts of the village which is close to Jamvala range of Gir West forest division. The village is habitat of several other wild animals, said a forest official.While Sakruben Mer was sleeping inside the house, her husband was sleeping outside. Around 3am when Sakruben woke up to attend nature’s call and came out of her room, a leopard pounced on her.She started screaming for help which woke her husband up. By the time Sakruben’s husband grabbed a stick, the leopard fled from the spot. Sakruben was taken to nearby primary health centre and from there she was shifted to a private hospital in Kodinar town.Since the woman would require hospitalization of 5-6 days for treatment of her nose, her family decided to shift her to a government hospital. The forest department arranged a vehicle to take her to Junagadh civil hospital. Assistant conservator of forest D P Vaghela of Jamvala range said, “Sakruben received injuries on her face, between her eyes and nose. Her nose has also been fractured.” He added that four traps have been set up in the village to capture the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/womans-nose-fractured-after-leopard-attack/articleshow/76667309.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Fatehgarh Sahib: Four arrested for Congress worker’s murder, but SAD functionary’s sons at large||FATEHGARH SAHIB: Four persons have been arrested by Fatehgarh Sahib for allegedly murdering a Congress worker at Chanarthal Khurd village near here. Congress worker Kulwinder Singh, a former panch, was killed and a sarpanch and his four supporters sustained serious injuries in a clash over the possession of panchayat land at Chanarthal Khurd on June 24. The incident took place when the village sarpanch along with his supporters went to take possession of the land. Two sons of Shiromani Akali Dal district president Swarn Singh Chanarthal and their aides allegedly opened fire at them after attacking them with swords and lathis. The police, on a complaint by Gurbaj Singh alias Raju, had registered an FIR against Chanarthal’s sons Balwinder Singh and former sarpanch Gurmukh Singh, and their supporters Arshdeep Singh, Kulwant Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Gurjit Singh and Jassa at Mulepur police station. Gurbaj had alleged that Gurmukh got the panchayat land transferred in the name of a Bhagrana resident, Bhagwant Singh, during his tenure. He said he along with Kulwinder Singh had moved Punjab and Haryana hight court and got the transfer stayed. He said when they went to inspect the site recently, the SAD leader’s sons accompanied by others attacked them with swords and lathis and later opened fire. The injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Fatehgarh Sahib, where Kulwinder succumbed to injuries. Fatehgarh Sahib SP Harpal Singh said police were conducting raids to arrest all suspects and arrested Arshdeep, Kulwant, Gurmukh and Gurjit . He said they also recovered a revolver, 4 cartridges and a car from Arshdeep, which he used in crime. He said police were conducting raids to arrest others too. He said they had also found Chanarthal to be involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-arrested-for-cong-workers-murder-but-sad-functionarys-sons-at-large/articleshow/76667836.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Ichalkaranji gets a hotpsot||KOLHAPUR: With the Covid-19 tally reaching 25 in Ichalkaranji by Saturday, the textile town in the region is turning into a hotspot of Covid-19 infection. Most of these cases that have come to the fore in the last few days involve locals who have had no travel history. A senior health official said, “The hotspot is Kudche Mala where textile workers reside in large numbers. The tracing is becoming difficult due to congestion. Since the textile mills have started operations, we have asked the owners to scan the body temperature of each worker, provide them with masks and gloves and ensure social distancing.” The textile operators are worried since many fear that the establishments may be shut again if the Covid count continues to rise. The mill operators are already facing shortage of workers. Over 15,000 workers have left the town during lockdown. Satish Koshti, president of the powerloom association said, “We started the looms hoping that we have an advantage over other textile places such as Malegaon and Bhiwandi, where more cases have been reported and the textile units were shut for long time. The administration is taking all efforts to stop the spread. We are going to ensure social distancing is followed. Currently, the one place that has become a hotspot has been sealed now. The patient who escaped from CPR hospital had come in contact with many people in the locality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ichalkaranji-gets-a-hotpsot/articleshow/76666286.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Goa||Rainfall activity to pick up from Sunday: Met department||PANAJI: Rainfall is expected to pick up from Sunday owing to the strengthening of the southwest monsoon. The India meteorological department (IMD) has attributed this to a circulation expected to form over the Andhra coast. Along with that, the pressure gradient lying over the Arabian Sea is expected strengthen from Saturday. “With these two features at hand, the monsoon activity is expected to get strengthened,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. In addition, there is a circulation over north interior Karnataka, which has also added to the strengthening of monsoon over Goa. Until Friday, the southwest monsoon was weak over Goa. The weakening brought clearer skies to most parts of the state. While the below normal monsoon activity persisted for a few days, it was not entirely dry. Very light to light rainfall occurred at most places in North and South Goa. Parts of Panaji, Margao, and Mormugao were among the few places that experienced one or two spells of showers. The rainfall recorded this month as of Saturday is 991 mm against a normal value of 786mm. This is 26% higher than normal, according to the IMD. The IMD has forecast the possibility of heavy rain being very likely at isolated places on June 28, 29, 30 and July 1. A weather warning has therefore been issued for high sea and other coasts beyond 75km from the coast. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into these waters during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rainfall-activity-to-pick-up-from-today-met-dept/articleshow/76668290.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||Student hacks bank a/c in online game dare, held||Lucknow: It’s easy to get sucked into the world of crime when you are thrown a dare in that online game, but it’s even easier to trace you, as a 20-year-old college student from Agra realized when he was arrested on Saturday by the Azamgarh police on charges of hacking a bank account in Azamgarh and swindling Rs10 lakh. The arrest followed constant surveillance after an FIR was registered by a private schoolteacher Hariwansh Lal Srivastava at the Bilariyaganj police station of Azamgarh district on May 12. The FIR stated that a sum of Rs10 lakh was debited from Srivastava’s account between April 10 and May 12. Azamgarh superintendent of police, Triveni Singh monitored the case and tasked the cyber cell unit to work upon it. “We worked the case entirely on electronic evidence and surveillance. We traced the mobile phone used to hack Srivastava’s account from Lohia Nagar under Balkeshwar police station in Agra. The handset was traced to one Sagar Singh,” said the SP. A police team detained Sagar and during interrogation he confessed to have committed the crime, but revealed that it was actually a part of a dare he had completed in order to win a stage in an online game called ‘Fire power’. The online site also offers opportunities to make money through such expertise. Sagar disclosed that the online gaming site has an international presence, the officer added. “I got drawn into the game during the lockdown period. First, one has to qualify difficult stages and then you get diamond and gold coins to crack other stages. As you gradually cross the stages the online game also tutors tricks of hacking,” Sagar said when the police produced him before media persons. SP Azamgarh told TOI that the online gaming gang is pushing ‘gaming enthusiasts’ into crime. “They keep track of such enthusiasts and then lure them with deals for cracking stages in a game. They are asked to either pay or solve a dare, which is hacking,” he added. The police are studying the pattern and on the basis of Sagar’s confession, have also traced seven members of the gang including six youth and a woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/student-hacks-bank-a/c-in-online-game-dare-held/articleshow/76668097.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||FIR after torn pages of Quran found in Ambala||Ambala: Ambala police registered a case of sacrilege on Saturday after some torn pages of the Quran were found at a mosque near Ambala’s Mullana town. The incident came to light when a regular visitor to the Jama Masjid in Nohni village reached the mosque in the morning and found the torn pages of the Quran and a missing amplifier. “As the caretaker had gone to visit relatives in another village last month, I was coming to the masjid for prayers in the morning and found the pages of the Quran torn. I also found the almirah open and an amplifier, usually kept on the almirah, missing,” Anwar, the complainant, told the police. Mullana police station SHO Narender Singh said an alcoholic might have trespassed into the mosque at night as the gates were usually open and committed the crime. “We have lodged an FIR,” he said. A case has been registered under sections 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship, with intent to insult the religion of any class), 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fir-after-torn-pages-of-quran-found-in-ambala/articleshow/76667838.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Kolhapur||28 cases in Satara, 23 in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: As many as 28 new Covid-19 patients were identified in Satara district on Saturday, of which Karad tehsil alone reported 13 cases. The tally of positive cases in the district has reached 919, of which, 183 patients are currently undergoing treatment. Taking serious note of the increasing number of Covid-19 patients in Satara district, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who was in Satara on Saturday, told mediapersons that the government would soon set up a Covid-19 testing laboratory at Krantisinh Nana Patil civil hospital. As many as 23 Covid-19 cases were reported in Kolhapur district between 8pm on Friday and 8pm on Saturday, taking the tally of positive cases to 804. Containment zones have been drawn up in Rankala Tower area and Phulewadi Ring Road in Kolhapur city after many positive cases emerged from these two regions. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 13 new cases, which included a 100-year-old man from Mandur village in Shirala tehsil which has turned into a Covid-19 hotpsot. Of the new cases, five Covid-19 patients are from Sangli city alone— highest reported in the city so far. One person also succumbed to the viral infection on Saturday, taking the Covid death toll to 12 in the Sangli district. The total number of cases in the district has reached 339, of which 106 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/28-cases-in-satara-23-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76666302.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||Sugarcane arrears: AIKSCC slams govt for false claims||Pilibhit: The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella organization of over 250 farmers’ unions across the country, has slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for making ‘false promises regarding sugarcane arrears’.The state government had promised safeguarding the interests of over 47 lakh cane growers of UP by giving them around Rs 1 lakh crore towards the sugarcane price of the previous three years starting from the crushing season from 2017-18 to 2019-20.National convener of AIKSCC VM Singh has objected to the government’s claim of giving justice to farmers. He said that the state’s 119 sugar mills are presently carrying the highest-ever arrears of cane price to the tune of over Rs 14,000 crore. However, the officials of state cane administration have termed the situation to be an outcome of excessive crushing of sugarcane by the mills this year and the unprecedented decline of sugar demand in market due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Singh said that the state government had on June 19 boasted about the payment of Rs 1 crore made to farmers for the previous three years. The government had claimed that the payment of Rs 46,633 crore was made in excess as compared to the combined cane price payment made during the preceding three years from 2014-15 to 2016-17, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sugarcane-arrears-aikscc-slams-govt-for-false-claims/articleshow/76665494.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||GJU teacher develops ‘universal remote for home appliances,’ gets patent||Hisar: A teacher of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar and his team have developed a universal remote for home appliances for which they have got a patent in the field of electrical engineering. Sumit Saroha, assistant professor, department of printing technology and his team members, including Manoj Kumar, principal, K K Polytechnic, Jharkhand; Survir, UIET, Vinoba Bhave University, Jharkhand; Vivek Kumar, BRCM, Bhiwani, Haryana; Vineet Shekhar, NIET, Greater Noida and Dr S. Balamulugan, Tamil Nadu. Saroha said the device can be used for all kinds of home appliances such as fan, AC, TV, printer, desktop, bulb and tube light. Camera based on different sensors like temperature, humidity, lighting sensor, PIR sensor and IR sensor will sense the presence of humans in the home. After this, the camera will turn on automatically. After that, lights will turn on based on requirement and then AC will turn on in the 18 degrees to 30 degrees Celsius range, he said. “The fan will also turn on depending on the requirement at five different speeds. TV connected to the device will also operate using the same platform with range of up to 1,000 channels. Printer and desktop/laptop music system will also operate using the same remote. It also facilitates more gadget connections as per human requirements,” he said. Sumit Saroha explained that the device is based on communication with different sensors connected to it, which will automatically start operating depending on change of light, humidity and temperature due to the entry of a person in a room. GJUST vice-chancellor Professor Tankeshwar Kumar congratulated Saroha. “The University will provide all possible assistance to Dr Saroha for further research in this area,” he said. Prof Harbhajan Bansal, registrar of the University, Prof Dharminder Kumar, chairman, department of electrical engineering and Arohit Goyat, chairman, department of printing technology also congratulated him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gju-teacher-develops-universal-remote-for-home-appliances-gets-patent/articleshow/76667851.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||7 new Covid cases take Chandrapur’s count to 80||CHANDRAPUR: Seven persons tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday, taking Chandrapur district’s total to 81. Following the recovery of 51 patients, the district has 30 active cases. The seven new cases include one from Gadchandur, four from Bramhapuri town and two from Gangalwadi. Health department informed that a 24-year-old youth under home quarantine and a 22-year-old woman in institutional quarantine centre tested positive in Bramhapuri town. Both had returned from Nagpur recently. The remaining two cases from the town include a 64-year-old woman and her 34-year-old son, both under institutional quarantine. A 27-year-old man from Gadchandur tested positive late in the evening. In Gangalwadi, a 55-year-old man and 66-year-old woman tested positive after they were traced with the help of Aarogya Setu app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-new-covid-cases-take-chandrapurs-count-to-80/articleshow/76667852.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||Court rejects bail plea of nine jailed Thai TJ followers||Bareilly: An additional district and sessions judge on Friday rejected the bail plea of nine Thai nationals who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) event in Delhi and were later arrested from a mosque in Shahjahanpur in April. One of them had tested positive for Covid-19.All the nine Thai nationals have been lodged in a temporary jail in Shahjahanpur since the completion of their quarantine period. Their lawyer said on Saturday that he would now approach the Allahabad high court.The Thai nationals were arrested along with three language translators from Tamil Nadu. They were booked under IPC's sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of dangerous disease), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of dangerous disease), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The three Tamil Nadu residents were granted bail earlier.Advocate Aizaz Hasan Khan had filed their bail application in the court of the district judge which was later transferred to the court of ADJ Kiran Pal Singh. Khan told TOI, "The bail has been rejected citing reasons that my clients were carrying out religious activities on tourist visas and didn’t clear the real intention of their arrival in India. We will now move the bail application in the high court soon."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-nine-jailed-thai-tj-followers/articleshow/76665491.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||100 days of Covid, deaths stabilizing in state||Ahmedabad: On March 19, the state health & family welfare department officially announced that two individuals – one each from Rajkot and Surat – had tested positive for Covid-19. The state had heard the name and had already started receiving the reports from neighbouring states including Maharashtra of the onset of the virus outbreak. But the first cases – of a 32-year-old man with travel history to Saudi Arabia and a 21-year-old girl from the UK – who returned from Mumbai, set the epidemic in motion and eventually took the state to the third-worst position in the country in terms of total cases in May. In 100 days, the state recorded a daily average of 307 cases and 18 deaths. As on Saturday evening, the big three cities of the state – Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara – accounted for about 87% of the total cases including 66% from Ahmedabad, 14% from Surat and 7% from Vadodara. Currently, Gujarat is fourth in the tally of total cases after Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu and fifth in active cases tally after those three states and Uttar Pradesh. “The scenario is not the same as when it started – several of the districts have performed well in terms of contact tracing, identifying the cases fast and providing treatment. The death rate was a concern for long as Gujarat and Ahmedabad had the highest deaths per 100 patients among the states and cities respectively,” said a city-based pulmonologist. “But eventually, the city became the hub of clinical trials for several treatment methods including plasma therapy, medicine trials and methods to ensure that the patients don’t go on ventilators.” Deaths in Ahmedabad is constantly on decline over past few days whereas several other cities and districts have recorded rise in cases. “Widespread tests of the symptomatic individuals are needed. We need not lower our guards as it’s a long battle and prevention is still better than cure. The treatment at private hospitals and community-based health screenings have shown encouraging results,” said a state health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/100-days-of-covid-deaths-stabilizing-in-state/articleshow/76667884.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Rajkot||Husband, kin held for abetting suicide||Rajkot: The husband and mother-in-law of the woman who had ended her life in Rajkot were caught from near Surendranagar on Saturday. Police said the accused, Yashpalsinh Vaghela, and his mother Rasikba Vaghela, have been booked under Sections 306, 114 and 498 (K) of Indian Penal Code and Dowry Prohibition Act. The victim, Sejalba Vaghela (27), had hurled herself from the fourth floor of Natrajnagar Housing quarters on Thursday evening. After her suicide, Sejalba's brother Kuldeepsinh Chauhan (24) lodged a complaint against Yashpalsinh and Rasikba. "Chauhan alleged that Yashpalsinh had often lashed Sejalba with a belt in the past six months. Both Yashpalsinh and Rasikba used to ask Sejalba to bring dowry from her parents," said an official from the University police station. When the torture became unbearable, Sejalba approached Chauhan, who had then filed an application of complaint. At that time, a compromise was reached, and the harassment had stopped for a few days. "However, the torture was resumed soon. My sister was being constantly subjected to dowry harassment by Yashpalsinh and Rasikba, subsequent to which she was driven to take the drastic step of suicide," said Chauhan in his complaint. After her death, Sejalba's two-year-old daughter Khushi has been rendered motherless. "Khushi is still under the impression that her mother has been hospitalized and that she is alive," said Chauhan. After the complaint was lodged, Yashpalsinh and Rasikba had fled towards Surendranagar. "We launched a manhunt for them and tracked them down on their way to Surendranagar on the basis of their cellphone location," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/husband-kin-held-for-abetting-suicide/articleshow/76667321.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Arvi woman tests Covid-19 positive||WARDHA: A 29-year-old woman from Arvi tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday afternoon, taking the district’s count to 15 cases. The woman had travelled to Buldhana and Amravati for a wedding and returned on June 17. She was placed under home quarantine. On June 25, she complained of headache and cough. Her swab sample was sent to Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Sewagram for testing. She has been admitted to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital in Sawangi. According to the district administration, contact tracing and process to restrict movement in Jajuwadi area (Arvi) where the patient stays is underway. The district has registered 11 recoveries and one death, and now there are only three active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/arvi-woman-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76667853.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal lists five key tools in fighting Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Increasing the number of Covid beds, extensive testing and isolation, distribution of pulse oximeters to those in home isolation, plasma therapy, and screening and survey to identify infected people were five weapons successfully employed by Delhi government to fight the corona pandemic, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. Addressing a digital press conference, the CM also thanked the Centre for “supporting” Delhi government in the battle against Covid-19. He accepted that the number of cases in the city had suddenly spiked in the first week of June resulting in a shortage of beds and drawbacks in testing, but things were now under control. “The five weapons have been proving extremely helpful. Our victory in the fight against coronavirus is assured, though we can’t tell when that will actually happen,” Kejriwal said. The CM said that his government was conducting 20,000 Covid tests every day. He said that 13,500 beds were ready for Covid patients, while a massive serological survey had begun from Saturday alongside a door-to-door survey to delineate the virus’ spread. Kejriwal added that Delhi government had procured 4,000 oxygen concentrators and was also providing pulse oximeters to home-isolated patients. “We felt a shortage of beds in June first week when the number of cases went up suddenly. But now 13,500 beds are available in hospitals, of which only 6,000 are currently occupied. More beds will be arranged in the coming days,” Kejriwal said. The CM noted that the daily capacity for tests had risen from 5,000 in the first week of June to 20,000 now, and thanked the Centre for providing antigen kits for rapid testing in Delhi. “We also procured six lakh kits to conduct these tests, but the initial kits were given by the Centre. They supported us,” he said, adding that the central government had also given permission for plasma therapy to 200 more ‘moderate’ patients. According to Kejriwal, the coronavirus spread was contained initially by the lockdown. He said that many of the 35,000 Indians who returned to the city from abroad in March were carrying the infection but remained undetected, later passing on the virus to their contacts. “The Centre rightly brought them back and they were screened for fever at the airport. Though some of them were taken to hospitals and many were even quarantined, a large number of them were allowed to go home. There was little information, facts and guidelines available on the coronavirus. When these people returned to their homes, the virus got transmitted to their contacts,” Kejriwal said. When the number of cases surged, Kejriwal said he had two options: re-impose the lockdown or fight the virus. “We chose the latter. It was decided that we would collectively fight the battle against the coronavirus. The five weapons were prepared to engage the virus in a hard-hitting battle,” the CM said, adding that he was grateful to the Centre for assistance in combating the Covid pandemic. Watch Covid-19: Delhi following strategy of 'very aggressive' testing, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-lists-5-key-tools-in-fighting-covid-19/articleshow/76668099.cms||Atul Mathur
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||Solar panels worth Rs 3 lakh stolen from farm owned by former cricketer and UP Cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan’s family||Bareilly: As many as eight solar panels worth around Rs 3 lakh were stolen from a farm owned by former cricketer and Uttar Pradesh Cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan's family on the outskirts of Mundha Pandey area in UP’s Moradabad district late on Friday night. Moradabad police said in toto, there were 16 solar panels installed in the farm, located just 200 metres from Mundha Pandey police station, of which eight were stolen nearly four months ago, while the remaining eight were stolen on Friday. An FIR was registered under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Speaking to TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said, “When police visited the farm, they found the solar panels missing. The family pegged the loss at around Rs 3 lakh. An FIR has been registered and a thorough investigation ordered. Thieves will be arrested soon and strict action will be taken against them.”Mundha Pandey station house officer Nawab Singh said, “As of now, no arrest has been made in this connection. Police are trying to identify and arrest the thieves. An investigation is underway and the offenders will be nabbed soon.”Similarly, in January, solar panels worth lakhs were stolen from the same farm, and police had then detained several suspects, while a farmer was also booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/solar-panels-worth-rs-3-lakh-stolen-from-farm-owned-by-former-cricketer-and-up-cabinet-minister-chetan-chauhans-family/articleshow/76665505.cms||Maria Khan
June 28, 2020||Rajkot||Two monks held for defiling Idar temple||Palanpur: Two monks in Idar, Sabarkantha, were arrested for allegedly defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion on Saturday. The accused — Rajtilak Sagarji (Raja Maharaj) 76, and Kalyan Sagarji (55) — associated with Pavapuri Jain temple are also facing other allegations made by women devotees. However, these charges were not mentioned in the FIR filed on Saturday by the Idar police. Sabarkantha SP Chaitanya Mandlik said that the duo is currently booked for criminal intimidation and IPC section 295 (damage, destruction or defilement of place for worship to intent to insult a religion). The action was initiated based on complaint filed by one of the trustees of Pavapuri temple, Dr Ashish Doshi. Mandlik added that they will also be booked for other charges levelled by women devotees soon once the statement of those devotees are recorded. Talking to TOI, Doshi said “I have received several complaints regarding sexual misconduct with women devotees by these monks since December last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-monks-held-for-defiling-idar-temple/articleshow/76667330.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mysuru||PU dept expedites evaluation of English papers||Mysuru: The PU department has expedited the evaluation process of English answer papers after the exam was completed recently following a relaxation in lockdown. Lecturers were given more answer sheets for correction every day to complete the process early. The English examination, which was postponed after the lockdown was imposed, was finally held on June 18 in 1,016 centres across the state. The evaluation of the answer scripts began on June 22. According to a PU department official, evaluation will be held for around 12 days. Each evaluator will be given 24 scripts – 12 in the morning and 12 in the afternoon. “As there is a rise in Covid-19 positive cases after the lockdown was lifted, there is a fear that another lockdown may be announced any time. So, the evaluation has been speeded up by giving five to six more answer scripts to each lecturer. The process will be completed by Sunday (June 28) or by month end,” the official said. “To expedite the process, we have also increased the number evaluation centres across the state from the usual six to 20,” he added. Akhila Karnataka PU College Lecturers and Principals Associations state president K Shivegowda told TOI that the evaluation of all other papers has been completed. “Earlier, after evaluation, the centres had to take the OMR sheets to Bengaluru for entering into a computer and uploading online. But now the respective centres have given the facility enter the marks and send the details to Bengaluru. Once all the centres send the details, the head office will upload them online. So, there will be no delay in the announcement of results which may be expected by July 20,” he said. Absentees get notice On the direction of department heads, the DDPUs have issued show-cause notices to English lecturers of government, aided and unaided colleges who failed to attend valuation duty citing fear of coronavirus. The lecturers were directed to immediately report to their respective valuation centres or face disciplinary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pu-dept-expedites-evaluation-of-english-papers/articleshow/76666375.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 543 new cases, 7 deaths||CHANDIGARH: With 543 new cases reported on Saturday, Haryana’s Covid count has reached 13,427, while seven deaths across the state pushed the death toll to 218. Gurugram, which crossed the 5,000-mark, and other NCR districts continue to dominate the chart. However, in a respite to health authorities, 456 recoveries during the day pushed the doubling rate in the state to 14 days and recovery rate to 63.10%. At present, Haryana has 4,737 active cases. Out of the seven deaths, Gurugram reported two, and one each took place in Faridabad, Rewari, Jhajjjar, Sonipat and Karnal districts, taking the death rate to 1.62% against the positivity rate of 5.56% of the total testing. According to a government bulletin, maximum 191 cases were recorded in Faridabad, where the overall count has gone up to 3,325, while Gurugram reported 126 new cases and the district continues to occupy the top slot in overall cases, deaths and recoveries. The overall count in Gurugram has gone up to 5,070. Sonipat recorded the third-highest 63 cases and its overall count stands at 1,157 cases and 16 deaths. Bhiwani had another round of spike with 52 new cases as the district crossed 400-mark, followed by 26 in Mahendragarh and 24 in Rohtak district. Fourteen cases each surfaced in Panipat and Rewari districts and 10 cases in Nuh district. Nine cases were reported from Jhajjar, four from Karnal and three each from Panchkula, Sirsa and Yamunanagar districts, while one case was recorded in Fatehabad. The testing rate in the state has reached 9,749 per million, with total 247,139 persons tested so far. Out of them, 228,275 were found negative and over 5,400 reports are awaited. A total of 57,524 persons have completed the quarantine period and 44,718 persons are under home or institutional quarantine currently. Karnal chief medical officer Ashwini Ahuja said the new patients include a 29-year-old woman from Char Chaman of Karnal, a 45-year-old man from ICDP campus and a 19-year-old girl from Jalala village. They have been admitted and samples of their close contacts will be taken for testing, he said. Meanwhile, two patients were discharged from the hospital on Saturday. (With inputs from Karnal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-sees-543-new-cases-7-deaths/articleshow/76667867.cms||Manvir Saini
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 10,000-bed corona centre ready for patients||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inspected the temporary, 10,000-bed Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre set up on the Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in Chhatarpur on Saturday. With the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi expected to touch 5.5 lakh by end of July, the need to ramp up treatment facilities led to the creation of what is currently the largest corona care facility in the world with a covered area of 12,50,000 sq feet, the equivalent of 22 football fields. The Indo Tibetan Border Police will manage the medical operations at the centre, where over 1,000 doctors and paramedics are expected to be deployed. ITBP was also the first organisation in the country to set up a Covid facility when it started a 1,000-bed centre in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla in January. The 10,000 beds, of which 1,000 are equipped with oxygen points, will be divided into 100 sections. There are 5,000 fans and 1,000 commodes and urinals for the comfort of the patients. The centre has been set up to treat asymptomatic Covid-positive people or those with mild symptoms. “In this hour of difficulty, I sought help to save Delhi and everyone has stepped forward enthusiastically. With the support of the Central government and Radha Soami Satsang Beas, such a large Covid centre has come up for Delhiites,” Kejriwal tweeted after the visit. In his tweet, Shah said, “Visited the Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre in Delhi to review its preparedness. I thank Radha Soami Satsang Beas and all others who helped to create this huge Covid care facility. This 10,000-bed centre would provide huge relief to the people of Delhi.” He also said, “I applaud our courageous @ITBP_official personnel, who would be operating this Covid Care facility during these trying times. Their commitment to serve nation and people of Delhi is unparalleled. Modi govt at the Centre is committed to provide all possible help to its citizens.” In a statement, Delhi government said that Kejriwal had invited Shah to visit the Covid care centre, while also requesting the Union government to provide medical staff to run the facility. “Several other private and non-profit organisations have provided support … and the successful rollout of the centre is a phenomenal example of inter-governmental and organisational cooperation in the face of the coronavirus pandemic,” the statement said. Also on the outskirts of Delhi, near Indira Gandhi International Airport, a 1,000-bed air-conditioned Covid facility is being readied by Defence Research and Development Organisation. It will have four sections of 250 beds each, with one fitted with oxygen and ICU facilities. “DRDO and Tata Trust are building the facility. Armed forces personnel will man it,” Shah had tweeted on Tuesday. Watch Delhi: World's largest corona centre ready for patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10000-bed-corona-centre-ready-for-patients/articleshow/76668104.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Road rage: Drunk youths attack man, damage car in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A group of drunken youths thrashed an employee of a hospital and damaged his car near the Mayur Vihar metro station on Friday, claiming that it brushed against their vehicle. Rohit, the victim, told the cops that he was returning home after getting his mother treated at a central Delhi hospital around afternoon when the youths who were drinking in an i-20 car first hit his vehicle from behind and then accused him of driving carelessly. When he protested, they chased his car till the Mayur Vihar metro station and smashed his windshield with a beer bottle forcing him to stop. When he stepped out to confront them, the youths started hitting him. They also damaged his car and fled from the scene. Rohit managed to inform the PCR from his mother’s phone after which he was taken to a hospital where he was treated and discharged. An FIR under sections of assault and criminal intimidation has been registered. Rohit had managed to note down the registration number of the vehicle and mentioned it in the FIR as well. A probe revealed that the car was registered in central Delhi and was currently under the ownership of one Yashpal. Efforts are being made to track down the driver. Cops are probing whether the car was being used by some criminals. The possibility of these men being involved in the murder of a man near the V3S is also being probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/road-rage-drunk-youths-attack-man-damage-car/articleshow/76667877.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Discom races against time to power centre||NEW DELHI: What does it take to power one of the world’s largest Covid care centres? Underground cables with combined length of 22 km- long enough to cover the distance between Connaught Place and Udyog Vihar Phase-I in Gurgaon. BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) has also set up four sub-stations and 24 transformers at the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre that has come up at the ashram of Radha Soami Satsang Beas on the outskirts of south Delhi. The massive facility with 10,000 beds covers an area of nearly 29 acres and requires an equally massive power infrastructure. For this, BRPL has been tasked with readying the power infrastructure by July 5. In a statement, the power discom said that it was initially entrusted to provide an electric load of 18 MW but with the requirement going up, the power-load requirement too has been increased to 23 MW. “For catering to the massive load requirement, over 100 discom officials and workers are working round-the-clock under direct supervision of the company’ senior leadership team and in close coordination with the government and other departments,” the statement said. To establish the mega power infrastructure, BRPL is laying four dedicated 11KV feeders using trenchless technology and involving minimal road-cutting. The underground cables will be monitored extensively to ensure that they are not inadvertently cut during any excavation work. To ensure safety, ‘dry-type’ transformers that don’t require oil and maintenance are being set up. The facility will get electricity from BSES’ Fatehpur Beri Grid and even if one of the lines trips, the power load can be routed from the alternative line. To keep the electricity infrastructure free from waterlogging during the monsoons, four water pumps are also being installed. The power lines will be remotely controlled from the Supervisory Control and Data Access (SCADA) situated at Kalkaji in South Delhi and to prevent faults, the newly set up distribution infrastructure will be scanned using hot-spot technology and load balancing. A Quick Response Team will also be stationed on the premises 24x7 to take care of any contingency, the discom said. “Being an essential service, BSES is always geared up to ensure quality and reliable power to its consumers under all circumstances. This is one of the largest projects the discom has handled,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discom-races-against-time-to-power-centre/articleshow/76668111.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||2 Covid deaths in Amravati; highest 22 new cases reported in a day||AMRAVATI: Two Covid deaths on Saturday took the district’s toll to 23 while 22 new cases, the highest single-day spike of district, sent the caseload oast 500-mark to reach 508. Of the 22 new cases, 10 were reported from rural areas, taking their count to 52. Amravati had reported its first case on April 4, and touched the 100-mark 43 days later on May 16. The next 100 cases came in 13 days on May 29, while the 300-mark was reached on June 11. Cases cross 400-mark in the next eight days on June 19. The next 100 cases were registered in another eight days. According to information available from civil surgeon’s office, a 77-year-old woman who tested positive on June 24 died on Saturday afternoon at the Covid ward of Best Hospital here. A 40-year-old person, reported to be an eunuch, died on June 25 but was reported Covid-19 positive on Saturday. Both the victims were residents of Sabanpura locality from where 15 cases have been reported so far, including the two deaths on Saturday. The 22 new cases include two girls, aged 20 and 22 from Anjangaon Surji and Kandali villages respectively, who had returned from Russia recently. They were quarantined at a hotel on Rahatgaon Road here. They have been shifted to Covid ward. Two men, 44 and 45, from Akot town in Akola district who were under treatment at Best Hospital, tested positive on Saturday along with a 32-year-old man from Shegaon Naka locality here. All three reports came from a private lab in Nagpur. Four of the 10 cases from rural areas were reported from Vichori village in Morshi tehsil while one each came from Walgaon, Rahatgaon and Nanori. Besides the Russia returnees, Anjangaon Surji also saw a 52-year-old man testing positive to take the town’s count to three. In Amravati city, Ashok Nagar (M 18), Meherbaba Colony (M 31), Gulista Nagar (M 52), Dharamkata, Walgaon Road (F 26) and Rajkamal Chowk (F 52) reported their first case while Rukmini Nagar (F 32) reported its seventh case on Saturday. Two staffers (F 32 and M 44) of PDMC hospital here, too tested positive, making it total 5 cases among the hospital staff so far. The day also saw 27 patients getting discharge to take the total recoveries to 377, including nine discharged from Nagpur and four from Best Hospital here. Now, there are 108 active cases from district, including six admitted in Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-covid-deaths-in-amravati-highest-22-new-cases-reported-in-a-day/articleshow/76667872.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Indore||In Covid times, PPE kits turn ‘lifesaver’ for garment units||Indore: Covid-19 has come as a blessing in disguise for several garment units as they diverted from the core business to the most sought-after product - Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to fight the deadly virus spread. Many garment manufacturers operating from readymade complex in Pardeshipura making shirts, pants and other apparel switched production to PPE kits. The move saved units from closure and gave employment hundreds of jobless tailors and workers. Amit Jain, a garment manufacturer from readymade complex said, “Garment demand had plummeted in past months as retails were completely shut due to Covid-19 induced lockdown globally. We chose to switch to PPE kits as it was doable with the experienced hands we had and infrastructure. This helped us give employment to our workers when everything was shut.” Jain a manufacturer and supplier to many leading multinational retail brands, produced close to 65,000 PPE kits in the last three months. According to garment makers, close to 5 lakh pieces of PPE kits must have been produced by different units in readymade complex that houses close to 70 units. India has become a leading manufacturing hub of PPE kits surpassing demand prompting many industry bodies to demand permission for exports of PPE kits. Makers of PPE kits said despite less margin, bulk demand for protective gear kept them running in lockdown when all other businesses were shut. Many said this helped them hold on to their valuable workers from migrating and aided them pay for running expenses. A garment supplier Sheel Porwal said, “What is the point in continuing in garment when demand has reduced to negligible. PPE kits, masks and gloves are the new market. I have ordered bulk fabric from Panipat and Surat to manufacture PPE kits.” Most makers said they get bulk orders for 3,000-4,000 pieces of PPE kits from across the country. Indore Readymade Textile Dealers Association, secretary Ashish Nigam said, “Many garment units have shifted business to PPE kits because the market is up. Availability of fabric is also smooth.” Manufacturers though demanded the government to allow exports of PPE kits as production is ample in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/in-covid-times-ppe-kits-turn-lifesaver-for-garment-units/articleshow/76667337.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Covid tally tops 5k as 100 test +ve, 7 die||Chandigarh: The number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab increased by 100 on Saturday, with which the state’s tally crossed the grim 5,000-mark milestone and reached 5,056. Also, seven persons infected with the virus died, taking the state’s toll to 128. In some relief for health authorities, 119 patients were discharged after recovery. Majority of the fresh cases were contacts of positive cases and people co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Four police officials, one doctor, two jail inmates and one sanitation worker were among those testing positive in the last 24 hours. In all, 19 cases were reported from Sangrur, of which 12 were contacts of positive cases and in three cases, the transmission history could not be traced by health officials. Amritsar, one of the worst-hit districts of the state, also reported 19 cases, followed by Jalandhar where 17 people were found to be infected. In Ludhiana, 13 people got infected, while eight cases were reported from Mohali and five from Hoshiarpur. Four cases each were reported from Barnala and Bathinda districts, two cases each from Moga, Kapurthala and Ferozepur, and one case each surfaced in Gurdaspur, Patiala, Muktsar, Ropar and Nawanshahr. Among the deaths, three were in Sangrur, two in Amritsar and one each in Jalandhar and Bathinda. The toll in Sangrur is now 12, and all three deceased were residents of Malerkotla and had comorbidities. They included a 55-year-old woman and two men, aged 63 and 48. An eighth death was also reported, of a 33-year-old man from Patiala who died at Governent Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh and who tested positive after his death. The toll in Amritsar has reached 39. New patients in Amritsar include the cops. (With inputs from Patiala and Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-covid-tally-tops-5k-as-100-test-ve-7-die/articleshow/76667876.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Unlock 2.0: Hyderabad air turns as toxic as Delhi's||HYDERABAD: The city saw a rise in pollution levels during lockdown 4.0, when restrictions were relaxed, says a study by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), New Delhi. In Hyderabad, the relaxation saw an over 40% increase in NO2 (Nitrogen dioxide) which is directly linked to vehicular traffic, the study says. The city was not far from Delhi, which saw an increase of 49%, Bengaluru (38%), and Ghaziabad (49%). However, it was not close to the cities which saw the highest increase such as Chennai (77%), Kochi (539%) or Visakhapatnam (89%). Researchers from CSE said that during the lockdown, “Hourly NO2 curve was flattened in all cities daily, with morning peak almost disappearing and evening peak reducing by 22-90%.” They saw a similar reduction in PM2.5 (particulate matter 2.5) levels across cities during the lockdown. But in Hyderabad, the gains made in the middle of the lockdown for PM2.5 did not last as levels returned to those in the first phase. While pollution levels in the city remained well within acceptable standards, researchers warned that increased traffic and industries could hamper gains, especially since worsening levels were being noticed. The analysis covered 22 mega and metropolitan cities in the country from the period of January 1, 2019 to May 31, 2020. Speaking to TOI, Anumita Roychowdhury, ED-research and advocacy, CSE, said: “This pandemic has shown that a big reduction is possible only if all regions clean up together and at a scale and with speed across all critical sectors including vehicles, industry, power plants, waste, construction, use of solid fuels for cooking and episodic burning.” She suggested that for the post-pandemic period to sustain any gains made during the lockdown, it was important to reduce all pollutants. In a surprise, the study noted that the lockdown was not the cleanest period for the city, with the previous monsoon being cleaner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unlock-2-0-hyderabad-air-turns-as-toxic-as-delhis/articleshow/76667866.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||Public transport drivers get road safety lessons online||Bareilly: Regional transport authorities conducted online classes on road safety for drivers of public transport vehicles, during the Road Safety Awareness week being observed across the state.Officials at Regional Transport Office (RTO) said that around 40 drivers deputed in public transport vehicles, including UPSRTC buses, autorickshaws, those engaged with motor training schools and even truck drivers, were made aware of traffic rules and measures to prevent road accidents. Officials said that the four-hour online classes were conducted in all UP districts for public transport drivers on Saturday.Senior assistant regional transport officer (ARTO) RP Singh told TOI, "On Saturday, an awareness programme was conducted at the RTO premises and drivers of public transport vehicles were invited to attend the online class as part of the ongoing road safety week. It was attended by 10 drivers of UPSRTC, 12 drivers of autos/tempos, 10 truck drivers and 10 drivers associated with motor driving training school. The drivers were given video lessons on overspeeding, drunken driving, jumping signals, carrying driving licence, among others."Officials said that pamphlets carrying similar messages with pictures were also distributed among the drivers. The road safety awareness week with various awareness programmes was launched on June 22 and will conclude on June 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/public-transport-drivers-get-road-safety-lessons-online/articleshow/76665543.cms||Maria Khan
June 28, 2020||Indore||IIT-Indore 64th in Times Young University Ranking||Indore: Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Indore was ranked 64th in the 2020 Times Higher Education Young University Rankings, becoming the 2nd Indian institute to appear in top 100, a statement from the institute said on Saturday. IIT-I moved 4 notches from last year’s performance to clinch the position awarded after assessing several parameters including teaching, research and citation among others. The institute was ranked at 68 position last year. Prof Neelesh Kumar Jain, Director (Officiating), IIT, Indore said, “IIT Indore has improved its score in majority of performance indicators. The institute will work harder to improve upon the ranking next year.”  Overall, 26 Indian universities appear in the full ranking of the 414 universities in total with only 02 Indian Institutes appearing in the first 100. THE’s 2020 Young University Rankings reveal the best universities under 50 years old, assessing them across teaching, research, international outlook and their work with industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/iit-indore-64th-in-times-young-university-ranking/articleshow/76667344.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 20,000 Covid-19 tests a day target achieved, 25,000 next milestone||LUCKNOW: From over 300 tests a day in first week of April, Uttar Pradesh’s fight against coronavirus touched a milestone on Saturday with the daily-test count crossing 20,000. “We conducted 20,028 tests in 24 hours and it’s a stupendous achievement,” secretary to chief minister, Alok Kumar said. “The antigen tests launched recently are not included. Till date, 6,63,096 tests have been conducted,” he added. Lauding health staff engaged in the arduous task, officials said, “When we realized testing was the only effective tool, the government began efforts to ramp it up. We were the first to start pool testing, besides going the extra mile to set up labs and use TruNat and rapid testing.” At least 34 laboratories are functional in UP. Of these, 26 are government-run while others are private. Currently, 95% tests are being done in government labs. Now, we will add BSL labs in underserved districts and will be functional by first week of July,” said a officer. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said conducting 25,000 tests a day is the target. “The CM has directed efforts must be made to ensure 25,000 tests are conducted every day. We look forward to achieving the goal,” he said. Health sources said the plan to achieve 25k tests was already in place. “While 20k tests would be done through RT PCR, 3,000 would be done through TruNat machines and 2000 from BSL labs," officials said, adding the state will be able to undertake 30,000 tests a day after its proposal to get ICMR's approval for Noida-based National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research Indian Council. Experts recognized the efforts, but underlined the need for continued momentum. “Tests per million or number of tests conducted per million population is a more reliable indicator to assess the situation. On that count, UP is half way to what India is doing. While the state’s TPM is around 2700, that for India is 5500. Being India’s most populous state, UP must strive to become No. 1 in terms of testing too,” said a senior surveillance expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/20k-covid-tests-a-day-target-achieved-25k-next-milestone/articleshow/76668122.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 28, 2020||Goa||Re-align double tracking project, Alina Saldanha tells govt||MARGAO: BJP Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha has demanded a re-alignment of the South Western Railway’s (SWR) double-tracking project through South Goa even as she said she was hopeful that the joint inspection and re-survey of the current alignment at Cortalim, as directed by chief minister Pramod Sawant, would have the desired effect. Sawant, at a meeting with Saldanha and SWR officials on Friday, had given instructions for a joint inspection and a re-survey of the double-track alignment at Cortalim by the PWD, SWR and land survey department to address objections raised by the locals. The inspection has been tentatively fixed for July 2. “However, we cannot see Cortalim in isolation,” Saldanha said. “The problems faced by the people owing to the project are the same across the state – noise pollution, coal dust pollution, and the attendant health risks, besides the threat to lives while crossing the tracks. The chief minister has understood the situation. The SWR should find an alternative alignment and this was made clear at the meeting.” She demanded that the land acquisition process initiated by the Mormugao deputy collector be withheld until a decision is arrived at on the basis of the re-survey of the double-track alignment. Railway officials present at the meeting with the chief minister said it was agreed to construct underpasses wherever needed. “The double tracking project would bring in more development to the state and also improve the frequency of local trains. The benefits of the project that will be accrued to the state and the locals were explained. However, the locals expressed reservations,” an official said. The railways ministry has already invoked the Railways Act, 1989, to enable land acquisition for the SWR’s Hospet-Hubballi-Tinaighat-Vasco double-tracking project in Goa, paving the way for the government to bulldoze any opposition from the public to land acquisition. Deputy collector and sub-divisional officer, Mormugao, in-charge of land acquisition, has been designated as the competent authority for land acquisition for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/re-align-double-tracking-project-alina-tells-govt/articleshow/76668296.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||NCLT: Centre to appoint two nominees in Delhi Gymkhana Club panel||NEW DELHI: Finding that the Delhi Gymkhana Club is being run in a manner “prejudicial to public interest”, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has allowed the central government to appoint two of its nominees as members in the club’s general committee (GC) to monitor its affairs. The principal bench of NCLT in Delhi also asked the government to set up a five-member special committee to inquire into the club’s affairs, utility of the land leased out by the Centre and to suggest changes in governance, including issues such as waitlist and accelerated membership. NCLT also termed it as “privileged club” which has no right to “use acres of land of the state for lazing around”. “Self-elevation of some people under the cover of positions, eminence, richness and inheritance as privilege or elite is anathema to the fundamental rights. And in turn prejudicial to the public interest, when somebody appropriates largess of the state for pastimes and whiling away time drinking wine and whisky in a sprawling land, I believe it is mockery of the system…The one window for such course correction is section 241 (2) (3) of the Companies Act, 2013” a bench of acting president, B S B V Prakash Kumar observed, directing the special panel to file a report of recommendations suggesting better use of the club premises in a transparent manner within two months. The tribunal, in an interim order on Friday, made scathing remarks on the “imperial behaviour” of the club, noting that “systemic prejudice is imminent deep down in the DNA”. It prohibited the GC from taking up any construction activity, nor take any policy decisions or make any changes in the governance norms. It also instructed the GC not to deal with the funds received for admission of members and stayed any balloting till further orders. Club president, Lt Col D R Soni was not available for comments. Calls and messages went unanswered. Referring to the Union corporate affairs ministry’s charges of the club violating two provision of the Companies Act, the bench observed if the government for any reason cancels the land lease, then the club has to be wound up. It also said if the licence is revoked for violating the objective of the company under Section-8 of the Act, then also it would become a problem to the club. “Therefore to avoid such a situation, an interim arrangement is devised to resolve the issues afflicting the Club,” it explained. Centre had asked for the dissolution of the GC and the appointment of an administrator as interim relief alleging the club had violated 20 provisions of the Companies Act. Coming down heavily on the manner in which the club is run and memberships are granted, the NCLT bench said though the club soon after independence wiped off the word “imperial” from its name, the mindset has not changed. While saying it was not a barb against the club, the bench observed there is “no space to commoners” to enter the club unless they are positioned on the “highest pedestal”. Lashing out at the club’s claim that there was no “public interest” involved since the matters pertain to its management, the bench observed, “…the club is sitting on the monies of the public in the name of entrance fees or registration fees, on the contrary 24x7 opening to the family members of permanent members, generation to generation, besides all this, the club enjoying 27 acres of land of the state in the prime area of Lutyens Delhi, now after all this is seen, can it be still said that how does the club affairs matter to the public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nclt-centre-to-appoint-two-nominees-in-gymkhana-club-panel/articleshow/76668118.cms||Dipak K Dash
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown call will depend on situation: Punjab CM||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the decision on extending the lockdown beyond June 30 in the state would depend on the situation, but he was prepared to take all steps needed to control the spread of Covid-19. “It is in your hands,” he told a Ludhiana resident during the #AskCaptain Facebook Live session, adding, “If we are able to control the pandemic, there would be no need for lockdown; but if it goes out of control, we have no choice.” “Lockdowns were imposed for the safety of Punjab’s people,” he added. With coronavirus cases rising across the country, he said wearing a mask in public was a must. He appealed to the people not to violate this and other safety protocols, and said there should be no need for challans on this count as everyone should act responsibly. He pointed out that on Friday alone, 4,024 people were challaned for not wearing masks and 45 for spitting in public. Not wearing masks or following social distancing norms or spitting are anti-social actions, he said. He pointed out that experts had projected Punjab’s peak to be still some time away. Amarinder said the state could not afford to be lax in any way. In response to a question from a Hoshiarpur resident, he said testing in Punjab would go up to 20,000 a day by the end of this month.. To a request for opening gyms, he said the decision was in the hands of the central government since the National Disaster Management Act was in force. He said he had till date received 1,700 questions on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lockdown-call-will-depend-on-situation/articleshow/76667886.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Government mulls NREGA salve for out-of-job migrants||VISAKHAPATNAM: A farmer-friendly scheme, YSR Rythu Seva Lo Upadhi Mitra (YRSUM), is under discussions to address the sudden rise in unemployment in the state owing to Covid-19. The project aims to use National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) workers in agriculture. As per the instructions from the commissioner of rural development, all concerned district officials have sent their project report for the YRSUM. A large number of migrant workers returned to their home town in Andhra Pradesh from high-risk areas like Tamil Nadu, Maharastra, Delhi and Gujarat during the lockdown period. The state government is now looking for ways to provide this population with alternative jobs. Sources in the agriculture department and allied sectors said their authorities have stepped in to solve the issue stating that the sector will need thousands of labour in the next five months. About 63.5 lakh hectares make up the net sown area of 1.57 crore acres in the 13 districts. When contacted, Srikakulam agriculture joint director K Sridhar said “The YRSUM is a boon to the agriculture. We welcome this programme as it will help farmers, who are currently facing shortage of labour. Besides, the shortage has pushed up daily wages. A farmer pays at least Rs 300-Rs 500 per head as daily wage to agriculture labour.” Sridhar further said labour will be needed for the kharif season, which lasts from July to November. An acre of crop requires at least 200 labourers for all kinds of work — nursery bed preparation, land preparation, field levelling, ploughing bund formation, seedling picking, weeding, fertilization, pesticide sprinkling, alleys formation, harvesting, crushing etc. “Due to Covid-19, many migrant workers have been rendered jobless. And what better than to engage these people in a sector which is labour-intensive,” said an agriculture scientist. A senior revenue official concurred, adding, “After all the government cannot financially support every person by crediting money directly to their bank account under various schemes.” Speaking to TOI, K Sanyasi Naidu, a farmer from East Godavari district, said he is thankful for the government aid under Rythu Bharosa scheme, but the proposed Upadi Mitra (YRSUM) scheme could address a vital and annual problem faced by farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-mulls-nrega-salve-for-out-of-job-migrants/articleshow/76666474.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Burari hospital likely to offer 150 beds in a week||NEW DELHI: A day after the state cabinet approved the start of operations at the 450-bed hospital in Burari in a phased manner, the health and family welfare department came out with a detailed plan on medical manpower, housekeeping, floor management, supplies and physical infrastructure to make at least 150 beds up and running within a week. In a separate order, the department asked authorities to link at least one banquet hall with the capacity of over 100 beds in each district with five Delhi government-run hospitals to increase the number of beds for Covid positive patients. According to the order issued by Vikram Dev Dutt, principal secretary in the health department, 38 newly-joined chief district medical officers have already been posted at the hospital in Burari, while a few specialist and experienced doctors will be diverted from other health facilities. While nursing staff would be hired against the created posts, nursing orderlies would have to be outsourced. The ambulance service for the hospital would be provided by CATS, while PPEs would be supplied by DGHS from the stock provided by the Centre. “All procurement/sourcing of logistics, supplies, structure and manpower for management of Covid-19 patients shall be done on nomination basis under Section 50 of Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the order said, adding that Delhi State Health Mission funds would be used for all expenditure. The department also linked 10 banquet halls with 100+ beds with five state-run hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/burari-hospital-likely-to-offer-150-beds-in-a-week/articleshow/76668126.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 12 labs found flouting Covid-19 testing norms||HYDERABAD: Out of the 16 private laboratories that were inspected by state health authorities, 12 laboratories were found to be flouting prescribed norms of Covid-19 testing. The 16 out of the 18 laboratories approved by ICMR) had begun Covid-19 tested less than a week ago. Two others did not start testing and were not inspected. Three days back, the state health department started inspections of the laboratories, after getting complaints from citizens and on Friday, a report of the inspections was prepared by the four inspection teams. The teams, comprising of senior microbiologists and senior officers from state health department looked at aspects like infrastructure, human resources, infection control measures and other facilities including general hygiene. “Twelve of the laboratories were found to have major lapses on various counts, including not doing RT-PCR tests. Since they are not following due procedures, the veracity of the reports cannot be trusted. We are issuing notices to the 12 laboratories,” said a health official. Among some of the findings, lack of safety measures like not wearing PPEs, non-availability of safety cabinets, unhygienic conditions and not following quality control and validation of tests were pointed out. Also, most of the staff was found to be untrained for conducting the RT-PCR tests. “Some of the labs are conducting tests for walk-ins, advertising that samples will be collected from different places in the city while government guidelines very clearly state that only symptomatic cases and patients admitted in hospitals should be tested and they are also not following ICMR guidelines,” as per the findings of the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-labs-found-flouting-covid-testing-norms/articleshow/76667887.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 28, 2020||Mangaluru||New wooden idol of Maariyamma to be consecrated at temple today||Mangaluru: Kudla will witness a historical change on Sunday morning during the Brahmakalasha ceremony of Halekote Shree Maariyamma-Mahishamardini Temple, which dates back 1,400 years. The name of the temple will be changed back to its old name Halekote Shree Maariyamma Temple, and current deities Maariyamma and Mahishamardini will be replaced with a wooden idol of Maariyamma. The change is taking place after 14 years. During the 2004 Brahmakalasha ceremony, both Maariyamma and Mahishamardini took centre stage. However, during an ashtamangala prasanamm in 2018, it was shown that from hundred years, the temple was worshipping a wooden idol of deity Maariyamma, and the same will be restored. Ashtamangala prasanamm was initiated after people living in the vicinity of the temple faced certain problems. The idol will be placed between 11.10am to 12.40pm on Sunday, and Brahmakalasha rituals are scheduled on Monday. Payasam items distributed The temple Brahamakalasha committee has decided to mass feed 10,000 devotees on the occasion, however, with restrictions to public gatherings due to the pandemic, the committee decided to distribute payasam items to each house, which includes green gram dal, jaggery, dry fruits, coconuts and cardamom. “On Monday, after mahapuja and Brahmakalasha rituals, every house will prepare payasam and have it during lunch. The rituals will be telecast on a local channel,” said another committee member. The payasam, which is served as prasadam, will be received by more than 25,000 devotees, according to the temple committee. An old wooden idol of Mariyamma which was kept aside in 2004, will be used for research purposes, while lingas of Maariyamma and Mahishamardini will be stored and not available for public viewing hereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/new-wooden-idol-of-maariyamma-to-be-consecrated-at-temple-today/articleshow/76666462.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Congress, BJP in social media war over Tukaram Mundhe’s functioning||NAGPUR: The unity among all political parties, especially BJP and Congress, against the “autocratic style of functioning” by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe seems to be developing cracks now. The chasm has widened so much that both leading parties have openly started talking either in favour of or against the civic body chief on various social media sites. While Congress corporators, including Praful Gudadhe, Kamlesh Chowdhary, say the senior officer like Mundhe should not be targeted, BJP corporators charge Mundhe of violating service manual. “Targeting an officer for doing his duty, exposing irregularities and preventing wrongdoings is wrong,” Chowdhary said while sharing his video released on a social media site. Mundhe has been made an accused of “autocratic style of functioning” even though his achievement in strengthening five NMC-run hospitals by increasing bed capacity to 450 in just 45 days has earned him support from citizens. Gudadhe’s social media message said, “A Congress corporator had tabled an adjournment motion in the recent NMC general body meeting in connection with alleged lapses in notifying or creating facilities in Covid containment zones. But, the BJP used the motion to its advantage and tried to paint a picture that the ongoing struggle between the civic chief and the mayor was not a struggle between the two but an all-party struggle,” said Gudadhe. Senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari is also circulating his video “exposing” how Mundhe violated service manual and misused power vested in him as the civic chief. Mayor Sandip Joshi was not available for comments but ruling party leader and former deputy mayor Sandip Jadhav said BJP always supported “honest, efficient, and upright officers” but it was opposed to “abuse of official powers to create problems for elected representatives and ill-treatment of corporators”. Jadhav, in an apparent reference to Mundhe’s popularity among citizens, said that “an official should not work like Robinhood just to gain popularity among people” . Like Nagpur, Mundhe also faced similar opposition from corporators when he was the Navi Mumbai commissioner. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation had passed no confidence motion against Mundhe in its general body meeting in 2015-16. All corporators from various political parties, except the BJP, had backed the motion. Jadhav said Mundhe didn’t give time to the elected representatives, always disrespected them and took unilateral decisions without informing them. Aam Adami Party activists in the city wondered about the BJP’s “double standards”. In 2016, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis himself felicitated Mundhe with “best collector”award for all round performance in 2015-16. "Credibility of the political class is the real issue, not Mundhe. When bureaucracy works efficiently, people start to trust administration instead of their elected representatives. Public representatives are just seeking ego satisfaction instead of focusing on real issues,” AAP Vidarbha convener Devendra Wankhede added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-bjp-in-social-media-war-over-mundhes-functioning/articleshow/76667894.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hindu Rao hospital finally functions as Covid facility||NEW DELHI: Amid protests and dissent, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital finally started operating as a Covid-designated facility from Saturday. For the time being, the 980-bed tertiary care facility is operating a 50-bed Covid care facility. Senior corporation officials say that the capacity will be increased gradually. Earlier in the day, the resident doctors association of the hospital held a protest to highlight their several demands, including not running a Covid facility without basic infrastructure. In a letter written to the medical superintendent, the resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital said that they stand in solidarity with them in fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic. “We are committed to serve our duties well and to the best of our efforts, but the association would like to bring to notice a few concerns,” the letter stated. Their demands included timely disbursement of salaries, no deduction in salaries of those who are advised quarantine, notice regarding accommodation of all healthcare workers, installation of air conditioning units in the hospital wards, availability of quality PPEs and enough sanitisers and proper common pool roster with sufficient number of doctors in every team for 12 hours duty. Some of the demands were met and a compromise was reached by the afternoon. Mayor of the north corporation, Jai Prakash, said that the hospital had started functioning and three patients were admitted as per the latest report. “We will keep increasing the number of beds based on the demand. We have made staying arrangements for all doctors and healthcare workers. We will sort out all issues raised by the doctors and I will visit the facility on Monday,” he added. Senior doctors from the association told TOI that they have started working. “Staying arrangements for doctors have been made in a Connaught Place hotel, while paramedical staff and nurses will be staying in a Karol Bagh hotel,” said association president Dr Abhimanyu Sardana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-hosp-finally-functions-as-covid-facility/articleshow/76667890.cms||Paras Singh
June 28, 2020||Lucknow||Mind the language: Kannada fairs poorly, Odia, Bengali better||Lucknow: More than 27.72 lakh students appeared for UP board class 10 examination, of whom only one student opted for Kannada, a Dravidian language spoken predominantly in Karnataka, and he too, flunked the examination. Of more than 24.84 lakh students taking Class 12 examination, only one opted for Nepali and he too saw a red line on his marksheet. According to subject-wise list released by the education department, two Class 10 students opted for Marathi and none of them could clear the examination. Nine students chose Telugu but not even one could secure pass marks. Odia, the sixth language to be designated a classical language in India, saw 100% results in Class 10 with lone student successfully clearing the examination. In Class 12, only one student registered for Odia but did not appear for it. Bengali saw cent percent results with all 11 students clearing the class 10 examination while in intermediate six out of seven students passed. In Punjabi, all 93 students of class 12 came out with flying colours. A total of 279 class 10 students took the examination for Punjabi of whom 254 students were successful. Similarly, 22 Class 10 students took examination in Gujarati language but only two could succeed. In Class 12, one out of two students passed the examination. In Pali, 282 students appeared in Class 10 of whom 277 were successful. In Class 12, out of 136 students, 127 succeeded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mind-the-language-kannada-fairs-poorly-odia-bengali-better/articleshow/76668134.cms||Ankur Tewari
June 28, 2020||Rajkot||RMC to give tax rebate to commercial units||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Friday announced 20% rebate on tax on commercial property, if amount paid by August 31. The civic body also declared a refund of 20% to those who have paid their annual property tax in advance for 2020-21. There are nearly 4.50 lakh properties registered with RMC out of that 2 lakh are of commercial nature. The civic body collected Rs 257 crore tax in last financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-to-give-tax-rebate-to-commercial-units/articleshow/76667353.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Government mulls NREGA salve for out-of-job migrants||VISAKHAPATNAM: A farmer-friendly scheme, YSR Rythu Seva Lo Upadhi Mitra (YRSUM), is under discussions to address the sudden rise in unemployment in the state owing to Covid-19. The project aims to use National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) workers in agriculture. As per the instructions from the commissioner of rural development, all concerned district officials have sent their project report for the YRSUM. A large number of migrant workers returned to their home town in Andhra Pradesh from high-risk areas like Tamil Nadu, Maharastra, Delhi and Gujarat during the lockdown period. The state government is now looking for ways to provide this population with alternative jobs. Sources in the agriculture department and allied sectors said their authorities have stepped in to solve the issue stating that the sector will need thousands of labour in the next five months. About 63.5 lakh hectares make up the net sown area of 1.57 crore acres in the 13 districts. When contacted, Srikakulam agriculture joint director K Sridhar said “The YRSUM is a boon to the agriculture. We welcome this programme as it will help farmers, who are currently facing shortage of labour. Besides, the shortage has pushed up daily wages. A farmer pays at least Rs 300-Rs 500 per head as daily wage to agriculture labour.” Sridhar further said labour will be needed for the kharif season, which lasts from July to November. An acre of crop requires at least 200 labourers for all kinds of work — nursery bed preparation, land preparation, field levelling, ploughing bund formation, seedling picking, weeding, fertilization, pesticide sprinkling, alleys formation, harvesting, crushing etc. “Due to Covid-19, many migrant workers have been rendered jobless. And what better than to engage these people in a sector which is labour-intensive,” said an agriculture scientist. A senior revenue official concurred, adding, “After all the government cannot financially support every person by crediting money directly to their bank account under various schemes.” Speaking to TOI, K Sanyasi Naidu, a farmer from East Godavari district, said he is thankful for the government aid under Rythu Bharosa scheme, but the proposed Upadi Mitra (YRSUM) scheme could address a vital and annual problem faced by farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-mulls-nrega-salve-for-out-of-job-migrants/articleshow/76669612.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 28, 2020||Shimla||30 more found infected with coronavirus, Himachal Pradesh tally near 900||SHIMLA: Thirty new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 894. Ten cases were reported in Hamirpur, seven in Kangra, five in Bilaspur, three each in Kinnaur and Solan, and two in Mandi. Seven patients recovered in the state, including two each in Hamirpur, Chamba and Kangra, and one in Solan. At the moment, 373 cases are active in the state, 501 patients have recovered, 11 have migrated out of state, seven have died of Covid-19, and two patients died of reasons other than Covid-19. In Kangra, a family comprising a 33-year-old man, his 26-year-old wife and their two-year-old daughter, who had returned from Gurgaon on June 20, tested positive. The others who were found infected with the virus included a 48-year-old man from Chowki village who returned from Faridabad, a 58-year-old man from Nandolhi who returned from Noida on June 18, a 68-year-old man from Jumbh who is primary contact of a positive case, and a 20-year-old woman from Jumbh who is also a patient’s contact. Kangra has recorded the highest number of cases so far, 251. It is followed by Hamirpur (238), Una (101), Solan (95), Chamba (51), Bilaspur (43), Shimla (39), Sirmaur (37), Mandi (27), Kinnaur (7), and Kullu (5). In Hamirpur district, new patients included a 16-year-old boy from Takhroon who returned from Mumbai, a five-year-old girl and a two-year-old boy from Sai, a 57-year-old man from Sukriyah, Sai, four men aged 48, 46, 33 and 18 who had returned from Delhi, a 40-year-old man from Dehra who had returned from Gurgaon and a 23-year-old man from Kheri who returned from the same city. A total of 56,638 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Saturday, of them 37,796 have completed their 28 days of surveillance, while 18,842 are under active surveillance. So far, 74,695 persons have been tested for coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/30-more-found-infected-with-virus-himachal-pradesh-tally-near-900/articleshow/76667895.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad boy bags fourth position in UP Board Class X examination||Bareilly: It was a pleasant surprise for Gaurav when he learnt that he had bagged fourth position in the UP Board Class X examination by securing 94.83% marks. The results were declared on Saturday.Son of a motor mechanic in Moradabad, Gaurav (who uses only his first name) was expecting to secure a decent rank in the district.An elated Gaurav told TOI, “My family is happy that I have secured fourth position in UP."The key to his success, said Gaurav, was regular five-hour study based on a timetable after school every day. During his free time, he drew sketches, he said.A student of Chitrgupt Inter College, Gaurav aspires to become a teacher.Similarly, Mohit Gangwar, son of a farmer, topped Bareilly district for Class X exams, securing 92.50% marks. Gangwar, a native of Banjariya Jagir village, shares a rented room in Bareilly city with two friends. He has been staying in the city for the past two years to pursue his studies at Jainarayan Saraswati Vidya Mandir Inter College.Gangwar said, “Apart from my studies, I do all household chores like cooking and washing clothes and utensils. Though I didn’t have any time for hobbies, doing household work was my stressbuster. I would stay awake till late in the night to study.” His father, Nathu Lal, said, “I try my best to provide better education to my children.”Anurag Shankhdhar was ranked first in Class XII exam in Bareilly district with 91.20% marks. A student of Sri L Prasad SVM Inter College, Nawabganj, Shankhdhar said though happy that he topped in Bareilly district, he was expecting a better percentage.Brothers Sajal Rastogi with 92% marks in Class X and Saksham Rastogi with 89.20% in Class XII bagged second and third positions, respectively, in Bareilly district. The duo said they studied together after waking up early in the morning.Bareilly district not only saw boys bagging top slots for both Class X and XII exams but overall too, boys outshone girls in the UP Board exams.According to officials, Bareilly region which comprises nine districts reported pass percentage of 80.79% in Class XII and 86.47% in Class X.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-boy-bags-fourth-position-in-up-board-class-x-examination/articleshow/76665579.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 28, 2020||Rajkot||Couple booked for alleged truck fraud||Rajkot: A couple was booked on Saturday for allegedly selling off the truck they had hired in Junagadh. Police said the accused, identified as Bharat Kuchhadia and his wife Rekha Kuchhadia, both aged 24, had allegedly hatched the conspiracy to usurp the truck belonging to Rajashi Modha. "The Kuchhadia couple had taken the truck on a monthly rent of Rs 50,000 from Modhia. However, no rent agreement can’t be executed in this regard as the lockdown was imposed. The accused did not pay the rent as promised and allegedly sold off the truck," said N K Vaja, sub-inspector with Junagadh C division police station.The sold off truck was worth Rs 13.45 lakh. During their interrogation, the accused told the cops that as all the sources of generating income had dried up during the lockdown, they had hatched the conspiracy and had committed the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-booked-for-alleged-truck-fraud/articleshow/76667362.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Rajkot||Liquor worth Rs 28L seized; three held||Rajkot: In two different raids reported from Devbhoomi Dwarka and Bhavnagar districts, police seized as many as 9,204 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) woth Rs 27.72 lakh on Friday night. Three bootleggers were arrested in these operations. In Devbhoomi Dwarka district, the officials of local crime branch (LCB) seized 5,520 bottles of IMFL worth Rs 16.72 lakh from a cement tanker. "The liquor bottles were concealed in the tanker. While the tanker driver and cleaner fled from the spot, a bootlegger from Rajasthan was caught," said an official from Devbhoomi Dwarka LCB, while refusing to divulge the identity of the accused, citing secrecy of the investigation. "The liquor cache has come from Rajasthan. We are probing as to who had ordered the supply of these liquor bottles," added the official. Meanwhile in Bhavnagar, the officials from the rapid response cell of Bhavnagar range seized 3,684 IMFL bottles worth Rs 11 lakh from a truck and arrested two bootleggers. "The arrested accused, identified as Shivam Yadav (24) and Ajaykumar Rajput (35), said that the liquor supply was sought by Shivraj Kamaliya, a bootlegger from Gadhesar village of Talaja taluka, and that it was uploaded on to the truck by Satpal Mital from Haryana. Following this information, we have booked both Kamaliya and Mital for the crime," said M S Jadeja, sub-inspector with Vartej police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/liquor-worth-rs-28l-seized-three-held/articleshow/76667376.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 crisis to play a key role in future of MP govt||Bhopal: With by-elections to 24 assembly seats due in Madhya Pradesh, Coronovirus crisis is likely to play a decisive role in the future of Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Enjoying a slender margin, after rebel Congress MLAs joined BJP and pulled down the 15-month Kamal Nath government, Chouhan needs to win at least a dozen seats to be comfortable.While the BJP has accused the Congress government led by Kamal Nath of not doing enough to tackle Covid-19 in the state, the Congress has accused BJP of destablising its government amidst the pandemic.By-elections in MP were necessitated following the death of two sitting MLAs and resignations of 22 MLAs, supporters of Jyotiraditya Scindia after he joined BJP.After the resignations by rebel Congress MLAs the strength in the 230-member MP Assembly came down to 206. The numbers in the House is evenly poised with BJP having a slight advantage with 107 MLAs against Congress’ 92. Besides, there are two BSP, one SP and four independents MLAs who were supporting Nath government but, have voted for BJP in the recent Rajya Sabha polls. So, the by-elections are crucial to the Congress and the BJP.Corona crisis and the high-voltage political drama in MP started from the second week of March. Scindia joined BJP on March 11 and minutes later was named BJP’s Rajya Sabha candidate from MP. Twenty-two MLAs supporting Scindia resigned from Congress and joined BJP in New Delhi on March 21.Amidst this, the first confirmed case of corona in the state was reported on March 20 in Jabalpur. With the fall of Nath government, BJP reposed its faith in Shivraj Singh Chouhan who took oath as MP CM for the fourth time on March 23. Two days later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared the first lock down in the country. Covid-19 cases spiraled after that and BJP and Congress accused each other for corona crisis in MP.Dates for the by-elections have not been declared by the election commission yet, but, political parties have started their preparations assuming by-elections would be held in September before assembly elections in Bihar. Both the parties point that corona would be a major poll issue in by-election.BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, corona would definitely be an issue in by-polls. The timely decisions taken by Prime Minister, Modi to tackle corona were hailed by the world. Earlier, Nath government did nothing to control corona in state despite repeated circulars from the Centre. For Nath government priority was IIFA and not corona. “Congress media committee vice president Bhupendra Gupta said, corona would be a major poll issue in by elections. Government did not take decision on time to control corona. BJP and its governments were busy in Namaste Trump when other countries in world were closing down airports. In MP, government could not even provide good quality PPE kits to doctors and corona warriors. The decision on migrant laborers was also not correct. They were stopped when they should have been allowed to go home. If lockdown would have been enforced ten days earlier, 60% of lives would have been saved, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-crisis-to-play-a-key-role-in-future-of-mp-govt/articleshow/76667384.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishnam Raju meets Rajnath Singh, Kishan Reddy in Delhi||VIJAYAWADA: Narasapuram MP K Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who has been slapped a show-cause notice by YSRC for his anti-party statements, met defence minister Rajnath Singh and minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy in New Delhi on Saturday. Raju is believed to have discussed the issue of his security during his meeting. He also handed them a copy of the letter which he had sent to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla requesting security by central forces. He also reportedly told them he has been unable to visit his home constituency as his rivals have threatened him and said he fears he might be implicated in false cases. Later, during a brief interaction with reporters, the MP said he never criticised chief minister and YSRC president YS Jaganmohan Reddy or talked ill of the party. He, however, alleged that some leaders are creating a divide between him and Jagan and conspiring to remove him from the party. Raju further said that he has sought an appointment with Jagan to tell him his side of the story, but added that he’s not confident of getting an audience because of the coterie surrounding the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishnam-raju-meets-rajnath-singh-kishan-reddy-in-delhi/articleshow/76666519.cms||Gopi Dara
June 28, 2020||Mysuru||Will clear pending salaries of PSSK employees: Nirani||Mysuru: BJP MLA Murugesh Nirani on Saturday said that if the state government decides to lease out Mysugar factory in Mandya district, he will contest the bid. At an interaction with the media here on Saturday, Nirani said that the government has formed an expert committee and discussions are in progress on the future of the sugar factory which has been defunct for two years. “I visited Mysugar factory following reports that the government is leasing it out for 40 years. But after I learnt that there is no such proposal, I participated in the tender for PSSK and won the bid for a 40-year lease,” he said. Nirani said that the committee will decide whether the factory should continue to be run by the government or be leased out to private sector companies or to hand over the operations and management to private agencies. “If the government takes a decision to lease Mysugar factory, I may participate in the bid based on investment on the project,” he said and added that he had never pressured the BJP government to lease Mysugar factory. On leasing out the Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Karkhane (PSSK) in Pandavapura taluk, Nirani said that cane crushing will start from August 1. “Within 24 hours of the tripartite agreement between the government, PSSK and Nirani Groups, we will clear the three years' pending wages of employees. We will hire local skilled labourers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-clear-pending-salaries-of-pssk-employees-nirani/articleshow/76666518.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Locust attack: 12 Rewari villages report crop damage||ROHTAK: A day after the locust attack in South Haryana’s Narnaul and Rewari districts, state agriculture minister J P Dalal on Saturday visited the fields of Bohatwas Bhondu and Parkhotampur villages in Rewari to review the steps taken to prevent the locust attack on crops. Meanwhile, farmers reported damage to cotton and Bajra crops in at least 12 villages of Rewari district where insects settled on Friday night after venturing into the fields of Narnaul district during the day. The agriculture minister assured farmers that they do not need to panic as the state government would stand with them. He said the damage caused by the locust attack is being assessed by the administration. Dalal said that since locusts entered India from Pakistan about six months ago, the Haryana government started making advance preparations to deal with the pest attack. He said the state government has made extensive arrangements to protect crops. Deputy commissioner, Rewari, Yashendra Singh told the minister that the locusts entered Rewari district from Mahendragarh at around 5pm on Friday and stayed in the villages around Jatusana at night. Meanwhile high alert was issued in neighbouring districts of Jhajjar, Rohtak and Sonipat. Administrative officials reviewed preparations to prevent the locust attack in their respective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12-rewari-villages-report-crop-damage/articleshow/76667897.cms||Sat Singh
June 28, 2020||Rajkot||Two robbers arrested||Rajkot: Two robbers who had robbed a man of his cellphone on Thursday night in Luniyadhar village of Vadia taluka in Amreli district were arrested on Saturday. Police said the accused, Ajay Lalakia (27) and Faizal Parekh (23), had allegedly robbed Mansukh Solanki (55) of his cellphone. "Both Lalakia and Parekh had come on a bike and offered Solanki a lift. Once Solanki sat on the bike, the accused took him to Mangavapal village of Vadia taluka and allegedly started beating him. They allegedly robbed Solanki of his cellphone," said R K Karamta, inspector with Amreli local crime branch. The accused were caught on the CCTV of the petrol pump where they had gone to fill the fuel. Their bike was found parked near the bridge over Thebi River near Kunkavav toll tax booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-robbers-arrested/articleshow/76667387.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 15-day serological survey kicks off to analyse coronavirus spread||NEW DELHI: The serological survey of coronavirus presence in Delhi kicked off on Saturday even as the city saw the total number of Covid-19 cases crossing 80,000. The fortnight-long survey, which will assess the spread of the virus in the capital and gauge the development of immunity in the community, is being carried out by Delhi government and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). While 20,000 blood samples are expected to be collected by July 10 as part of the survey, only around 600 could be collected on the first day by the 32 teams of healthcare personnel from residential areas in two districts. “The survey started in Central and North districts today,” said an NCDC official. “The blood samples will be tested in our laboratory from tomorrow. We are preparing to roll out the survey in the other nine districts from tomorrow too.” On Saturday afternoon, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited Ram Nagar in central Delhi’s Nabi Karim to inspect the ongoing survey. The survey involves random testing of residents in different age groups and from different sections of society. The teams that are carrying out the survey include auxiliary nurses and lab technicians from mohalla clinics, supported by dispensary staff and ASHA workers. A healthcare personnel said, “This is not a usual survey and blood samples are being taken from persons who have no symptoms. As we are carrying out randomised sampling, blood samples are taken from every fifth house of the selected locality, which could be or not be in a containment zone. Around 30% of the samples are paediatric ones.” He said the teams are explaining the objectives of the survey to the residents, telling them this would help the government gauge the community’s immunity. “If we find enough development of antibodies in the community, the chances of coronavirus taking a more virulent form in the future is lesser,” he said. The Centre has also asked Delhi government to assess every individual death due to Covid-19 in the city and note how many days before death the person was brought to the hospital and from which place. A Union health ministry official said, “Special focus has to be on whether the person was in home isolation and whether the person was brought to hospital at the right time.” While testing has been increased substantially, the positivity rate in Delhi remains high at 16.8%, raising concerns about a wider spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/15-day-sero-survey-kicks-off-to-analyse-virus-spread/articleshow/76667901.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal cyclist among India’s five to take on US terrain||BHOPAL: Cyclist Praveen Sapkal of Bhopal, has made the cut for the Race Across the West (VRAW). It is among world's most prestigious cycling race held in the USA. Praveen is among the five Indians who have qualified for the event. From MP, he is the only contestant. Incidentally, Praveen had also the credit of having the Iron Man title which he won three years ago. With the cancellation of RAAM due to the Covid restrictions, a June void in the cycling world needed to be filled. Based on Race Across America (RAAM) - The World’s Toughest Bicycle Race, VRAAM was designed to fill that void with the purpose of bringing a positive message and inclusivity to the world of ultra-cycling and to bring global awareness to the benefits of exercise in improving mental health. Participants were not given actual RAW events. But, the distances and amount of climbing were similar to the actual event. On each day, there was an allotted number of segments allowing riders to accumulate as many miles (Kms) as possible per day. These were then made up a leaderboard. The maximum time a rider could be on the bike per day is 20 hours. Solo riders only do this for this year. Praveen said this year organisers of the event conducted a virtual round for the qualification. “For this, the bicycle was mounted on the home trainer and its sensors connected to the laptop. After that, specially designed routes were to be cycled in FULGAZ software. The entire event was shown live on different social media platforms,” said Praveen. “A total of 5 cyclists from India are participating in it, out of which I am the only one from MP. This race has become challenging due to steep climbing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-cyclist-makes-the-cut-for-race-across-the-west-in-us/articleshow/76667406.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 28, 2020||Goa||Govt nod to finalise MP coal block deal awaited||Panaji: The 60-day extension granted by the Centre to Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) to complete the formalities for the Dongri-Tal II coal block will come to an end in just over a month. GIDC is still waiting for clearance from the state government to appoint a transaction advisor who will help select a mine developer-cum-operator for the coal mine in Madhya Pradesh. With austerity measures in place and a fund crunch staring at the state, GIDC could lose out a second time on the coal block, sources said. “GIDC has got 60 days more from the Centre. The extension will get over on July 28,” said GIDC managing director Derrick Neto. GIDC had moved a file seeking approval from the state government for a request for proposal (RFP) to select a transaction advisor to select the mine developer-cum-operator for the coal block as well as a separate consultant to assist in the auction of 5 lakh sqmtrs of land recovered from the Special Economic Zone promoters. Subsequently on June 10, the Goa government outlined a raft of austerity measures included a halt on capital expenditures and project-specific borrowing by government departments as well as state-owned public sector undertakings (PSU) such as GIDC. Prior to the lockdown and the Covid-19 pandemic, the department of industries had constituted a selection committee and a monitoring committee to oversee the appointment of the consultants for the two key projects. Industry secretary Nila Mohanan heads the selection committee while industry minister Vishwajit Rane heads the monitoring committee. However, Mohanan also serves as the health secretary and Rane is the state’s health minister. “GIDC has yet to identify the transaction advisor for the coal block. The RFP to select the consultant is awaiting government nod,” said an official. The industries department had issued an order to GIDC in the last week of December asking GIDC to go ahead with the auction of a fraction of the 38 lakh sqm of SEZ land and submit an action taken report.  Chief minister Pramod Sawant has told GIDC that Goa cannot afford to lose out on the coal block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-nod-to-finalise-mp-coal-block-deal-awaited/articleshow/76668179.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||Bride refuses to marry after groom turns up to venue drunk, misbehaves with her relatives||Bareilly: An 18-year-old bride in Shahjahanpur district’s Nayagaon Guladia village refused to tie the nuptial knot after the groom and several of his guests turned up to the venue drunk on Friday evening and allegedly misbehaved with her family members during the rituals. However, notwithstanding the girls’ decision, which they took as an insult, the groom’s family approached police seeking their help in getting the marriage solemnised, but the girl refused to change her mind. A marginal farmer had fixed his daughter’s marriage with one Narendra Singh of Usava Marori village during the lockdown. According to police, the girl’s father had made necessary arrangements for the ceremony, but as soon as the groom and his guests arrived at the venue on Friday, they started complaining about shortcomings in the arrangements and also misbehaved with the girl’s father and her relatives. The matter was, however, resolved soon, but as the groom and his friends continued to be sarcastic with her family allegedly under the influence of alcohol, the girl decided to call off the wedding, said police. Police said when the bride’s decision was conveyed to the groom’s family, they took it as their insult and an argument ensued between both parties and police had to be called in. The wedding was called off and both parties were summoned to Jalalabad police station, where police told the groom’s family to return the gifts they received from the girl’s family. Jalalabad station house officer (SHO) Ravi Kumar said, “It was the girl’s decision to call off the wedding after she saw her groom inebriated and misbehaving with her father and relatives. Both parties later reached a compromise and the groom’s family agreed to return the gifts. We have not registered a case, so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bride-refuses-to-marry-after-groom-turns-up-to-venue-drunk-misbehaves-with-her-relatives/articleshow/76665591.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 28, 2020||India||First to pass Class 12, she’s star of vanishing tribe||RAIPUR: The daughter of a couple that collects sal leaves for a living in Chhattisgarh has become the first girl in the vanishing Birhor tribe to pass Class 12 as a regular student. Battling poverty, dogma and stiff opposition from her tribe, Nirmala scored 58%, and now aims to step into a college — perhaps the first girl in her tribe to do so. Her father said Nirmala would “follow her dreams”. The family stood up to elders in the tribe who demanded that she be taken off school and married, in keeping with Birhor ‘tradition’. Nirmala hails from Jhargaon, a village of about 1,100 people in Jashpur district, about 440km from Raipur. The Birhors — a ‘particularly vulnerable tribal group’ — are believed to number less than 10,000 in the country. Birhor Samaj head Jageshwar Singh told TOI: “The tribe still follows the old tradition where girls are not allowed to study and are married at an early age. Besides, the tribal people are superstitious regarding girls’ education. People strongly objected to Nirmala going to school”. Singh said Nirmala is the first Birhor girl to pass Class 12 “with regular studies from Class 1 to 12th”. “Earlier, a girl from our tribe completed her studies through open school,” he added. After declaration of results, Jageshwar Singh and Nirmala went to Jashpur town where collector Mahadev Kawre felicitated her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-to-pass-class-12-shes-star-of-vanishing-tribe/articleshow/76668443.cms||Nisreen Naaz
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: As Covid-19 cases surge, Malkajgiri locals told not to visit markets||SECUNDERABAD: Residents of Malkajgiri and surrounding areas have been advised by the resident welfare associations (RWAs) to avoid visiting weekly vegetable markets as the Covid-19 cases increase exponentially. Representatives of various RWAs have also urged Malkajgiri deputy municipal commissioner to close weekly markets at Mallikarjun Nagar, Jyothi Nagar, Gopal Nagar, Goutham Nagar, Dayanand Nagar and Uttam Nagar. “Till date, total of eight positive cases have been reported at Mallikarjuna Nagar, Hanumanpet, Gopal Nagar, Gowtham nagar and Indira Nehru Nagar Colony. We have now strongly appealed to other residential areas to avoid visiting the weekly markets and buy vegetables and fruits from nearby rythu bazars and isolated veg markets to avoid contracting Covid-19,” said the general secretary of Uttam Nagar colony RWA, K Raghavendra Rao. Nearly 100 to 150 vendors have been selling vegetables, fruits and other general kirana items (groceries) at the weekly markets held on Saturdays and Sundays, and around 400 to 500 residents used to visit the markets. “We have observed that none of the vendors are following social distance and wearing masks while selling vegetables. Residents visiting the weekly markets also failed to maintain social distance,” added Rao. In the representation furnished to deputy municipal commissioner, RWAs have sought sanitization of all residential areas. The welfare wings have also urged the local police to take necessary steps regarding keeping the weekly markets closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-cases-surge-malkajgiri-locals-told-not-to-visit-markets/articleshow/76667899.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab braces for more patients needing support||CHANDIGARH: As Punjab is witnessing a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, a corresponding increase in number of infected patients requiring oxygen and ventilator support has also been witnessed. Analysis of the daily media bulletin released by the state health department reveals that from May 1 to June 26, there has been a manifold increase in the number of patients put on oxygen and ventilators. From May 1 to May 31, only three patients required oxygen support, while five were put on ventilators. During the period from June 1 to June 26, 74 patients required oxygen and 16 ventilator support. On June 17, 13.49% of total new cases required oxygen or ventilator support while the share of such patients in the tally of June 23 was 6.17%. Similarly, 5% of cases reported on June 25 were on oxygen support. Health experts attributed the trend of increase in occupancy of oxygen and ventilator equipped beds due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) in the state. The symptoms of ILI commonly include fever, chills, shivering, dry cough, malaise, nausea and loss of appetite, while symptoms of SARI are fever, dry cough, headache and difficulty breathing. Since novel coronavirus attacks the respiratory system, it becomes difficult for most of the patients to breath and they must be put on oxygen and ventilator support. As per the data compiled by the health department, as many as 330 people tested positive were found to be co-infected with ILI from the period from June 1 to June 25. As many as 37 people having ILI were tested positive for Covid-19, while 34 such people were tested positive on June 18, and 23 on June 22. Nineteen people each were found to be co-infected on June 25, June 24 and June 19. Majority of these cases were reported from Ludhiana, Amritsar and Pathankot. Besides this, 177 people suffering from severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said that the number of people put on oxygen and ventilators has increased due to the rise in number of people co-infected with ILI and SARI, who face difficulty in breathing. Anticipating the rise in the number of such cases, the Punjab government has made appropriate arrangements for beds equipped with oxygen and ventilator support. “At present, we have a total of 8,000 beds with oxygen and ventilators. The number will further be increased as per requirement,” said Dr Bhaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-braces-for-more-patients-needing-support/articleshow/76669794.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||5 booked on abetment to suicide charge||Ludhiana: Jamalpur police has booked five persons on charges of abetment to suicide after a married woman, whose husband lives in England, ended her life due to their alleged teasing. The accused were identified as Harpreet Singh of Noor Mahal and his friends Ravi, Gona, Chibbu and Sony. In his police complaint, father of the woman of Bhamiyan Kalan said his elder daughter was married to Harjinder Kumar of Jalandhar 13 years ago and the couple had two sons. He added that his son-in-law had gone to England eight years ago and his daughter was living with her in-laws. The complainant told cops that one of the accused Ravi fraudulently took his daughter’s number and started talking to her. He added that later he introduced her to Harpreet Singh. Father of the deceased said the accused with a bad intention started a love affair with her and had illicit relations with his daughter. He added that the accused would take money from her and she told about this to him as well. The complainant further said they asked him not to do this, but he threatened him. He added that the accused with the help of his friends Gona, Chibbu, Soni, got his daughter’s pictures clicked and blackmailed her. The complainant further said the accused then sent those pictures to his son-in-law used to trouble her a lot. He added that his daughter came to their home along with her children but they didn’t stop and after that he, along with his relatives, went to Harpreet’s home and asked him not to trouble his daughter as she is very tense. The victim’s father said the accused told them that they cared little whether she died or not. He added that on June 24 around 3.30pm, his daughter hung herself from a ceiling fan in the kitchen and became unconscious. The complainant said they took her to a hospital and from there doctor referred her to CMCH and from there they took her to another hospital, where she died on June 25 at 10am. He added that after the death of his daughter, they informed the police. On being informed, the cops from Jamalpur police station reached the complainant’s house and started a probe in this matter. It has booked the accused under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-booked-on-abetment-to-suicide-charge/articleshow/76667424.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab braces for more patients needing support||CHANDIGARH: As Punjab is witnessing a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, a corresponding increase in number of infected patients requiring oxygen and ventilator support has also been witnessed. Analysis of the daily media bulletin released by the state health department reveals that from May 1 to June 26, there has been a manifold increase in the number of patients put on oxygen and ventilators. From May 1 to May 31, only three patients required oxygen support, while five were put on ventilators. During the period from June 1 to June 26, 74 patients required oxygen and 16 ventilator support. On June 17, 13.49% of total new cases required oxygen or ventilator support while the share of such patients in the tally of June 23 was 6.17%. Similarly, 5% of cases reported on June 25 were on oxygen support. Health experts attributed the trend of increase in occupancy of oxygen and ventilator equipped beds due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) in the state. The symptoms of ILI commonly include fever, chills, shivering, dry cough, malaise, nausea and loss of appetite, while symptoms of SARI are fever, dry cough, headache and difficulty breathing. Since novel coronavirus attacks the respiratory system, it becomes difficult for most of the patients to breath and they must be put on oxygen and ventilator support. As per the data compiled by the health department, as many as 330 people tested positive were found to be co-infected with ILI from the period from June 1 to June 25. As many as 37 people having ILI were tested positive for Covid-19, while 34 such people were tested positive on June 18, and 23 on June 22. Nineteen people each were found to be co-infected on June 25, June 24 and June 19. Majority of these cases were reported from Ludhiana, Amritsar and Pathankot. Besides this, 177 people suffering from severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said that the number of people put on oxygen and ventilators has increased due to the rise in number of people co-infected with ILI and SARI, who face difficulty in breathing. Anticipating the rise in the number of such cases, the Punjab government has made appropriate arrangements for beds equipped with oxygen and ventilator support. “At present, we have a total of 8,000 beds with oxygen and ventilators. The number will further be increased as per requirement,” said Dr Bhaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-braces-for-more-patients-needing-support/articleshow/76669793.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||As Covid-19 spikes, Hyderabad hospitals fly in nurses from Kerala||HYDERABAD: Over the past fortnight, two private hospitals from Hyderabad flew in about 50 nurses from Thiruvananthapuram in charter flights to meet a sudden surge in trained staff. With Telangana registering a little less than 1,000 Covid-19 cases daily and most private hospitals finding themselves packed with patients, many of them are even ready to pay substantially higher salaries to attract nurses. “In fact, other hospitals in town are frequently approaching us seeking nurses on a temporary basis,” said an official from a corporate hospital in the city. Many others are offering three times the wages. “I am getting 10-15 calls a day from corporate hospitals, asking for nurses. They are offering Rs 45,000 to Rs 50,000 a month, which is almost three times the pay previously offered,” said Laxman Rudavath, general secretary, Nursing Officers Association of Telangana. The problem, hospital managements say, is the fact that staff requirement for handling Covid-19 patients is higher than regular patients. “For instance, if a regular patient requires one nurse every day, for Covid-19 patients the requirement is three times. The fact that many nurses and doctors shy away from Covid-19 duties means the availability of staff is lower than required,” said the manager of a super-specialty hospital chain. Doctors also attribute the crunch to lack of qualified nurses to handle ICU duties and an increasing number of nurses testing positive to the virus. The latter, they say, has resulted in multiple batches of nurses going into 14-day quarantine. “This has further reduced the staff strength. In fact, nurses are taking unilateral decision to go on quarantine once any of their colleagues test positive,” said another official from a corporate hospital in the city. The crisis, officials added, has limited intake capacity of private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. “We went to seven different hospitals to get a single bed during an emergency. Forget the government approved rates, beds are not even available at five times the cost,” said a patient’s attendant.  “80% of the beds in private hospitals are occupied by asymptomatic patients. Being Covid positive does not mean one needs hospitalization. They should free beds for more serious patients,” said Dr Bhaskar Rao, president, Telangana Super Specialty Hospitals Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-covid-spikes-hyd-hosps-fly-in-nurses-from-kerala/articleshow/76667896.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Families of cops who died of corona can stay in quarters: Anil Deshmukh||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday announced that the families of cops who died after contracting novel coronavirus infection on duty would not have to vacate their official quarters till the deceased personnel’s date of retirement. Maharashtra police, whose 4,326 personnel have tested Covid-19 positive so far with 57 succumbing to the infection, is one of the worst hit state agencies apart from Mumbai’s civic body BMC. According to state police statistics, 976 personnel, including 105 officers, who contracted the infection are recuperating at different hospitals across Maharashtra as on Saturday. With tests being done on a regular basis, more cops testing Covid-19 positive cannot be ruled out. The cops also suffered more at the hands of irate mobs than the health workers. There were 53 offences of attacks on health workers, while around 285 cases of police personnel being assaulted were registered during the lockdown enforcement, and 86 of them were injured too. Police have so far arrested 860 persons for assaulting cops on duty. Deshmukh — who was instrumental in opening a number of Covid care centres for police across the state including the latest one at Buldhana — told TOI that cops had performed multifarious roles following the pandemic outbreak. “From guarding isolation wards to quarantine centres and helping a large number of migrants reach home safely, police personnel have been at the forefront in fighting Covid for three-and-half months,” he said. “Cops also worked round the clock in providing food, distributing train tickets and making buses available to migrants. It was an exemplary effort,” he said and suggested that police should take care of their health being exposed to the risk. Deshmukh had also taken to social media to highlight polices' efforts to enforce the lockdown, with 1.36 lakhs cases being registered and 27,721 persons arrested for various violations. Nagpur CP BK Upadhyay said police were available everywhere and played a multifaceted role during the pandemic. “From barricades at nakabandi points to Covid wards, police were deployed at high risk zones and engaged in works which made them highly vulnerable. We ensured some basic protection for them at the ground level but it was no match to the protective gear available to doctors and other front line workers,” said Upadhyay. The CP also said that the efforts have been widely appreciated. “The multidimensional role of the police during the different phases of lockdown was also reflected in a national level survey by a neutral agency, which suggested that there was a remarkable increase in positive perception about police for the service rendered during the pandemic,” said the top cop. In Nagpur, three cops have so far tested positive including one from Quick response team. Nine state reserve police force personnel and one of their clerical staffers tested positive in Nagpur. At least three cops were injured in the assault in city, where five offences of such incidents were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/families-of-cops-who-died-of-corona-can-stay-in-quarters-hm/articleshow/76667904.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab braces for more patients needing support||CHANDIGARH: As Punjab is witnessing a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, a corresponding increase in number of infected patients requiring oxygen and ventilator support has also been witnessed. Analysis of the daily media bulletin released by the state health department reveals that from May 1 to June 26, there has been a manifold increase in the number of patients put on oxygen and ventilators. From May 1 to May 31, only three patients required oxygen support, while five were put on ventilators. During the period from June 1 to June 26, 74 patients required oxygen and 16 ventilator support. On June 17, 13.49% of total new cases required oxygen or ventilator support while the share of such patients in the tally of June 23 was 6.17%. Similarly, 5% of cases reported on June 25 were on oxygen support. Health experts attributed the trend of increase in occupancy of oxygen and ventilator equipped beds due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) in the state. The symptoms of ILI commonly include fever, chills, shivering, dry cough, malaise, nausea and loss of appetite, while symptoms of SARI are fever, dry cough, headache and difficulty breathing. Since novel coronavirus attacks the respiratory system, it becomes difficult for most of the patients to breath and they must be put on oxygen and ventilator support. As per the data compiled by the health department, as many as 330 people tested positive were found to be co-infected with ILI from the period from June 1 to June 25. As many as 37 people having ILI were tested positive for Covid-19, while 34 such people were tested positive on June 18, and 23 on June 22. Nineteen people each were found to be co-infected on June 25, June 24 and June 19. Majority of these cases were reported from Ludhiana, Amritsar and Pathankot. Besides this, 177 people suffering from severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said that the number of people put on oxygen and ventilators has increased due to the rise in number of people co-infected with ILI and SARI, who face difficulty in breathing. Anticipating the rise in the number of such cases, the Punjab government has made appropriate arrangements for beds equipped with oxygen and ventilator support. “At present, we have a total of 8,000 beds with oxygen and ventilators. The number will further be increased as per requirement,” said Dr Bhaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-braces-for-more-patients-needing-support/articleshow/76667902.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 28, 2020||Vijayawada||AP pans finance minister’s claims on power tariff||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Saturday discounted Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman’s claims that the central government was giving power to AP at Rs 2.70 per unit. Former chief secretary Ajay Kallam, who is now the government’s principal advisor, said the state is purchasing power at Rs 5.5 lakh per megawatt from public sector companies, which amounts to Rs 9.84 per unit, and is charging Rs 5 lakh per megawatt to transmit the same. He further informed that AP is paying Rs 1,700 crore annually to the central government towards power transmission charges. “The YSRC government has not hiked power tariff in the state and has been implementing the tariff fixed by the previous (TDP) government,” Kallam said, adding that the government is charging Rs 7.65 per unit from industries. Referring to the high power tariff claims by the finance minister, he said the increase is due to the power purchase agreements that were signed by the TDP government. “This government has neither increased power tariff, nor revived it. We are just following what was fixed by the previous government. The TDP regime left behind a debt of Rs 40,000 crore, which includes Rs 13,390 crore in the power sector,” Kallam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-pans-finance-mins-claims-on-power-tariff/articleshow/76666527.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Two held for circulating girl’s nude videos online||VIJAYAWADA: Guntur police arrested two youths on Saturday for allegedly circulating a girl’s nude videos on Instagram and a prominent porn website. According to the DSP of Disha police station, Lakshminarayana, the two accused are engineering students. Cops said that one of the youths was in a relationship with the girl three years ago. At that time, they had allegedly spiked her cold drink and shot nude videos. Later, he had allegedly threatened to upload those videos online. Upon learning about the incident, the family members of the girl had even spoken to the youth and managed to get the videos off the porn sites. However, a few days later, the second youth managed to get a copy of the video and got in touch with the girl and began blackmailing her again. After the friends and family members of the girl saw the videos reappear online, they approached Guntur urban mahila police station and lodged a complaint. With the help of the technical analysis wing, they traced the source of the uploader to the two youths. Based on the evidence, they arrested them and booked them under relevant sections of Pocso Act and produced them before the local court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-held-for-circulating-girls-nude-videos-online/articleshow/76666537.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||NCP files police complaint over statement against Sharad Pawar||NAGPUR: A police complaint has been filed at Ganeshpeth police station against BJP member of legislative council (MLC) Gopichand Padalkar by NCP workers on Friday for making “derogatory statement” against their party chief and ex-Maharashtra chief minister Sharad Pawar. Padalkar had recently stoked up controversy after reportedly stating that Pawar was a ‘coronavirus’ for Maharashtra. A complaint has also been filed at Baramati city police station. NCP’s senior vice-president Nutan Rewatkar, along with youth wing leaders Shailendra Tiwari, Poonam Rewatkar, Vidhi Sonule, Nikita Bhoyar, Akansha Pawar and Babita Mandawkar, lodged the complaint stating that Padalkar’s comment was an insult of the veteran leader. “Police should take action as the irresponsible statement was derogatory and offensive in nature,” said Rewatkar. Senior inspector Shivram Kumre of Ganeshpeth police station said that the complaint has been received but prima facie no abusive language has been used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ncp-files-police-complaint-over-statement-against-pawar/articleshow/76667908.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD comes out in protest against pet registration||Ludhiana: While taking a dig at the recently launched online registration of pets (cats and dogs) by the municipal corporation here, district president of Shiromani Akali Dal Ranjit Dhillon has advised mayor Balkar Sandhu to add more taxes to burden the public in Ludhiana, so that he may be called ‘mayor of taxes’. Dhillon condemned the Congress for imposing pet tax on the people in city, that too when people are already passing through a tough phase. He said instead of putting burden on people with more taxes the mayor should take Akali Dal along and they would help him in getting alms at some traffic signal poinrt, so that development works could take place. While issuing a press statement, Dhillon said people had become unemployed and were upset with the ongoing coronavirus disease and Congress leaders had brought another burden on to the public in the form of this tax, where people who had kept dogs or cats at home would have to pay Rs 400 annual tax to the civic body. Dhillon added that already there were taxes like professional tax, rising bills of electricity, cow cess, bills for submersible pumps, tax on roadside vendors, etc. and if these did not help the Congress leaders in carrying out development in the city, they brought out this pet tax. He said Akali Dal strongly condemns this tax and would register a protest against it. He said in the coming elections people would show mirror to the Congress leadership because they had not given even a single facility to the people and had rather imposed taxes and looted them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-comes-out-in-protest-against-pet-registration/articleshow/76667433.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||In riots, all participants main accused: Delhi Court||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has refused bail to a man for being “part of an unlawful assembly and actively participating” in riots that took place in northeast Delhi earlier this year. Rejecting the plea of Sayyed Iftekar, chief metropolitan magistrate Purshotam Pathak noted that the unlawful assembly, of which he was a part, had after rioting and committing theft, also burnt the shop of the complainant. The court opined that according to Section 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC, if an offence is committed by any member of the unlawful assembly as a part of a common objective, every person who is a member of that assembly at the commission of the offence is guilty. “In riots, all participants are the main accused,” it observed. The court’s bail rejection order came after it examined a CCTV footage, which reportedly showed Iftekar being a part of the mob that had participated in rioting and arson. “As far as the submission of the accused's counsel is concerned that no active role could be attributed to the accused by the cops, it is clear from the footage that he was a part of the unlawful assembly and had actively participated in the alleged offence,” the court noted. Iftekar’s counsel Mehmood Pracha had earlier argued that his client wasn’t named in the FIR, besides not having any specific role being attributed to him. Pracha also argued that Section 149 of IPC was illegally invoked against Iftekar to frame him in the case. The additional public prosecutor who argued on behalf of Delhi Police stated that Iftekar was a part of the assembly that vandalised public and private properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-riots-all-participants-main-accused-court/articleshow/76667909.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana mulls regularisation of encroached government land||HYDERABAD: Telangana government is considering regularisation of encroached government land in the state especially in Greater Hyderabad. The government six years ago came up with a similar scheme under GO 58 and GO 59. While Go 58 was issued to regularise plots up to 125 square yards to the poor free of cost, GO 59 is to regularise the lands by collecting basic value of the land depending upon the size of the plot area. Ministers KT Rama Rao and Talasani Srinivas Yadav held a review meet on the status of government lands including endowment land and their protection with chief secretary Somesh Kumar, principal secretary of municipal administration Arvind Kumar, revenue officials from Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Medchal. MLAs D Sudheer Reddy, Arikepudi Gandhi and Vivekanand said the government should consider regularising lands under possession by individuals. The government has decided to do geo-fencing and GIS mapping of the land. “Both GHMC and revenue departments should protect the government land. No illegal construction should come up on vacant government land,” the ministers directed. They also discussed about government land given on lease as many land parcels were given at a cheap prices and need to be reviewed. In a separate meeting on Musi river front rejuvenation, a decision has been taken to fence the catchment areas.“CCTVs will be installed and a command control centre will be set up to prevent encroachments on Musi bund,” KTR said. Ministers KT Rama Rao and Talasani Srinivas Yadav held a meet and discussed about government land given on lease as many land parcels were given at a cheap prices and need to be reviewed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-mulls-regularisation-of-encroached-govt-land/articleshow/76667905.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bikers fire at car, driver injured||Bhopal: Three bikers allegedly waylaid five car-borne youths near Nariyalkhera police outpost in Teela Jamalpura area on Friday night and fired a shot with a pistol at them breaking the rear wind-shield of the car. The glass splinters hit the car driver’s shoulder and he sustained minor injury. The victims were on board an automobile broker’s car and the accused thought that he was driving the car after which they attacked them. Teela Jamalpura police acting on complaint filed by the victim car driver registered a case on charges of attempt to murder against the accused and launched a manhunt to nab them. Before attacking the car borne victims the accused trio had allegedly assaulted and threatened the automobile broker Salman over demand of extortion money at his house near PGBT College in Gautam Nagar area. A separate case was registered against them on his complaint at Gautam Nagar police station due to which the accused were enraged and committed the firing incident. SHO Teela Jamalpura Radheyshyam Raigar said that victim Mohammed Naved, 21, a resident of Regiment Road in Shahjehanabad, works as a driver in MPEB. He told police that he along with his friends Arbaz, Faizan, Sahil and Amir planned an outing and had gone to meet his friend Salman, 28, a resident of PGBT College area in Gautam Nagar. SHO Raigar said that Naved said that Salman works as an automobile broker and has office at Royal Market. Salman is brother in law of his friend Arbaz. Naved said that when they reached Salman’s house around 10 pm, he told them that accused Sameer, Sahil and Shadab barged into his house around 8 pm and demanded money as extortion. When he did not pay the accused assaulted him and fled threatening him. He reported the matter to Gautam Nagar police and lodged a complaint against the trio. SHO Raigar said that Sameer is a criminal and was convicted in an NDPS Act case registered against him. He was sentenced five years imprisonment by the court and was released in December 2019 after two-and-a-half-years on getting bail from the High Court. Naved said that Salman gave them his car and asked them to leave as he was suspecting that Sameer may attack again. SHO Raigar said that Naved said that he and his four friends were coming towards home in Salman’s car and reached a culvert near Nariyal Khera police outpost. At the same time Sameer along with Sahil and Shadab came on bike from opposite direction. He spotted Salman’s car and asked them to stop thinking that Salman was in the car. SHO Raigar said that as Naved stopped his car, Sameer took out a pistol from his pocket and pointed at them. Naved spotted the pistol and immediately accelerated the car. Sameer fired a shot which hit on the car’s rear windshield and all of them bowed down. The bullet passed through but glass splinters injured Naved. He along with his friends approached Teela Jamalpura police station and lodged a complaint against the accused trio. SHO Raigar said that police have registered a case and search was on to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bikers-fire-at-car-driver-injured/articleshow/76667432.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Delhi||Webinars to tell youths how to upgrade job skills||NEW DELHI: Climbing the corporate ladder requires unique skill sets as the competition gets tougher at the top. The prevailing situation due to the Covid-19 outbreak has added a new dimension to the challenges — concerns of new opportunities and job security. Empowering oneself with new skills and upgrading oneself is key here, if one wishes to come out of any situation as a winner and an executive MBA is one of them. Mission Upskill is an initiative by The Times of India to help professionals and students upskill themselves and move ahead of the curve. The initiative aims to achieve this through a series of webinars with industry experts and education partners, starting June 30 (Tuesday). Live interactions will be conducted for the young executives and students during which experts will not only take questions but also allay the prevailing anxiety and offer a 360-degree perspective on executive MBA. The first webinar on “Catapult your career with executive MBA” on Tuesday evening from 5 pm onwards will have Mitesh Agarwal, vice-president, global key and lead accounts, Oracle India; Gaurav Srivastava, regional director-South Asia, Graduate Management Admission Council; Neeru Mehta, vice-president, people development and learning, head of HR India region at GlobalLogic; Subhajit Bhattacharyya, director (acting), IMT Ghaziabad and professor Rashmi K Aggarwal, programme chair — PGDM Executive and professor in the area of economic environment and policy, IMT Ghaziabad. To tune in, log on to The Times of India’s Delhi Facebook page from Friday 5 pm to 6 pm. To register for free and ask questions, log on to www.TOI.in/MU or scan the QR Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/webinars-to-tell-youths-how-to-upgrade-job-skills/articleshow/76667917.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Nagpur||Former murder accused held for bike theft||NAGPUR: Mohd Waseem, a former murder accused, was held by Tehsil police team while he was trying to flee with a stolen bike on Friday. He had allegedly stolen the bike from a place in front of Timki police chowky. Waseem, after his release from jail, had started driving auto-rickshaw to earn livelihood. It is learnt, he had resorted to stealing two-wheelers during lockdown period when autorickshaws were not permitted to ply. The Tehsil police team, under senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar, nabbed Waseem within couple of hours after the bike theft. The detection branch team under sub-inspector Swapnil Wagh, asst sub-inspectors Sanjay Dubey, naik police constables Anil Chaturvedi, Sachin Tapre and others nabbed Waseem when he was trying to take the stolen bike to scrap dealers. Senior PI Bhandarkar said Waseem could be part of a bigger gang. “We feel he could be behind more thefts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/former-murder-accused-held-for-bike-theft/articleshow/76667920.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP leaders do Cong bashing at virtual rally||Ludhiana: The district unit members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) participated in a virtual rally on Saturday from at least 200 sites. The virtual rally was addressed by Union minister Narender Singh Tomar, Union state minister Som Parkash, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma while actor-turned-MP from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol also participated in it. In Ludhiana, at one place 15 to 20 people were present to be part of this virtual rally, which was organised while keeping in view coronavirus disease. It was the first virtual rally of Punjab BJP. While addressing the rally Tomar said, “The Union government is giving Rs 6,000 to farmers and also started pension scheme for them. We did not make only promises rather fulfilled them. Jandhan and Ujjwala schemes brought relief to the poor families while surgical strike and air strike added to the dignity of country.” He said one tax, one nation slogan was completed with the imposition of GST, Article 370 was abolished and Jammu and Kashmir became part of India actually. He said the the central government gave houses to 2.5 crore people and many other important things happened for society during the Narendra Modi government. Tomar said Modi government made law against triple talaq and brought Citizen Amendment Act and also cleared the way for Ram Temple at Ayodhya. He condemned the Congress government in Punjab while saying that not even a single promise was kept by the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, whether it was drugs menace, waiving farmer debts, unemployment allowance, one job in every house, smart phones to youngsters, etc. He said the Captain government had failed on every front and people were upset from his ruling. He said people did not get any relief from the electricity bills or other dues even in the present tough situation. After rally district BJP president Pushpinder Singal made all present in rally to take pledge against Chinese goods and asked them to encourage country made things among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-leaders-do-cong-bashing-at-virtual-rally/articleshow/76667448.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Rajkot||11 Army men test positive in Kutch||Rajkot: At least 11 personnel of the Indian Army tested positive for the Covid-19 virus in Kutch on Saturday. According to Kutch district administration, those testing positive on Saturday had come in contact with a Covid-19 infected Army personnel earlier, said district development officer Prabhav Joshi. As many as 15 personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) had tested positive for coronavirus earlier in Kutch. A total of 143 people have been infected with Covid-19 virus in Kutch till date of which seven have died.Defence PRO Punit Chadda said that the jawans who tested positive on Saturday had returned from leave. “As per rule those returning after leave have to remain in quarantine for 14 days. However, one of the jawans in our quarantine facility developed symptoms of Covid-19 and when tested, in confirmed infection,” said Chadda. He added that those who tested positive on Saturday had come in contact with the infected person, but they were all asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-army-men-test-positive-in-kutch/articleshow/76667425.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Nosy robot lends hand in Covid-19 screening||COIMBATORE: Innovators and entrepreneurs in the city had responded quickly to the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic by assembling a robot nurse that can serve food and medicines to patients, and a contactless test station. Now, a city-based techie has developed a robot that can take nasal and throat swabs from suspected patients. The robot can be monitored, controlled and operated through a mobile phone app, said Karthik Velayutham, an electronics engineer and app developer. “It can be completely automated, so that healthcare professionals are not exposed to the risk of infection,” he told TOI. Velayutham had developed a four-wheeled robot that can buy liquor from Tasmac outlets. “Then I began work on the Covid-19 Smart Swab Robot along with Dr V Pradeep from Edappadi,” he said. “This robot can collect nasal swabs or throat swabs for analysis. Its hand can be controlled using a mobile app.” His invention can be a boon for healthcare workers, who take several measures to ensure that they don’t get infected while taking samples, Velayutham said. “The cost of this robot is only Rs 2,000. Healthcare workers who operate it can effectively maintain social distancing.” “I can develop fully automated versions of this robot for hospitals. They will scan the face, identify the nose and mouth and insert the swab stick into the chosen cavity. They will also self-sanitize after every sample collection,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nosy-robot-lends-hand-in-covid-19-screening/articleshow/76667444.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Cong intimidating certain organisations, claims Aiyali||Ludhiana: SAD MLA from Dakha constituency Manpreet Ayali continued attacking the Congress for alleged pressure being created on various organisations. On Saturday, members of Dr BR Ambedkar Mission Welfare Society gathered at BR Ambedkar Bhavan in Mullanpur for a symbolic protest against Congress government and MLA Ayali joined them. The MLA from Dakha alleged that after fake FIRs against their workers, now the Congress had started using vigilance for fulfilling the selfish means. He alleged that due to Congress pressure, a vigilance inquiry was marked against this organisation despite the fact that this organisation was not taking even a single penny from the state government. Ayali claimed that the organisation was formed some 20 years back when some educated people from Dalit community came forward for this task. He said the organisation was working for the welfare of the Dalit community and they had demanded land for setting up a structure from all parties, but nobody listened. He said in 2008, when he became the chairman of zila parishad he donated this land to this organisation where Dr BR Ambedkar Bhavan was constructed, so that the community could organise small functions or marriage ceremonies of poor Dalit girls. He said the organisation was arranging funds through contributions and since the Congress came to power they did not get any funds. Even then vigilance department has issued two letters to the organisation for disclosing central or state government funds which they had received and also tell where they had spent the grant. He said organisation members had replied to the letters that they did not receive any funds, then how they could spend the same. Ayali also alleged that earlier organisation members were threatened and asked to either join the Congress or face police action and now this vigilance inquiry all this was being done to threaten them. He said the Congress was frustrated because people of Dakha had rejected its candidate in the bypoll elections, so now party leaders were taking revenge, but such tactics would not bring results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-intimidating-certain-organisations-claims-aiyali/articleshow/76667443.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh to decide on opening campuses after June 30||SHIMLA: With Covid-19 cases on the rise in Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said the state government is not in a hurry to open the educational institutions and a decision on the issue will be taken after June 30, when guidelines from the HRD ministry in this regard are also expected. Interacting with media persons after chairing a review meeting of the education department here, the chief minister said the department has been ensuring maximum use of information technology for teaching students in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, at the review meeting, Thakur said the state government is committed to provide quality education to students, with special focus on strengthening the educational infrastructure, so that they could get education par excellence and excel at state and national competitions. He said the state government has constituted HP State Higher Education Council under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (Rusa) to look into the overall development and growth of higher educational institutions. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cluster University, Mandi has been set up as per Rusa guidelines only, he said, adding that the government of India has approved Rs 55 crore for this university, out of which Rs 27.50 crore has been released to this university. He directed the officers to expedite work on it to facilitate students. CM Thakur said Rs 92 crore has been approved since 2018 under Rusa by the HRD ministry as infrastructure grants to various colleges and universities in the state. He said there are 929 high schools and 1,871 senior secondary schools in government sector, besides 138 government colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-to-decide-on-opening-campuses-after-june-30/articleshow/76667910.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Return of migrants: 8 of 11 trains to Mumbai from UP, Bihar full till June 30||MUMBAI: Occupancy data of trains to Mumbai from states that provide the bulk of the migrant workforce shows migration is gaining pace, as economic activity gradually picks across various sectors. Data provided for 11 trains to Mumbai shows eight boasted more than 100% occupancy in services scheduled to arrive between June 26 and June 30. Nearly 10 lakh migrant workers had registered in the state to travel to their home states during the lockdown. Of these, seven lakh travelled by train and around two lakh by other modes of transport. Western Railway’s chief public relations officer Ravinder Bhakar said, “We have brought more than two lakh passengers since June 1 when special trains began to run. Initially, the occupancy was 70%. Now, it is almost 100% in some trains.” WR operates trains from Mumbai to eight destinations outside Maharashtra, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Gujarat. A senior Central Railway official said, “So far, more than three lakh passengers have travelled on CR. The occupancy varies from train to train.” CR operates trains on 15 routes from Mumbai. Around 2.5 lakh of returning migrants are from UP, Bihar and West Bengal, said a source. 15k migrants returning every day: Home minMMRDA, which is facing a labour shortage, too, expects migrants from other states to arrive in large numbers in July. An MMRDA spokesperson said, “More than 700 workers have arrived for work on three Metro corridors from outside Maharashtra and more are expected in July.” State home minister Anil Deshmukh said around 15,000 migrants are returning per day, as industries and businesses are being given permission to reopen. The lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak had triggered an exodus of migrant workers from major cities of Maharashtra as industrial activity came to a standstill. More than 30-35 lakh migrants returned to their hometown via trains and buses. “But we have started ‘unlocking' the state. As a phasewise reopening of many industries is being carried out, these workers are returning to the state,” said Deshmukh. Although fewer trains are running between Maharashtra and other states at this point, the number will rise once industrial activity begins on a larger scale, Deshmukh had said. Migrants who are back in the city say returning was easy. Autorickshaw driver Anil Yadav said, “After my father died, we booked a vehicle for eight for Rs 50,000 to travel to our village in UP. I have now returned to Mumbai on Kamayani Express without any hassles.” Thane’s Rakesh Jaiswar said, “Our company shut during the lockdown, so I left for my village in UP. Now, the company has called us back.” Watch Migrants return, trains to Mumbai from UP, Bihar running with full capacity||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/return-of-migrants-8-of-11-trains-to-mumbai-from-up-bihar-full-till-june-30/articleshow/76668441.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 28, 2020||India||UP to build roads up to houses of 10 toppers||LUCKNOW: As a special recognition of their feat, the Uttar Pradesh government has announced that roads will be built up to the houses of toppers in this year’s Class X and Class XII board examinations. This is a first by any state. Announcing the results at a press conference on Saturday, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said, “On the instructions of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the top 10 merit rank holders will get Rs 1 lakh cash, a laptop and we will build a road to their houses.” Yogi congratulated all pass-outs and also hailed the secondary education department for timely completion of the evaluation process despite the Covid-19 outbreak and a lockdown. In a video message, the CM said, “It is heartening to see that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, results of both Class X and Class XII examinations have improved from last year.” He added that students will get their marksheets from July 1. Before the results were declared, Yogi had tweeted: “Exam and results are a way for self-analysis. Hence, it’s important to accept the results the way they come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-to-build-roads-up-to-houses-of-10-toppers/articleshow/76668448.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR attempts to usurp PV Narasimha Rao legacy with centenary fete||HYDERABAD: Former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao was a Congress icon but Telangana chief minister, TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao is leaving no stone unturned to stake claim to his legacy by organising his birth centenary celebrations in a big way. By doing this, KCR not only wants to steal a march over Congress but also give very little ground to BJP to cash in on Rao’s Telangana ‘muddu bidda’ (precious son) tag. Political analysts said the TRS leadership (read KCR) wants to send a message that his government is not only respecting the son of the soil irrespective of his party affiliation but also exposing the Congress high command for failing to honour its own leader, whose birth anniversary falls on June 28. KCR also wants to silence BJP, which has been trying to rake up the issue of insult meted out to Rao by Congress. PM Narendra Modi himself, on several occasions, had put the Congress in a spot of bother by raising the issue of Congress high command not allowing Rao’s last rites in the national capital and recognising his efforts particularly in bringing economic reforms and liberalisation policy in the country. KCR said his government would organise the centenary celebrations of Rao for one year beginning June 28. Not stopping at that, KCR went on to demand that the Centre confer Bharat Ratna to Rao and had decided to meet Modi to ask for installation of Rao’s bust in parliament. KCR has also decided to install bronze statues of Rao in five locations and set up a memorial in Hyderabad in his honour. That KCR is a fan of Rao’s vision, statesmanship and towering personality is well known as he had promised a memorial for Rao back in 2015 itself. According to analysts, KCR also wants to send a clear message to his detractors that his ally, AIMIM, has no say in government’s decisions by organising Rao’s fete. Rao was never liked by the Majlis party for the simple reason that Babri masjid was demolished in 1992 when Rao was at the helm at the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-attempts-to-usurp-pv-legacy-with-centenary-fete/articleshow/76667914.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 28, 2020||Bareilly||After battling brain tumour, girl scores 78% in Class XII||Bareilly: For 17-year-old Sonam (who goes by her first name), securing 78% in UP Board class XII examination, results of which were declared on Saturday, is no mean achievement. Nearly three feet tall, Sonam had a brain tumour that was removed eight years ago in 2012. Her height was affected due to the disease. She is still under treatment and suffers from severe bouts of headaches and often faints. Yet this gritty student of Kanti Kapoor Saraswati Girls Vidya Mandir Inter College, Bareilly, never compromised on her studies. Sonam said, “Unlike other students, I can’t study for long. If I study for long hours or take pressure of studies, it causes immense pain to me. I am still under treatment for pain. It was difficult to study for the board exams." She wants to pursue medicine and become a doctor one day. In her free time, Sonam said she likes to dance and is fond of gardening. Principal of Kanti Kapoor Saraswati Girls Vidya Mandir Inter College Archana Gahlaut said, “The brain tumour affected her growth but Sonam has a sharp mind. We are happy that she has secured good marks in the exams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-battling-brain-tumour-girl-scores-78-in-class-xii/articleshow/76665656.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Criminal case against Rajasthan Hospital||Ahmedabad: A criminal case was lodged on Saturday by the civic body against Rajasthan Hospital over the death of a patient who was made to wait for ventilator support. Fines totalling Rs 77 lakh have been slapped on Rajasthan Hospital’s chairman, board members, and trustees. The action was taken following the direction from the Gujarat high court on June 22. On June 18, Harish Kadiya was referred by the AMC to Rajasthan Hospital. The AMC has requisitioned 50% of the hospital’s beds for Covid patients under a May 25 MoU. Kadiya needed a ventilator and was brought to Rajasthan Hospital from Life Care Hospital in Khanpur. CCTV footage showed the Rajasthan Hospital management delaying admission by about 45 minutes. The AMC had initially slapped show-cause notices on Rajasthan Hospital and later cited the violation of a Gujarat high court direction. The AMC has slapped a Rs 25 lakh fine on the hospital and fines of Rs 2 lakh each on its chairman, all the eight members of the hospital management, and 18 trustees. The total amounts to Rs 77 lakh. The police case was registered against the hospital and the management for criminal negligence under IPC Sections 34, 120 (B), 304 (A). The Criminal Procedure Code’s Section 154 has also been invoked. The case has been registered at the Shahibaug police station.  Kadiya, 73, was being treated at Life Care Hospital since June 7 and required a ventilator 14 days later. Of this particular case the high court had observed: “The incident as reported is very painful and calls for the strictest action against all those persons at the Rajasthan Hospital responsible for the death of Harish Kadiya.” The court had also observed that Kadiya was in need of a ventilator. The first thing that was expected of the hospital was to immediately shift the patient to the ICU and put him on a ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/criminal-case-against-rajasthan-hospital/articleshow/76667939.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Gosain threatens to sit on hunger strike for no action on plaint against Debi||Ludhiana: It seems that the ongoing tussle between former cabinet minister Satpal Gosain and state BJP cashier Gurdev Sharma Debi will not come to an end soon as on Saturday, the former conducted a press conference at his residence and raised questions on the lack of action by the police on his complaint. He threatened to sit on hunger strike outside police commissioner’s office if action was not taken against Debi on his complaint. He has given 10 days ultimatum to the police on this. Senior BJP leader Gosain said there was threat to his life from Debi and even after passing of 94 days since he had give the complaint, no action has been taken so far. He said if he faced any kind of loss, then Debi and the state government would be responsible for the same. He also raised questions on former BJP district president Ravinder Arora and said due to Arora and Debi party had suffered a great loss. He alleged that due to these two leaders many workers of the party were sitting at home instead of doing anything for the party, while some had even joined some other party. He said leaders like Satish Malhotra, Vipan Sood, Sumit Malhotra, Subhash Verma, Parveen Bansal, Gurdeep Neetu and Inder Aggarwal had suffered due to these two leaders. He said Parminder Mehta had joined BJP after leaving the Congress but because of these two, he again went back to the Congress. He said Debi did not want any leader should get importance in the party. He said his son was a member in the state committee of the party but Debi removed him from the post. Gosain alleged that in his name Debi did many wrong works about which he was getting information now. However, on the other hand, when contacted, Debi refused all these allegations and said, “The party had given me ticket in 2017 assembly elections from central constituency from where he was also a candidate and when he did not get ticket he joined Congress and then came back to the party. He is annoyed with me due to that only.” Debi alleged a couple of months back that Congress MLA Surinder Dawar had visited him at his residence and he showered his blessings on him. He alleged that it was being done to damage his image in public. Meanwhile, former BJP district president Ravinder Arora said, “Gosain is a senior leader and he should not attack other leaders in party. We do not want to get involved in blame game. It is not good for the party image.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gosain-threatens-to-sit-on-hunger-strike-for-no-action-on-plaint-against-debi/articleshow/76667451.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Jaipur||Internal & external security are Modi govt’s priorities: Gadkari||Jaipur: Underlining the priority of the Narendra Modi government, the Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said that country’s internal and external security is at the top of our priority list. During the party’s third virtual address in Rajasthan on Saturday, Gadkari said, “Anyone who will see our country with bad intention will be reciprocated in the same manner.” Gadkari addressed the party workers from Ajmer, Kota and Udaipur divisions to mark the first anniversary of PM Modi’s second term. Highlighting his party’s core values, Gadkari said, “Nationalism is our goal since day one. The sense of nationalism is responsible for all the achievements made by our government.” Talking about the contribution made by his ministry in the development and security of the nation, he said that a series of infrastructure projects in the border areas have been carried out with the help of modern technological advancement and bravery of soldiers have made our borders safe. “One of nation’s dreams and mine too of making the pilgrimage route to Kailash Mansarovar shorter and safer is going to become a reality in the next six months. The construction of road near Nepal and China border from Pithoragarh district in Uttrakhand is in full swing. It will be a new addition as the existing route from Sikkim and Nepal requires a passport and is lengthier,” said Gadkari. Hitting out at Congress, the minister said that what was not done in the 55 years of their rule, much more has been achieved in the last six years of the Modi rule. While talking about coronavirus, he said that this is not the first time the country has faced hardships. “Country has faced aggression from Mughal time till the present era. However, Rajasthan has shown great resistance and scripted a history of sacrifice and valour which continues to inspire the present generations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/internal-external-security-are-modi-govts-priorities-gadkari/articleshow/76668139.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Gutka seized from Suleswaranpatti||Coimbatore: The food safety department officials on Saturday seized 36 gunny bags of banned tobacco products worth Rs 7.15 lakh from a godown at Palaniyappa Nagar at Suleswaranpatti on the outskirts of the city. They have also sealed the facility. District food safety officer K Tamilselvan and team, along with revenue department and police officials, conducted the search at the godown based on a tip that the facility was used to store banned gutka. According to a source, the godown belonged to A Srikanth, 35, of Vadugapalayam near Pollachi. “He had rented it out to K Khaja Sheriff, 36, for Rs 6,000 a month. The tenant used it to store banned tobacco products, which he used to supply to various shops in and around Pollachi.” The food safety officials found 36 gunny bags full of tobacco products in the godown during the raid. Subsequently, revenue department officials sealed the godown. Tamilselvan said samples of the seized items will be tested at the regional food lab in the district. “Based on the test results, appropriate action will be taken against Khaja Sheriff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gutka-seized-from-suleswaranpatti/articleshow/76667450.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana amends order on school leaving certificates||CHANDIGARH: In what appears to be yet another U-turn by the Haryana government, the education department on Friday night amended its orders which exempted students from taking school leaving certificate (SLC) from a private school for joining a government one. The government has now directed government schools to ensure SLCs were taken from students coming from private schools before admission was confirmed. The Haryana director general of school education directed district education officers and district elementary education officers to give provisional admission to such students, but confirm it only after the SLC was submitted. This is consequent to a meeting of representatives of private schools with Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar on Friday evening. Private Schools had earlier sought withdrawal of government orders. To tighten the noose around private schools who were alleged to have been harassing students for recovery of school fee, the government had allowed migration of students from private schools to government schools without SLC. The school principals were directed to communicate with private schools. The SLC was deemed to be issued in case a private school refused to respond to a request of government school principals of providing SLC of children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-amends-order-on-school-leaving-certificates/articleshow/76667924.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ranchi||Illegal iron ore mining rampant in Kolhan: Steel City MP||Jamshedpur: BJP MP Bidyut Baran Mahato on Saturday said illegal mining of iron ore is rampant in the Kolhan division and urged the Centre to set up a joint task force with the Jharkhand government to curb the menace. The Jamshedpur MP has also asked the state government to expedite the process of renewing the mining lease to Hindustan Copper Limited (HCL) in its Ghatshila mines. He termed the blocking of commercial mining in Jharkhand by the state government as a “politically-driven move”. Mahato, who is a member of the consultative committee of the Steel and Mines, said, “Illegal mining of iron ore is rampant in West Singbhum, causing a huge revenue loss to both the state government and the central governments. In my capacity as a member of the consultative committee, I suggested the joint task force to Union minister of mines Prahlad Joshi.” Joshi has informed that he would soon visit the state to take stock of the situation, Mahato said. The MP further said he has requested the state government to renew the HCL’s mining lease as it could provide job opportunities to migrant workers who have returned to the district because of the lockdown. “After the state government gives forest and environment clearance, the Centre’s department of mines will give the nod for extension of the lease,” Mahato said, adding that barring Kendadih, the lease of other HCL copper mines at Surda, Chapri, Rakha, Pathargora and Bedia is also awaiting renewal. While HCL officials couldn’t be reached for comments on the lease renewal issue, the Jamshedpur forest division said no file relating to HCL lease renewal is pending with its office. Taking a dig at the Hemant Soren government over the coal block auction, Mahato said, “It is a proven fact that commercial mining will fetch more revenue for the state government but the Hemant Soren dispensation chose to oppose it and approach the Supreme Court.” He also said the Dhalbhumgarh airport project, which is hanging fire after the foundation stone was laid in 2018, will see progress soon as far as the airport infrastructure building work is concerned. “The Airport Authority of India has recently given Rs 100 crore to the state government for the construction,” the MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/illegal-iron-ore-mining-rampant-in-kolhan-steel-city-mp/articleshow/76666489.cms||B Sridhar
June 28, 2020||Ranchi||DLSA to provide support to families of poor prisoners||Ranchi: The District Legal Service Authority (DLSA), Ranchi will soon provide support to the family members of a few inmates of Birsa Munda Central Jail who were the sole bread earners and their incarceration caused financial distress among their kin. A list of 41 inmates has been drawn by DLSA’s para-legal volunteers. The selected inmates, mostly undertrials, are from several districts, including Ranchi, Gumla, Simdega and Khunti. The programme is a part of ‘Kartavya’, a scheme launched by Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan last month. Apart from the humanitarian goal, DLSA also wants to ensure that the affected family members do not take up illegal activities like theft for their survival. The authority instructed its para-legal volunteers (PLVs) to shortlist prisoners whose family members are living below poverty line after their incarceration. DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar said, “One PLV has been deployed for each inmate with the task to visit the latter’s family and assess their financial situation. The family would be provided with basic needs, including food, immediately. The DLSA would then link them to the government schemes according to the eligibility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dlsa-to-provide-support-to-families-of-poor-prisoners/articleshow/76666547.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ranchi||Leopard population increases in Palamu Tiger Reserve||Daltonganj: The closure of the state’s lone tiger abode — Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR) — since March this year has come as a saviour for leopards, which are now roaming freely in the park in the absence of tourists. Wildlife experts said the increase in the population of the spotted cat and their sightings is an indication that all is not lost for the reserve, which is believed to have four tigers currently. PTR deputy director (south division) Mukesh Kumar said, “Leopards are seen more in the tiger reserve nowadays. Their frequency has gone up. Our field staff are scanning their images from the trap cameras.” About the kills made by leopards, Kumar said, “On an average, it is one in two weeks. Their kill is mostly cattle. Quite rarely is a goat killed. Leopards choose big prey.” Kumar said the leopards were captured in the cameras recently in Naina Sirsi areas of Mahuadarn where Jharkhand’s lone wolf sanctuary is also located. He, however, said that there has been no physical sightings by any of their tiger trackers, forest guards, foresters and rangers. “So far, no physical sighting of the animal has been made in the south division but I am told someone in the north division saw a leopard in Betla.” People living in the area said so far, there is no report of the leopards causing any harm to villagers who strayed into the jungles to collect firewood, seeds and herbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/leopard-population-increases-in-palamu-tiger-reserve/articleshow/76666414.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ranchi||13-yr-old kills self in H’bag, 47th suicide in district||Hazaribag: A 13-year-old student of Class VIII committed suicide by hanging herself at her house in Sichainagar in Dipugarha locality under Korrah police station here on Friday night, police said on Saturday. This was the 47th suicide in the district since lockdown 1.0 came into force from March 25. The officer-in-charge of Korrah police station, Arvind Kumar, said, “The girl’s family informed the police about the incident on Saturday morning. We didn’t find any suicide note.” According to local sources, the girl, who was a student of Vivekananda Central School, was allegedly depressed over lagging behind in her studies due to the lockdown. According to a senior psychologist at Vinobha Bhave University, Sadique Razak, lockdown may have pushed the girl into trauma. “Perhaps despite the online classes, the victim could not follow the lessons properly and resultantly, fell into depression.” Figures available from Hazaribag Medical College Hospital suggest that so far, 47 suicides have taken place in the district since lockdown 1.0. Hazaribag SP Karthik S expressed concern and attributed the spike in the number of suicides due to the lockdown. He said, “Friday’s incident seems to be the result of depression and the feeling of being isolated resulting from schools being closed for such a prolonged period of time. We will soon launch counselling sessions to sensitise the kids.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/13-yr-old-kills-self-in-hbag-47th-suicide-in-district/articleshow/76666787.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ranchi||Following Covid recovery, many migrants stare at unemployment in Koderma||Koderma: For many migrant labourers of Koderma, beating a deadly virus seemed like an uphill task until they had to run from pillar to post looking for jobs following their recovery. Several migrants — who were working in various states as drivers, teachers, etc., before the lockdown — came back to Jharkhand amid the pandemic and subsequently, returned to their native places in the district after their recovery, are now struggling to find work. Talking to TOI on Saturday, Sanjay Pandit — a resident of Bagridih in Jainagar, who was discharged on May 29 — said, “I was working as a driver in Surat and earned Rs 15,000 a month at least. It was good to sustain my family of six, including my old parents and two children. But ever since I came back to Koderma on May 13, I haven’t earned a single penny so far.” He added that he does not even have a MNREGA job card that could have given him some work. “I have now taken a loan of Rs 20,000 from a local money lender to sustain my family till I get any job,” he said. Raju Rajak, another resident of Jainagar who was discharged from the hospital on May 30, used to work as a daily wager in Mumbai. He said, “Although, I got a job card to work under the MNREGA scheme following my discharge from the hospital, I haven’t got any job yet. I am the only earning member of my family of 10 members and the future doesn’t look good for us.” Rekha Rana, who worked as a teacher at a private school in Mumbai, said that she can’t work under MNREGA and is now unsure about her future in Koderma. Rana added, “Going back to Mumbai is out of the question now, at least for the next few months and there are no jobs here. I fear that I will have to remain confined to my home.” Deputy development commissioner Alok Trivedi said the district administration is committed to provide jobs to everyone. He added, “Various schemes have been introduced in all the blocks to ensure that the migrants get work. Officials at the block-level and panchayat-level are making a list of migrant workers, who have returned to Koderma amid the lockdown, and putting them under various job schemes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/following-covid-recovery-many-migrants-stare-at-unemployment-in-koderma/articleshow/76666798.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Ranchi||BSL, BPSCL without CEOs since 7 mnths||Bokaro: Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and Bokaro Power Supply Company Private Limited (BPSCL) of the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) — the two major industrial units in the district — have been running without a chief executive officer (CEO) for the last seven months, raising concerns among its stakeholders. While BSL is a 4.5MTPA capacity plant, BPSCL is 338MW capacity plant. The three key political parties in the state — JMM, Congress and BJP — have started raising voices against the managements of the two PSUs demanding full-time appointment of CEOs at the earliest, citing issues in development works of the Bokaro township, rise in plant accidents and unsolved issues of displaced people among others. With the top posts vacant, both the companies are dependent on their headquarters to take decisions, affecting the day-to-day operations and other critical decisions, sources said. Currently, a three-member committee of executive directors is running BSL and two chief general managers are heading BPSCL. In BSL, the CEO post fell vacant in November last year after the then incumbent P K Singh retired. SAIL management gave additional charge of CEO to director (technical), Harinand Rai, in December 2019. Since Rai resides in Delhi, it becomes difficult to monitor day-to-day operations, resulting in the appointment of the committee. The committee takes care of daily operations but is fully dependent on the SAIL corporate office in Delhi for every other decision. BSL chief of communication, Manikant Dhan, refused to comment on the matter, saying only the company’s headquarters have the authority to speak on the issue. In BPSCL, a joint venture of SAIL and DVC, the post fell vacant in October 2019. Since then, two CGMs, R R Sinha and A K Singh, are jointly leading the plant. BJP MP from Dhanbad, P N Singh, and Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan have recently asked Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan to appoint the CEOs of the two PSUs. “I have talked to Pradhan during the pre-lockdown period and narrated him the difficulties faced in the absence of the CEOs. There are many works in BSL plant and its township, which are affected,” Singh said. JMM city president Mantu Yadav, “In the absence of a CEO, corruption is flourishing on the corridors of the company. Running a plant without the CEO for more than six months is very impractical.” National secretary Indian Youth Congress, Sweta Singh, said the situation in BSL has turned pathetic in the absence of a CEO. “It is a failure on part of the steel ministry and SAIL for not appointing a full-fledged CEO. The Union government is killing PSUs systematically,” she claimed. A trade union leader of JJMS, B K Chaudhary, said the steel ministry is keeping an indifferent attitude in appointing the CEO in BSL which contributes one-third of SAIL’s production to the country. Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Sanjay Baid said, “Due to absence of CEOs for more than six months, there are many pending decisions and unnecessary delays which affect many works of the plants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-bpscl-without-ceos-since-7-mnths/articleshow/76666541.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation says will screen over 70,000 residences||NAVI MUMBAI: The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) recorded 150 new coronavirus cases and nine deaths in the city on Saturday, taking the total Covid-19 count to 6,003 and the death toll to 201. It decided to carry out house-to-house screening in the 10 new containment zones, which will cover more than 70,000 residences. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation recorded 88 new cases, taking the total to 1,787. Panvel also reported three deaths, taking the toll to 70. The Panvel rural area reported 31 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total up to 556. Uran taluka reported 15 new cases, taking the total to 251. In the NMMC’s restructured strategy of micro-level screening, every residence in the new containment zones will be screened from Monday. The new containment zones include slum pockets and gaothan areas. Under the PCMC, Taloja, an industrial-cum-residential area, has the lowest positive count in Panvel at only 75 cases. It is the only node with under 100 cases. While deputy municipal commissioner Jamir Lengarekar said the workers travelled short distances to the industrial units, village participation in observing the lockdown was also a major reason for the low infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-says-will-screen-over-70000-residences/articleshow/76668454.cms||Umesh K Parida
June 28, 2020||India||UN’s experts group urges India to release CAA protesters||GENEVA: A human rights experts group of the United Nations has called on the government of India to “immediately release human rights defenders arrested for protesting against changes to the nation’s citizenship laws,” referring to the anti-CAA protests. The high-powered group includes the special rapporteur on human rights and several experts on arbitrary detention, rights to peaceful assembly, minority issues, protection of freedom of expression, among others. The statement of June 26 raised concerns that despite the Supreme Court’s order to decongest jails amid spread of the virus, “the protest leaders continue to be detained” and that authorities were “invoking counter-terrorism or national security legislation, and using… police powers to deny bail to protesters and issue charges carrying heavy sentences.” Their statement said they are in contact with government of India on the matter. Referring to the detention of 11 individual cases of Meeran Haider, Safoora Zargar, Gulfisha Fatima, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, Khalid Saifi, Shifa Ur Rehman, Dr Kafeel Khan, Sharjeel Imam and Akhil Gogoi, the statement said, “These defenders, many of them students, appear to have been arrested simply because they exercised their right to denounce and protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and their arrest seems clearly designed to send a chilling message to India’s vibrant civil society that criticism of government policies will not be tolerated.” The UN experts also said that state response to the protests seemed “discriminatory” and that “allegations of incitement to hatred and violence made by CAA supporters” had not been “similarly investigated”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uns-experts-group-urges-india-to-release-caa-protesters/articleshow/76668457.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Business||Carlyle to buy 20% in Piramal for Rs 3,700 crore||MUMBAI: Global private equity major The Carlyle Group will invest a 20% stake in the pharma business of Ajay Piramal-controlled conglomerate Piramal Enterprises Ltd (PEL) for $490 million (Rs 3,700 crore), making it one of the largest private equity deals in the pharma sector. The transaction values PEL’s pharma business at an enterprise value of $2.8 billion, with an upside component of up to $360 million, depending on its FY21 performance. Ajay Piramal, chairman Piramal Enterprises Limited, said, “This is a strategic partnership with a marquee global investor like Caryle in Piramal Pharma, a subsidiary of Piramal Enterprises. At a time of Covid, this is a reflection about the strength and quality of business we have. I am delighted that we are partnering with a marquee investor like Carlyle who has a global footprint in pharma space.” The pharma business will be carved into a separate subsidiary, Piramal Pharma from the holding company, PEL. The deal is expected to close in calendar year 2020, subject to customary conditions and regulatory approvals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/carlyle-to-buy-20-in-piramal-for-rs-3700-crore/articleshow/76668461.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Thane||Localised shutdowns likely as Thane sees 371 cases in a day||THANE: The Thane Municipal Corporation is considering localised shutdowns amid the addition of 371 Covid-19 cases, the highest in a day in the city, on Saturday. The total count rose to 7,827. As many as three government doctors from Thane and 20 police personnel — seven officers and 13 constables — from across the commissionerate were among those found infected. “The doctors, two female and one male, worked together in the paediatric department of a government hospital,” a colleague said. There were 14 new deaths, also a single-day high for the city. The death toll rose to 263. “We may have to implement shutdowns in several parts of the city if the numbers continue to rise and the public doesn’t comply with safety norms,” additional municipal commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said. Officials and politicians from wards like Naupada, Kalwa and Majiwada Balkum, among others, have already started making preparations for the lockdown. “A shutdown seems inevitable and we are alerting locals in advance so they can be prepared and stock up adequately,” corporator Sanjay Bhoir from Majiwada said. A team of experts from the Centre, including Lav Agarwal, additional secretary at the central health secretariat, and Dr Pradeep Vyas, chief secretary, health department, among others, visited the city and suggested increased testing and beefing up of health infrastructure to meet future challenges. Collector Rajesh Narvekar was present at the meet. Municipal officials said the coronavirus was fast snaking its way back into high-rises and upper class localities of Thane, nearly two months after the virus was virtually flushed out of these areas. Municipal officials blamed it on residents failing to adhere to safety norms after the easing of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/localised-shutdowns-likely-as-thane-sees-371-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76668449.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 28, 2020||India||PM Modi praises Yogi government's efforts to rein in Corona outbreak||LUCKNOW/KANPUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that Uttar Pradesh, with a population density equivalent to four European nations, would have witnessed a coronavirus explosion with a spiralling death toll if the Yogi Adityanath-led government hadn’t taken the right steps at the right time. Speaking during the virtual launch of the PM Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme for the employment of 1.25 crore people, Modi also underlined the need to continue the battle against the virus. “No one knows when the pandemic will be controlled or when a vaccine will eventually be manufactured,” the PM said, adding the only medicine for the disease is adequate precautions, like maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks. Modi lauded the UP government’s pro-active approach in restricting Covid deaths to just over 600, which, he said, would have otherwise crossed 85,000. The PM said the Covid toll in four developed European countries — France, Spain, Italy and UK — with a combined population equal to UP crossed 1.3 lakh, while India’s most populous state witnessed just over 600 deaths. He also referred to the United States, with a population of 33 crore, recording 1.25 lakh Covid deaths. “Today, if we are saving lives, then it’s a matter of great satisfaction and a confidence booster. UP has done a service to the country by curtailing deaths triggered by the pandemic,” Modi said, hailing the Yogi government for turning a challenge into an opportunity. The PM also interacted with a labourer, Deepu of Vardh village, in Dakor area of Jalaun, and assured him of all possible help through various government schemes. Modi also hailed the state government for providing adequate food to migrants and the needy, who were hit by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-praises-yogi-govts-efforts-to-rein-in-corona-outbreak/articleshow/76668469.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Shopping redefined: Pre-book slots at mall, leave your kid at home||MUMBAI: Dropping off your kid at the gaming zone of a neighbourhood mall while you go on a jaunt window shopping for outfits might become a thing of the past. For starters, some malls are planning to not let in children below 10, as they carefully strategise throwing open their doors once the government gives a nod. Frequent sanitising of all surfaces, thermal screening and floor queue marking are obvious changes. But with several malls recommending that visitors pre-book slots for entry, appointment-based shopping is going to be the ‘new normal’. Through appointments, mall managements believe they are more likely to get serious shoppers and it will be an opportunity to provide a more personalised shopping experience. Times ViewMalls are the new middle class hubs of recreation and leisure, apart from being showpieces of consumeristic delight. It is but natural that shoppers will soon flock to them after spending months in confinement. The owners and managers of these new age marketplaces need to ensure that crowds are regulated and precautions do not get swept aside in the rush to meet sales targets.At Ghatkopar’s R City mall, it will be mandatory for all customers to book a prior appointment through the website. “Walk-in customers can register at the mall entrance but entry will be subject to open slots for the day. Retailers too can have a limited number of visitors at any given time,” a spokesperson said. Inorbit malls are offering slots for shopping at stores on their premises while Korum mall in Thane has created a QR code based appointment system where customers can scan QR codes at home and get an e-pass for their preferred time slot. Managements are expecting business to pick up quickly once establishments open. In a survey to understand customer preferences, Thane's Viviana mall found that 50% shoppers wanted to visit in the initial month as soon as the lockdown opened. "Customers have favoured contactless options for food ordering, payment and delivery intimation at the food court. They haven't shown a preference for trying out merchandise at apparel stores and footwear stores," said CEO Manoj Agarwal. Within a week of opening in Lucknow, electronics and departmental stores did brisk business at Phoenix mall. But with fears still looming, it will be incumbent on these shopping hubs to create an atmosphere of safety. Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) has suggested an area of 75 sq feet per person, which means that for a mall spread over 1.5 million sq feet, a maximum of 20,000 people may be allowed inside at any given time. One of the malls has reserved dedicated shopping hours for pregnant women and senior citizens. High Street Phoenix and Palladium are using an AI-based software with face recognition which will count the number of visitors entering and exiting, but will discount mall staff on the basis of their uniforms. "We will have UV sterilization of baggage during X-ray scanning and chemically embedded mats at the mall entrance to disinfect shoes of visitors," said Rajendra Kalkar, President (West), Phoenix Mills. Others are having wheel disinfection pits to sanitise tyres of all vehicles entering the mall. The Aarogya Setu app is a requirement for many and customers won't be allowed inside if their status isn't green on the app. Washrooms will have alternate urinals and washbasins for use, sensor based taps and sensor based soap dispensers. Some malls are having tie-ups with doctors, in case of a medical emergency, and ambulances may be kept on standby. Others are deploying social distancing marshalls-- employees with a designated uniform and badge-- who will ensure there is no crowding. Mall employees will undergo more stringent checks than those mandated for customers. Strict SOPs have been laid down for all retail staff and mall staff and they have been undergoing training sessions during the lockdown. Besides hand hygiene and body temperature checks, employees will have to fill out self declaration forms. Those posted at information desks will also have to don face shields. Separate bins will be put up for disposing masks, gloves, tissues and PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shopping-redefined-pre-book-slots-at-mall-leave-your-kid-at-home/articleshow/76668470.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 28, 2020||India||Blow to RJD as Bihar unit vice-president quits party||ARA: In yet another blow to Lalu Prasad-led RJD, its Bihar unit vice-president and MLA from Sandesh constituency Vijendra Kumar Yadav resigned from the primary membership of the party on Saturday. Yadav has sent his resignation letter to party’s state president Jagdanand Singh. On Tuesday, five RJD MLCs had formed a separate group and merged with the governing JD(U). The same day, party stalwart Raghuvansh Prasad Singh had resigned as RJD national vice-president. Asked about his next course of action, Yadav said, “Though I am getting offers from main political parties like BJP, JD (U) and LJP, I will join the party that gives me due honour and value. I have great regard for CPI (ML) too as I worked for its candidate supported by RJD.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/blow-to-rjd-as-bihar-unit-vice-president-quits-party/articleshow/76668475.cms||Praveen
June 28, 2020||Thane||At 436 cases, Kalyan-Dombivli records highest one-day rise||KALYAN: The toll in Kalyan-Dombivli touched 101 on Saturday, with 5 new deaths. The city reported its highest one-day rise in cases on Saturday as well—436 patients, taking the tally to 5,309. Of the five who died, four were above the age of 60. Officials said the rise in cases was a result of increased testing capacity. Of the 5,000-plus cases, 2,129 have recovered. On Friday, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation imposed lockdown in 32 areas. KDMC has decided to take local help to enforce lockdown rules and trace suspected Covid patients. With 11 members each, 32 teams were formed for the purpose.The members include corporators, ward officers, policemen, doctors, local politicians, social activists, grocery shopkeepers, medical owners, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/at-436-cases-kalyan-dombivli-records-highest-one-day-rise/articleshow/76668474.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 28, 2020||India||Demand drops, just 4 Shramik Specials in 2 days||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways ran two Shramik special trains each on Thursday and Friday. Another two trains were scheduled to run on Saturday, in an indication that now there are few migrant workers stuck across the country. A railway ministry spokesperson said over 62.85 lakh migrant workers, stranded tourists and students took 4,477 Shramik special trains since May 1. Data show that the total number of such trains has steadily come down since June 1 when 43 trains were operated. Sources said while most of the stranded persons have returned home in these special trains, now with the regular service of 230 special mail and express trains, people may be finding it easier to go home or return to their workplace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/demand-drops-just-4-shramik-specials-in-2-days/articleshow/76668482.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Maoists run out of food amid lockdown||VISAKHAPATNAM: Maoists operating along the Andhra-Odisha border are reportedly facing a shortage of food now as tribals who usually provide food to them are reluctant to go out of their homes amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The cadre of CPI(Maoist) had declared a ceasefire during the lockdown. And now, they are having trouble moving around villages as well. Visakhapatnam rural SP Boddepalli Krishna Rao said, “Naxal movement along the borders is very common. Because of the difficult terrain, the Andhra-Odisha border area is a haven for their activities. We have no knowledge about them facing a food shortage.” He added that some movement have been noticed among Maoists recently. Sources involved with anti-Maoist operations said that people living in tribal villages are not coming out of their homes for fear of the coronavirus. Weekly markets too are closed for the past three months. This is causing trouble to Maoists, they informed. “Maoists get their essentials from weekly markets or towns. Since vehicular movement is restricted, Maoists are entirely dependent on villagers now,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maoists-run-out-of-food-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76666841.cms||Siva G
June 28, 2020||India||Can’t compare 1962 with now: Congress||NEW DELHI: Congress reacted sharply on Saturday to Sharad Pawar’s remark reminding the party of 1962, saying there could be no comparison between 1962 and the present and that advising the government did not amount to politics, reports. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said former PM Manmohan Singh had advised Prime Minister Narendra Modi to measure his words before using them. “It is not politics to advise the government or cite mistakes in the interest of the country. We are all with the government in the battle against China,” Sawant said in a statement. He said there could be no comparison between 1962, when India had fought a war, and the situation in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cant-compare-1962-with-now-congress/articleshow/76668483.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Drug, alcohol abuse drive 200 to suicide every year||VISAKHAPATNAM: Drug and alcohol addiction drives nearly 200 people to commit suicide in Andhra Pradesh every year, according to data. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) show that 248 addiction-related accidental deaths and suicides were reported in the state in 2017. In 2018, the number was 196. Speaking to TOI, Dr NN Raju, a psychiatrist and the nodal officer of the Drug De-Addiction Centre at King George Hospital (KGH) in Vizag said that drug-related suicides are a major cause of concern. “This is a collective responsibility and everyone needs to address the problem,” the doctor said. “If parents and other family members manage to recognise the problem early and approach a doctor, experts can help,” he said while adding that drug abuse doesn’t only include consumption of marijuana or cocaine but also painkillers and other prescription drugs. As per a survey conducted by the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment titled ‘Magnitude of Substance Use in India’ in 2019, Andhra Pradesh shows 0.2 per cent use. Cannabis products such as ganja, charas are popular among drug users in the state. Data further show that over 10 per cent people in the state need help with alcohol-related problems. Dr Uma Mahendra Raj of Greenvalley Foundation in Vizag, a foundation to help people with addiction, said that various aspects including curiosity, peer pressure and hope for bliss causes youngsters to get addicted to drugs. Despite knowing the problems related to drug use, youngsters are still drawn to them, she said. According to a senior police officer, drug addiction often drives many to crimes. Youngsters turn drug peddlers and commit other offences in a bid to satiate their addiction, the senior cop said while adding that the police department has over time noticed an increase in ganja consumption among youngsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/drug-alcohol-abuse-drive-200-to-suicide-every-year/articleshow/76666877.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gang stabs Dharavi man to death 'in front of cops'||MUMBAI: A 41-year-old man was brutally stabbed by a group of 10 in Dharavi, in the presence of two police personnel, late on Friday night. While the deceased has been identified as Afzal Ibrahim Shaikh, the police said they are looking for his rival, Furkan Razak Qureshi alias Bakra char, and his associates. Officials of Dharavi police station claimed to have arrested three of Furkan's associates in the alleged murder and rioting case. The case is a reminder of the lynching of two sadhus by a mob in Palghar district in April. In the Dharavi case, the deceased was a history-sheeter and so was the accused. They had offences of theft, robbery and assault registered against them. The police are also investigating allegations by the family members of the deceased that the murder was "pre-mediated" and two cops fled from the scene instead of preventing the crime, thereby giving a free hand to the gang. According to the police, the incident took place at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar garden in the Kumbharwada locality late Friday night. Afzal Shaikh, who lived nearby, was sitting with his friends when a police van arrived and asked of them to go indoors. "While Afzal's friends left, Afzal sat alone and two cops who knew him were speaking to him when around eight to 10 people, armed with choppers and swords, cornered Afzal. The two cops fled and the gang members assaulted Afzal until he fell unconscious," said Afzal's cousin Abdul Shaikh. Afzal'sbrother Asif said, "Why did the cops run away? Were they scared? Had they remained there, the accused would have got scared and not assaulted him so ruthlessly. Why did'nt the two cops call for extra forces? Those two cops must be identified and punished for dereliction of duty.'' The family said that there had been a financial dispute that was brewing between Afzal and Furkan. Afzal and Furkhan had jointly purchased a house for Rs 20 lakh in Dharavi about a decade ago. Furkan had been staying in the house. Afzal's family alleged that Furkan had illegally constructed the floors and sold the house without giving any share of the sale to Afzal which led to the dispute.This dispute led to a tussle between them and both often ended filing complaints against one another. Senior inspector of Dharavi police station, Ramesh Nagre, said that they have registered a murder case and have arrested three people and are on the lookout for Furkan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gang-stabs-dharavi-man-to-death-in-front-of-cops/articleshow/76668486.cms||Ahmed Ali
June 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Migrant fishermen yet to be reimbursed||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh government had sanctioned a fund of Rs 3 crore to reimburse migrant fishermen who returned to the state during the lockdown. However, fishermen who had spent their own money to return from Gujarat are yet to receive the reimbursement. The state government, at the time, had asked fishermen to pay Rs 3,000 per head to return, which would be reimbursed later. Many of these fishermen had taken loans from boat owners in Gujarat to make the payment. But now, when the boat owners are asking for the money back, these fishermen are in trouble as the government’s reimbursement is yet to arrive. “Now sethjis (boat owners in Gujarat) are asking for the money back and that too with interest. Where will we get such a huge sum of money? We took the loan on government’s assurance that it would reimburse the amount,” said M Bulaya a fisherman from Srikakulam who goes to fish at Veraval Port in Gujarat every year. It was near the end of April that the state governments of Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat had arranged buses to bring back around 4,600 fishermen who were stranded in Gujarat due to the lockdown. At the time, the government had calculated the cost at Rs 3,000 per head. Fisheries department officials told TOI that the department has not been able to disburse the amount because the funds allocated for this are yet to arrive. Even if they want to use funds from other sources, they will need permission from the revenue department as those funds have been sanctioned for other purposes, officials said. “We are hopeful that the funds will be released soon and we will start the disbursement process without wasting any more time,” a senior fisheries department official said. Despite repeated attempts by TOI to reach out to state fisheries minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, the minister was not available for comment. On Friday, fisheries associations wrote a letter to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy requesting him to disburse the funds at the earliest. Activist Arijili Dasu said, “A formal request has been sent and we will go on agitation if the demand is not met. This year, we aren’t sure how many fishermen will actually be able to migrate to other areas. Hence their income is at stake.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/migrant-fishermen-yet-to-be-reimbursed/articleshow/76666905.cms||Arpit Basu
June 28, 2020||India||Government's J&K step led to Galwan face-off: CPM mouthpiece||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Despite growing criticism against CPM’s soft stand on China after the Galwan Valley conflict, the party mouthpiece ‘People’s Democracy’ listed out a few acts of India that CPM feared “might have contributed to such a situation developing” in Ladakh. An editorial dated June 28 terms China’s action “egregious”, while listing out suspected provocative steps from the Indian side. “The steps to dismantle the state of Jammu & Kashmir and break it up into two centrally-administered territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh led to external repercussions. China saw it from their standpoint. The Chinese government protested twice before India that for them this amounted to changing an administrative arrangement, which has an impact on an area to which China has claim. But, the Indian government overlooked this response even when China got the matter raised at an informal session of UN Security Council,” the editorial said. The editorial also quoted Union home minister Amit Shah’s statement in Parliament on August 6, 2019 — “I want to put this on record that whenever I say state of Jammu & Kashmir in the House, then both PoK and Aksai Chin are part of it” — to allege that the political grandstanding by senior government leaders on this issue had also its impact. “Foreign minister S Jaishankar in September 2019 talked about having physical jurisdiction of PoK one day,” it noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/governments-jk-step-led-to-galwan-face-off-cpm-mouthpiece/articleshow/76668495.cms||B Sreejan
June 28, 2020||Kolkata||Final UG, PG semester results on best past score: West Bengal education department sources||KOLKATA: The best score in previous semesters and marks obtained in internal assessments will be taken into account for evaluating students in terminal semester of general degree courses at the UG and PG level, sources in the state education department said on Saturday. The formula worked out comprises 80% weightage to the best aggregate percentage in any of the previous semesters’ results (five semesters in UG and three in PG) and 20% on internal assessment. TimesViewBoard examinees and final-semester students have it extra tough this year for no fault of their own. Some key decisions have been taken and some will be taken over the next few days. Proper dissemination of information — from boards and universities to schools and colleges and from institutions to students — is of paramount importance.For students who are still continuing in the three-year UG system, the best aggregate secured in the past two exams will be considered. The result will be published by July 31. If a student wishes to appear in an exam instead of an alternative evaluation method, they will have to apply to the university. But the exam will be conducted after the situation improves. The result of this special exam will be published within a month. The final result marks will be revised as per the student’s performance in the special exam. “The student will have to give an undertaking that the marks they score in the exam will reflect in their final result,” said a senior higher education department official. The commencement of the next academic session will be decided by the state when the Covid-19 situation improves. The universities can charge no extra fees in the name of home assignment through online mode. Also, the intermediate semesters students will be promoted to the next semester. While anxiety over board exams has ended with the remaining papers being cancelled, uncertainty now looms over various competitive exams and college admissions. With no clear sign over conducting the proposed NEET and JEE (Mains) examinations on time, medical and engineering aspirants are now planning to enrol in the general stream of undergraduate courses to keep the options open. Here too, the evaluation methodology developed by the HS council has raised concerns among students and academicians. The council has decided to award the highest or an average of the scores in papers students have appeared in to mark the remaining subjects. Saugata Basu, general secretary of the West Bengal Government Teachers’ Association, pointed out the loses that will make the students face challenges later. “Suppose a student who has secured high marks in a language subject receives the same score even in the science papers because of the new evaluation method, it becomes erroneous,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/final-ug-pg-semester-results-on-best-past-score-west-bengal-education-department-sources/articleshow/76668500.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Now, incoming maids quarantined in Mumbai hotels||MUMBAI: Parbathi is quarantined in a Ginger hotel for 14 days. Anupriya has been isolated in an OYO hotel. Jayshree maushi is in a locked-up office on Princess Street and gets chai with pau and two tiffin meals a day. These are not frequent flyers in quarantine but domestic help, jhapas (similar to midwives) and live-in cooks who are ready to start or restart work in Mumbai. As Covid-19 alters the way people live and hire, select vacant hotels have sensed a business opportunity and are making rooms available to quarantine nannies, maids and patient caregivers before they can be taken home. "I hired Parbathi, a jhapha, in January. Now, she has travelled on the train and later in a cab to reach Andheri where I live. She is to help me in the last trimester and then provide baby care for a year after my delivery. But before she can start work, I have put her up in a hotel in my area so I know that it is safe to get her home," said a seven-month pregnant Gitanjali Amin. While Amin's society will take the jhapa's temperature before she is allowed in, the family wanted to be sure Parbathi was not an asymptomatic Covid carrier. Three meals are provided at the hotel, but no laundry or housekeeping is offered. As maids return to work and housing societies and families feel it is safe to hire only live-in help, hotels are being used to quarantine them before they can be "brought home". Some households are using their own locked-up offices to quarantine help and are tying up with tea and tiffin service providers. "My husband has a small accounting firm. His office is an entirely empty commercial building right now, so I have used it to quarantine a newly hired help from Chembur," said Colaba resident Priya. She has availed of a tiffin facility which will provide tea, a packet of biscuits and two meals a day to the maid for 14 days. "My society allows live-in maids but stated they need to be home quarantined for 14 days. With children at home, it is safer to keep her in the office first," she said. Not everyone has the space to home quarantine new live-in recruits; in some cases, empty flats are also being put up as quarantine facilities. Amit Reshamwala who has fully furnished flats in Juhu is offering them for quarantine. "The houses used to be rented out to tenants but are currently empty. They have a fully furnished kitchen and can be used by anyone as a quarantine facility," said Reshamwala who charges Rs 10,000 for a week and additional Rs 1,500 a day as living charges.  "Some have kids at home, some elderly people. No one wants to take a risk," said Pranjali Shah who lives in Vikhroli. TISS director Shalini Bharat said it is important to follow government norms of quarantining someone who has travelled by public transport and crossed borders in the interest of both parties. "But one must also safeguard the interest of the maid and the employer should also inform the new hire the family is Covid-free," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-incoming-maids-quarantined-in-mumbai-hotels/articleshow/76668510.cms||Hemali Chhapia
June 28, 2020||India||PB threatens to cut PTI ties over ‘anti-national’ coverage||NEW DELHI: India’s national broadcaster Prasar Bharati threatened to pull the plug on its subscription of the country's biggest news agency, Press Trust of India (PTI), on Saturday apparently on grounds that recent reportage by the trustrun agency on China was “antinational”. In a letter to the PTI board on Saturday, Prasar Bharati is understood to have said the agency's coverage of the ‘China issue’ was “detrimental to national interest” and even “undermined India’s territorial integrity”. In its reaction, PTI in an official statement said, “We have received a letter from the Prasar Bharati this afternoon. We are examining it and will respond in due course with the facts." Sources said the Prasar Bharati letter pointed to “editorial lapses” and alleged that the news agency had behaved in a manner that was “contrary to the values” that Prasar Bharati was mandated to uphold. As a result, the broadcaster said it would no longer be “tenable to continue the relationship” with PTI. The immediate flash point seems to have been an interview of the Chinese ambassador to India and issues regarding an interview with the Indian ambassador in Beijing. The public broadcaster also claimed it supported the news agency by paying a “huge” annual fee running into several crores for many years and accused the agency of being “rigid” on the issue of rationalisation of subscription fees. Prasar Bharati is one of the biggest subscribers of PTI and pays over Rs 6.75 crore to the news agency for an annual subscription. Sources said Prasar Bharati will take a formal decision on snapping ties soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pb-threatens-to-cut-pti-ties-over-anti-national-coverage/articleshow/76668511.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mega block on Central Railway today, first since lockdown||MUMBAI: There will be a mega block on Central Railway (CR) for maintenance of tracks and assets, on Sunday, June 28. This is the first mega block on CR since the lockdown was imposed. On the main line, it will be between Vidyavihar and Mulund, on fast lines (10.30am - 3.30pm). On the Harbour line, it will be between Panvel and Vashi on both lines (11.05am - 4.05pm). Special trains on the CSMT-Mankhurd section will run during the block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mega-block-on-central-railway-today-first-since-lockdown/articleshow/76668513.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Deonar abattoir to resume operations on July 3||MUMBAI: The Deonar slaughter house is set to resume operations from July 3 after the BMC on Friday issued a circular permitting it to start functioning again. However, a slew of instructions has been put in place. While the BMC has given clearance for slaughter of buffaloes, there is no clarity on whether goats will also be slaughtered. permission has been granted for only 100 buffaloes to be slaughtered each day, as compared to 200 prior to the lockdown. Also, only 15 vehicles carrying cattle will be permitted to enter the slaughter house with seven or eight animals in each vehicle. Livestock needs to be kept at the abattoir for 24 hours and each animal should have a fitness certificate before it is slaughtered. If even one case of Covid is reported, services at the slaughter house will be discontinued, said sources. An official said that fever check meters will be placed at entry points, workers will wear maskss and sanitizers will be kept. "Social distancing will have to be strictly adhered to," said the official. A body of butchers, All India Jamiatul Qureshi, had last month urged chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to give the nod for slaughtering activity at Deonar. Vice-president of the body, Imran Qureshi, said they have asked all traders to adhere not to violate any rules. "If not, the slaughter house will be shut down." said Qureshi. The general manager of the Deonar abattoir, Yogesh Shette, was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-deonar-abattoir-to-resume-operations-on-july-3/articleshow/76668529.cms||Ahmed Ali
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Priest arrested in sex abuse case denied Covid bail||MUMBAI: A special Pocso court has rejected the bail plea of a 55-year-old priest, Fr Lawrence Johnson, who is on trial for allegedly sexually assaulting a teenage boy from his parish in 2015. He had sought bail on grounds that he is diabetic and his life is at risk as the virus had reached the overcrowded jail. The court said that as far as Covid is concerned, in serious offences like those under Pocso Act, an accused can't be released on bail. "The jail authority is responsible for taking care of the accused in case the accused requires medical aid or has an emergency," the court said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-priest-arrested-in-sex-abuse-case-denied-covid-bail/articleshow/76668536.cms||---
June 28, 2020||India||BJP fires 10 questions at Sonia on RGF donations, China MoU||NEW DELHI: Amid high-voltage political crossfire over the India-China stand-off, BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday came up with ten posers for Congress and its chief Sonia Gandhi, asking her to explain, among other things, the terms of the MoU her party had signed with Communist Party of China (CPC) and the alleged links between Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) and the neighbouring country. “What is the exact relationship between Congress and CPC? What are the exact signed and hidden terms of this MoU?” Nadda said while releasing the ten questions at a presser. “Under the garb of China and Covid-19 crisis, one should not shy away from questions the nation wants to know,” he said. Sharing more details on the donations to the Sonia Gandhi-headed RGF, Nadda said countries like China donated to it every year between 2005 and 2009. “Why did RGF, headed by Sonia Gandhi, accept money from the Chinese government and Chinese embassy? Isn’t it a shame, sacrificing national interest by accepting money from foreign powers for personal trusts,” he asked. The BJP chief alleged that fugitive Mehul Choksi, accused in the PNB scam, was also one of the donors to RGF as he hit out at Rahul Gandhi for his remarks against PM Narendra Modi. “Some months back, we saw a huge hue and cry over Mehul Choksi. The crown prince of Congress used the most obnoxious language for the PM. However, it has come to light that Mehul Choksi was also a donor for the RGF,” Nadda said, adding, “Sonia Gandhi should answer, first takes money from Mehul Choksi, then helps him with bank loans and then blames present PM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-fires-10-questions-at-sonia-on-rgf-donations-china-mou/articleshow/76668516.cms||---
June 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths: Chorus gets louder for arrest of accused police personnel||MADURAI/CHENNAI: Activists, celebrities and corporate heads have come down heavily on the state police and Sathankulam magistrate B Saravanan for the brutal torture in custody of a father-son duo, P Jayaraj, 58, and Beniks, 31, at Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin district on June 19 night and their subsequent death in judicial custody at Kovilpatti two days later. Calling it the ‘George Floyd’ (who was killed by US police in Minneapolis) moment of India, they demanded that the inspector, two sub-inspectors and two constables, who were involved in the case, be booked for murders and arrested forthwith. Industrialist Anand Mahindra tweeted, “This is not my India. The only way to handle this is through a swift, fair, transparent investigation and equally swift delivery of justice.” Cricketer Ravichandran Ashwin said, “We should make sure that this act of brutality is meted out with justice.” Several Bollywood stars like Priyanka Chopra, Anushka Sharma and Taapsee Pannu sought justice for the victims’ kin and action against the police personnel. The state machinery remained unfazed though. The slow pace of investigation can be summed up from the fact that even three days after the port-mortems were conducted at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, the initial post-mortem reports in the two cases have not been submitted before the high court, which is seized of the matter. The court will hear the case next on June 30. As of now, Tuticorin SP Arun Balagopalan has submitted a report before the HC. The high court on Friday gave directives to Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M S Bharathidasan to conduct the inquest and Kovilpatti DSP M Jebaraj to investigate the case. But taking refuge under the court proceedings, Balagopalan, when asked why the inspector, two sub-inspectors and two constables were not booked for murder charges, said further course of action could be decided only based on the HC order. Former CBI officer K Ragothaman said the HC proceedings is not a bar on booking the culprits under Section 302 of IPC for murder. “To start with, they can register an FIR against unknown people. The culprits can be named later,” said Ragothaman. Former judge of Madras high court Justice K Chandru said, “Time delay in registering the FIR goes in favour of the accused. Suspension is part of departmental proceedings. It can at best lead to dismissal from service. It is no substitute for criminal prosecution.” He also demanded sacking of Sathankulam judicial magistrate Saravanan for dereliction of duty and failure in upholding the 11 commandments of the Supreme Court while remanding Jayaraj and Beniks. Even if the victim does not open up about the police assault and brutality, it is the job of the magistrate to check with them based on their condition. If they were provided timely medical care, their lives could have been saved, he said. Tamil Nadu Senior Advocates’ Forum, meanwhile, condemned the police brutality and passed a resolution saying, “The magistrate who remanded them in judicial custody, the duty doctor who issued the fitness certificate as well as the jailor have all failed in their duties and contributed to the tragedy”. The incident exposes lack of respect for the rule of law and loss of public confidence in the administration. The guilty should be brought to book without any delay, the forum demanded. Forum’s convenor and senior advocate P S Raman told TOI, “There is collective failure on the part of police and subordinate judiciary”. Questioning the remand of the two victims, Raman said the offence – lockdown violation - for which they were picked up were not heinous in nature. He said charges of assault on police were cooked up to deny bail to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-chorus-gets-louder-for-arrest-of-accused-police-personnel/articleshow/76668519.cms||M K Ananth
June 28, 2020||Goa||‘Entire Goa will get tap water by 2021’||PANAJI: Goa’s entire rural population will have water connections by 2021 and the state could be one of the first to achieve the Centre’s Har Ghar Jal mission, said Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The minister also said that Goa is an ideal state to use ‘sensor based IoT’ technology to monitor water supply in every village with a modern command and control system in Panaji, so that water supply can be monitored on a real-time basis. Ironically, Shekhawat’s claims run contrary to PWD minister Deepak Pauskar statements on Friday that every household in the state will be provided with a tap and 24 hours of potable drinking water by the end of 2024. Shekhawat has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant, where he noted that out of 2.6 lakh households in Goa, 2.29 lakh households already have piped water connections. “The Union government is committed to provide all assistance to the state government to achieve the Jal Jeevan mission goal,” said Shekhawat. In his letter, Shekhawat said that the fund allocation for Goa in 2020-21 has been increased from Rs 3 crore to Rs 12 crore. In the letter, Shekhawat said that Goa must work in a “campaign mode” for the next four to six months and enable the poor and marginalised to get tap connections. In a meeting chaired by the secretary for drinking water and sanitation, Goa presented its annual action plan for 2020-21, wherein chief secretary Parimal Rai assured the Centre of providing 100% tap connections by 2021. Launched by the prime minister in 2019, the Jal Jeevan mission aims to ensure that every rural household has drinking water supply in adequate quantity on regular basis. The ministry of Jal Shakti is working closely with states and union territories to achieve the mission objectives. The Centre has also urged Goa to utilise existing resources, especially convergence of central schemes for judicious use of funds. In 2020-21, Goa will get Rs 75 crore as 15th Finance Commission grants to Panchayati Raj Institutions and 50% of this fund is for water supply and sanitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/entire-goa-will-get-tap-water-by-2021/articleshow/76667801.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 28, 2020||India||TTK Prestige to stop imports from China||CHENNAI: India’s largest maker of kitchen appliances TTK Prestige has decided to stop sourcing items and parts from China after September 30, as show of solidarity for the 20 soldiers killed in a border skirmish with China. “We have decided not to source anything from China after our current orders are executed,” TT Jagannathan, chairman of TTK Prestige said. “We will locally produce those items which we imported from China or look at other markets like Vietnam or Turkey,” he said. Five years ago the company was sourcing a third of its parts or appliances from China. For now, it imports 10% of all its requirements from China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ttk-prestige-to-stop-imports-from-china/articleshow/76668556.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||After Maharashtra bans e-classes for kids under 7, schools get creative with 'edu-fun' sessions||MUMBAI: Pick 35 words and make a dictionary. Make a housie ticket with 12 domestic animals. Apply jam on bread in the kitchen chemistry class. Draw slanting lines, learn the colours of a rainbow. Colour with fingers, sort the mixed pulses. Online lectures may have been cancelled by the state, but schools are now running fun activities online with students in pre-primary and early primary years. Terming it 'edu-fun' or activity-hour, city schools are running other forms of e-sessions. Schools said they are doing it to keep the students busy. "While some are uploading homemade videos of teachers explaining a topic, others are conducting activities. Short quizzes, educational games, art and craft, and even kitchen chemistry, are all a part of the 'new schooling'," said a student's mother. An IGCSE school uploads videos daily, which the children are expected to watch. A CBSE school in Santacruzruns activities and uploads 'reinforcement sheets' that students are expected to complete and submit online. "Schools are running these sessions to justify the fees they are charging. If the state releases a circular asking them to refund fees for the non-instructional days, they will say that they engaged students in other activities," said a parent. "But half-an-hour of the so called 'edu-fun' cannot warrant the lakhs we are paying as fees," he added Pooja Desai, the mother of a child at an international school in Borivli, said, "Sometimes it involves drawing and colouring or making sandwiches. But it is difficult for a three-year-old to be in front of the laptop for this long, and it adds to screen-time too. There is little value and learning from these sessions." Similarly, at a school in Dahisar, nursery section students had to participate in a creative cooking session on Sunday, where the child had to make jam sandwiches while on a virtual meet with his classmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-maharashtra-bans-e-classes-for-kids-under-7-schools-get-creative-with-edu-fun-sessions/articleshow/76668559.cms||Hemali Chhapia
June 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-Agra Highway mishap: Woman, 2 kids die, hubby hurt||BHIWANDI: A 28-year-old woman and her sons, aged 6 and 3, were killed in a motorcycle accident on the Mumbai-Agra Highway in Bhiwandi on Friday. The woman's husband sustained injuries. Police said Salim Khan (35) was travelling with his wife Arbina and their sons Wasim and Rehan, on a bike. The family was on their way back from Salim's uncle's home in Thane, after a family function. An unidentified vehicle rammed into them from behind, near Valshind village, and fled the spot. Arbina and the two boys died instantly. Passersby took Salim the to Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Bhiwandi, where he is currently undergoing treatment. The police registered a case under the IPC and Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-agra-highway-mishap-woman-2-kids-die-hubby-hurt/articleshow/76668561.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 28, 2020||Goa||Goa scores 2nd spot for piped water supply to rural areas||Panaji: After Sikkim, where 99% of all rural households have connections for piped water supply, Goa scores second in the country with 88.5% of the 1.62 lakh households who have piped water connections. As per the central government’s Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) report released on Thursday, only six states and Union Territories in India have more than 50% coverage of piped water supply connections and Goa is one of them. Goa’s coverage is much higher at 88.5% than the national average of a meagre 18.33%. “In the last few decades, as reported by states, Gujarat, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Sikkim, Telangana, etc. have focused on providing tap connections to rural households. Of late, many states are making concerted efforts to cover all rural households with piped water supply,” reads the report. At 78%, Gujarat has the third best coverage of piped water supply connections in India, far behind Goa. Himachal Pradesh at 56%, Haryana at 53.5%, Punjab at 53.3%, Puducherry at 50%, are the only other states that have more than 50% rural households covered with the facility. The percentage of rural households with piped water connections is less than 5% in states like Uttar Pradesh, Assam, West Bengal and Odisha. During the Goa assembly session in January, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that 100% households in Goa will get piped water by March 31. He said that the 12% households in Goa not covered by piped water supply are mainly tribal people living in hilly areas and others who are dependent on well water. Sawant said that provisions to reach these areas would be made before the current financial year ends. The state’s target is to provide 100 litres of water per capita per day (LPCD) in rural areas and 150 LPCD in urban areas. To achieve this target, the state currently has several new water treatment plants either being constructed or in the planning stage, including a 5 MLD (millions of liters per day) at Canacona and Netravali, 15 MLD each at Porvorim and Chandel in Pernem, 20 MLD at Guirim and 30 MLD at Tuem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-scores-2nd-spot-for-piped-water-supply-to-rural-areas/articleshow/76667820.cms||---
