June 29, 2020||Chennai||#LockdownInitiative: Artists & photographers focus on lives sidelined by lockdown||What defines the character of a locality are its people — the kaaikarikaarar, the pookkadai akka, the tea master, the roadside tailor, the auto anna, among others. Take them out of the equation, and the area loses its charm. The last three months of lockdown has resulted in these people slowly disappearing from our streets — either locked in at home because of lack of business or having shifted back to their hometown. This prompted Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai, a social platform based out of Chennai, to bring the focus back on local businesses and daily wagers in our localities through sketches and photographs. “They need us now more than ever,” says Thirupurasundari Sevvel, the brain behind the initiative, “The idea is to get these people connected with the localities in Chennai. For instance, instead of giving them money as charity, we find a trustworthy auto driver to do errands for elderly couples in an area, get some business for a roadside tailor from people in the neighbourhood or help a pookkadai akka with orders,” she adds. Started in Aminjikarai, the initiative, she says, is expanding to other parts of the city as well. “We carried it out in Shenoy Nagar as well. All one has to do is to share a photo of what these people do and their location. So far, we’ve reached out to around 35 local businesses. We’ve also provided them and their families masks and sanitisers, and educated them on all safety measures,” she informs us. “The watch mechanic, the cobbler, the laundry guy — they are the backbone of our neighbourhoods. How much we used to bargain with the local vegetable seller! But now, we are forced to buy at higher prices from supermarkets. I wanted to show how integral they are to the neighbourhood,” says Lakshmi Supriya, an architect and artist, who has done an abstract artwork of her area, Nanganallur. “These people are part of the city’s landscape,” states Sahana S, who shared her sketches of a flower seller and tea master. Looking at the photograph of a locksmith, which he clicked at Parry’s Corner, Ramaswamy Nallaperumal quips, “The lockdown affected the livelihood of a lot of people.” Ramaswamy, who has shared his Chennai street photographs for the initiative, adds, “The city is a cultural cocktail of sorts. The tea kadais and roadside newspaper marts are part of our lives.” Rajesh Seshadri’s sketch is a take on auto annas in the city. “Working from the comforts of our home, we often don’t realise how they are struggling to make ends meet,” he says. Sharing her experience of how a local tailor helped her with stitching her bridal wear during the lockdown, Kalpaha Viruksham says, “My favourite boutique was shut, but thankfully, a tailor anna from my neighbourhood — Giridharan, who runs a small shop — came to my rescue. I was so happy with the way he stitched my blouse that I have recommended him to several relatives and friends for their tailoring needs during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdowninitiative-artists-photographers-focus-on-lives-sidelined-by-lockdown/articleshow/76679127.cms||Ashish Joseph
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Anna Eden gets creative with husband and MP Hibi’s ponnadas||Haven’t we all at least once wondered what Kerala politicians do with the numerous ponnadas they are adorned during various functions? Recently, MP Hibi Eden’s wife Anna revealed what she does with the ones her husband brings home. Through her social media page, she posted photos of curtains made with ponnadas that go well with their home’s white walls. Talking to us, she explains, “I found the curtains complementing our walls too expensive in fashion outlets and that’s when I told my mom, who is also a designer, about the numerous ponnadas at home. We used about 40 of them in the cream and golden shade, to make curtains and attached brass-coloured bells from my old chilanka at the base to add weight.” Interestingly, Hibi gets two ponnadas on an average daily, she says. “We can’t store the light cotton material in cupboards as they powder away fast. We re-use the silk ponnadas to make blouses for myself and I also get skirts and blouses stitched for our daughter Clara,” says Anna. “When we went to Delhi after he became MP, we gave the woolen shawls to a few people we met there and at times, we give them away to orphanages and old-age homes. If the cotton ones aren’t crushed, we even pack them to give to foreigners and people we know abroad, as they love these there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/anna-eden-gets-creative-with-husband-and-mp-hibis-ponnadas/articleshow/76672702.cms||Deepa Soman
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gujarat hits another daily high at 624 cases in 24 hrs, tally 31,397||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat hit another high of 624 Covid-19 positive cases in the past 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday, taking the total tally at 31,397. It's the fourth consecutive day for Gujarat to record a new highest daily tally and third consecutive day of 600-plus cases. The state also recorded deaths of 19 positive patients and discharges of 391 patients, taking the death toll to 1809 and total number of discharges to 22,808. With the update on Sunday, the state now has 21.6% active patients (6,780) whereas the share of discharged and dead patients is 72.6% and 5.8% respectively. The new cases include 211 from Ahmedabad, 182 from Surat, 44 from Vadodara and 36 from Valsad. It's the sixth day for Ahmedabad district to record less than 240 daily cases whereas in those six days, Surat district has clocked less than 170 cases only once. The deaths included 13 from Ahmedabad, three from Surat and one each from Gandhinagar, Aravalli and Bharuch. Majority of the discharges were recorded from Ahmedabad (181), Surat (156) and Vadodara (17) districts. Gujarat carried out 6158 tests in 24 hours to find new patients, taking the total to 3.63 lakh. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat has 2.38 lakh persons under quarantine out of which 2.34 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-gujarat-hits-another-daily-high-at-624-cases-in-24-hrs-tally-31397/articleshow/76679381.cms||Parth Shastri
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||ISI agent: NIA conducts searches at 3 places in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Two months after registering an FIR in connection with accused ISI agent Mohammed Rashid, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday conducted searches at three places in Uttar Pradesh. The searches were carried out at the house of Rashid in Chandauli and his relatives’ places in Lucknow and Varanasi. Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UPATS) had arrested Mohammed Rashid from Chandauli district on January 19, 2020 for his links to Pakistan-based Inter Services Intelligence (ISI). NIA also recovered a mobile and some incriminating documents during the searches. The documents and mobile phone have been seized and will be sent for forensic examination. NIA also said that accused Rashid came in contact with ISI during his two visits to Pakistan. “During his Pak visit, Rashid was lured and then came in touch with the ISI handlers,” said a source privy to the probe in NIA. Rashid was also found to be transmitting photographs of some of the sensitive and strategically important installations in India and the movement of the armed forces to the suspected ISI handlers in Pakistan, the NIA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/isi-agent-nia-conducts-searches-at-3-places-in-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/76679438.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports 49 new Covid-19 cases||LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said on Sunday that 22 more Covid-19 patients were declared cured in the past 24 hours. He said that till now, the total number of patients discharged from hospital has reached 545. Besides, 49 more positive cases have been reported in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-reports-49-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76679504.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP governor Anandiben Patel given additional charge of Madhya Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel was given the additional charge of Madhya Pradesh by President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday. The decision was taken in wake of the incumbent MP governor Lal Ji Tandon's absence from account of his poor health. Tandon, a native of Lucknow, is undergoing treatment at Medanta Medicity for more than a week now. Though stable, Tandon will not be able to resume office any time soon. Thus the charge was handed over to his colleague from UP. An official order issues by the President said: "By virtue of the powers vested in me by Article 155 and 160 of the Constitution of India, I hereby appoint Anandiben Patel, governor of Uttar Pradesh to discharge the functions of governor of Madhya Pradesh during the absence on leave of Lal Ji Tandon."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-governor-anandiben-patel-given-additional-charge-of-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/76679551.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 29, 2020||World||UK Sikhs fighting for ethnic tick-box in census claim victory in Scotland||LONDON: The Sikh Federation UK (SFUK) is celebrating a “victory” in its campaign to get a Sikh ethnic tick-box added to the 2021 UK census after Scottish ministers agreed to put a prompt for Sikhs in the “other” part of the ethnicity response options. They also assured to “monitor Sikhs as an ethnic group as well as religion” going forwards. The SFUK, which claims to have the backing of more than 150 gurdwaras and Sikh organisations, has withdrawn its legal case in Scotland but is still battling ahead with a second judicial review against the Cabinet Office over the lack of a Sikh ethnic tick-box in the proposed census for England and Wales. On May 7, the Census (Scotland) Regulation 2020 was laid in the Scottish Parliament which included a prompt for Sikhs and Jews in the “Other” response option to the question “What is your ethnic group?”. “At the top there is a choice of White, Mixed, Asian, African, Caribbean and Other. Sikhs is not within Asian, it is coming under Other,” said Dabinderjit Singh OBE, principal adviser to the SFUK. The Federation’s tick-box campaign got a further boost in a letter dated June 24 from Scotland’s economy secretary Fiona Hyslop. The letter, which TOI has seen, states she will now “work with the Sikh Federation (UK) to ensure public bodies in Scotland monitor Sikhs as an ethnic group, as well as a religion”. In the past public bodies have only followed the Census categories for ethnic data collection. “The only reason we wanted a Sikh ethnic tick-box box was to force Scotland to monitor Sikhs,” explained Singh. “We feel we have won the war in Scotland and do not feel there is any point in continuing legal action in the court of session.” The Federation has also withdrawn its appeal against a December 12, 2019, judgment handed down in a first judicial review the SFUK brought against the Cabinet Office over the England and Wales census after the government objected to there being two cases running simultaneously over the same issue. On June 11, SFUK submitted an application for a second judicial review to the high court seeking to quash the Census (England and Wales) Order 2020 on the grounds it was unlawful after Mrs Justice Lang ruled the first legal challenge was premature. Bringing the first case cost the Federation just over £1,00,000 in ‘capped’ legal costs for both sides. If the second judicial review is allowed, the legal costs may not be capped and if the Federation win the case, the UK-wide census scheduled for 21 March 2021, could be delayed. On June 16, the high court ruled the second judicial review would be “expedited” and put before a high court judge on or before July 3 to make a decision as to whether it can be allowed. Lord Singh, director, Network of Sikh Organisations, said: “The Sikh Federation UK has already racked up £100,000 in legal costs and continues legal action in the high court in London. They need to be held to account for this, and ordinary members of Britain’s Sikh community, who the evidence suggests are satisfied in being recorded under religion in the census, must inform politicians here and in Scotland that this action is not in our name.” A Cabinet Office spokesperson said: “Anyone who chooses to identify as being of Sikh ethnicity in this census will be able to by using the write-in option and the search-as-you type function online.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-sikhs-fighting-for-ethnic-tick-box-in-census-claim-victory-in-scotland/articleshow/76679670.cms||NAOMI CANTON
June 29, 2020||Delhi||In Unlock1.0, sale of 'immunity-boosting' plants increases in NCR||With Unlock 1.0 underway, nurseries are seeing a higher footfall than normal. Much of this footfall – and sale – is due to a high demand of plants said to help boost one's immunity, since many believe these will help fight, or at least prevent, the COVID-19 infection. Immunity-boosting plants are usually herbs or those used in food preparation, which contain nutrients said to improve immunity. Since COVID-19 puts people with lower immunity at greater risk, many are opting for these plants to boost immunity and possibly stave off a COVID-19 infection. Nurseries report rise in sales of these plants, compared to last year. Archana Gupta, who has a nursery in Delhi, says, "June is a slow time for nurseries. Bulk of our sales happen in January-March and September-November. But, in Unlock 1.0, our sales are reaching September numbers. It's largely due to the demand for immunity-boosting plants." Tulsi and curry leaf plants are higher in demand because of their use in Indian food preparation. "We sold five times as many of these plants in the first two weeks of June as we did in the whole of last summer," says Naresh, attendant at a Gurgaon nursery. Ashwagandha is popular because of its medicinal properties. However, with these plants being sold out quickly, less common immunity boosters are gaining popularity. Neha, who works at a nursery in Delhi, informs, "Thyme, oregano, and lemongrass are also popular this season." For people buying these plants, it's a natural way to fight the coronavirus. "Even if it works 1%, I don't see the harm in it," says Gurgaon resident Zeeshan Khan, "It is inexpensive. I bought five-six of these plants for under Rs 1,000 and it is a negligible investment for my family's health." Ritesh Arora, who we spotted buying these plants in Noida, says, "It is the same as buying anti-pollution plants in Delhi’s smog. Improved immunity puts us at a lower risk, and this is a natural solution." Plants like tulsi, curry leaf, and ashwagandha are especially popular in NCRScience behind the immunity booster plantsEarlier this year, a research in the US found possible benefits of some vitamins, trace elements and probiotics – including those found in certain plants and herbs – in combating viral infections, concluding that these principles could be useful in possible prevention and management of COVID-19. In India, the Ministry of AYUSH has sought details from traditional medicine practitioners to suggest techniques and therapies based on herbal and plant-based remedies to combat COVID-19. Watch COVID-19 effect: Sale of 'immunity boosting' plants up in NCR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-unlock1-0-sale-of-immunity-boosting-plants-increases-in-ncr/articleshow/76678641.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Welcome to the small, slim Indian wedding in the new normal||On Thursday, when a young Marwari bride got hitched to her friend of 10 years at a five-star hotel in the city, the couple gave us a glimpse of how the big fat Indian weddings would look in the new normal. While social distancing norms made everything seem different from weddings as we know it, what made for the most striking changes were masked couple on the dais and a banquet filled with just 50 guests, instead of the usual four-digit attendance. Snehal Agarwal and Gaurav Nahata’s families had zeroed in on their wedding date last December and did not wish to change it come what may. “Marriage is an auspicious affair, and nobody likes to tamper with the date once it’s decided upon in consultation with priests. And who knows how long this pandemic is here to stay? In fact, Gaurav was ready to go ahead with the wedding even if just 10 guests were allowed,” Snehal told us moments before leaving the bridal room where she got ready for the big day. Though many of the couple’s relatives and friends living outside the city and country could not make it to the wedding, the ceremony was live streamed for them on Zoom. “Initially, we had a list of over 1,200 guests. Now, it’s just 25 each from both sides. Though I am missing a lot of my loved ones today, it’s time we accepted the new normal and got on with our lives,” said Snehal, pointing out the good part of having limited guests. “It allowed me to attend to each one of them personally, which would be impossible in normal circumstances. With few guests, both the families got to interact and know each other well. Gaurav and my parents could take care of everyone and made sure they were having a good time,” said the bride, hoping that the norm of having limited guests continues hereupon. While their sangeet was a small family affair, all the other rituals, such as baarat, varmala and phera, were carried out following the safety and social distancing norms. Though Snehal had a designer mask to complement her red lehenga, she did not give the lipstick a miss. “After all, Gaurav and I will have to take off the masks for a bit to get our wedding photos clicked!” she beamed. For Snehal, it was a historic wedding that looked straight out of a sci-fi movie and she was excited to be the protagonist. “If nothing, people will remember me as the bride in a mask! I’m sure Gaurav and I will have a lot of interesting stuff to share with our grandchildren,” she laughed before leaving the bridal room to exchange vows. ‘Every cosmetic product was sanitised in front of the bride’While Kaushik did Snehal’s makeup, Rajat styled the bride. On his experience of working in the new normal with a PPE suit on, the makeup artist said, “The hotel staff are extremely careful about maintaining hygiene and social distancing. Even the decorators were wearing PPE suits. We were not allowed in the room upstairs. Instead, a bridal room was allotted to us on the ground floor where only three people could be present. Every cosmetic product was sanitised in front of the bride. A hotel staff is there to ensure that all safety protocols like wearing masks, sanitising hands and social distancing are strictly followed. But working in a PPE suit is very suffocating as the temperature is fixed at 24 degrees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/welcome-to-the-small-slim-indian-wedding-in-the-new-normal/articleshow/76680311.cms||Ruman Ganguly
June 29, 2020||Business||Hold-ups at ports will hit India, not China: Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Amid concerns over delays in customs clearance for imports from China, transport and MSME minister Nitin Gadkari has written to the finance and commerce ministers, urging them to remove roadblocks to the quick release of goods at ports, arguing that these shipments have reached Indian shores based on payment made by industry players. He told a web-platform that a delay in the passage of these imported goods will hurt Indian players, and not China. “Our focus is to reduce imports and to do so we can increase import duty. But holding up already imported items will harm our entrepreneurs as they will incur huge losses,” Gadkari said. He wrote to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and commerce & industry minister Piyush Goyal after receiving a representation from a farmers’ association highlighting how there was a delay in customs clearance. Farmers’ body met Gadkari over importsA delegation of farmers’ association that met Gadkari highlighted how there was a delay in customs clearance for consignments of mechanical sprays and their spare parts, used for pesticide control. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a massive diversion of spraying equipment to urban areas, resulting in shortage in the farms. As a result, companies decided to import the equipment, which are held up at ports as the customs authorities decided on 100% examination of consignments shipped from China. With Gadkari’s comments sparking considerable comment, as they were seen to be at odds to the enhanced scrutiny of Chinese products and the self-reliance campaign of the government, the minister took to Twitter to clarify he was responding to a specific question. “I am among the strongest proponents of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Anyone who is even slightly acquainted with me would know about my passion and work towards supporting as well as encouraging ‘Make in India’… Indian business has the strength and skills to grow further and power our journey towards self-reliance. Under (the) strong leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government of India is proactive and initiating path-breaking reforms that will help businesses and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs),” he tweeted. In his letter to Sitharaman and Goyal, transport and MSME minister Nitin Gadkari has sought priority for clearance of imported agricultural equipment. Though he has not named any country from where such items are being imported, sources most of such spraying equipment come from China. Watch LAC stand-off: Hold-ups at ports will hit India, not China, says Nitin Gadkari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hold-ups-at-ports-will-hit-india-not-china-nitin-gadkari/articleshow/76680414.cms||Dipak K Dash
June 29, 2020||Business||Google, Apple approach government with proposal to contact-trace||NEW DELHI: Recent updates to Google’s Android and Apple iOS include a contact-tracing API (application programme interface) that allows apps to monitor your movement and warn you of Covid-19 infections around you. However, you need not worry as the API alone does not lead to monitoring of your movement. The API is just an enabling tool and needs to be embedded into an app — like Aarogya Setu, if the government collaborates — which will then monitor your location and send you alerts of any nearby infections on a Google or Apple phone. Google and Apple are understood to have contacted the Centre for linking APIs to Aarogya Setu app, sources said, but added not much headway has been made. “Aarogya Setu has an in-built contact-tracing API and thus may not require this,” an official said. Apple and Google did not a respond to queries. Users fear API can track movements, violate their privacyThe APIs — part of a global joint initiative by Google and Apple to enable contact tracing in order to warn about potential corona infections — were embedded in the latest updates to the operating system of the devices. Over 20 countries are using the APIs developed by Apple and Google in their contact-tracing apps. However, some users have expressed reservations about the API as they fear that it has the potential to violate their privacy by monitoring their movements. The reservations come after a series of protests around the contact-tracing function of the Aarogya Setu app and the use of the customer data that the app fetches. To check the presence of API, an Apple user needs to go to the settings, then go to privacy, and then health. At the top, the user can spot the ‘Covid-19 Exposure Logging’ which currently cannot be enabled in the absence of a supporting app. Similarly, on an Android-run phone (devices like those of Samsung, Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo, OnePlus, among others), one needs to go to Settings, click on google, following which one can see ‘Covid19 Exposure Notifications’. In a global statement given out in the second week of April when they announced the initiative, Apple and Google had said the API was being developed as a “joint effort to enable the use of Bluetooth technology to help governments and health agencies reduce the spread of the virus, with user privacy and security central to the design”. They had emphasised that “privacy, transparency, and consent are of utmost importance in this effort, and we look forward to building this functionality in consultation with interested stakeholders.” When checked on an Android phone, the API said, “Your phone uses Bluetooth to securely collect and share random IDs with other phones that are nearby. Random IDs are automatically deleted after 14 days.” Watch Covid 19: Contact-trace proposal mooted by Google, Apple||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-apple-approach-government-with-proposal-to-contact-trace/articleshow/76680433.cms||Pankaj Doval
June 29, 2020||India||To de-escalate, India and China put faith in talks||NEW DELHI: With the border situation yet to cool down, India and China are looking to ramp up diplomatic dialogue under the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) for de-escalation in eastern Ladakh and to address differences which have contributed to the existing situation. Official sources here said these talks will now happen on a regular basis for implementation of the understandings the two countries have arrived at for de-escalation. Efforts were said to be underway to schedule another round of WMCC meeting as early as next week. Both sides have agreed this mechanism, at India’s joint secretary-level, had to be used a lot more for maintaining peace and tranquility along the border. It has so far met 15 times, the latest meeting held virtually last week. The WMCC was established in 2012 as an institutional mechanism for consultation and coordination for management of India-China border areas, as well as to “exchange views on strengthening communication and cooperation, including between the border security personnel of the two sides”. The last meeting saw India expressing its concerns on the violent face-off at Galwan and emphasising that both sides needed to strictly respect and observe the LAC. India and China also reaffirmed that both sides should sincerely implement the understanding on disengagement and de-escalation that was reached by the senior Commanders on June 6. India and China also have the high-level special representatives dialogue which seeks to achieve a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution to the border issue. It’s also seen as important for maintaining peace and tranquility in the border areas for overall development of bilateral ties, pending the final settlement of the boundary. The 22nd round of this dialogue was held between NSA Ajit Doval and State Councillor Wang Yi last year. The WMCC though has been seen in the past as important for effective border management as it has allowed both sides to review the situation in the border areas. India and China have used it also for taking note of regular exchanges at the troops level and at diplomatic level for maintaining peace in the border areas. The two sides have also used it to review the progress made in effective implementation of various confidence building measures (CBMs) to further enhance mutual trust and understanding. Watch Border situation yet to cool down, India and China look to ramp up diplomatic dialogue||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-de-escalate-india-and-china-put-faith-in-talks/articleshow/76680545.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 29, 2020||India||New space board IN-SPACe won’t be influenced by Isro and it won’t influence Isro: Space agency chief K Sivan||To enable India to expand its footprint in the $360 billion space market, the government last week said a regulatory body called the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) will be established. It’s expected to encourage private participation. Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) chairman K Sivan, who’s also the secretary of the department of space, explains the underlying idea to TOI’s Surendra Singh in an exclusive interview. Excerpts:Will IN-SPACe affect the functioning of Isro?No, the setting up of nodal agency IN-SPACe won’t affect Isro’s functioning as the proposed nodal agency will be a fourth vertical under the department of space. Currently, Isro is one vertical under which there are so many centres, then the second vertical is of autonomous bodies and the third one is the public sector entity New Space India Ltd (NSIL). IN-SPACe will be a totally autonomous body, which won’t be influenced by Isro and it won’t influence Isro’s work. It will have its chairman, directorate and cadre. Will IN-SPACe’s decisions be binding on Isro?When a private company makes a demand before IN-SPACe for either using testing facilities or systems of Isro, the nodal agency will talk to the respective Isro centres for providing the facility to the company. Once IN-SPACe has made a decision on an application in consultation with Isro, then that decision will be binding on Isro and other stakeholders. So, only the mission-specific IN-SPACe’s decision will be binding. As per space reforms, private sector will now play a big role in the space sector. How?Till now, private players or a consortium of companies had been making and supplying components of rockets and satellites to Isro. Now, private companies can produce their own satellites and rockets and use Isro’s launch facility to launch them for a fee. So, the private players will be involved in a project from start to finish. This will spur commercialisation of satellite and rocket manufacturing and revolutionise the entire process, which till now was confined to Isro. Students can make mini-satellites and can launch them from Isro facilities and we can give them a concession. We may also allow a free launch on a case-to-case basis. What’s your overview of new space reforms?It’s an excellent initiative and has come at the right time. Right now, India’s contribution in the $360 billion space economy is just 3%. The reforms will bring drastic changes in the space sector. Second, the requirement for space-based applications has increased manifold. With the implementation of the government’s digital programme, the demand for such applications will explode in the near future, which Isro won’t be able to fulfil alone. Therefore, PM Modi’s initiative to allow bigger participation of private players will help meet the country’s requirement for such space-based applications effectively and efficiently. Why can’t we have a common policy in the space sector?Each application has a different characteristic. Like when we are talking about satcom [satellite communication], we are talking about commercial applications. Remote sensing application, on the other hand, is not commercial but is meant for societal good. Navigation has both the things – commercial and strategic purposes. Satcom and remote sensing policies are already there but they will now be modified to include provisions for private players. Navigation policy doesn’t exist and we are trying to put one together. Is any satellite launch possible this year?We had lined up a lot of missions this year. But due to the pandemic, our industry (that supplies rocket and satellite components) is not able to work with full capacity and our officials are facing travel curbs. We’re targeting to launch 4-5 satellite missions, including remote sensing (surveillance) and communication satellites, this year. Is it possible to meet the 2022 deadline of Gaganyaan manned mission after astronauts’ training has halted in Russia?Though the pandemic had halted the training of four astronauts in Russia, it won’t affect the 2022 launch deadline of the Gaganyaan manned mission as we have kept a “cushion” both in the training programme and launch deadline. In the 15-month training period in Russia, we have kept four months of cushion. The training of astronauts has now resumed. We had earlier planned to launch the manned mission in December 2021 but we have time till August 2022 as our PM had said India would reach space before the 75th anniversary of Independence Day. With the present situation, we are facing a lot of operational difficulties and therefore the unmanned mission carrying a ‘humanoid’ won’t be possible this year. However, we are targeting to launch two unmanned missions before the final one by next year. What is the mission status of Chandrayaan-3?With the present situation, we are targeting launch of Chandrayaan-3 mission next year. However, this mission will involve only lander, rover and a propulsion system to carry the module to moon. It won’t have the orbiter as our previous orbiter is fully operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-space-board-in-space-wont-be-influenced-by-isro-and-it-wont-influence-isro-space-agency-chief-k-sivan/articleshow/76680563.cms||Surendra Singh
June 29, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi playing ‘petty politics at a time of crisis’: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah on Sunday hit out at Congress's Rahul Gandhi for resorting to “petty politics” during tensions with Pakistan and China. In an interview to news agency ANI, Shah took exception to Rahul’s “Surender Modi” dig at the PM on Twitter and said the government was prepared for a no holds-barred debate in Parliament on all that had happened with China since the 1962 war. “1962 se aaj tak do-do haath ho jaye (let us discuss from 1962 war onwards till now, we are ready for a robust debate),” he said. Responding to a question on Rahul’s relentless attacks on the government over China’s attempt to alter the LAC and his jibes “getting traction in China and Pakistan”, Shah said it was painful to see the leader of a big political party resorting to “petty politics at a time of crisis”. “Yes, we are fully capable of handling anti-India propaganda but it does pain when a former president of such a big political party does ‘ochhi rajniti’ (shallow-minded politics) at a time of problems. It is a matter of self-introspection for him and Congress that his hashtag is being taken forward by Pakistan and China. It is not for me. It is a matter of concern for Congress that the hashtag of their leader is being encouraged by Pakistan and China. You say what China and Pakistan like. And at this time of crisis,” Shah said. Sidestepping a pointed question asked by ANI if there were Chinese troops on Indian soil at present, Shah said it was not the appropriate time to comment on the situation on the LAC. He said briefings were ongoing and if the need arose, he would answer. Shah, however, responded to questions about Rahul’s tweets, saying the government would respond to challenges. “Parliament honi hai, charcha karni hai to aaiye, karenge. 1962 se aaj tak do-do haath ho jaye. Koi nahi darta charcha se. Jab jawan sangharsh kar rahe hain, sarkar thos kadam utha rahi hai, uss waqt Pakistan aur China ko khushi ho aisi statements nahi deni chahiye (There will be Parliament (session). If you want to discuss, we will. Let all be discussed, from 1962 to today. No one is afraid of discussion. But when the soldiers are making efforts, the government is taking solid steps... at that time, making statements that please Pakistan and China, this should not be done),” he said. Asked about Congress accusing BJP of lack of democracy after its attack on the party on Emergency, Shah said it did not behove Congress to speak of democracy. “I did not do any politics during Covid-19. You look at my tweets of the past 10 years. Every June 25, I give a statement. Emergency should be remembered by people as it attacked the roots of our democracy. People should never forget. No political worker, citizen should forget. There should be awareness about it. It is not about a party but about the attack that took place on the country’s democracy. The language and form changes according to the context,” he said. Watch Amit Shah challenges Rahul Gandhi for debate on China policy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-playing-petty-politics-at-a-time-of-crisis-amit-shah/articleshow/76680571.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||More seats and goods: Length and height of buses, trucks to go up||NEW DELHI: The transport ministry has allowed increasing the length and height of several categories of vehicles, particularly buses and goods carriers in a bid to push passenger, logistics and containerised movement on roads. This comes nearly two years after the ministry increased the axle load of goods vehicles by 25% allowing trucks to carry more load. According to a notification, now length of normal buses can be upto 13.5 metres as compared to the earlier cap of 12 metres. This will increase seating capacity by 10-15% and will prove to be a boon for inter-city passenger movement, an official said. In what is being termed as a game-changing move, the notification says, in case a heavy duty truck has a closed load body or is an ISO series 1 freight container, its overall height can be up to 4.52 metres. For other heavy duty trucks, the height has been capped at 4 metres which earlier was 3.8 metres. “The focus is to encourage containerised movement of white goods and other items. This has been done to align our standards with global norms,” said an official. To facilitate movement of livestock and construction equipment vehicles, the new maximum permissible height is 4.75m. Similarly, the ministry has notified allowing similar height for truck and tractor trailers, if these are carrying motor vehicles, construction equipment vehicles, livestock and white goods in closed load body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-seats-and-goods-length-and-height-of-buses-trucks-to-go-up/articleshow/76680580.cms||Dipak K Dash
June 29, 2020||India||PM hails ‘scholar and freedom fighter’ P V Narasimha Rao||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled the role of the late P V Narasimha Rao on his birth centenary year as a “scholar rooted in culture and a freedom fighter”, a remembrance that had political overtones since India’s ninth PM has been largely ignored by his Congress party in the light of his differences with the Gandhi family. So while it was the odd senior Congress leader like Ahmed Patel who paid tributes, Modi in his monthly radio talk recalled that Rao, as a 17-year-old youth, participated in mass protests against the ban on singing of Vande Matram by the Nizam of Hyderabad and said the late leader steered the country at a time of crisis. “India is paying homage to one of her former prime ministers, who led the country through a critical phase. This day marks the commencement of the birth centenary year of our former PM P V Narasimha Raoji,” Modi said, adding that Rao was a true polyglot. Modi’s praise is significant because of the rift that developed between Rao, the first Congress PM outside the Gandhi family to have completed a full term, and the Gandhis. BJP has often accused the Nehru-Gandhi family of ignoring PMs like Lal Bahadur Shastri and Rao. “He was one of the most experienced leaders of India. But there is another aspect of his life which is remarkable that we should know. Narasimha Raoji had joined the freedom movement in his teens and when the Nizam of Hyderabad refused permission to sing Vande Mataram, he took an active part in the movement against the Nizam... he raised his voice against injustice,” Modi said. “His rise from a very simple background, his emphasis on education, his eagerness to learn, and, along with all these qualities, his leadership ability are all memorable,” the PM said and urged people to know about his life and thoughts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-hails-scholar-and-freedom-fighter-p-v-narasimha-rao/articleshow/76680584.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Business||Unbroken link: How tie-ups helped companies in crisis||MUMBAI: In the world of business, where large, medium, small and micro players operate in the same ecosystem, coexistence can be beneficial in tiding over a rough patch. No large player can execute a big project on its own strength. It requires the load-bearing capacity of several small and micro players who, in turn, depend on the financial prowess of the large company. Even if a small link in the chain gets strained, it can cost the entire ecosystem dearly. When the lockdown blues hit manufacturers hard, Rajkot-based Jyoti CNC Automation, a supplier of machine tools, decided to diversify into developing in-house ventilators and machine tools for defence sector. By doing so, Jyoti CNC Automation not only ensured its own survival, but also that of 90 MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) it works with. “We engaged with all our MSMEs to work with us on the new areas of machine supplies. During the lockdown, we knew there would be no demand for capital goods, and thus we decided to quickly diversify,” said Parakramsinh Jadeja, founder CEO of the Rs 800-crore Jyoti CNC Automation. Ahmedabad-based Mamata Group, an engineering and capital goods manufacturer of the order of Rs 2,000-crore, has a network of 400 regular vendors. The group helps its vendors by financing them fully and adjusting the same as advance against orders. Mahendra Patel, CMD of Mamata Group, said the firm has been running its operations at 90% for the last 12 days. “Our vendors have still not reached full capacity because some are located in red zone areas. However, we have not heard of any vendor going under. We stand by them, irrespective of the pandemic,” said Patel. For Kochi-based GR Tech, which executes plumbing contracts for Larsen & Toubro (L&T) on the Bengaluru international airport project, the latter helped with payments for labour, along with providing them with food and shelter during the Covid lockdown. “L&T has been extremely cooperative and empathetic on such matters,” said Pullat Ramachandran, the founder of GR Tech, adding, “If L&T had not been a benefactor, I would not have survived. MSMEs cannot survive more than a month or two on their own in times of a cash crunch.” L&T is one among GR Tech’s 27 current clients, but forms a significant part of the firm in value terms. However, not everyone has a large, benevolent benefactor to survive the current turmoil. There are many who have not received payments and are at the mercy of their clients. Here’s how the chain gets disrupted, leading to a cash crunch for some, and survival issues for others. When a corporate initiates a large project, it gets sub-contracted to a few tier-2 level contractors who, in turn, offload to several tier-3 localised small, micro and self-employed enterprises. “Most companies who offer contracts involving field activity or continuous supply set a minimum billing quantum, below which they do not accept invoices, thus leading to a delayed release of payments. The micro and small scale industry player is at the lowest tier of this chain. The strength of the chain lies in its weakest link. In a project site, bills don’t get easily certified. This is what leads to the collapse of the chain. When funds are released to large corporates, there’s no surety how the same would percolate to the smaller players,” said K E Raghunathan, CMD, Solkar Solar Industry, who is also the former national president of All India Manufacturers’ Organisation. “Most of the listed companies that belong to power, infra, auto, airlines, real estate, EPC contractors and telecom are not in good shape for the last two quarters. Who is the real loser? Micro and small enterprises,” said Raghunathan. Shrinath Bhandary, founder of Innospacer Engineering Technologies, which nets an average annual turnover of around Rs 7 crore, said the company has not been able to sustain its expenditure as clients are not releasing payments. Bhandary supplies to large infrastructure firms. “Large companies are also not in a great shape financially. Their projects have come to a standstill and they are in a cost-cutting mode too. Only priority sector jobs are going on currently and our business is down 70% since pre-lockdown. Even the loans offered as a relief measure are of no use because we already have large liabilities on our books,” said Bhandary. MSMEs have also made their displeasure felt on the financial package declared by the government some time ago. R Ramalingam, co-founder of Nutriplanet Foods, which is in the food & nutrition sector, has been trying for a term loan for working capital and purchase of raw material. “Our company has backward integration of chia seeds cultivation. It is used to manufacture nutrition bars. We have a good supply chain but we need cash flows to support it. We wanted to scale up our business, but there’s no money. Banks are the only option, but it’s not that easy to get credit because banks look at only how big the revenue is and approve the loan, neglecting the business opportunity, support system setup and the team,” said Ramalingam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unbroken-link-how-tie-ups-helped-cos-in-crisis/articleshow/76680291.cms||Namrata Singh
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Hospitals toe West Bengal govt cap line but long-term worries remain||KOLKATA: A day after the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) decided to write to the state seeking reconsideration of the daily price cap on PPE and Covid test charges that have been fixed at Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,250 respectively, a section of private hospitals said they were ready to stick to the limit despite the fact that it would severely strain their finances. The state has also set a daily cap of Rs 1,000 on consultation charges. AHEI will also be appealing for a revision of this. “Doctors are frontline warriors who are taking risks to care for patients, putting hours of effort in the hospital so that each patient can be sent home cured. Therefore, AHEI will be requesting the government to reconsider the cap on doctor consultation fee as well,” said Rupak Barua, AHEI president. The decision to appeal to the government about revising the rates was taken jointly by hospitals in a meeting after the government directive. “All private hospitals, including AMRI Hospital units, implemented the government’s order right after it was communicated. But we will appeal to the government to revise the capped rates in the hope that our request will be looked into,” added Barua. Private hospitals said the PPE kits they use are of high quality — 95 GMS — which cost Rs 700 to Rs 800 per piece. Capping the charge at Rs 1,000, they feared, would force them to compromise with the quality. While they were ready to cooperate with the government in this hour of crisis, sticking to the prescribed charges may not be sustainable in the long run, they feared. The order has been implemented under the WB Epidemic Disease 2020 Act and the WB Clinical Establishments Act, pointed out a private hospital official. “Under the current circumstances, we are united in this fight against the pandemic. In a widespread epidemic, private hospitals like us have been fighting to keep our necks above the water. Sustainability is our greatest challenge and, with this price capping, we will have to wait to see how long it will be feasible for us. We trust that enough consideration has been given to the costing issues we face and are hopeful that some respite will be given shortly for the huge direct and indirect costs we have been expected to bear,” said the official. Some, like Medica Superspecialty Hospital, however, are ready to bear the “marginal loss”. Since the cost of PPE and tests have come down, the benefit should be passed on to patients, felt chairperson Alok Roy. “A PPE now costs Rs 500 and even if we use three per patient a day, we won’t be losing a huge amount. The same goes for tests. We shouldn’t be making money on these now,” said Roy. Another private hospital official pointed out that “marginal losses” were inevitable now. “As it is, the number of non-Covid patients has dropped everywhere, which has squeezed our revenues. We must now accept that things will not change soon and we will have to bear temporary losses. After all, this will help to create goodwill for all of us,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-toe-govt-cap-line-but-long-term-worries-remain/articleshow/76679125.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 29, 2020||Business||SBI will focus on lending to MSMEs, says chairman||MUMBAI: SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said that the lender, which until now was chasing home loans because of the security they offered, is shifting focus to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The availability of data and technology in the form of analytics has made it easier to automate lending decisions to the sector, which until now posed challenges. “For the bank, housing loan had become the most popular product as it was safe to lend. I am now shifting focus. We appointed 90 deputy general managers across the country, whose primary focus is MSMEs,” said Kumar at an online CII event on small and medium enterprises on Saturday. The SBI chief said while there had been some hesitancy to lend to the sector, it was because of the experience of loans going bad. However, technology had now made it much easier to lend, he said. The SBI chief’s statements come at a time when the government is going all out to reduce the pain in the MSME segment due to the lockdown. The government has agreed to guarantee an additional 20% credit limit to MSMEs, provide them with risk capital. It is also pushing banks to do more. Kumar said due to the availability of data on GST, borrowers’ credit history and income tax, it was possible to automate lending to small businesses. “We have recently given Rs 200 crore of e-Mudra loans through end-to-end digitisation,” said Kumar. “Use of technology in lending and the availability of data is helping banks underwrite loans on a more scientific basis. SBI has sanctioned more than 4 lakh loans a month, thanks to technology,” said Kumar. Highlighting Germany’s experience, Kumar said that MSMEs can be drivers of an economy. Speaking at the same event, Kotak Mahindra Bank VC & CEO Uday Kotak said that private banks have taken longer in disbursing loans under the government guarantee scheme, but the numbers would pick up soon. He also highlighted the need for MSMEs to raise risk capital from any route to enable them to withstand shocks from a sudden change in the external environment. “In view of the revision in turnover limit for MSMEs from Rs 100 crore to Rs 250 crore, the eligibility conditions for the government guarantee scheme should also be relaxed similarly, and CII would be taking this suggestion to the government,” said Kotak. According to the SBI chief, the new definition of MSMEs, which includes both turnover and investment limits, has also made it easier to lend to the sector. Meanwhile, industry bodies have made a representation to banks seeking to revise the eligibility for the government guarantee scheme in line with the new definition of MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-will-focus-on-lending-to-msmes-says-chairman/articleshow/76680229.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar council polls: All eyes on 12 governor quota seats||PATNA: As the filing of nomination papers for nine seats of Bihar legislative council, to be elected by MLAs, ended on Thursday, the focus of the state’s ruling parties have now shifted towards the council’s other 12 vacant seats, which will be filled through nomination by the governor. Leaders of ruling parties — JD(U) and BJP — eyeing to enter the upper house through the nomination process have begun lobbying with their senior leaders to get nominated. Two of the 12 seats are vacant since May 2019 after Rajiv Ranjan Singh and Pashupati Kumar Paras resigned from the council days after their election as members of the Lok Sabha, while the rest 10 seats fell vacant on May 24 this year after the nominated members completed their six-year term. Article 171(3)(e) of Constitution empowers the governor to nominate members against 12 seats in the 75-member state legislative council. The governor makes such a nomination on the recommendation of the state government. Article 171(5) of Constitution requires that the persons to be appointed should have special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, arts, cooperative movement and social service. Since LJP is an NDA ally with BJP and JD(U), it would also get a share in the 12 seats as per arrangements agreed between the top leaders of the three parties. Sources said LJP president Chirag Paswan recently spoke to a senior BJP leader in Delhi and sought a “respectable share” for his party in the 12 council seats. LJP’s Bihar unit president and Samastipur MP Prince Raj told TOI on Friday that talks were going on among NDA allies over the issue and “we expect a respectable share for the LJP”. Prince admitted that his cousin and LJP chief Chirag Paswan held talks with senior NDA leaders over the issue. A senior BJP leader said JD(U) is likely to get six seats, BJP five and LJP one seat. Another BJP leader said, LJP has made a claim on two seats and wants that five seats each are given to BJP and JD(U) as per the ratio of distribution of seats during the last Lok Sabha polls. But JD(U) leadership has not agreed to the formula. JD(U) being the big brother in Bihar, sources said, wants six seats for itself and the rest six for BJP and LJP. “Talks are going on. Things will be cleared in the next few days. Once the seats are distributed, I will let you know,” Prince Raj told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/council-polls-all-eyes-on-12-governor-quota-seats/articleshow/76678309.cms||Madan Kumar
June 29, 2020||Surat||SMC takes control of 42 designated pvt hospitals||Surat: With positive cases continuing to spike daily, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Sunday issued a notification bringing 42 private hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment under its control “"The decision was taken after we learnt that some staff members of the private hospitals were resigning from their jobs. These hospitals and their staff are placed under the control of SMC. Hence, they will have to abide by the rules under Epidemic Disease Act-1897 and Disaster Management Act,’‘ states the notification issued by SMC chief Banchhanidhi Pani. The combined bed capacity the 42 private hospitals is around 1,200. Meanwhile Surat city reported 174 new cases on Sunday, taking the total number to 4,345 in the city. Five patients also succumbed, taking the death toll to 160. About 78 patients were discharged on Sunday. In other areas of Surat district, 17 fresh cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 493. Three patients also died. “Out of the total 493 cases in the district, 160 alone are in Kamrej taluka and out of the total 14 deaths, nine are from Kamrej taluka,’‘ said an official. “A 45-year-old man from Velaniya village of Kamrej, 34-year-old man from Orna village and 50-year-old man from Laksana village died of Covid-19 on Sunday,’‘ said an official. With three more deaths, total number of deaths due to Covid-19 reached at 14 in Surat district. SMIMER DOCS RUE SHORTAGE Surat: Citing severe shortage of healthcare workers, the resident doctors at SMC-run SMIMER hospital have demanded that their 10 colleagues who have been deputed to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) should be brought back. Junior Doctors Association’s (JDA) Dr Dhruv Variya tweeted: “We are facing severe shortage of healthcare workers at SMIMER and surprisingly no one care (sic) about it. Bring back our 10 residents deputed at Civil Hospital.” Principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi tweeting they will surely respond to it very soon. “Ten resident doctors and three professors from SMIMER were shifted to NCH as it was designated as Covid-19 hospital. However, as cases started rising, suspected Covid patients and critical patients have been admitted at SMIMER hospital too. We are now struggling at SMIMER as some of the doctors here also tested positive and Covid-19 cases are on the rise at SMIMER as well,’‘ said a resident doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-takes-control-of-42-designated-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/76678882.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Court, police stations sealed in Sirsi after undertrial tests positive||Karwar: The additional sessions courts Sirsi town police station office of the deputy superintendent of police in Uttara Kannada district were sealed on Sunday after an undertrial was found positive for Covid-19. The undertrial, accused of stealing a bike, from Hubballi was arrested by Sirsi police and had initially tested negative. He was confirmed infected when his samples were tested the second time. He was arrested by Dharwad police in connection with a bike theft case. During interrogation it was found that he had stolen bikes in Sirsi too. Sirsi police had brought him from Dharwad sub-jail for the interrogation and was produced in the court. The accused was in Manipal jail for some time after he was convicted there for the bike theft. While bringing him to Sirsi the police had wore PPE kits. When he was produced in the court the judge had reportedly directed the police test him for covid as he had some symptoms. His swab was collected and sent to the lab. In the first test the result was negative but it was positive in another test. At that time he was in Sirsi sub-jail. 10 police officials who had come into his contact have been quarantined. The police station has been sealed down and the court will be closed down on Monday and Tuesday. All the under trails who were kept with him in the sub-jail have been isolated and their swab has been sent for the testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/court-police-stations-sealed-in-sirsi-after-undertrial-tests-positive/articleshow/76678630.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Patna||Sudden spurt in number of foreign returnees||GAYA: International flight operations under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and ‘Repatriation Flights’ saw a sudden surge in the number of foreign returnees last week. While in one month between May 18 and June 17, 150 Bihar and Jharkhand natives came back from abroad per day, the number went up to about 450 returnees per day during the week beginning June 21. The trend, sources said, is likely to continue as only about one-third of the nearly 25,000 people who registered themselves for evacuation from abroad have so far returned. It is necessary for these returnees, many of whom suffered job losses in the Middle East due to Covid-19 pandemic, to go for a weeklong institutional quarantine in Bodh Gaya followed by a home quarantine for another seven days. These people are being brought back under the Vande Bharat Mission as well as ‘Repatriation Flights’. While Vande Bharat Mission flights are operated by Air India and its subsidiaries, the Repatriation Flights are operated by Foreign Airlines. According to Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar, altogether 7,761 stranded people have reached here till June 27 by 52 special flights. However, a press release issued by the PRD put the number of returnees at 7650 and the number of flights at 51.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sudden-spurt-in-number-of-foreign-returnees/articleshow/76678261.cms||Abdul Qadir
June 29, 2020||Patna||Minister, wife test positive for Covid-19||PATNA: A Bihar cabinet minister, his wife, brother and two others tested positive for the Covid-19 on Sunday. They were sent to an isolation ward in Katihar, DM Kanwal Tanuj told this newspaper over the phone. “His wife was suffering from mild fever and went for the testing,” the DM said. Authorities have started tracing people who had come in their contact. The minister told this newspaper that his wife’s samples were collected in Katihar on Friday while his swab samples were collected in Patna. “As soon as we got the results, we went straight to Katihar Medical College and Hospital and thereafter to the isolation centre,” he said. He said his brother and two children of an employee also tested positive. “The administration would now trace the people I met during my visit to Patna,” the minister said. This is the first incident when a cabinet minister has tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier, a sitting BJP MLA, a former Union minister and a two-term MP from Banka were tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76679093.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 29, 2020||Patna||Locust attack in West Champaran, Bhojpur||ARA/BAGAHA: Swarms of crop-destroying locusts reached Bhojpur and West Champaran districts late on Saturday night. Though the locusts destroyed crops like paddy, sugarcane, maize and vegetables in West Champaran district, they caused no damage to crops in Bhojpur district. Bhojpur district agriculture officer Sanjay Nath Tiwari said several locusts were killed by the agriculture officials after a five-hour-long operation from 11pm to 4am at Sikarhatta under Tarari block in the district. “We formed two teams to tackle the locusts. They sprayed pesticides and chemicals with the help of fire tenders,” Tiwari said, adding all agriculture officials have been asked to stay alert. In West Champaran, locusts damaged crops in Bhitaha, Madhubani Bagaha-1 and Thakaraha blocks of Bagaha sub-division and Shikarpur, Gaunaha blocks under Narakatiaganj sub-division, district agriculture officer Vijay Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/locust-attack-in-west-champaran-bhojpur/articleshow/76678353.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
June 29, 2020||Patna||Brief spell of rain leaves many areas waterlogged||PATNA: Heavy downpour on Sunday morning left many areas in the state capital waterlogged. Rainwater was seen accumulated even outside the residence of road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav and on the premises of agriculture minister Prem Kumar. The dug-up road at Bakerganj, Arya Kumar Road, Nala Road, Jagganpura, Punaichak, Mithapur and Lohanipur added to the woes of the people. The residents of Thakurbari Road, Rajendra Nagar (road number 1 and 2), Kadamkuam, New Patliputra Colony (ward number 22), Bhikhna Pahadi, Gardanibagh, Bazar Samiti and few pockets of Kankarbagh, Chandmari Road and Langar Toli also had waterlogging. Ayush Kumar of Patliputra Colony said, “Rainwater entered our premises only after a couple of hours of smart showers. The overflowing drain has made it difficult for the residents to even step out of their homes,” he complained. Sudip Pratap Singh of Bakarganj said rain makes things worse for the people as slush and mud is scattered all over the place. “It is quite dangerous to drive in this lane because the vehicles, especially two- wheelers, skid. The road has been dug up at many places,” he said. Sumitra Devi of Langar Toli said it was difficult to see the manholes after rain. “When I went out to buy grocery, I had to carry a stick with me,” she said. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma, however, told this newspaper that whenever it rains, waterlogging may happen in few localities, especially the low-lying areas and those without drainage network or defunct pipelines. “It depends how quickly we drain out the rainwater from these areas with the help of motor pumps. From major areas, the rainwater is drained out within few minutes or an hour after the rain,” he said. “In some areas where sewerage line is defunct or blocked due to some reasons, having low capacity and no drainage network, the workers have to make efforts to drain out water. We are already equipped for this with around 130 portable motor pumps so that water from such areas fall into the main drain,” he added. The executive officers of Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (BUIDCo) claimed that water was drained out from most of the areas as all the sump houses are in working condition with its full capacity. All the sump houses were being monitored from the headquarters through the CCTV cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/brief-spell-of-rain-leaves-many-areas-waterlogged/articleshow/76678216.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 29, 2020||Patna||Militants may enter India from Nepal: Bihar Police||PATNA: The special branch of state police has alerted the districts close to India-Nepal border that half a dozen trained terrorists may sneak into Indian territory from Nepal within a fortnight. A letter issued by the special branch on June 22, a copy of which is with TOI, reveals that the militants owing allegiance to Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Taliban were trying to enter Bihar from Nepal to carry out subversive activities in Delhi and other parts of the country. The letter addressed to all IGs, DIGs and SPs said another group of 30-35 militants were planning to enter India from Jammu and Kashmir. “The intelligence inputs received from the agencies suggested that senior politicians and vital installations were on the target of the militants,” a senior police officer said quoting the letter. The police officer posted at the police headquarters said the SPs of border districts along Nepal have been asked to intensify patrolling and frisk people coming from Nepal side. “The letter issued from the office of an SP rank officer shouldn’t be treated as a routine affair,” he said. “We remain alert for most period of the year. Moreover, the international border is being guarded by the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). We cooperate the SSB in the safeguarding of the country’s border as the resources of the district police are limited,” an IPS officer posted as SP in a border district of Bihar said. The letter assumed significance in the wake of strained relations with Nepal. “Efforts are on to ease the tension between the two neighbouring countries,” an assistant commandant of the SSB posted in East Champaran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/militants-may-enter-country-from-nepal/articleshow/76678323.cms||Ramashankar
June 29, 2020||Surat||SMIMER doctors decry shortage||SURAT: Citing severe shortage of healthcare workers, the resident doctors at SMC-run SMIMER hospital have demanded that their 10 colleagues who have been deputed to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) should be brought back. Junior Doctors Association’s (JDA) Dr Dhruv Variya tweeted: “We are facing severe shortage of healthcare workers at SMIMER and surprisingly no one care (sic) about it. Bring back our 10 residents deputed at Civil Hospital.” Principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi tweeting they will surely respond to it very soon. “Ten resident docs, three profs from SMIMER were shifted to NCH. However, with cases rising, we are now struggling as some doctors here also tested positive,” said a resident doctor. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smimer-doctors-decry-shortage/articleshow/76678967.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hubballi||Inebriated man sleeps on tree, causes panic||Kalaburagi : A drunk man caused panic among the people at the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Science hospital premises on Sunday, by sleeping on a tree for hours. People who saw him sleeping on a branch, shouted and tried to wake him up, but didn’t succeed, after which they called the police. Police arrived at the spot and directed two people to climb up the tree and get the man down. The police personnel thought that he may have died, as he was not moving. However, when the two people climbed the tree, and checked his vitals, they found that he was alive. They also told the police that the person was completely inebriated and in deep slumber. They found some liquor bottles on him. They got him down while he was still in deep sleep, and laid him on the ground, after which they sprinkled water to wake him up. When the police asked him why he slept on the tree, he said that as the Covid-19 ward is located in the hospital, he wanted to avoid getting infected, and hence climbed the tree and slept on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/inebriated-man-sleeps-on-tree-causes-panic/articleshow/76678335.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vadodara||Patient who fled from Gujarat hospital reaches Ghaziabad||VADODARA: A coronavirus patient who fled from special isolation ward of GMERS Medical College and Hospital on June 25 was learnt to have reached his hometown Ghaziabad. Gorwa police learnt about the patient Vikas Kumar when he answered their phone call while in train. A police official said that when he was contacted, he told them that the train was about to reach Ghaziabad and he will alight there as it is his hometown. “He did not mention why he ran away from hospital nor did he say whether he had reached Vadodara station directly from the hospital or went somewhere else too,” said sub-inspector R K Gosai of Gorwa police station. However, cops here alerted Ghaziabad police in time about Kumar so that he can be quarantined at a Covid care centre. “We have sent all documents to Ghaziabad police and they will take over the case from here,” Gosai added. Kumar was booked for negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and under the Epidemic Act on June 25 at Gorwa police station . He was found missing from JR Hostel ward when the doctor went for a check-up in the evening. Kumar was at his bed until the noon on June 25 when the doctor had checked him last.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/patient-who-fled-reaches-hometownghaziabad/articleshow/76677599.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Business||Startup funding deals in H1 2020 down 31% at 272||BENGALURU: Dealmaking for startups in the first six months of 2020 has dipped by 31% to 272 transactions, while the total capital invested fell by 11% to $4.1 billion as compared to the year-ago period, according to data from Venture Intelligence. Venture capital investors feel that given the double whammy of Covid-19 and blocking of investments from China, things will get worse in the next two quarters, as there is usually a lag between when deals are closed and their announcements. The data shows investments in early-stage startups at idea and concept stage took the biggest hit, as deals of up to $2 million were down by 43% to 98, while transactions from $2-25 million fell by 26%. But larger deals — mid- to late-stage rounds for companies of over $25 million — remained steady at 37 deals. Some of the largest rounds were raised by edtech decacorn Byju’s and enterprise software player Postman’s $150-million raise, which saw its valuation jump nearly six times to $2 billion, besides pending rounds of hospitality startup Oyo and food delivery firm Swiggy from 2019. Most VCs nearly halted new investments in April and May, and several large deals which were closed earlier in the year also saw valuations get renegotiated downward by 10-20%. Going forward into the second half of 2020, many expect consolidation in sectors where funding has dried up like online lending, urban mobility and travel — worst hit by the pandemic. VCs have told entrepreneurs to just survive 2020, and expect big startups with strong backers to become bigger and online players to gain a bigger market share even as the economy shrinks. “Funding will be tough for the next 18 months for startups until and unless you are backed by top tier funds. A startup in the same space as a traditional business is today more well funded and more adept at doing online, so they will gain market share. But as the economy suffers, with many funds also weak they will also not be able to attract funding and will have to give in to the competition,” said Anand Lunia, co-founder of early-stage investment firm India Quotient. But even amid the pandemic, some sectors like edtech, healthcare, agriculture and software are seeing investor interest as many startups here expected to gain from increased digitisation due to the pandemic. For instance, TOI reported earlier this month that Unacademy is in discussions to raise capital at a valuation of over $1.2 billion after raising money at $500 million in February as it has revenues and users jump. Overall, edtech has emerged as the only sector which attracted more capital in first six months of 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019 even as investments other favourite sectors like fintech, e-commerce and food delivery fell by 30-60%. New investment activity will be driven by the fact that several investors are sitting on fresh pools of capital, with top VC firms like Sequoia Capital India and Lightspeed Venture Partners expected to close new India funds in coming months. A recent report from Bain & Co said that dry powder available for investments in startups in India has reached a record high of $7 billion in 2019, from the previous high of $6.1 billion in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startup-funding-deals-in-h1-2020-down-31-at-272/articleshow/76680235.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Illegal arms factory unearthed, 7 held||PATNA: A joint team of West Bengal police, special task force of state police headquarters and Vaishali and Muzaffarpur police unearthed an illegal arms factory and arrested seven persons on Sunday. The police team raided the house of one Saheb Raj at Chakaulia under Katahara police outpost in Vaishali district and unearthed an arms manufacturing unit. Altogether 43 unfinished pistols, one pistol, four lathe machines, raw materials and parts used in arms manufacturing were recovered. Vaishali SP Gaurav Mangla said while four of the arrested were stated to be residents of Munger, one of Jamui and three of Vaishali district. Sources said Md Laddan, Md Lalan and Md Parvez from Kasim Bazar in Munger were involved in arms racket for the past several years. Kasim Bazar is a hub of illegal weapons. Mangla said a case under Arms Act has been lodged with Katahara police outpost. “The police will investigate the racket from different angles,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/illegal-arms-factory-unearthed-7-held/articleshow/76678285.cms||Ramashankar
June 29, 2020||Patna||90% recovery rate in Sitamarhi||Sitamarhi: Thanks to innovative methods like keeping the Covid-19 patients engaged in several activities during their isolation period, the Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) in Sitamarhi has 90% recovery rate, centre incharge Dr Sunil Sinha said. The patients perform yoga and different ‘asanas’ during their isolation. DM Abhilasha Kumar Sharma, civil surgeon Dr R C Sahai and a team of doctors, including Dr Sinha, Dr Manoj Kumar, Dr S N Verma, Dr K Chaubey and Dr Satya Priya Jha has played an important role in ensuring fast recovery of patients. Of the 132 cases till Sunday, 119 have recovered at the centre. Only one Covid patient has so far died in the district. Dr Jha said even music therapy is used for faster recovery of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/90-recovery-rate-in-sitamarhi/articleshow/76678232.cms||Shyam Kishore Singh
June 29, 2020||Business||Can’t fault India’s import restrictions: Mobius||Mumbai: Veteran emerging markets investor Mark Mobius has said India cannot be criticised for import restrictions to promote the domestic industry as other emerging markets had done the same. According to Mobius, the government should just focus on improving ease of doing business for domestic as well as foreign investors. “If you look at the history of economic growth in emerging countries, you will notice that a number of countries grew on the back of very restrictive policies. If you look at South Korea, they had very restrictive import policies to encourage domestic industry,” said Mobius. He said that from a country’s standpoint if it wants to develop an industry, it needs to give the domestic industry some protection. “I have been a perennial bull in India and it has paid off with good results. Under the current conditions with Covid-19, India can benefit in many ways,” said Mobius. “With the explosion of internet traffic and increase in use of cloud and communications, the vast English-speaking population and software capabilities, India can benefit,” he said. Mobius was speaking at an online Treasury Elite Conclave by IFA Global. The other positive was the size of the domestic market. Mobius dismissed doomsday forecasts. “The most expensive words are ‘this time it is different’. Things do repeat themselves with variations but it is never really different. We have gone back into the past to study bull and bear markets and bear markets have lasted less than three years, while bull markets run longer,” he said. According to Mobius, the bull market does not begin after the share prices cross the previous high but the opportunity began when prices start recovering from the bottom. “The V shape of the market is an indicator that we are going to see a V-shaped recovery in the Indian market. There are over 300,000 viruses that have been identified and viruses are going to be with us for a very long time. Viruses want a human host to survive in, they do not want the host to die because if they die, the viruses die as well,” he said. On global trade, he supported India’s decision to exit the multilateral treaty in the Indo-Pacific region. He said India was probably right — indicating that the treaty was not good for the country. But this did not mean the end of global trade, as he saw the world moving towards bilateral trade deals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cant-fault-indias-import-restrictions-mobius/articleshow/76680275.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 29, 2020||Patna||No plan to shelve Chinese course: Magadh University VC||GAYA: Magadh University vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad on Sunday said the border dispute and escalation of military tension between India and China would not affect the university’s plan to introduce postgraduate level courses in Chinese language and literature. “Developments at the border and academic pursuits are two different things and in the larger national context, we need to learn Chinese language and literature. This would go a long way in having a better understanding of the Chinese designs and framing of our response accordingly,” said the VC. Asked whether the course would begin as per the original plan in the academic session 2020-21, the VC said he cannot say it with certainty at this stage as Covid-19 has upset the university’s academic calendar. Even if the course is not introduced in the forthcoming academic session, it would be on account of Covid-19 and not border tensions, the VC said. Prasad had visited China in November last year to study the possibilities of academic exchange programmes between MU and Chinese institutions of higher learning. Asked about the proposal to introduce PG level course in defence and strategic studies, the VC said he was waiting for the Raj Bhavan’s nod to introduce the course in 2020-21 session. To begin with, the course will have an intake of 40 students. The VC said Khurshid Ansari has been appointed as the officiating registrar of the university on account of the vacancy caused by the sudden death of Radhe Kant Prasad, who got electrocuted on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-vc-no-plan-to-shelve-chinese-course/articleshow/76678388.cms||Abdul Qadir
June 29, 2020||Hubballi||Shiggavi traders demand 15-day lockdown||Haveri: As Shiggavi has reported more than 15 Covid-19 cases, residents and traders are demanding a 15-day lockdown in the town. They have written a letter to the tahsildar in this regard. Meanwhile, the tahsildar also has written to the deputy commissioner of Haveri, recommending lockdown in the town. People in the town are gripped by fear after a person, a pigmy agent who also used to supply sugar to groceries in Shiggavi and surrounding villages, tested positive. Since he had contacted many people including shopkeepers, it caused a worry among residents as well as traders. As a result, traders in the town have decided to keep shops open only between 7am to 2pm, said PS Akki, a trader.  “I am also in favour of imposing a 15-day lockdown in Shiggavi town for the safety of residents and I have conveyed the same to the deputy commissioner, said tahsildar Prakash Kudari. When contacted, deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai said that people’s movement will be restricted in the market area. “The government will take a call on imposing a lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shiggavi-traders-demand-15-day-lockdown/articleshow/76677361.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
June 29, 2020||Nashik||5 killed in 2 road accidents||Nashik: A total of five people were killed in two separate accidents at Pandhurli on Sinnar Ghoti Road and at Sangamner in Ahmednagar district. According to police, in both the cases, the drivers lost control of their vehicles. In the first incident, two men lost their lives when the truck they were travelling in with 29 other people overturned at Sinnar Ghoti Road. The deceased have been identified as Ajay Wagh (20) and Sarvan Som (24) — both residents of Igatpuri. Meanwhile, in the second incident, three people died while one sustained injuries after their pick-up vehicle fell into a pit. The deceased have been identified as Parvez Sayyad (30), Vitthal Barde (30) and Suresh Mali (45).tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-killed-in-2-road-accidents/articleshow/76678623.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Migrant workers to be engaged in railway projects||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to provide employment to migrant workers in about 32 districts of the state under PM’s ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan (GKRA)’. A decision in this regard was taken after Railway Board chairman V K Yadav held a videoconferencing with ECR general manager L C Trivedi and divisional railway managers (DRMs) of the five ECR divisions – Danapur, Sonepur, Samastipur, Pt Deendayal Upadhaya and Dhanabad – on Friday. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the Railway Board has allocated separate funds under this scheme with a view to providing employment to migrant workers who have returned to the state from different parts of the country. ‘Railways will engage them in various ongoing construction and infrastructure development projects. These migrant workers will be provided job for at least 125 days till October 31 this year,” he said. According to CPRO, the Railway Board has asked the ECR to appoint nodal officers in each district to maintain a close coordination with the administration to involve migrant workers in railway projects as per their suitability and skills. “Railways intends to engage a large number of migrants on contract basis in at least 15 different projects. It will also ensure completion of the projects within deadline,” he added. The ECR jurisdiction spreads over in four states – Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “Though the GKRA scheme seeks to provide employment to migrant workers in 25 different categories, railways will give employment to these migrants under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme too for which the ECR has earmarked Rs 316 crore,” the CPRO said. According to railway sources, altogether 23,04,689 migrant workers have returned to different places in the state by Shramik Special trains, mainly from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrant-workers-to-be-engaged-in-railway-projects/articleshow/76678245.cms||Kumod Verma
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata girl adopts Delhi dog, loses it at airport||KOLKATA: A dog was flown down from Delhi to be reunited with her adoptive parent in Kolkata after staying apart for three months during the lockdown. But the reunion barely lasted a few minutes as she bolted after a family member opened the cage to check on her at Kolkata airport. The family from Ballygunge has been searching for the six-month-old Fifi all around the airport for the past three days. They have also sent out desperate pleas on social media and have urged volunteers and animal lovers to launch a co-ordinated search. The family has shared Fifi’s pictures on Facebook and Instagram. Nilanjana Kuthari, who had met Fifi on the campus in Shiv Nadar University in Noida, said she is worried that other dogs may harm her since Fifi is very small. “It is gut-wrenching when I go to bed every night thinking how she must be alone in an unfamiliar place. There are so many strays who can harm her. I keep thinking whether she has eaten or not and if she is looking for us too. Once its morning, I start for the airport with my mother to launch another search,” Kuthari said. Soon after the lockdown began, and the university shut down, Fifi was checked into a foster home in Gurugram. Later, Nandidni Kaushik, another student at Kuthari’s university, made the arrangements for Fifi to be flown to Kolkata. “Once flight operations resumed, I requested Nandini to send Fifi to Kolkata. We got all the documents prepared so that we could adopt her legally,” said Kuthari. On Wednesday evening at Kolkata airport, Kuthari wanted to check if Fifi was fine after staying cramped for so long. The moment the door was opened, Fifi bolted and could not be traced till Saturday night. “I should have checked after getting inside the car, but I was worried since she had spent over five hours inside a cage. I tried to follow Fifi, but she disappeared after a few seconds. We request more people to come forward and help us because it’s not possible for the just the two of us,” said Kuthari. Since the news of Fifi’s disappearance reached her, Kaushik has also been spreading the news among her friends on social media. “A lot of people from Kolkata who do not even know us personally have come forward to help without any vested interest. We need a lot of volunteers to find Fifi because it’s a huge place and she is so small. We have also decided to pay Rs 10,000 to anybody who can trace her,” said Kuthari. Several dogs are separated from their families every year, but there are also instances when they are reunited. And Kuthari and her friends are hopeful of spotting Fifi soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-girl-adopts-delhi-dog-loses-it-at-airport/articleshow/76679131.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 29, 2020||Surat||Flood scare for 66 Covid patients in SMIMER facility||SURAT: About 66 Covid-19 patients admitted at the ground floor of the Covid facility at SMIMER’s multi-level parking in Surat, could not believe their eyes when they had to wade through water near their beds on Saturday evening. Not understanding what caused the flood when there was no rainfall, the patients were in a quandary as the entire floor was flooded. One patient even made a video of the flooded floor inside the patients’ room and posted it on social media which soon became viral. Netizens blasted the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) claiming that it was flooded owing to rain water. SMC, which had converted the multilevel parking at the SMIMER hospital into a Covid facility to accommodate more positive patients, clarified that it was a leaking water pipeline issue. "Water leaking from a pipeline entered into the ground floor of the Covid facility and it was soon fixed. The issue has been resolved,” Banchhanidhi Pani, Municipal Commissioner, Surat, told TOI. Congress leader from Surat and municipal councillor, Aslam Cyclewala, however, said that the ‘flood’ inside the Covid-19 facility only pointed at the civic body’s apathy towards the patients and the way they are being ‘treated’. “SMC makes big claims about how they are providing facilities to Covid patients, but reality is different,” Cyclewala told TOI. The flood video was shared by many Congressmen including state president Amit Chavda on social media with jibes made at the state government’s handling of Covid crisis. Party leader trained their guns at the Vijay Rupani government over “fake Gujarat model”. “See the condition of ward for patients of #Covid_19 in #BJP-ruled Surat Municipal Corporation hospital in @narendramodi's #Fake_Gujarat_model. @vijayrupanibjp @Nitinbhai_Patel please tell us, was this your preparation to defeat #Covid_19?” Chavda had tweeted on Sunday along with a 30-second clip. Surat city has recorded over 4,200 Covid-19 cases so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/flood-scare-for-66-covid-patients-in-smimer-facility/articleshow/76678952.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Business||Amazon to hire 20k more temp staff||Bengaluru: Amazon India said it is looking to hire 20,000 seasonal or temporary roles for customer support services in India. This is on top of the 50,000 seasonal roles it had announced for the supply chain and delivery network in May. Most of these jobs will be work-from-home in a location approved by Amazon as part of its ‘virtual customer service’ that will cater to India as well as its global markets. According to posts on LinkedIn by Amazon India, the responsibility of “uninterrupted internet connection” and a “work-like” environment would be the responsibility of the candidates. These jobs would pay an individual anywhere between Rs 15,000-20,000 per month based on location and role, according to a person involved with Amazon’s hiring process. The new temporary positions, typically for three to six months, are being created to meet the higher demand being anticipated by the company in the next six months and to address the higher volume of traffic. This would be done in multiple languages like English, Hindi, Tamil, Kannada via multiple tools like email, chat, social media and phone. For now, the openings are in Hyderabad, Pune, Coimbatore, Noida, Kolkata, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Indore, Bhopal and Lucknow. These hirings would be gradual in nature and the same would accelerate near the festive and holiday season in India and the US, where Amazon is seeing higher demand. In India too, e-commerce firms have seen good demand from customers after the government allowed all goods to be sold online last month. Of the 50,000 temporary roles announced in May for India, the bulk of the hiring is still underway. “A small chunk of the announced roles have been filled so far. Delivery is the only space which is seeing good demand for people but such a large volume of hirings picks up before a major sale event or festive season like Diwali,” the person mentioned above said. Amazon’s joint venture with the Patni group, Frontizo, employs over 1,000 offering customer support services in multiple languages. Prior to the JV, a large volume of customer care calls were handled from markets like London. TOI reported last year on Frontizo setting up a new facility in Panchkula, Haryana to double down on its localisation push to offer customer support in local languages. “We estimate that customer traffic will further scale up over the next six months with the onset of Indian and global holiday seasons,” Akshay Prabhu, director — customer service, Amazon India, said in a statement. A percentage of the temporary roles might be made permanent by the end of the year. Amazon India did not respond to TOI’s query related to Sunday’s announcement. The company has over 1 lakh workers in delivery and supply chain and over 65,000 employees across businesses including e-commerce in India. In January, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, during his India visit, had said the company aims to create 10 lakh jobs — directly and indirectly. So far, Amazon India has claimed to have created seven lakh jobs directly and indirectly in the last seven years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-to-hire-20k-more-temp-staff/articleshow/76680223.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 29, 2020||Patna||Patna: Nana Patekar meets Sushant Singh Rajput’s family members, recalls his films||PATNA: Film actor Nana Patekar met the family members of Bollywood actor late Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR) at their Rajiv Nagar residence in Patna on Sunday. Nana paid floral tribute to Sushant and left a message in Hindi. Nana recalled how Sushant had impressed him in a chance meeting they had. “It had come to my thoughts then that someday I will work with this boy,” Nana wrote while recalling how he was impressed with the three Sushant’s films he had seen. “You become fond of some people even without meeting them and he was one of them,” Nana wrote for Sushant. “I can’t even understand the pain of you. May god be always with you,” he wrote. Sushant had allegedly committed suicide at his residence in Mumbai on June 14. The senior Bollywood artist had actually reached Patna late Friday night and visited Mokama to see the formations of the paramilitary forces involved in anti-Maoist operation in state. He had interacted with the CRPF personnel at their training camp at Mokama in Patna on Saturday. After meeting Sushant’s family, Nana left for Koilwar in Bhojpur district to meet the personnel of 47th battalion of CRPF. One of the CRPF personnel who was at the Mokama training centre on Saturday night, told TOI that Nana urged them not to take any extreme step in life no matter what level of depression they might be facing. He also felicitated some CRPF men for their exemplary work in Maoist-hit areas in state,” he said. A senior CRPF officer, preferring anonymity, said the film artist would return to Mumbai on Monday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nana-meets-ssrs-family-members-recalls-his-films/articleshow/76678270.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 29, 2020||Surat||IPS officer in city tests Covid-19 positive||Surat: Another senior city police officer has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted in isolation at a private hospital. The condition of the 2009 batch woman IPS officer’s health is, however, stable but her colleagues working in close contact have been quarantined. The 35-year-old deputy commissioner of police and in-charge of one of the four zones of city has been supervising various important bandobust in the diamond city, including the largest migrant labour colonies falling under her zone. Police personnel from police stations under her zone were also involved in mass scale food preparation and distribution in these colonies during the lockdown period. The IPS officer was suffering from fever since Friday and had developed weakness on Saturday. Following mild pain in the chest she went for a test and when she tested positive of the virus, got herself admitted in a private hospital in Athwalines. “I am feeling good now and my health has improved,” the officer told TOI. “The officer’s health is stable and if she doesn’t suffer any other complication she will be discharged in three days as per new guidelines. She was taking all precautions and did not come in contact with many people but still she tested positive,” said city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt. During the lockdown, no senior police officers from the city had contracted the infection, but in the first phase of unlock many have fallen prey to the contagion. Earlier, a senior officer of crime branch tested positive after one of the murder accused arrested by crime branch was found positive. The officer is believed to have come in close contact with the accused during interrogation and four days later, he too fell ill. At least 32 police personnel, including traffic brigade, home guard and state reserve police have tested positive so far. Magan Bariya, assistant sub inspector of Mahidharpura police station, had died on June 14 due to Covid-19 infection. Bariya, who was suffering from blood pressure and diabetes as well, had tested positive on May 30 and was admitted in New Civil Hospital. Earlier a 30-year-old 2017 batch probationer IPS officer was tested positive in city on June 5. The officer is currently posted in Amreli as ASP and his residence is in city. Before leaving for a training in Hyderabad the officer had come home after a few days of training and stay at the Gujarat Police Training Academy in Karai, Gandhinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ips-officer-in-city-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76678895.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Bird recording soars during lockdown in Kerala||KOCHI: The lockdown birding challenge from March 27 to May 16 has shown interesting results in Ernakulam district and across the state. When compared to the same activity done in 2019, this year the number of species spotted in Ernakulam was less. According to the preliminary analysis of the data by the birders here, 147 species were spotted in Ernakulam this year compared to 337 in 2019. “This data has been surprising in the sense that we expected that since human activity outside had come down, more birds would be seen in the vicinity or that there would be more sightings. However, what came out as a very positive activity was that people had put longer hours into watching and recording the bird activities,” said Vishnupriyan Kartha, secretary, Cochin Natural History Society. Complete checklists, which was the main part of the challenge, indicated the amount of time spent by people watching birds. This showed a 271% increase from 12 midnight to 4am. It was followed by 223% increase from 8pm to 12 midnight and nearly 140% increase from 4pm to 8pm. Unlike last year, there was an interesting sighting of birds in Ernakulam. These included the black-capped kingfisher, Brahminy starling, grey-breasted prinia, channgeable hawk eagle black-capped kingfisher, green warbler, swinhoe’s storm-petrel, painted stork, slaty-legged crake, glossy ibis, black-throated munia and the white-bellied sea-eagle. “The people could’ve spent more time looking out for birds,” said Vishnupriyan. The checklists said there were recordings in midnight and early mornings and pre-noon sessions. According to the initial reports of the challenge organized by Bird Count India in association with Cornell Lab of Ornithology, among the top 10 districts in the country, Bengaluru led with 2,525 lists followed by Ernakulam (1,548), Kollam (1,374) and Alappuzha (1,260). The top 10 species reported during the 51 days of lockdown across the country are: Asian koel (62% of lists), common myna (59%), house crow (59%), feral pigeon (55%), large-billed crow (50%), rose-ringed parakeet (44%), common tailorbird (43%), black kite (38%), red-vented bulbul (36%) and oriental magpie-robin (30%). In all, 2,560 birdwatchers across the country uploaded bird lists during the period of the challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bird-recording-soars-during-lockdown/articleshow/76678621.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 29, 2020||Patna||Words of martyr Kundan Kumar’s father echo: PM Narendra Modi||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi, in his Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, referred to the father of martyr Kundan Kumar of Aran village in Vishanpura panchayat of Saharsa district, saying that his assertion to send even his grandsons to the Army has been still “echoing” in his mind. On hearing the news of Kundan’s matrydom in the Galwan Valley, his father Nimendra Yadav had said, “My son sacrificed his life for the country. I have two grandsons and I will send them too to the Army.” The martyr’s widow Baby had also expressed similar sentiments. However, the PM’s reference to the sentiments of the martyrs’ families, especially from Bihar, takes its own precedence in the year of assembly election in the state. “You might have seen parents of martyrs referring to sending their sons, other young family members too, to the Army. The words of the father (Nimendra) of Shaheed Kundan Kumar of Bihar keep echoing. This spirit permeates across all martyr families,” the PM said. Curiously, the PM’s appeal to the people to grow spices in view of coronavirus pandemic and their consequent demand in Asia and America also had a bearing on Bihar, albeit indirectly, as the state is known for farming spices like chilli, turmeric, garlic, coriander, mustard, cumin seeds and black pepper. The Bihar towns known for the wholesale business and sales of these spices are Muzaffarpur, Begusarai, Patna, Bhagalpur and Gaya. Incidentally, during the launch of the scheme for migrant workers recently, the PM had referred to the martyrdom of the five Bihar Regiment jawans who had sacrificed their lives in the Galwan Valley while fighting with the Chinese soldiers. As an indication of the importance that the NDA has accorded to the martyrs from Bihar, the state cabinet last week also approved a government job to one member from the family of each of its martyrs — Chandan Kumar (Bhojpur), Kundan Kumar (Saharsa), Aman Kumar (Samastipur), Jai Kishore Singh (Vaishali) and Sunil Kumar (Patna).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-words-of-martyr-kundans-father-echo/articleshow/76678294.cms||Abhay Singh
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Private buses may stay off road till fare revision||KOLKATA: The losses incurred due to spiralling diesel prices have again prompted private operators to refuse to run buses till fares are revised. On Monday, if they stay off the road, it may take the situation back to that of the initial days of Unlock 1.0 when the demand-supply gap was at its widest. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had offered a three-month bailout package worth Rs 15,000 per private bus per month to help commuters’ get out of their travel nightmare. But bus operators have stuck to their demand of fare revision. “We think fare revision is the only way out. We have spent our all resources to fulfil our commitment as operators of an essential service. We expected the government would revise the fare keeping in mind the Covid-19 crisis and hikes in diesel price,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, after a general body meeting. A Bengal Bus Syndicate (BBS) leader said, “We have run buses despite incurring huge losses but can no more pressurise our members.” BBS members said they have no doubt about the intent of the CM, but added that the subsidy cannot compensate for the losses. West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners’ Association secretary Pradip Narayan Basu said it is now up to the individual operator to run a bus or not. “We are not in a position to issue a whip,” he added. On Sunday, there was some respite as diesel price stood at Rs 75.51/L — the same as that on Saturday. Diesel price has grown by Rs 9.90/L compared to the Rs 65.61/L on June 6. The last bus fare revision had been in June 2018. In the probable absence of private buses, the state transport undertakings will run its fleet to full throttle on Monday. WBTC will hit the road with nearly 1,400 buses, its optimum fleet size, 200 will be run by SBSTC. Private operators will run 100 AC buses. “We expect a lot of private buses to also ply defying the diktat of the operators’ syndicates,” said a transport department officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-buses-may-stay-off-road-till-fare-revision/articleshow/76679145.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 29, 2020||Allahabad||Chaupals help solve decades old disputes in villages||Prayagraj: For the past 22 years, Geeta Devi and Prabhavati Devi were at loggerheads over a dispute in Basiraha village under Fatanpur police station of Pratapgarh district. Both the parties had not only clashed over the issue several times but also filed three FIRs against each other. However, when Fatanpur police held a ‘chaupal’ at the village inviting both the parties to settle the issue, it took at least six hours when the 22 years old dispute between them got resolved. This is not an isolated case. Two families had been filing complaints against each other with the police on the issue of stopping water to each other’s fields at Sinalaudhi village for the past 35 years. When police called both the parties at a ‘chaupal’ held in the presence of sitting and ex- gram pradhans, the matter was solved within three hours and both the parties submitted reconciliation letters to the police assuring full cooperation to each other. At Husainpur village under Raniganj police station, a woman was not agreeing to give a passage in front of her house to take rain water to the nearby pond. The dispute between the woman and rest of villagers continued for more than 15 years and the police finally resolved the dispute with mutual understanding. The `chaupal’ seems to have turned into a major platform for men in khaki in Pratapgarh district to solve decades old disputes in the villages. Police claimed to have solved over 150 disputes which dated back to 30 years through mutual understanding after holding sittings with the opposite camps for hours. Deputy SP (Ranignaj) Atul Anjan Tripathi told TOI “Holding ‘chaupal has certainly helped the police to solve decades old disputes between families in villages”. A DSP and an inspector rank officials are holding `chuapal’ daily in villages of Pratapgarh district, he added. The DSP said that the disputes related to closing or opening of drains, construction of pathways, land grabbing, cattle entering into fields etc surface during ‘chaupals’. “The police started the process of holding chaupals since the incidents of clashes and disputes between two opposite camps within family or neighbours, started reaching senior cops after the arrival of migrants to their native villages” said DSP. “We have been quite successful in solving the issues as sometimes they turn into serious ones if not dealt properly”, he added. The cops spend two hours to eight hours to solve most of the disputes. They found that people too want to get these issues solved. Interestingly, police invite sitting and ex-pradhans and other prominent personalities of village in chaupals to hear both the parties at length before reaching a decision. SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh said, “Implementing the chaupal scheme has been quite successful in villages to sort out old problems between opposite camps to a great extent”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/chaupals-help-solve-decades-old-disputes-in-villages/articleshow/76679529.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Business||Techtonic Review: The OnePlus 8 and OnePlus 8 Pro||Savio.Dsouza@timesgroup.com OnePlus has consistently launched sterling smartphones with top-notch hardware and a build-quality that’s on a par with the best in the market. Besides, the devices get regular security and OS updates that go beyond their warranty period (the OnePlus 5—launched in June 2017—got its latest security patch in April 2020 and the ‘Android 10’ update last week). This year, the brand launched the OnePlus 8 and OnePlus 8 Pro. We tested both devices to help you decide which one is for you. BUILD QUALITY Both devices boast of a Gorilla Glass body and a sturdy metal frame. The triple-action switch with modes for vibration, silent and ringer—along with the power and volume rocker buttons—on their sides feel solid with zero play. This lends itself to an overall premium feel. The OnePlus 8 weighs 180gms, while the OnePlus 8 Pro tips the scale at 199gms. Now, while the OnePlus 8 will survive accidental splashes, only the 8 Pro carries an IP68 rating. Our take: The OnePlus 8 feels more comfortable to hold and use, but the OnePlus 8 Pro carries an IP rating that certifies it can survive a submersion in up to five feet of water for 30 minutes. This is a great feature to have if you have lost at least one handset to water damage. DISPLAY Both smartphones sport crisp displays that are even visible in direct sunlight. In terms of pixel density, you get 402ppi on the smaller handset and 513ppi on the 8 Pro. OnePlus has also three display settings on both models... * The ‘Reading Mode’ lets you choose between ‘Mono’ and ‘Chromatic’ settings that are easier on the eyes when you view text. In Mono, you get a B&W screen, while in Chromatic, you are presented with considerably less colour saturation. You can configure the handset to auto-switch to ‘Reading Mode’ whenever you open certain apps. * The ‘Night Mode’ reduces blue light for less eye fatigue. You can choose to turn this on manually, or set a ‘Custom time range’. * Then, there is the ‘Vibrant Color Effect’ on the OnePlus 8 and the ‘Vibrant Color Effect Plus’ on the OnePlus 8 Pro that punch up the hues in videos just a wee bit to make a difference, without seeming unnaturally gaudy. The 8 Pro comes with two extra features... * Motion Graphic Smoothing makes videos less jerky. The effect of this feature is not apparent for the most part, but you will notice some difference in long panning shots or in scenes where the camera glides over landscapes (especially when viewed alongside a device without motion smoothing). * Comfort Tone uses the device’s light sensor to automatically adapt screen colour based on ambient light to make it easier on the eyes. One primary difference between both devices is their screen refresh rate. The OnePlus 8’s display clocks at 90Hz, while the Pro’s is 33% faster at 120Hz. This makes for smoother scrolling on the latter, and a better gaming experience in titles such as Dead Trigger 2, Mortal Kombat, Real Racing 3 and World of Tanks: Blitz that support this feature. That said, in most real-world use, the Pro’s display advantages are not always discernible. Both handsets have great receptive touchscreens that render crisp and vibrant hi-def videos, along with detailed HDR images, and deep blacks. Our take: The user experience is almost identical on both devices. The Pro model has ‘extras’ like the 120Hz refresh rate and Motion Graphics Smoothing, and while they are nice to have, you won’t miss either of them if you decide to go with the OnePlus 8. USER INTERFACE For security, you get ‘Face Unlock’—and an on-screen fingerprint sensor—that respond quickly and reliably in all conditions. Besides, regular Bluetooth pairing, you even get NFC. The devices run OnePlus’ proprietary Oxygen OS over Android 10. Like before, you get a very good ‘File Manager’ that segregates your files by type and size and even lets you protect sensitive data under a password protected Lockbox. You can run dual instances of certain apps such as Facebook, FB Messenger and Instagram; there’s a call recorder that saves your files in WAV or AAC format, a screen recorder that saves MP4 files, a ‘Game Space’ with optimisations for a smooth gaming experience, ‘Parental Controls’ to add content restrictions and other limits to help your child balance their screen time, and a digital well-being features—like ‘Work-Life’ balance and ‘Zen Mode’ that locks you out of your handset for a pre-set amount of time—to help you monitor your smartphone use. This time around, the Oxygen OS comes with a new setting that enforces a dark mode even on certain apps that do not support it yet. Our take: Regardless of which device you choose, you are promised a customised OS that’s free of bloatware but packed with practical features. Given OnePlus’ track record with updates, we expect to see refinements in many of its existing features over time, along with the addition of newer features to its apps and services. PERFORMANCE Both smartphones pack identical flagship processor with the Adreno 650 GPU, and UFS 3.0 Flash storage. In synthetic benchmarks, they post almost identical scores to each other. When it comes to productivity and graphics tests, they perform between 10% to 12% better than the Samsung Galaxy S20+ and last year’s OnePlus 7 Pro and OnePlus 7T. There is a clear boost in RAM and storage speeds, posting an advantage of nearly 25% over the Galaxy S20+ and a whopping 80% over the OnePlus 7 Pro and the OnePlus 7T. In graphics processing, these devices easily surpass “gaming” handsets such as the Acer ROG Phone II, Black Shark 2, and the Nubia Red Magic 3S. With their edge-to-edge screens and dual stereo speakers, the new OnePluses work well for movie-watching and gaming. The speakers are loud, clear, and manage about a 100Hz at the lower end to not sound too harsh or bright. Both devices lack an ear/headphone port, but you are promised balanced sound—with lower bass—via Bluetooth headphones; here, you can also expect Dolby Atmos for greater channel separation wherever it is supported. Our take: The OnePlus 8 and OnePlus 8 Pro are two of the most powerful devices in the market today. If you are looking to save some money, we would recommend the OnePlus 8 with 12GB RAM and 256GB storage instead of the entry-level OnePlus 8 Pro with 8GB RAM and 128GB storage that costs Rs 5,000 extra. That said, both these devices are at the top of their game when it comes to processing hardware muscle. CAMERAS With both devices, you can either capture images at 48MP resolution, or 12MP (with pixel binning) for more detailed shots in low light. The lack of optical zoom on the OnePlus 8 can be a bit frustrating, especially when you get softer images because you’ve had to use digital zoom to get close to your subject. Similarly, when it comes to macro photos, the OnePlus 8 Pro has a distinct advantage due to its 2x optical zoom. That said, the photographs clicked with the two handsets are detailed in well-lit outdoor conditions. You will see a slight drop in sharpness and some noise in indoor scenes but this is not a deal breaker; the OnePlus 8s still capture a fair amount of minutiae. In comparison, the Samsung S20 Ultra and the Apple iPhone 11 do a slightly better job with relief details that is mostly apparent when you zoom into the photos. Colour-wise—if you like your photos with greater saturation—you won’t go wrong with both the OnePlus 8s, though we personally prefer the true-to-life colours of the iPhone. On both handsets, the Portrait mode supports two levels of depth—1-7 feet and 2-7 feet—to render photos with bokeh. The shooters separate the foreground from the background to result in some great pictures. But you will notice some softness around the subject in a few cases, and a lack of detail when you compare its output with that of an iPhone. On the plus side, the Night Mode captures details of a darkened scene without affecting the overall atmosphere. The wide-angle cameras on both handsets can capture expansive scenes with little image distortion. Here, again, the 8 Pro scores extra points due to its 48MP snapper. The OnePlus 8 does the same job but at a 16MP resolution. Then, you also get a Pro mode that gives you granular control over factors such as ISO, white balance, aperture, zoom and exposure. All in all, a tidy package for the amateur photographer. Both smartphones come with optical image stabilisation (OIS) and support 1080P and 4K video at 30/60 fps, 4K Cine video at 30/60 fps, Slow Motion 1080p video at 240 fps and 720p video at 480 fps, and Time-Lapse 1080P at 30fps. Up, front, the OnePlus 8 and OnePlus 8 Pro sport a 16MP punch-hole camera that does a decent job with edge detection in portraits to create almost natural bokeh. This shooter can also record videos at 1080P video at 30fps with electronic image stabilisation (EIS) Our take: The OnePlus 8 and One Plus 8 Pro pack in a good set of shooters. If you were to nitpick—when it comes to zoom photography, picking the foreground from the background, and even colour fidelity, at times—it does not compare favourably to devices like the Apple iPhone 11, the Samsung Galaxy S20 or the S20 Ultra. But then, all those devices retail at much higher prices. The lack of optical zoom on the OnePlus 8 can be felt in outdoor and architectural photography, but—overall—you won’t be disappointed. If you want the bells and whistles, then opt for the OnePlus 8 Pro, but the OnePlus 8 is not a bad snapper either. BATTERY On a full charge, you can easily eke out a full day’s mixed-use from both handsets. But you can further extend battery power by lowering the screen refresh rate to 60Hz from display settings. That said, both handsets are kitted with impressive batteries. The 30W Warp Charger in the box juices both batteries to over 50% in less than half-hour. As an extra, the OnePlus 8 Pro now supports wireless charging, and you can also opt for OnePlus’ Warp Charge 30 Wireless charger that promises to juice up the handset to 50% in 30 minutes. Additionally, the 8 Pro also supports reverse wireless charging. Our take: The batteries housed in these handsets—because of their charge capacity and charging speed—are quite impressive. The OnePlus 8 Pro, possibly, has the fastest wireless charging capabilities, and its reverse-charging feature makes the deal even sweeter. IN CONCLUSION At their price, the OnePlus 8 and OnePlus 8 Pro offer you a real bang for your buck. With both, you get superb hardware that is seen only in premium flagships. That said, you could get better cameras than those on these OnePluses, but that would mean increasing your budget by almost Rs 15k-20k. But if your choice boils down to these two, the Pro starting at Rs 54,999 (8GB, 128GB) gives you a larger screen with a super-smooth refresh rate; you get an overall better camera set-up with 2x optical zoom, IP68 water resistance, and superfast wireless charging with reverse charge. With the OnePlus 8, you still get a great handset for gaming and movie watching that matches up favourably against devices like the Realme X50 Pro and iQoo 3 that retail in the same price band. One Plus 8 6.55-inch (2400x1080px) Fluid AMOLED 3D Corning Gorilla Glass display | Snapdragon 865 5G up to 2.84GHz octa-core processor | 8GB/12GB RAM | 128GB/256GB UFS3.0 storage |48MP main + 16MP ultra wide + 2MP macro cameras, 16MP front shooter | 4300mAh Warp Charge battery Price: Rs 44,999 (8GB + 128GB), Rs 49,999 (12GB +256GB) Rating: 7/10 OnePlus 8 Pro 6.78-inch (3168x1440px) Fluid AMOLED 3D Corning Gorilla Glass display | Snapdragon 865 5G up to 2.84GHz octa-core processor | 8GB/12GB RAM | 128GB/256GB UFS3.0 storage | 48MP main + 48MP ultra wide + 8MP (2x optical zoom) + 5MP colour filter cameras, 16MP front shooter | 4510mAh Warp Charge battery with 30W wireless, and reverse charging Price: Rs 54,999 (8GB + 128GB), Rs 59,999 (12GB +256GB) Rating: 7/10 WHAT THE RATINGS MEAN Below 5: The product doesn’t offer the experience it promises | 5 & 6: The product works as advertised | 7: The product is very good; it will not disappoint | 8: Very good; super value for money | 9: The device is exceptional | 10: You’re kidding, right? (All ratings also factor in prices to arrive at a final score.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/techtonic-review-the-oneplus-8-and-oneplus-8-pro/articleshow/76675494.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Staffers upset over arrear release delay||Aurangabad: The latest decision taken by the state government to defer the release of second installment of the arrears of government employees towards implementation of Seventh Pay Commission due to financial crisis arising out of Covid-19 has not gone down well with the workforce concerned. The Maharashtra Gazetted Officers Forum, an apex body of bureaucrats in the state, has accused the government of taking “unilateral decision” without taking government employees and staffers into confidence. GD Kulthe, founder and chief advisor of the forum, on Sunday said that over 16 lakh serving employees and seven lakh pensioners would be affect due to the stand taken by the government. “While the Centre has offered the benefits of Seventh Pay Commission to its employees from January 2016, the state government ratified it with a delay of three years. The government agreed to pay the arrears in five installment over a period of five years and first installment was released last year in July. The second installment was due next month, the government has suspended its release by one year without holding any discussions,” he said. Kulthe said the government could have considered options such as considering pensioners for offering timely benefits and reducing the postponement by six months instead of one year. According to the forum, the state government will have to bear expenses to the tune of over Rs 10,000 crore towards implementation of the benefits of Seventh Pay Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/staffers-upset-over-arrear-release-delay/articleshow/76678638.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 29, 2020||Amaravati||Zero admissions and no income: Andhra Pradesh playschools write off academic year||VISAKHAPATNAM: The pandemic may have upended the entire education system, but it is playschools in the state that are faced with huge losses. With no income since the end of March, playschools have been the worst-hit among all educational institutions and are struggling to pay salaries and rent. Though the state government is mulling over a framework to reopen educational institutions, nursery schools are not expecting students till the next academic year. Nor are most parents willing to admit toddlers or send their young children to playschool in view of the surge in cases. K Narasimha, director of Little Scribbles Play School, said that virtual teaching, as is being done for higher classes, is not possible for nursery and playschool children. “We are expecting only some 10 to 15% new admissions compared to earlier years. We are hopeful that the schools may reopen after Dasara. But there are no major hopes for this academic year,” said Narasimha. While no particular age group is more susceptible to the pandemic than another, concerns around hygiene, social distancing and size of classrooms remain, once children return to school. Parents are also worried about how younger children will adhere to safety measures. G Jayalakshmi, head of Vrindavan Play School, said they are waiting for the government’s decision. “ Several factors may come into play even after reopening of the schools, even ones like children getting back into the ‘school mode’. We are giving the needed assurance to parents but we cannot predict how things will unfold,” said Jayalakshmi. Playschools in the state are both franchise-based and independent. While some pre-primary schools are attached to primary and secondary schools, there are several independent nursery schools that cater to the age group of three to five years. Even though some major schools have adopted the Montessori system, a majority still follows its own curriculum, partially based on popular teaching philosophies. A major thrust at these schools is on language and basic math skills, activity-based learning, self-development and culture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/zero-admissions-and-no-income-playschools-write-off-academic-yr/articleshow/76683344.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 29, 2020||Allahabad||Recovered Covid patients exceed active cases in Prayagraj||Prayagraj: The number of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) patients in Prayagraj who have recovered and been discharged from hospitals now exceed the number of active cases in the district, as per the data released by the health department on Sunday. According to the data, the number of recovered patients exceeded active cases by 115 on Saturday. Prayagraj currently has 67 active Covid-19 cases and 182 patients have recovered till now. Of these, 13 patients, including a nonagenarian, have recovered and been discharged from hospital in the past 24 hours. In Prayagraj, 257 patients have been diagnosed with the disease till June 27, of which 182 have recovered and discharged from hospitals. The city recorded eight deaths due to novel coronavirus so far. The district administration has collected around 18,000 samples from different parts of the city so far. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Strong determination and a positive approach along with precise treatment has helped Covid-19 patients recover. There are at least two instance where patients above 85 years of age have recovered.” He added that a 90-year-old woman, who lives on Bharti Bhawan Road, recovered and was discharged from SRN Level Three Hospital. Despite being a comorbid, the nonagenarian patients managed to pull through without losing courage, he added. Sahai said “Over 180 patients from different age groups — 11 patients up to 10 years of age, 21 patients from 11 to 20 years, 96 patients from 21 to 40 years, 41 from 41 to 60 years and 13 patients above 60 years — have won the battle against novel coronavirus in the past three months. The first Covid-19 case in Prayagraj was reported on April 5, when a 35-year-old Indonesian who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi tested Covid-19 positive. The foreign national had attended the congregation in Delhi on March 12-13 and arrived in the city on March 22. A few days later, the rate of increase in Covid-19 cases decreased and Prayagraj was even declared a green zone on April 23, until two days later three new cases were reported from the city on april 25. The number of Prayagraj residents getting infected with the disease started increasing towards April-end and crossed the 200-mark on June 23.However, the recovery rate has also increased gracefully and crossed 70 percent. Moreover, eight people have died so far due to Covid-19 infection in city. The city reported first death related to coronavirus infection on May 5 when a 47-year-old engineer lost the battle against the disease. Doctors said that majority of those who lost battle against Covid-19 had respiratory problems and other pre-existing medical conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/recovered-covid-patients-exceed-active-cases-in-prayagraj/articleshow/76679538.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Zero admissions and no income: Andhra Pradesh playschools write off academic year||VISAKHAPATNAM: The pandemic may have upended the entire education system, but it is playschools in the state that are faced with huge losses. With no income since the end of March, playschools have been the worst-hit among all educational institutions and are struggling to pay salaries and rent. Though the state government is mulling over a framework to reopen educational institutions, nursery schools are not expecting students till the next academic year. Nor are most parents willing to admit toddlers or send their young children to playschool in view of the surge in cases. K Narasimha, director of Little Scribbles Play School, said that virtual teaching, as is being done for higher classes, is not possible for nursery and playschool children. “We are expecting only some 10 to 15% new admissions compared to earlier years. We are hopeful that the schools may reopen after Dasara. But there are no major hopes for this academic year,” said Narasimha. While no particular age group is more susceptible to the pandemic than another, concerns around hygiene, social distancing and size of classrooms remain, once children return to school. Parents are also worried about how younger children will adhere to safety measures. G Jayalakshmi, head of Vrindavan Play School, said they are waiting for the government’s decision. “ Several factors may come into play even after reopening of the schools, even ones like children getting back into the ‘school mode’. We are giving the needed assurance to parents but we cannot predict how things will unfold,” said Jayalakshmi. Playschools in the state are both franchise-based and independent. While some pre-primary schools are attached to primary and secondary schools, there are several independent nursery schools that cater to the age group of three to five years. Even though some major schools have adopted the Montessori system, a majority still follows its own curriculum, partially based on popular teaching philosophies. A major thrust at these schools is on language and basic math skills, activity-based learning, self-development and culture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/zero-admissions-and-no-income-playschools-write-off-academic-yr/articleshow/76678640.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Zero admissions and no income: Andhra Pradesh playschools write off academic year||VISAKHAPATNAM: The pandemic may have upended the entire education system, but it is playschools in the state that are faced with huge losses. With no income since the end of March, playschools have been the worst-hit among all educational institutions and are struggling to pay salaries and rent. Though the state government is mulling over a framework to reopen educational institutions, nursery schools are not expecting students till the next academic year. Nor are most parents willing to admit toddlers or send their young children to playschool in view of the surge in cases. K Narasimha, director of Little Scribbles Play School, said that virtual teaching, as is being done for higher classes, is not possible for nursery and playschool children. “We are expecting only some 10 to 15% new admissions compared to earlier years. We are hopeful that the schools may reopen after Dasara. But there are no major hopes for this academic year,” said Narasimha. While no particular age group is more susceptible to the pandemic than another, concerns around hygiene, social distancing and size of classrooms remain, once children return to school. Parents are also worried about how younger children will adhere to safety measures. G Jayalakshmi, head of Vrindavan Play School, said they are waiting for the government’s decision. “ Several factors may come into play even after reopening of the schools, even ones like children getting back into the ‘school mode’. We are giving the needed assurance to parents but we cannot predict how things will unfold,” said Jayalakshmi. Playschools in the state are both franchise-based and independent. While some pre-primary schools are attached to primary and secondary schools, there are several independent nursery schools that cater to the age group of three to five years. Even though some major schools have adopted the Montessori system, a majority still follows its own curriculum, partially based on popular teaching philosophies. A major thrust at these schools is on language and basic math skills, activity-based learning, self-development and culture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/zero-admissions-and-no-income-playschools-write-off-academic-yr/articleshow/76683346.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Beed farmer tries to end life after seeds fail to germinate||AURANGABAD: A 65-year-old farmer from Osmanabad district — upset after soybean seeds sown in his field failed to germinate — attempted suicide in front of a seed shop (Shrenik Agro Agencies) in the Nandur ghat area of Kej tehsil in Beed on Sunday. He doused himself in kerosene and tried to self-immolate, but was stopped by other villagers present there. About 200 villagers, mostly from agricultural families, had accompanied the elderly farmer of Fakrabad village of Vashi tehsil on the Beed-Osmanabad border. The farmers demanded that either their money be returned or they be given good seeds in exchange for re-sowing. “I had purchased three bags of seeds and two bags of fertilizers from this shop by selling off my wife’s gold jewellery. After the seeds from two of the bags failed to germinate, I visited the seed shop at least half-a-dozen times. Each time, the trader turned me away either with the help of local goons or the police,” the farmer told TOI. Angered by the rising number of cases of seeds not germinating, the farmers had gathered in the village on Sunday morning and had decided to go to the seed shop as a group. Several of them even carried pesticide bottles along. The group was also joined by sarpanch Nitin Bikkad, who said 63 farmers from the village have already given written complaints to him against this shop. “The seed shop is using local goons and the police to suppress farmers,” said Bikkad. He added the situation in the village is not an isolated one and lakhs of farmers across the state have been duped by sellers peddling in seeds that failed to germinate. The angry farmers reached the seed shop at 10.30 am and raised their concerns with the seed shop owner, who refused to pay any heed to their plea. The elderly farmer, who was carrying a bottle of kerosene, then tried to immolate himself, but was saved by his fellow farmers. Learning about the incident, taluka agriculture officer Deepak Jadhav and policemen from the Nandur ghat outpost rushed to the spot. Under pressure, the trader then assured the farmers of taking up the issue with the seed company. However, the farmers blamed the agriculture department and police for failing to initiate action against the trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-farmer-tries-to-end-life-after-seeds-fail-to-germinate/articleshow/76678660.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Kochi Metro: Land acquisition process on fast-track||KOCHI: District administration has intensified measures for acquiring land for Metro extension to Kakkanad as well as to Tripunithura. In a major step towards this, revenue department issued 11 (1) notification prior to acquire land for widening the road along the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium-Kakkanad stretch on June 17. The district administration has adopted fast-track method for completing the land acquisition in a time-bound manner. Review meetings of a committee comprising revenue department officials and Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) will be held every week. “As per the instructions by the state government, we have expedited the process for acquiring land for Metro extension. Giving impetus to the entire process, we have published 11 (1) notification prior to acquiring land for widening the road along the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium-Kakkanad stretch. We will soon be preparing a time schedule for completing the land acquisition process,” district collector S Suhas said. To facilitate the construction of the Metro’s viaduct, the road along Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium- Kakkanad stretch will have to be widened. More than seven acres will have to be acquired for widening the road along the stretch. Authorities have conducted social impact assessment prior to land acquisition for widening Kakkanad-Chittethukara stretch of Seaport-Airport Road. Public hearing as part of the acquisition will be held on July 8. Authorities have started widening of the road in the areas where land is available. After reaching Kakkanad, Metro’s alignment will be via Seaport-Airport Road and it will turn to left at Chittethukara via four-lane highway to reach Infopark. There will be 11 stations along the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium-Infopark stretch. Metro’s Kakkanad extension will cover 11.17km and the cost estimated a few years ago was around Rs 2,400 crore. Roads will have to be widened to 22m along the Metro corridor. At least 46 shops on the Palarivattom-Kakkanad stretch will have to be pulled down, while 275 shops will have to be partially demolished. The Union government is yet to give the final approval for the Kakkanad extension project. But the state government is learnt to have asked the officials to expedite the land acquisition and other works related to the extension. Measures for speeding up the land acquisition for the Metro station at Vadakkekotta have also been started. The rehabilitation and resettlement package for the evictees has been prepared. A meeting will be held on Monday for giving final shape to the package. Around 2.40 acres will have to be acquired for Vadakkekota station. For widening the road from SN Junction to Tripunithura, around 185 cents will have to be acquired. Efforts to acquire additional land required for improving the facilities at Edapally and Ernakulam South stations have also gained momentum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/metro-land-acquisition-process-on-fast-track/articleshow/76678648.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 29, 2020||Chennai||It is duty of lab technicians to collect swabs for test: Govt||Chennai: Medical lab technicians are qualified to collect samples for Covid-19 test and, in fact, sample collection is one of the very important competencies that such technicians must possess, the Tamil Nadu government told the Madras high court on Monday. “It is untrue that such technicians are forced to collect Covid-19 samples. Sample collection is a part of their day-to-day duty and they were engaged in the work even before the Covid-19 pandemic,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayana Babu. Responding to a plea moved by the state government medical laboratory technicians’ association seeking direction to the state to depute only qualified ENT doctors for Covid-19 sample collection, he said such trained technicians who were performing this duty all these years should not have initiated the litigation during a pandemic. “It is fact that all the trained doctors and post-graduate trainees irrespective of their field of expertise are equally engaged in the care of Covid-19 patients, with all at the inherent risk of contracting the deadly disease. Whereas, the technicians are denying duty to collect samples from persons who are only suspected of having the disease,” the DME added. Narayana Babu further added that the qualification of such technicians becomes questionable if they state that they lack knowledge of human anatomy. The syllabus and curriculum for diploma, BSc and MSc medical laboratory technology clearly states that they should be fluent with the knowledge of the anatomy of the respiratory tract and various other human organ systems, he said. Recording the submission, a division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice Krishnan Ramasway adjourned the hearing to July 1 for the association to file its reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/it-is-duty-of-lab-technicians-to-collect-swabs-for-test-govt/articleshow/76698331.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||Not two years, 200 projects finished during lockdown: Railways||NEW DELHI: Utilising the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid pandemic, the Indian Railways completed 200 works to remove bottlenecks and improve passenger safety. Completing these works would have taken two years during normal times, railway board chairman V K Yadav said, since getting long-duration track blockages are difficult. The works included rebuilding and rehabilitation of 82 bridges, 48 limited height subways and road under bridge in lieu of level crossing gates, construction and strengthening of 16 foot over bridges (FOBs), dismantling of 14 old FOBs and remodeling of five yards. Yadav said some of these pending works created bottlenecks for railways and their completion would help increased speed of trains on such sections. An official release said, “Indian Railways focused on several long pending overdue maintenance works which required traffic block of long durations…They were planned during lockdown period considering it ‘once in a lifetime opportunity’ to wipe out these maintenance arrears and take up the execution of work without affecting the train service.” Railways completed two projects of doubling with electrification in Varanasi division. These projects resulted in decongestion of east-west routes and facilitation of freight movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-two-years-200-projects-finished-during-lockdown-railways/articleshow/76680595.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Water Metro plan gains impetus||KOCHI: The revenue department has expedited the land acquisition process for major projects like Water Metro and widening of national highway along Edapally-Moothakunnam stretch. A special team has been constituted for completing the process of acquiring land for widening the national highway. As part of the Water Metro project, a total of 38 terminals have been proposed in different islands and mainland. Government has given administrative sanction for acquiring land for 22 stations. For setting up 22 terminals, more than five acres will have to be acquired. “Now, we have completed the process prior to issuing 11 (1) notification for acquiring land for 14 terminals. The government is expected to publish the notification soon,” district collector S Suhas said. Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) authorities have proposed 15 routes as part of Water Metro project. Boats will operate services on these routes at an interval of 10 to 20 minutes. There will be three types of terminals — major, intermediate and minor. The Water Metro terminals have been designed as a space for public gathering. There will be paid and non-paid area in each terminal. While ticket vending machine, station control, etc. will be in unpaid area, waiting area, toilets, etc. will be in paid area. There will be other amenities for passengers. So, adequate land will be required for setting up all the amenities. Land acquisition for widening around 35-km stretch of Moothakunnam-Edapally national highway had been pending for the past couple of decades owing to protest by land owners. According to many of the land owners, they have already surrendered their holdings for widening the road to 30m. So, authorities should scrap the proposal to acquire land from such persons while further widening the road, the land owners demand. The state government has decided to complete widening of the national highway at the earliest. “We will convene a meeting for expediting the land acquisition process next week,” Suhas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/water-metro-plan-gains-impetus/articleshow/76678667.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Heritage art drive to revive Kolkata’s love for trams||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) has started putting up heritage installations inside trams to make commuters aware of the traditional value of this mode of transport. On Sunday, a tram on the Tollygunge-Ballygunge route got heritage art installed which highlights its eventful journey in the city and displays how it has metamorphosed from a horse-drawn vehicle to an electric one. “We are aghast at how commuters abuse the tram compartments by spitting betel juice or littering. Through this campaign, we will make commuters appreciate that they are boarding the oldest surviving tram system in Asia. The idea is to to instil a sense of pride in the younger generation about the city’s heritage,” said a WBTC official. The trams began in 1873 and got electrified in 1900. Since 1902, the electric tram has been running in the City of Joy. Like WBTC’s electric buses, which received appreciation from International Environment Agency (IEA), the trams, too, are environment friendly and form an integral part of Kolkata’s intangible assets. When contacted over phone, WBTC MD Rajanvir Singh Kapur said, “The idea is to nudge people into respecting heritage, make children aware of the history of trams and keep them clean.” Trams stopped plying in March when the lockdown started. Then tracks and the overhead wire system were damaged when trees were uprooted during Amphan. Since then, restoration work has been under way. The WBTC team of engineers is now working overnight to restore the tracks. Out of the six routes that had been operational before the lockdown, one has been restored so far. The trial run was conducted on June 13 and services resumed from June 14. All social distancing norms and safety protocols have been maintained on board. No passenger is allowed on without a mask, and regular disinfection and sanitization of the vehicles are being carried out after each shift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/heritage-art-drive-to-revive-citys-love-for-trams/articleshow/76680425.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: 190 health workers hired for CFLTCs in district||KOCHI: In view of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the health department has appointed additional doctors, nurses and junior health inspectors at Covid first line treatment centres where asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms would be admitted. The department hired 50 doctors, more than 50 nurses, 80 junior health inspectors and 10 lab technicians on contract basis in Ernakulam. “Currently, we have around 5,000 health workers comprising doctors, nurses, junior health inspectors, lab technicians, pharmacists in the district. We hired those who completed their respective courses recently after government gave us the permission for the process as per the requirement. We will hire more doctors and nurses if need arises in Ernakulam,” said a health official. The district will need more health workers when more CFLTCs would be opened at various level depending on the number of patients. The hired health workers will be deputed at the CFLTC in Angamaly. "Doctors, nurses, and JHIs hired by the department will be deployed at our CFLTC. Currently, the staff here work for 14 days and undergo quarantine for next 14 days. We pay salary for quarantine days as well," said another health worker. As the Angamaly facility currently houses more than 100 patients, the department has already started work of setting up a similar facility at the convention centre in Cochin international airport ltd too. The facility will start functioning within a few days. However, the government medical college in Kalamassery, which is a tertiary covid care centre in Ernakulam, still struggles with shortage of nurses and their association had even approached higher officials demanding more staff. “There are only 200 nurses and 50 intern students in the medical college, where we still run dialysis, casuality for primary management, maternity, gynecology wards, pediatrics and more ICUs. The 200 nurses include breast feeding mothers and some others who suffer from other ailments. They cannot be posted for Covid duty. Hence, only around 160-170 staff are posted for Covid duty and among them 100 of them are on duty for six shifts every day. These nurses do not get adequate rest due to staff shortage and as a result, many get exhausted soon and some have already started falling ill. We don’t know how can we manage with existing nurses when the number of patients with serious cases would rise in coming days. We need a minimum of 50 nurses immediately,” said Eldhos P Joy, Kalamassery area secretary of Kerala government nurses’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-190-health-workers-hired-for-cfltcs-in-dist/articleshow/76678691.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal, Metro likely to discuss resuming operations from Wednesday||KOLKATA: Senior government and Metro Railway officials are expected to meet at Nabanna on Monday to discuss the possibility of resuming services, with restrictions, from Wednesday. While Metro officials said they are prepared to run trains, the precautions that need to be taken will have to be worked out. Metro will seek assistance from the state for effective crowd management. The Metro isn’t designed to keep away passengers, a source said. “We carry out routine checks and several equipment have been replaced or repaired. We have also held regular trials and running trains will not be a problem. However, effective crowd management will be a major challenge. These matters will certainly be discussed,” Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said. While the plan to resume Metro services was welcomed by some, others have cautioned that things could get out of hand unless strict control is maintained. According to health experts, caution has to be taken along the underground stretch where air gets circulated. Others said adhering to the ‘sitting only’ norm would be a problem. “I wonder how the Metro will calculate how many people get off at a station to allow a similar number to board. If this is not perfect, there will be people standing. Sanitization of platforms and rakes on a regular basis may also be a problem,” said web designer Sharmila Roy, who used to be a regular Metro commuter before the lockdown. While some felt there won’t be too much crowd as educational institutions are closed and many offices are working at half capacity, others, like Tollygunge resident Oindrila Sen, said this is why there is no reason to rush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-metro-likely-to-discuss-resuming-ops-from-wed/articleshow/76680427.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Day 2: Sero survey gains pace in Delhi, challenges remain||NEW DELHI: After a rather tepid start on Saturday, the serological survey in Delhi picked up pace on Sunday with the number of blood samples collected from across the city going up nearly three times. “The total number of blood samples collected on Sunday was 1,947, which were taken from all districts barring two,” said an official. On Saturday, the total stood at 677 samples. “The number of samples will go up by the day as we are increasing the number of teams on the ground. Eventually, 200 teams will be deployed,” he said. The fortnight-long survey, which will assess the spread of Covid-19 in the city and gauge the development of immunity to the virus in the community, is being carried out by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Delhi government. The randomised survey will collect 20,000 blood samples across age groups and sections of the society. “The testing is starting in our laboratory but the results will be shared only on July 10 when the survey is completed,” an NCDC official said. The survey has started at a time when district officials are already carrying out a door-to-door Covid survey and running antigen testing centres. It has not only put a lot of pressure on the government machinery but also leads to confusion among people as most are unable to gauge the reason for collecting random samples, said a district official. “We had to rope in corporation officials too as the door-to-door survey has to be completed by July 6 and the serological survey by July 10,” said a North district official. Antigen tests and sending patients to home isolation, Covid Care Centre or hospitals are also part of district authorities’ duties. Apart from ASHA and anganwadi workers, teachers and healthcare staff of corporations have also been deployed for the surveys, including those of the malaria department, said an official. “Surveying 100% population is a challenge but we are geared up for it,” he said. For the door-to-door survey, each ASHA worker has been given two assistants to fill up forms and update information on a central database on the spot through mobile phones. “Those found with symptoms are asked to visit the nearest centre for antigen tests the next day,” he said. Nurses and technicians collecting blood samples in the serological survey have to wear PPE kits while working in the open in extreme heat. “Sometimes you feel that you will just faint of exhaustion. We take rests between two samples to recuperate,” said a healthcare worker in Central district. Convincing people to give samples isn’t easy either. “Most ask us why should they give blood sample when they have no symptoms. We have to patiently explain the process but we can’t force anyone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-2-sero-survey-gains-pace-challenges-remain/articleshow/76679409.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Seven new cases in Ernakulam; Thrissur man’s source still unknown||KOCHI: Ernakulam reported seven new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday taking the total number of patients under treatment to 173. As many as 169 are under treatment in Kalamassery medical college and at Adlux convention centre. Three others are in INHS Sanjeevani and one is at a private hospital. Two people, including one Kottayam native, were discharged after recuperating from the disease. Of the seven cases reported, four came from abroad and the rest from other states. Meanwhile, health officials are preparing the list of people who came in contact with the Thrissur native who was tested positive on Saturday and whose source of infection is still unknown. Samples of four primary contacts have been sent for testing. The area surrounding the firm, located in division 67 of Kochi corporation, where the patient worked and stayed, has been declared as containment zone. Earlier, on Sunday, 1,061 people were placed under home quarantine and 783 were released from the list. Currently, 11,895 people are under home quarantine in Ernakulam, 584 in covid care centers and 1,172 in paid quarantine facilities. Fourteen people were placed under observation at various hospitals on Sunday and 16 others were released. A total of 215 are under observation at various hospitals. The Covid control room received 638 calls and of these 250 were from public. As many as 198 samples were sent for testing on Sunday. Results of 229 samples which were earlier sent for testing were received on Sunday of which seven were found positive. Results of 304 samples are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/7-new-cases-in-ekm-thrissur-mans-source-still-unknown/articleshow/76678707.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bike seats ‘high’, cops dig out booze||AHMEDABAD: On Sunday, cops noticed that the seats of two bikes were suspiciously ‘high’ — a search revealed booze hidden in special tanks below the seats. The cops of the prevention of crime branch (PCB) were acting on a tip-off. They intercepted the two bikes near Vinzol railway crossing in Vatva on Sunday afternoon. Dhiraj Rai was riding one bike and Tushar Parmar was riding the other. “The men did not have any bags with them,” said a PCB official. “However, both bikes had their seats placed much higher than usual. We pulled off the seats and saw tanks with Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL).” PCB sources said that special tanks had been built into the petrol tanks of the bikes. “We have recovered about 25 litres of IMFL,” the PCB official said. “The duo will be sent for Covid-19 testing before their official arrest.” Earlier on Sunday, a team led by sub-inspector A D Chavda of the PCB found 125 tins of beer and 265 IMFL bottles of 180ml hidden in bushes at an isolated spot in Saijpur Bogha. Chavda and his men had also received a tip-off. “Two more men, Shashi Chara and Mayur Chara, have been rounded up,” said Chavda. On Saturday, Bapunagar police’s sub-inspector A J Barot had intercepted an autorickshaw carrying vegetables, near Ajit Mill Crossroads. “We searched the autorickshaw based on a tip-off,” a police source said. “We found 468 litres of country-made liquor hidden under sacks of vegetables.” Police said the autorickshaw driver has revealed that the consignment was given by a bootlegger named Jigar Dantania of Mahudha, about 58km from Ahmedabad. The consignment was meant for a woman bootlegger in Gomtipur named Farzanabanu Pathan, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bike-seats-high-cops-dig-out-booze/articleshow/76679474.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vadodara||VMC’s north zone reports 12 new cases||Vadodara: Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s north zone remained the worst-hit due to Covid-19 as 12 fresh cases were recorded from the zone on Sunday evening. In the 24 hours ending on Sunday evening, Vadodara city and district registered 44 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,178. Of these, north zone counts for 785 cases. On the other hand, VMC’s east zone recorded only four new cases but the total number of cases has reached 589, while the south zone too recorded ten more cases taking the total tally to 383. The total number of cases in west zone now stand at 150, with the addition of seven cases with Vadodara rural having seen an addition of eleven more cases, even as the total number of cases touched 254. Fresh cases have been reported from Karelibaug, Laheripura, Yakutpura, Baranpura, Gorwa, Siyabaug, Makarpura, Wadi, Hathikhana, Gendi gate, Pratapnagar, Fatehpura, Kalali Road, Atladara, Waghodiya Road, Manjalpur, Dandia Bazaar, Channi, Gotri Sevasi Road, Sama, Diwalipura and Vasna Road within the VMC limits. In Vadodara rural, fresh cases have been reported from Padra, Padamla, Dabhoi and Amodar. The results are from 272 samples that have been tested in the last 24 hours. Currently, 619 patients are under treatment, of which the condition of 454 is said to be stable, 134 are on oxygen while 31 are being treated with support of ventilator/bipap machines. On Sunday, 26 patients including ten from the government and 16 from private hospitals were discharged taking the total number of recoveries to 1,509. Currently, 1,000 individuals are under quarantine. Of these, 986 are under home quarantine while 14 others at under quarantine at private facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmcs-north-zone-reports-12-new-cases/articleshow/76677635.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||CISF PSI attempts suicide||AHMEDABAD: A police sub-inspector, Pradeepkumar Sauren, serving in Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) attempted suicide on Sunday morning and shot two bullets into his chest from his service revolver. Sauren has been hospitalized in a critical condition. Currently, the reasons behind Sauren’s suicide attempt remain unknown. Police are probing the case. Police sources said Sauren was deployed in the unit behind the airport and stays in nearby staff quarters. “On Sunday morning, Sauren shot two bullets into his chest to commit suicide while on duty. Hearing the sound of shots CISF personnel and staff ran to his help and shifted him to a hospital,” said a source from Meghaninagar police station. “We found two empty cartridges and the pistol with which Sauren had attempted suicide,” said an official of Meghaninagar police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cisf-psi-attempts-suicide/articleshow/76679473.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vijayawada||As cases increase, Chittoor district administration on its toes||TIRUPATI: The three prominent temples in Chittoor district--Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala, Lord Srikalahasteeswara Swamy temple at Srikalahasti and Sri Varasidhi Vinayaka Swamy temple at Kanipakam—had reopened for pilgrim worship on June 11. Between June 11 and June 27, number of Covid-19 cases in Chittoor district increased from 481 to 1,327. As on June 11, 302 patients were discharged, four had died and 179 patients were undergoing treatment at hospitals. The district administration is worried at the increase in the number of active patients from 179 to 839, a five-fold increase in 16 days. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta told TOI that though there was no correlation between revival of temple tourism with rising Covid-19 cases, it is a concern that such a large number of devotees are thronging prominent places of worship in the district. If cases continue to rise, the district administration will have to review the situation factoring in concerns of the Tirumala, Kanipakam and Srikalahasti temples and enforce stringent measures to contain the virus spread. No Covid-19 case has been reported at Tirumala. But Tirupati urban and rural mandals and Srikalahasti mandal have reported 476 cases out of 1,327 reported in the district. Tirupati municipal commissioner PS Girisha said the spike was not because of revival of pilgrim worship. He said a lot of people are visiting and returning from Covid hotspots in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and other parts of the country. ‘‘Pilgrims visiting the temple city in large numbers is a cause of concern but so far not a single case has been reported which is linked to temple visits,” he said. Dr. P Krishna Prasanthi, vice-chairperson, Association of Physicians of India, AP chapter said: ‘‘Devotees to Tirumala and other temples in Chittoor district should get screened for Covid-19 and book darshan tickets only after they test negative. It would reduce the chances of closing down places of worship due to virus spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-cases-increase-chittoor-district-admin-on-its-toes/articleshow/76678703.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Beautification drive underway to give Jaisalmer mega facelift||JAISALMER: Jaisalmer Urban Improvement Trust is carrying out beautification work at the leading crossroads and main tourist spots to make the city beautiful. At many places, high-mast lights have been installed while at a few places reading corners have been planned. Apart from this, there’s a plan to beautify the banks of Gadisar Lake. The beautification drive is being carried out at the initiative of district collector and Urban Improvement Trusts (UIT) chairman Namit Mehta following the directions of UIT secretary Anurag Bhargava. Mehta said out of 22 places, high mast lights have been installed at 16 places, while progress is on at three places. The work will be completed in a fortnight. The banks of Gadisar Lake will also be decked upCollector has also come up with a plan for beautification around the banks of Gadisar lake and the UIT has been requested in this connection. He said it has been decided to build reading corner at various places and one such corner has been started at Amar Shaheed Sagarmal Gopa Senior Secondary School. This reading corner will prove useful for women and girls. Apart from this, work of constructing a reading corner opposite Jawahir Hospital is in progress. Another reading corner will come up on Gadisar Lake. In a recently held meeting of UIT, Mehta said Jaisalmer has grand and wide scope for development and UIT should give shape to it. At the meeting, secretary Bhargava said the proposal for widening and development work of road from Ambedkar Park to Barmer Road should be sent to UIT for the approval after the technical sanction of Rs 815 lakh. Similarly, the proposal of widening and development of Jodhpur Road should be sent to urban development department for approval after technical sanction of Rs 618 lakh. UIT has approved the proposal of financial sanction of Rs 171 lakh for making 59 EWS quarters. Similarly, financial sanction of Rs 194.92 lakh has been approved for development work at Amar Shaheed Sagarmal Gopa, Maharana Pratap and SD Vyas Hotel complex to Jethwai Road to Sunset point. He said at the meeting it was decided to carry out development work at Hanuman Chaurah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/beautification-drive-underway-to-give-jaisalmer-mega-facelift/articleshow/76680049.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Survivors’ network to address Covid worries||KOLKATA: Has someone in your family developed symptoms of Covid-19 and you do not know what to do? Has someone in the house tested positive and you can’t decide whether to keep the person in home isolation or go for hospital admission? Covid issues like these that make you worry will soon be addressed by a group of individuals under an initiative called Covid Care Network (CCN). Doctors, who have survived Covid, family members of survivors and other healthcare workers and social activists are part of it. “When my 74-year-old maternal uncle with a co-morbid condition was infected, we went through an endless ordeal. And his family was in a denial mode fearing stigma in their locality at Entally. With suggestions and help from model Madhabilata Mitra, who had also struggled when her mother was infected, my uncle got admitted to ID Hospital Beliaghata and is now back home cured,” said mountaineer Satyarup Siddhanta, who is part of the network. Mitra is also a member of CCN. To be launched on July 1 on Doctors’ Day, CCN’s mission is to improve access to healthcare, provide psycho-social support to the Covid-infected and their family through collective and coordinated actions by Covid winners and associates. “When I got infected I was anxious and saw the same kind of fear among the Covid-infected during my hospitalisation. We need to address such fears,” said Arijit Ghosh of CCN. The doctor later donated his plasma for the clinical trial. The organisation will try to reach out to people through dashboards, portals and helpline numbers 24X7, where experts and volunteers will provide guidance, counselling on social and medical issues. Violinist Pallab Banerjee, a Covid winner, has composed a theme song that callers will get to hear when they dial the helpline. “Attempts will be made to reach out to people on home isolation and also the aged with co-morbid conditions. We will try to rope in local clubs, medical students, house staff doctors and nurses too,” said hepatologist Abhijit Chowdhury of SSKM. Apart from Mitra, Siddhanta, Ghosh and Chowdhury, others in the initial team are infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray, surgical oncologist Diptendra Sarkar of SSKM, neurologists Bimal Kanti Roy and Alok Pandit of Bangur Institute of Neurosciences, public health activist Parthasarathi Mukherjee and actor Debshankar Haldar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/survivors-network-to-address-covid-worries/articleshow/76679445.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 29, 2020||Bhopal||China dominates bypoll debate in MP; Cong warns of legal action against BJP||Bhopal: Amid continuing tensions in Ladakh, China seems to be turning into a bigger issue than Coronavirus for the make-or-break assembly bypolls in Madhya Pradesh.Former chief minister Kamal Nath, under whose leadership Congress will fight the bypolls, is being targeted by the ruling BJP for reducing import duties on Chinese products when he was Union minister for commerce and industries.In defence of Kamal Nath, the state Congress started counter-attacking chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for his visits to China in September 2011 and June 2016. Congress alleges that the second visit was “sponsored by the Communist Party of China”. “Chouhan laid out the red carpet for Chinese investors during Investors’ Summit,” Nath’s media convener Narendra Saluja said.Congress also points out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi travelled to China four times as CM of Gujarat and five time as PM. In the past six years of NDA government, Congress says, Chinese imports have increased three times.On Saturday, state BJP president V D Sharma burned an effigy of Kamal Nath near his party office and Congress held a press meet to accuse BJP of “maligning Nath’s image when China has entered India’s side of LAC and is constructing permanent structure there”.On Saturday evening, Nath responded on social media. “BJP has always resorted to lies in order to divert attention from real issues. It has been raising false claims to mislead and confuse people. Cases that are false, baseless and have no evidence,” he tweeted. “Issues that have no relevance today are given false propaganda by BJP. If all that they say is true, then why did they not speak up for years? Why were they silent?”The senior Congress leader said that people are dying from Corona infection, and farmers and common people are in distress due to high inflation, rising fuel prices and high electricity bills, yet the “internal feud in BJP is not permitting expansion of the cabinet”. “BJP is not bothered about these crises and is silent on real issues. But their work of misleading people and false propaganda continues,” Nath alleged.Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha warned of legal action against BJP leaders for a “vilification campaign against Kamal Nath”. Former minister Jitu Patwari and AICC media convener Abhay Dubey said that when Nath was Union minister, he took steps to curtail dumping of Chinese products in India.“Imports from China were worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore then. Today, after six years of BJP-led NDA government, it’s is Rs 4.92 lakh crore. This revelation has been made by the Parliamentary Committee, which said that MSME in India has been adversely affected because of imports both legal and illegal from China,” Dubey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/china-dominates-bypoll-debate-in-mp-cong-warns-of-legal-action-against-bjp/articleshow/76678723.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Tenants want Kerala government to bring rent regulations||KOCHI: Despite the economic slowdown and the resultant job cuts and pay cuts, the rentals of city houses and apartments have not gone down, and people are struggling to find affordable housing. Many employees are reluctant to travel by public transport due to the fear of community spread of Covid-19 and hence are in search of a suitable accommodation. Amalu S K of Angamaly, who is employed in a public-sector company, said: “Hostels are not a safe option. The inmates work at different places and interact with lots of people. Travelling up and down from Angamaly is trying. I am looking out for a 2BHK apartment in the city. The brokers are quoting Rs 15,000 per month and also demanding a three-month advance. We are facing pay cuts and its nearly impossible to pay such a huge amount.” Many tenants say the owners are reluctant to reduce rentals. In a city like Kochi not all flat owners are dependent on the rentals for survival. “These are unusual circumstances, and everyone is struggling to survive. We have learnt that it is the brokers who raise the rent so as to get more commission,” said Renjith K P, a government employee from Kodungalloor. The tenants are of the view that the state government should bring certain regulations regarding rent in various urban and rural zones. Meanwhile, some of the house owners say that they understand the concerns of tenants and the prevailing economic situation. “We have agreed to reduce the rent of our apartment in the city,” said Shilpa and Anand, a couple working in the private sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tenants-want-govt-to-bring-rent-regulations/articleshow/76678738.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital to soon have 200 ICU beds||NEW DELHI: Lok Nayak Hospital, one of the largest health facilities in the capital, is now finally coming out of the negative limelight that it has suffered for several months. Apart from another 100 ICU beds, which has taken to total to 200, patients admitted there will now be able to speak to their relatives via video call, a provision non-existent earlier. Due to a surge in the number of patients in the first week of June, many issues had come to light. To rectify things, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appointed a team to study these issues on a daily basis and come up with solutions. Since most of the serious patients were being sent there, the hospital’s resources were stretched causing delays in admission and lapses in treatment. Union home minister Amit Shah had visited the hospital on June 15 and offered suggestions, such as increasing testing, making the admission process easier, installing CCTV cameras in each ward, and issuing “good health” certificates upon discharge. Ten days later, Kejriwal visited the hospital, which was followed by several changes. The CM representative team and hospital administration closely monitored the situation and created an action plan. “Several review meetings were held followed by the CM’s visit to the hospital,” said a government official. “Apart from increasing the number of beds, ventilators were installed in the casualty ward to avoid complications due to low oxygen levels and reduce mortality. There are 80 ventilators of which 21 are available for use by patients,” the official said. The hospital has over 2,000 beds of which 384 have oxygen pipelines, 1,200 oxygen cylinders and 416 oxygen concentrators. There are also 21 ambulances in the hospital. The bed capacity in the casualty ward has been increased from 25 to 40. Dr Suresh Kumar, Lok Nayak medical director, said, “The CM’s personal supervision has helped improve facilities. We focused on five core issues. First, we set up a call centre to contact every patient daily for feedback. Secondly, we launched a video calling facility for patients to be in touch with their families. Thirdly, there are regular visits by doctors and nurses in every ward. We also managed to treat severe patients successfully through plasma therapy. Finally, the issues regarding the management of dead bodies were also resolved.” A dedicated helpdesk and waiting room has been set up near gate number 4 to update family members about the status of patients and to answer any procedural queries. Video calling facility via tablets has been set up in coronavirus wards and at a counter outside. A Delhi government official said patients are called once daily from the call centre and asked about their health, availability of food and medicines, if they are able to talk to their families and any complaints or issues. For plasma therapy, the hospital took the required permission from ICMR. The number of deaths have decreased by more than 50% in the past two weeks. In the week between June 6 and 12, there were a hundred deaths. They reduced to 51 in the week between June 20 and 26. “Pregnant women have been denied emergency support in most hospitals across the country. However, at Lok Nayak 114 babies were successfully delivered since March 17. Apart from this, 1,130 dialysis sessions were also conducted,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lok-nayak-to-soon-have-200-icu-beds/articleshow/76679434.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE 10th exam 2020: 11.50 lakh students to appear in last 2 board exams today & tomorrow||AJMER: Around 11.5 lakh students will appear in the class X social science exam of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) on Monday in more than 6,000 examination centres across the state. Social science and maths exams were not conducted as the lockdown was forced in the state on March 20. Looking at the large number of students appearing in the exam, the RBSE has asked authorities to ensure proper maintenance of social distancing norms strictly. A similar number f students will also appear for the maths exam on June 30. The CBSE has cancelled the remaining board exams of classes X and XII but the RBSE has already conducted the remaining exams of class XII. The exam will start at 8.30am but the RBSE has Asked students that they should reach the examination centre an hour before. The board claimed that question papers have already been sent to examination centres and sub-centres for keeping social distancing. A board official said thermal screening was compulsory for every student and staff entering the examination centre and flying squads have been asked to ensure that social distancing in classrooms are followed strictly. Board sources said as all examinations will over on June 30, it is preparing to declare the result of class X and XII board exams by July 15. Officials said they were are trying to declare the result of class XII first so that students can apply for admission in higher education institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-50-lakh-students-to-appear-in-last-2-board-exams-today-tomorrow/articleshow/76681434.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Varanasi||VSCL inks MoU with IIT-BHU to expedite Smart City work||Varanasi: To accelerate the pace of the Smart City mission in Varanasi, the Indian Institute of Technology Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) signed a MoU with Varanasi Smart City Limited (VSCL) and also launched a virtual centre- ‘Smart City Cell’ at the institute. Signing the MoU, director IIT-BHU Prof Pramod Kumar Jain and chief executive officer of VSCL and municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi agreed to proceed with the modalities to ensure timely attainment of the goals and said that the initiative will expedite the process of transforming Varanasi into a smart city under the Smart City Mission of ministry of housing and urban affairs. At the Smart City Cell, a team of academics and professionals of the institute will work in close coordination with the VSCL officials to address diverse needs of the project. Jain said that the objective of this agreement is to further leverage the involvement of the faculty and students of the institute in the overall development of the city. The scope of the collaboration includes verification and evaluation of all VSCL designs (especially the structural designs) and drawings by experts from the institute. VSCL will also associate students of the IIT(BHU) for the project related works, he said adding that under and post-graduate students will do their summer internship at VSCL in projects related to IoT, information technology, structural engineering, architecture, urban planning, smart mobility, environment, waste management, energy, GIS, ponds restoration, Ganga rejuvenation, sensor deployment and many other fields. Furthermore, professionals from IIT(BHU) will be invited to be part of the key technical discussions and strategic meetings being held at VSCL, to share their expert opinion and to provide appropriate solutions, he added. IIT(BHU) team will be involved in the proper water management of the both groundwater and surface water resources including the accurate water budgeting of the city corresponding to domestic, industrial demand of Varanasi city, he said adding that 3D city modelling combined with IoT, AI Cloud, and Big Data Analytics is playing a crucial role in development of sustainable cities. IIT(BHU) has recently established a centre of excellence in technology innovation hub (TIH) with support from DST in the field of data analytics and predictive technologies (DAPT). VSCL has shown his keen interest to apply IoT and DAPT in the field of traffic management and Pedestrian Management in the city areas. The municipal commissioner asked to hold a series of webinars to utilise the experience, expertise, and lessons learnt from other Smart City Projects. A team of experts was also formed to organize the webinar series in view of the suggestion of Rathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vscl-inks-mou-with-iit-bhu-to-expedite-smart-city-work/articleshow/76679553.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen want night tariff charges fixed at Rs 2.50 per unit||Ludhiana: A delegation of city businessmen met Varinderpal Singh, chief engineer of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to discuss the problems being faced by the industry. The major demand put forward by the businessmen included fixing night tariff charges at Rs 2.50 per unit and fixing the normal power rates at Rs 5 per unit. According to businessmen, in the wake of the ongoing crisis ensued from the Covid-19 situation, the reduction in power charges is must in order to compensate the industry a bit for the huge losses its bearing. Giving more details, Gurmeet Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) said, “The night tariff for the industry should be fixed at Rs.2.50 per unit as a huge amount of power in Punjab was surplus at this moment and due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation, there was not going to be any huge demand in coming time as well. The huge surplus power is being wasted due to non-consumption at night time as electricity could not be stored by the department. So, if the rate of night tariff is reduced, not only the industry will benefit but also the PSPCL as the surplus power will be consumed judiciously.” Kular added, “We also apprised the chief engineer that against the promise of the state government, till now no category of industrial consumer has been able to get the power supply at Rs 5 per unit , therefore efforts must be made to ensure that the industry is supplied power at a flat rate of Rs 5 per unit, so that the cost of production of industry comes down. Both these proposals if accepted will provide a huge relief to the industry, which is running into huge losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown and if power charges are reduced the huge burden on industry will be reduced and we will be able to compensate a bit for our losses.” According to Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, “It has been observed that the existing 66 KV power feeding systems of Ludhiana is running to its maximum capacity. Moreover, Ludhiana is now a smart city and considering the growth of a smart city, the demand of power is on the rise. It is notable that more than 50 industrial connections in Ludhiana are pending due to feasibility limitation of the existing grids of Ludhiana. These pending connections should be issued at the earliest as this will not only generate more revenue for the PSPCL, but also generate the revenue for the government in the form of GST, property tax, octroi and other taxes.” The chief engineer, meanwhile, assured the businessmen that all their demands would be looked into and he would try to resolve these in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-want-night-tariff-charges-fixed-at-rs-2-50-per-unit/articleshow/76679431.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CMO mulls CBI investigation into oustee quota plot allotments||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government is mulling a CBI probe into the allotment of 13 residential plots under the oustee quota by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradikaran (HSVP) in sectors 5 and 6 of Mansa Devi Complex in Panchkula. Irregularities have been alleged in the allotment of these plots for some time now. Sources said the CBI probe is likely to be ordered on the recommendation of state assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who had brought the alleged scam to the notice of CM Manohar Lal Khattar way back in 2016. The allotment of 13 plots was allegedly manipulated by the officials of HSVP and the district administration, wherein 154 such oustees of sectors 5 and 6 of Mansa Devi Complex, which is adjacent to UT Chandigarh, were ignored. It is alleged that the local committee ignored genuine allottees and added oustees from other sectors by bending the rules. Some plots are also allegedly allotted to the oustees of Sector 4 of MDC. Having successfully pursued the case with the chief minister’s office (CMO), the speaker is now demanding a probe into the allotment of plots in the past one decade. “We had knowledge of this scam in the past also and raised this issue a number of times before the previous governments, but in vain. But, this time we took up this issue strongly with CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who had ordered a preliminary probe, and now the allegations are found to be correct. To my information, the CMO has given the go-ahead, but a formal order for CBI probe is awaited. If probe begins, lots of startling revelations will come,’’ said speaker Gupta. Under the oustee quota, residential plots of various sizes are reserved for the persons whose land is acquired for carving out residential sectors in urban areas. This rule is part of the HSVP’s allotment policy since its inception in 1977. Introduced for the benefit of outstees, this quota, constituting 5% of the total stock of residential plots in the sector, has allegedly become a way for allotment of plots from the backdoor. It is alleged that the number of genuine oustees actually taking possession of their rightful plots is quite less in cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-cmo-mulls-cbi-investigation-into-oustee-quota-plot-allotments/articleshow/76680064.cms||Manvir Saini
June 29, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi witnesses highest spike in day, 28 test positive||Varanasi: As many as 28 new Covid-19 positive cases came to light in Varanasi, the highest figure of a single day since the outbreak of the epidemic in the district, on Sunday. The death toll also climbed to 17 with the death of an infected woman on Sunday. In neighbouring Azamgarh district, nodal officer for Covid-19 and deputy chief medical officer of Azamgarh district, along with his wife, have been tested positive for coronavirus after which the CMO office was sealed for 24 hours. Meanwhile, Mau and Mirzapur registered 16 and four new cases, respectively. CMO Varanasi Dr VB Singh said that 28 persons in the district were found infected after the lab test reports were received from BHU. One 67-year-old woman, a hyper tension-cardiac patient undertreatment to a private hospital, who was also tested Covid-19 positive, died, he said adding that the total tally of Covid-19 in Varanasi reached to 451 of which 17 have died so far while 274 have been cured. The active cases in the district is 160 now, he added. In Azamgarh, CMP Dr AK Mishra said that eight new cases of Covid-19 positive were detected in the district. A deputy CMO, who was also the nodal officer for Covid-19 and his wife were also among the new cases of infection, he said adding that the deputy CMO had not been coming to his office for five days due to some skin problem. But, as a precautionary measure, entire CMO office has been sealed for 24 hours for proper sanitisation. Other three patients are a medical store owner and his two family members of Sidhari area, a salesman of a medical store of Phoolpur and two persons of Lalpur and Mirzapur blocks. With the fresh cases of Covid-19, the total number of coronavirus cases in Azamgarh has reached up to 227 of which 167 had become cured so far while seven had died. Active cases in the district are 53 now, added Mishra. In Mirzapur, CMO Dr PK Tiwari said that total number of positive cases in the district reached to 84 with the detection of two new cases on Sunday. As many as 59 Covid patients have been cured so far while one had died. He said 24 patients are being treated in the district. In Mau, district magistrate Gyan Prakash Tripathi said that since Saturday late night 16 new cases of Covid-19 positive were reported after which district’s tally reached up to 116. So far, 65 have become recovered so far and three had died, he said adding that 48 cases are in active category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-witnesses-highest-spike-in-day-28-test-positive/articleshow/76679577.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Wire theft: Gang busted in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Police busted a wire-theft racket and recovered 109kg cable. SP Kiran Kang said they got a tip-off that a gang was active in Mohangarh which cut and stole live power wires from poles. Mohangarh SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi said they got a call on June 26 that thieves had stolen cables from an under-construction line being laid and that they were moving going towards Nehdai in a vehicle. Police chased them and also informed the Nehdai checkpost incharge who along with SEW patrolling team stopped the vehicle and recovered 109kg wire, a cutter and a mobile phone, but the thieves managed to escape. A case has been lodged and search is on to nab the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wire-theft-gang-busted-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/76680062.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Tribal women trek 5 kms to fetch water in Sheopur||BHOPAL: Women are being forced to travel more than five kilometres to fetch water in the tribal block of Karhal in Sheopur district, bordering Rajasthan. Tube wells are non-functional in the remote block and other sources of water have already exhausted leading to an acute water crisis. Every morning, Saharia tribe women are seen marching a long distance to fetch water from rivulets deep inside the jungles. Mostly, it is the women and children who take the burden of carrying water. Tribal villagers said that almost half of Karhal tehsil comprising 160 villages is reeling under the crisis. Sushila, a tribal woman hailing from Nichli Khori village said, “Most of our time during the day is spent in fetching water and cooking. We don’t have bikes or bullock carts, so we carry the water containers on our heads”. Sushila said because of a good rainfall last year, cattle in the village survived the summers and that was the only difference. Otherwise, the water crisis has continued unabated. Villagers said that non-functional tube wells and poor groundwater are the major reasons for the crisis. The tube wells were not repaired for long, which has aggravated the water crisis, they alleged. Many villages, including Nichli Khori, Moravan and Adhvada, among others are reeling under severe water crisis. Shabnam Afghani of Mahtma Gandhi Seva Ashram, who is working among the tribals said, “Over 2,000 people are affected by the water crisis in the region where the groundwater level is extremely poor.” Meanwhile, denying any water crisis, Karhal janpad chief executive officer Shyam Sunder Bhatnagar said, “There may be some problem because of some non-functional tube wells, but we ensure that they are repaired on time.” “Sometimes, even the electricity poles are uprooted because of high-velocity winds and this also leads to disruption of power leading to momentary crisis of water”, Bhatnagar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tribal-women-trek-5-kms-to-fetch-water-in-sheopur/articleshow/76678735.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Violence in Gujarat's Chansol village over SC man wearing shorts||AHMEDABAD: A trivial issue of a man wearing shorts took a violent turn in Chansol village, Kheralu taluka, Mehsana and now police personnel have been deployed to control the situation. The man who wore the shorts was a tailor belonging to a Scheduled Caste (SC) and the man who objected and later with his friends beat up the tailor, belonged to the Darbar community. Two accused persons have been arrested and a hunt is on to nab another six accused who have been charged for causing injuries and under relevant sections of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) act. The FIR registered by inspector R K Pathak of Kheralu police states, “As Parmar went out to bus stop while wearing shorts, he was beaten by Darbars.” An official of Kheralu police said that cops have been deployed at various points in Chansol village and another team has been constantly patrolling there. Around 30 cops have been keeping vigil over the situation. According to the FIR filed with Kheralu police, Haresh Parmar, 35, a tailor from Chansol village, was walking towards a bus stop wearing shorts on June 24. At that time, a villager from Darbar community, Montu Thakor, asked Parmar why he was wearing shorts. Parmar said he could wear anything he liked. At this, Thakor threatened him of dire consequences. After reaching home, Parmar tried to seek the help of sarpanch Ashokji Rana who told him he was busy in a meeting. Parmar then called up Thakor’s father and sought his help after telling him that his son had threatened him for wearing shorts. In the evening, Thakor called up Parmar and asked why he had contacted his father and again threatened him. At night, on June 24, Thakor and eight of his accomplices, all from the Darbar community, went to Parmar’s house and began abusing him. When Parmar objected, they attacked him and pelted stones at his house, while abusing him again. Parmar suffered injuries on his legs and went to a private hospital and later filed a complaint with Kheralu police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/violence-in-village-over-sc-man-wearing-shorts/articleshow/76679472.cms||Ashish Chauhan
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||From yoga to listening old songs, these cops release stress this way||Ludhiana: Amid the hectic and stressful schedule due to Covid-10 outbreak and the increasing cases of policemen getting infected with the virus, these cops are keeping themselves positive and stress free in different manners. From performing yoga every morning, to listening to their favourite old melody’s, gardening, reading, cooking and playing games, is keeping these cops upbeat. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “Yoga and meditation keep me stress free. It’s a part of my daily routine now. Every morning I do meditation and then yoga for at least one hour. It also helps in keeping body fit and immune.” Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said, “Music plays a really good role in staying upbeat. I listen to instrumental music and Buddhist chants for keeping my mind calm and stay focused. Besides, in morning I do yoga, meditation and cycling and in evening I play badminton, squash and do brisk walk too.” While these two officials preferred physical exercises to stay healthy, some other officials listen to their favourite singers, sufi music and also do gardening and book reading. For assistant commissioner of police (east) Devinder Chaudhary, listening to old Bollywood songs and sufi songs in the best way to stay relaxed and calm. Chaudhary said, “Old Bollywood music is my escape from all stress. I have a collection of songs of my favourite singers Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Mohammad Rafi, Kishore Kumar, Mukesh in my mobile. I listen to these songs after duty hours while returning home to release all stress. Moreover, physical exercise too helps in staying positive and active too. Morning walk and exercise is part of my daily routine. Additional deputy commissioner of police Sachin Gupta said, “Being stress free is of utmost importance for us. There are small things that help me stay positive like reading, gardening, playing with my two-year-old son and even helping my wife in kitchen. Due to Covid-19, we are not allowing any maids in the house. So, I and my wife do all the stuff together. After the hectic day I do read a few pages of a book and in morning give some time to gardening as well,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/from-yoga-to-listening-old-songs-these-cops-release-stress-this-way/articleshow/76679439.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Stickers, sanitisers, masks: Traders trying to put Connaught Place shoppers at ease||NEW DELHI: To allay fears of customers and increase footfall in the market during the novel coronavirus pandemic, the Connaught Place traders association has taken up a slew of measures, including arranging stickers with social distancing messages and providing sanitisers and masks to shop staff. From Wednesday onwards, it also plans to get the corridors sanitised regularly. New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) is propagating safety measures which are being adopted by all the member outlets at Connaught Place. “We have prepared and put up educational posters at entry doors and floor stickers outside shops to ensure that visitors maintain Covid-19 discipline. In a phased manner, we are also planning to start a regular sanitisation drive for germfree CP, distribute our own branded masks to shoppers and staff and to give sanitisers to all our members,” said Amit Gupta, executive member of NDTA. Shopkeepers claimed that New Delhi Municipal Council was spraying disinfectants only on road and parking areas. “We wanted the corridors also to be covered where the footfall is high. If NDMC doesn’t do it, we will arrange everything on our own,” said Atul Bhargava, president of NDTA. “Our aim is to create a secure shopping experience for visitors,” he added. “Police teams are visiting the area and taking action against people who don’t bother to wear masks or maintain social distancing. We request them to continue with their drive,” said Bhargava. Shopkeepers claimed to be sanitising their shops daily and checking the temperature of visitors through thermal scanners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stickers-sanitisers-masks-traders-trying-to-put-cp-shoppers-at-ease/articleshow/76679452.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 29, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Head constable accuses CI of assault||UDAIPUR: A head constable posted at Sadar police station in Chittorgarh district has given a written complaint to the SP against the circle inspector and some of his colleagues accusing them of humiliating him by using caste based remarks and assault after he refused to fulfill their alleged demand for a liquor bottle. The complainant said CI Vikram Singh and four other constables manhandled him inside the inspector's chamber on Saturday. “No FIR has been lodged yet, however, I have asked for an inquiry. CO Chittorgarh will look into the matter,” SP Deepak Bhargava told TOI. Panna Lal Meena, the complainant, said he was called to the police station and given a case to investigate. One of the head constables Ranveer Singh asked him to arrange a liquor bottle for the inspector and one for the staff. When Meena refused, the cops who forcibly took him inside the CI's chamber where he was beaten up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/head-constable-accuses-ci-of-assault/articleshow/76680093.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Vanchivayal pepper farmers in distress||IDUKKI: A unique organic farming initiative by tribals living in Periyar tiger reserve has been torpedoed due to bureaucratic inefficiency of the forest department, putting around 65 Oorali tribal families in distress. The Vanchivayal model of tribal farming had earned kudos as a sustainable model of farming in high ranges. The tribespeople were cultivating organic pepper in the buffer region of the Periyar tiger reserve and over the years the tribal farm produce got good demand from European countries. The organic pepper from Vanchivayal ensures nearly 40% higher price compared to the market rate every year. Vanchivayal organic pepper was exported to Germany for 14 consecutive years. But this year, the exports were hit and a group of farmers had to sell their pepper produce in the open market at a cheaper rates. According to sources, every year the eco-development committee (EDC) exported the pepper through a contract agency. But this year, the forest department failed to sign a proper contract for pepper procurement. The agency procured pepper from only about 50% farmers and refused the produce from most others. The farmers were forced to sell the pepper in open market at Vandiperiyar for Rs 300/kg. Last year, it was sold for Rs 480/kg. Radha (name changed), a resident of Vanchivayal, said, “We have over 200kg of pepper and EDC refused to procure it for the first time since 2007. Pepper farming is our only income source and now we forcibly sell it at cheaper rates. If we don’t get proper markets we can’t continue the farming.” Former forest minister and MP Benoy Vishwam said, “When I was forest minister in 2007, we arranged the export of Vanchivayal pepper to Germany after great efforts. Before that, local vendors exploited the farmers. The Vanchivayal model has changed the lifestyle of the tribal community and it should continue. The forest department and government should assure export and proper market to the tribal farmers. I will take up the matter with forest minister K Raju.” Anoop KR, field director, project tiger, Kottayam, said, “EDC procured and exported the pepper. I didn’t get any information on refusal of produce from tribal farmers. I will check and take further action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vanchivayal-pepper-farmers-in-distress/articleshow/76678745.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kanpur||28k Smriti Irani||Kanpur: Union minister Smriti Irani while addressing BJP’s Jan Samvad virtual joint rally of Kanpur-Bundelkhand and Awadh region on Saturday evening hit out at Sonia Gandhi over the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation row, alleging that the Congress president left “no stone unturned to loot the country for her children”. “Congress party should come clean on its “links” with China, and the details of its MoU with China,” she said. To recall, amid an ongoing war of words over the Sino-India standoff in eastern Ladakh, the BJP on June had 25, accused the Congress of receiving a donation of $300,000 from the Chinese Embassy in 2005-06. She also stated that the Congress party had no Samvad with people. “Like Amethi, the Congress will face electoral defeat in Nehru-Gandhi family’s pocket borough of Rae Bareli,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/28k-smriti-irani/articleshow/76679836.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Shimla||In Himachal Pradesh, cycling culture on upswing amid pandemic||MANALI: With an increasing number of people taking to pedalling to stay fit amid the Covid-19 pandemic, sale of bicycles is on the rise across Himachal Pradesh. Cycling for short distances also keeps them away from relatively higher chances of catching the infection in public transport. According to sellers, bicycle sales have increased significantly since April this year. Be it children, youth or elderly, all are buying bicycles. Since outdoor sports activities like cricket, football, volleyball, badminton etc stand halted since March, youth and children have discovered their interest in cycling. They make beelines on roads and narrow trails every morning and evening. Less crowded roads are another reason for the cycling culture catching up in the state. “This is the beginning of cycling culture in Himachal, which will keep increasing. It seems like return of old times. Bicycle sale has jumped manifold in these three months,” a sports bicycle seller Rajeev Sharma said, who also operates an adventure tour company. “Tourism trade is at a standstill due to the Covid-19 crisis, cycle sale is up like never before. This is a good sign. People have now become more health conscious and caring towards the nature. The roads also have thin traffic, which also allows them to pedal safely,” he added. Another bicycle seller Naveen Barongpa said a major part of the buyer is students, who have not much to do at home and were looking for outdoor activity option. “If you wake up early in morning, you will see a large number of cyclists sweating on the steep roads. Some are going pushing their limits and doing adventurous biking on mountain trails,” he said. Most of the youth go for sports cycles, along with helmets and masks. Even the rich have parked their luxury cars and are peddling to their workplaces. Shopkeepers, government employees, some cops and bureaucrats have also become a part of the rising cycling culture of Himachal. Ghanshyam Sharma, a shopkeeper, said he and some of his friends have been pedalling to their shops mid-May. “Shop is about 7km from my home. If I have enough time, I prefer cycling. Many other shopkeepers are also doing so. No traffic congestion also encouraged us to adopt the pollution-free mode of transport that keeps us healthy as well. It’s a difficult time and both mental and physical health is crucial now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-hp-cycling-culture-on-upswing-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76680090.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Paud Police book 50 revellers visiting Mulshi for a monsoon getaway||PUNE: The Paud police on Sunday booked as many as 50 revellers who had gone for a trip to Mulshi taluka to enjoy the essence of monsoon. The district collector recently issued an order closing all picnic spots in the district to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Tamhini Ghat, backwaters of Mulshi dam, Palse waterfall, Pimpri point and Lavasa are favourites among revellers from Pune and Mumbai during the monsoon season. The four months of monsoon also provide business opportunities to the locals. Senior inspector Ashok Dhumal of the Paud police told TOI, “We have closed the entry points to Palse waterfall. The gram panchayat of Varak village has also put up boards at all the picnic spots about the restriction of entry to arrest the spread of Covid-19.” He said the police first request the revellers to return. “Few people take non-conventional routes to reach these spots. We file cases against them under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. On Sunday, we booked 50 such people. Some of them were also booked for not wearing masks,” Dhumal said. “We have put up barricades at Male village. We check each and every vehicle and allow only those with valid e-passes,” Dhumal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-book-50-revellers-visiting-mulshi-for-a-monsoon-getaway/articleshow/76680114.cms||Mandar Deshpande
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Man dies after being beaten up by neighbours over water in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 33-year-old man died in hospital after he was allegedly thrashed by his neighbours over an argument about filling drinking water from a common tap. The incident took place in a village in Najafgarh on Saturday night. The victim, Jitendra, lived with his family in Najafgarh’s Jai Vihar. His brother Anil Singh stated that when he was on his way back from his office, some neighbours informed him that a few people were thrashing his brother in a farm. “My mother and I reached the farm and saw my brother in an injured state. Jitendra revealed that our neighbour Amit Rawat, along with other men, had thrashed him. Amit and his mother also threatened us and we informed police. The accused persons were also brought to the police station, but since the condition of my brother was deteriorating, we rushed him to the hospital,” said Singh. When TOI contacted Jitendra’s cousin Hitender, he revealed that the family was not satisfied with the police investigation. “The FIR doesn’t mention the others who had thrashed Jitendra. He had gone to fill water from a man’s house who had allowed people to fill drinking water from the tap, but the accused were already waiting for my cousin and thrashed him,” said Hitendra. When contacted about the allegations of the family, DCP (outer) A Koan said that the investigation was going on and the accused, Amit, has been arrested. Watch Neighbours allegedly beat man to death over water in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-dies-after-being-beaten-up-by-neighbours-over-water/articleshow/76679448.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||ISI threat: IGs, SPs asked not to share info without proof||JAISALMER: Additional Director General (intelligence) has issued an advisory to all SPs and IGs not to provide any information without confirmation in the wake of credible inputs that Pakistan intelligence agency ISI was making efforts to collect confidential information of border areas through phone calls, social media posts and honey traps. He has directed SPs to write to the army, BSF, air force headquarters and the district administration that no information should go across the border. It may be recalled that police had recently arrested three Pakistan spies from Bikaner and Ganganagar for sending confidential information to ISI. With tension between India and China brewing, there is high alert along the border adjoining Pakistan. Sources said the ISI often calls railway stations, army premises and other border areas using pseudo names to get information. Looking at this and on the advice of Central IB, ADG issued the advisory to all SPs and IGs. Confirming this, ADG (intelligence) Umesh Mishra said the ISI was trying to get information and without confirming the person who called, no information should be shared. All SHOs along with all employees and officers of the district administration have also been told not to share information on phone and social media. Jaisalmer, Bikaner and Ganganagar districts bordering Pakistan are very important from the national security point of view as there are army and air force bases and firing ranges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/isi-threat-igs-sps-asked-not-to-share-info-without-proof/articleshow/76680076.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Directorate in Haryana to facilitate MSMEs||CHANDIGARH: In view of the changed definition of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) by the Union government, Haryana has decided to set up a separate MSME directorate in its industries department to provide facilities like issuing all kinds of departmental NOCs and other procedures for setting up enterprises under one roof. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of industries and commerce department, on Sunday said after the changes in the definition, MSMEs are set to play an important role in the industrial and economic development of the nation in the future and their financial turnover would also increase. He said as per the revised classification, plant and machinery or equipment in the manufacturing and service sector has been replaced as investment and annual turnover. The limit of investment has also been increased for MSMEs. He said earlier, for the micro-scale enterprises, the limit of investment in the manufacturing sector was up to Rs 25 lakh and in the service sector it was up to Rs 10 lakh, which has now been increased to Rs 1 crore in terms of investment and up to Rs 5 crore in terms of annual turnover. Similarly, for the small-scale enterprises, the limit of investment in the manufacturing sector, which was earlier up to Rs 5 crore and in the service sector up to Rs 2 crore, has been revised upward to Rs 10 crore in terms of investment and up to Rs 50 crore in terms of annual turnover. While the limit of investment for the medium-scale enterprises has been increased up to Rs 20 crore and for annual turnover it has been increased up to Rs 100 crore in the revised classification, which was earlier Rs 10 crore for the manufacturing sector and Rs 5 crore for the service sector. Chautala said the service sector, along with agriculture, allied sector and the manufacturing sector, plays a significant role in the GDP and there has been a large expansion in the service sector in the NCR areas of Haryana, especially in Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/directorate-in-haryana-to-facilitate-msmes/articleshow/76680081.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Police bust gang of 6 that robbed people in Delhi's Karol Bagh||NEW DELHI: A gang of robbers that held people at gunpoint and snatched their belongings at Ajmal Khan Park in Karol Bagh was busted in central Delhi. Police said the gang members were led by an UP-based gangster who wanted to establish his network in central Delhi. The prime accused, Kamil, is a bachelor of pharmacy dropout, they added. The incident had happened on June 13 around 5.30pm, when a group of men sitting at the Ajmal Khan park were held at gunpoint by the gang of six. They were forced to hand over their belongings and leave the park. The others at the park were targeted too. DCP (central) Sanjay Bhatia said a team scanned through the CCTV footage around the area and identified the men on the basis of the local intelligence. “We zeroed in on Mohammad Kamil who was earlier involved in a murder case in Geeta Colony. As per the information and local intelligence, the team finally apprehended two accused Nitesh and Shoaib from Pashchim Vihar, and Kamil from Meerut in UP,” said Bhatia. The investigation revealed that Kamil worked as a sharpshooter of Salman gang in Meerut. He wanted to build his network in Delhi and UP. He manages the gang from Meerut, while his associate Gagan helps him operate the gang in Delhi, police said. The other two members were identified as Shoaib and Nitesh. Police said Shoaib is a BA second year dropout from Delhi University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-bust-gang-of-6-that-robbed-people-in-karol-bagh/articleshow/76679449.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bhopal||Parents start 'No school, No Fee' campaign against private schools||Bhopal: After the government’s orders to stop online classes for pre-primary and primary schools, parents of students in private schools have started ‘No School, No Fees’ campaign. In a memorandum to the collector, the parents alleged that some schools were building pressure on them to pay full fees of their wards. “The schools are building unnecessary pressure on parents to submit full school fee even for the second quarter of the school. The government’s orders stated that the schools can only charge the tuition fee, and should not pressurize the parents if they cannot pay the fee, but schools are not ready to understand the situation,” said Prabodh Pandya, secretary of the MP Parents’ Association. Many parents alleged that even before the government orders, the schools have stopped sharing passwords for online classes with students who have not paid the fees. A parent on condition of anonymity said, "My son studies in a private school in Bhopal and he did not get the password for the online class. When he asked the teacher about it the teacher asked if his fee had been paid or not. When my son replied that we had not been able to pay the fee, the teacher asked him to clear the fee and send the copy of the receipt to the school and only after that will they share the password for the online class." Amit Sharma, a parent and MP Youth Commission member submitted a memorandum to the district collector Avinash Lavaniya about the new campaign, complaining to him about the schools that were charging full fees from the parents even in the time of crisis. "Many private schools are charging the whole fee masked as tuition fee in, including transportation, mess charges. I have requested the district collector to look into the matter and ensure that no school charges any fee other than tuition fee and they also refund the fee to the parents who paid it before the government's orders," Sharma said. Bhopal collector told TOI that he has asked the DEO to look into the matter. "The matter has been brought to light by parents and I have asked the DEO Nitin Saxena to look into it and see to it that schools abide by the orders of the government. If parents have fee receipts that show schools charging any additional fee, they may show it to the district administration and we will take appropriate action against the school," said Lavaniya||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/parents-start-no-school-no-fee-campaign-against-private-schools/articleshow/76678750.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Liquor scam: SIT raids, collects samples from Rajpura distillery||CHANDIGARH: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the theft and smuggling of liquor conducted searches on the premises of a distillery in Rajpura town of Patiala district in Punjab on Sunday and collected samples of liquor and labels. According to information, the SIT had visited the distillery, along with sacked inspector Jasbir Singh, who is learnt to have identified the factory while corroborating the confession relating to smuggling of illicit liquor in Haryana and other places and bottling of liquor at a godown premises in Kharkhoda of Sonipat district. Jasbir, the main accused in the scam, was arrested on surrender by the SIT in Rohtak last week after being on the run for over a month-and-half. Jasbir was the SHO of Kharkhoda police station where the godown is located. He was dismissed from service within a week of registration of case. Sources said Jasbir has confessed to his involvement in the scam and his links with Bhupender Singh, the kingpin, and his brother. It is alleged that Jasbir and other cops had misused their powers during the seizure of illicit liquor in their area. Besides, Jasbir and his reader Jaipal Singh were in full knowledge of the theft of liquor from the godown of excise department in Kharkhoda.“After collecting samples from distillery, we have also summoned more persons related to the case. More officials of the excise department have been asked to join investigation, as their names have been revealed by arrested excise inspector Dhirender Singh,” an official said. In the first week of May, the Sonipat police had registered three cases over the missing stocks of liquor worth lakhs of rupees from the godown. In course of investigation, the SIT had also recovered labels of various IMFL brands and packing material from the godown, suggesting that the place had also been used for packing of spurious liquor. Bhupender was the first to be arrested, followed by one of his aides. Later, ASI Jaipal Singh, Dhirender and Jasbir Singh were also arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liquor-scam-sit-raids-collects-samples-from-rajpura-distillery/articleshow/76680072.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaisalmer, Jodhpur stones likely to get global heritage resource label||UDAIPUR: Rajasthan stones are grabbing international recognition. After Makrana, which was the first and only stone resource from India as well as Asia to get the Global Heritage Stone Resource (GHSR) status, next in line hoping to feature in the list are the famous yellow limestone of Jaisalmer and pink sandstone from Jodhpur. International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS) has a committee on geo-heritage and a sub-commission known as Heritage Stone Sub commission (HSS). HSS makes effort at recognising natural stones from around the world as GHSRs based on their heritage value and international popularity. India records numerous architectural heritage built in diverse natural stones, which need to be promoted on a global platform. To date, five important natural stones from India have been proposed to be designated as GHSRs, namely the Deccan Basalt and Trachyte, the Vindhyan Sandstone, the Jodhpur Sandstone and the Jaisalmer Limestone. Two technical researches on the pink and yellow stones have been completed and proposals have been sent by Punjab University, Chandigarh, to IUGS for accreditation and consideration as GHSR. Once a stone is GHSR, it is promoted on different international platforms resulting in new research activities and large number of commercial inquiries. The research work was carried out between June and November 2019. Physical, microscopic, and geotechnical properties were studied in the field. Apart from the Punjab University team led by Gurmeet Kaur and head of the project Anuvinder Ahuja, three persons from Rajasthan who contributed in the technical knowhow were Dr Manoj Pandit, a retired professor in geology from Jaipur, Rakesh Giri Goswami, retired senior geologist from the department of mines and geology, Jodhpur, and Kirit Acharya, a retitred senior geologist from RSMM, Udaipur. “Our work included identification of suitable areas for field surveys, sampling locations, accompanying the university team for field work and providing inputs about architectural styles. On the basis of this work, two research proposals have been prepared and published in an international journal GeoHeritage-Europe in January and June this year. Since, it was on the recommendation of the HSS that Makrana could be included in the GHSR list, we are hopeful that these two stones too would soon gain the heritage status that would bring pride not only to Rajasthan but also the country,” Goswami told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaisalmer-jodhpur-stones-likely-to-get-global-heritage-resource-label/articleshow/76680112.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Clock tower beautification project gets under way||Ludhiana: The iconic clock tower will finally get a new look altogether as its beautification project has been kicked off under the smart city mission. In the next 15 days the monument will be decorated with colourful lights. The project was supposed to be started in February or March but initially, due to Covid-19 lockdown and then followed by shortage of labour, the project got delayed. Now, labourers have been deputed on the task to clean up the tower and install lights on it. The officials claimed that it is expected that by July 15 the work will be completed and they will hand over the project to the residents. While confirming the same, the chief executive officer of smart city mission Sanyam Aggarwal said, “The work has started at the site and in the next 15 days the clock tower will welcome the residents with decorative lights.” He further said that they would take up more such beautification projects at other locations as well. However, regarding the changing the clocks of the monument, no decision has been taken so far. One of the officials claimed that the clocks of the tower had never the shown right time and besides, all four clocks show different time. He said they had suggested that some big company involved in the manufacturing of clocks and watches should be hired for changing the clocks of this tower and in return should write name of their company over it. Apart from this, the officials were supposed to take over landscaping of adjoining land but even that could not become successful. The shopkeepers and residents demand an overall beautification of the monument so that people should admire it. Meanwhile, Satish Sharma, a shopkeeper in Chaura Bazaar said, “The lights will look beautiful, but there should be overall development around it as the nearby area should also be cleaned up properly and there should not be encroachments around this ancient clock tower.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/clock-tower-beautification-project-gets-under-way/articleshow/76679446.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Shimla||2 killed in Solan wall collapse, case against contractor||Shimla: Two construction workers were killed after they were buried under the debris of a retaining wall of a house under construction in Kandaghat, Solan district, on Sunday. Police have registered a case against the contractor. There were five workers at the site, but the other three escaped in time. Sources said a contractor had engaged Nepalese workers who were residing in the area for many years for the construction and when they were working on retaining wall, debris fell on them in which two were buried alive. With the help of locals, police and administration launched a rescue operation and managed to pull the two one by one. Both were rushed to the civil hospital in Kandaghat, but they died during treartment. Solan additional SP Dr Shiv Kumar confirmed the registration of case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/2-killed-in-solan-wall-collapse-case-against-contractor/articleshow/76680100.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kochi||‘Realty sector to recoup in one year’||KOCHI: Realtors in the city are of the view that in the post-Covid scenario consolidation of the residential market will gain momentum. It is expected to happen over the next one year with emphasis on financial strength and credibility of developers. In all likelihood fewer developers with more certainty and limited but attractive projects will perform better. “There will be short and medium-term challenges for construction, liquidity and customer demand, but prospects of steady growth are expected to bounce back in the medium to long term, as there is lot of focus on customer needs in today’s projects,” said Najeeb Zackeria, managing director of Abad Builders. Credai members said that being a buyers’ market with home loan rates at its lowest and bank’s ability to lend being much higher, the demand side is expected to see much improvement in the next couple of quarters. Besides, the returning well-to-do NRIs will need quality housing which has almost exclusively been met by Credai. Kerala’s real estate market is still smaller when compared to the metros outside the state and the organized developers of Credai are far more resilient, reliable, responsive and responsible. Though relief measures were announced by Centre and RBI, which had some indirect benefits for the real estate sector, sector specific packages were sorely missed which was the need of the hour. Developers highlight that there is no housing bubble now as during the global financial crisis of 2008.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/realty-sector-to-recoup-in-one-year/articleshow/76678763.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sanand GIDC diaper factory fire: Cause lost in flames?||AHMEDABAD: Four days have gone by and the fire in the diaper factory of Unicharm India Pvt Ltd in Sanand continues to rage. This is even after the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Service (AFES) personnel used at least 37 lakh litres of water till Friday and then the fire personnel began using water from Narmada canal to douse the flames. The Sanand company is the Indian arm of Japanese firm Unicharm Corporation. Unicharm manufactures the popular Mamy Poko brand of baby diaper. Fire officials believe that the cause or triggering point of the fire may never be known. The highly inflammable material used in diaper manufacturing gutted the entire factory in such a manner its next to impossible to ascertain from where the fire had started. “The entire facility has been gutted by the fire, so it is difficult to detect what exactly caused the blaze. No one had witnessed the triggering point of the fire, so it is impossible to ascertain it now,” said chief fire officer, Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES), M F Dastoor. Dastoor said that apart from using 37 lakh litres of water by AFES, the fire personnel had to take water from the Narmada canal to continue the operation. “One of our vehicles is still parked there and it will be called back once the factory puts their fire extinguisher team in place,” he said. On June 24, the AFES had issued a brigade call, deploying as many as 37 fire-fighting vehicles and about 270 personnel to douse the flames. No one was reported killed or injured in the incident. The company began commercial production at the plant, spread across 80 acres of GIDC land, in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sanand-gidc-diaper-factory-fire-cause-lost-in-flames/articleshow/76679471.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||85 PHC ambulance drivers waiting for salaries since April||Pune: Eighty-five ambulance drivers hired by the district health department on a contractual basis are yet to receive their salary for the months of April and May. The drivers said they were worried that they would have to go without salaries this month as well. District health officer Bhagwan Pawar said the state government is yet to release the grant money needed for making the payment to the ambulance drives for their services. “The state health department officials have assured us that the pending payments will be released in next two days,” Pawar told TOI on Sunday.State health director Archana Patil was unavailable to comment despite repeated attempts.Pawar said, “The health department had signed an agreement last year with a private firm for providing ambulance services to 96 primary health centres (PHCs) across Pune district. As per the agreement, we were supposed to release grant money to the company which, in turn, pays the salary of the ambulance drivers. Since we are yet to receive the grant money from the government, the ambulance drivers are working without payment for over two months now.”Hanumant Shinde, an ambulance driver, said, “We get only Rs8,500 per month as remuneration. We have been working in this tough condition for the last three months. Ideally, we should be paid more for our services.”Another ambulance driver said, “How can the government ignore us? We ferry Covid-19 patients by risking our lives. Working without payment in this situation is difficult. The authorities need to understand our plight and release the grant money at the earliest.”Balasaheb Hingne, president of the Ambulance Association of Pune, said, “The concerned authorities should pay heed towards the welfare of the ambulance drivers as they are working in an extremely difficult situation. We should also get PPE kits while stationed at the Covid Care Centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/85-phc-ambulance-drivers-waiting-for-salaries-since-april/articleshow/76680131.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kanpur||Molested by three, girl ends life in Bidhnoo||Kanpur: After being molested by three local youths, a 14-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself in her house in a locality of Bidhnoo area on late Saturday night. On a statement of the girl’s mother, Bidhnoo police registered a case under relevant sections of IPC against the accused. “Two accused have been nabbed, while one is absconding,” said police. A police official, privy to the investigation, said the girl’s mother stated in her complaint that her daughter had gone to purchase medicines from a nearby shop on Saturday when three local youths waylaid her and molested her. “The girl, somehow, managed to free herself and reached home. The youths followed her and thereafter, also assaulted her mother when she came to the girl’s rescue. The trio thereafter fled the spot after threatening them with dire consequences,” said the official. Later, on late Saturday night, the victim went inside her room and hanged herself from the ceiling, said the official. “The incident came to light when she did not respond to the repeated knocks at the door. The family members broke open the door and found her body hanging from the ceiling,” said he. The victim’s parents approached Bidhnoo police on Sunday and lodged a named FIR against the three youths in this connection. “Preliminary investigations, however, belied the claims of the girl’s parents that she was harassed earlier also on several occasions by the accused. Two among the accused, meanwhile, have been detained following an FIR and their questioning is underway. Raids are underway to make the arrest of third youth possible. We are investigating the case with every possible angle,” said SP South Aparna Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/molested-by-three-girl-ends-life-in-bidhnoo/articleshow/76679930.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bhopal||Covid cases in MP cross 13k mark, recoveries||Bhopal: With 221 people testing positive for Covid-19 in a single day, the tally of positive patients in state increased to 13,186 on Sunday. On the brighter side, the total number of people who have recovered from the disease so far crossed the 10,000 mark as 113 people recovered on Sunday. And it was for the first time that highest number of cases reported in a single day was not from Indore, Bhopal or Ujjain, instead highest number of cases 47 were reported from Morena in a single day on Sunday. So far a total of 325 cases have been reported from Morena till now. Apart from these new cases, seven casualties were also reported in the state. These casualties were reported from Indore (4 deaths), Morena (2 deaths) and 1 death was reported from Ujjain district. With these new deaths toll due to covid-19 reached 557 in the state. Of the 51 infected districts of the state positive cases were reported from 29 districts. The districts in which cases were reported in double digits includes Morena (27 new cases), Indore (40 new cases), Bhopal (35 new cases) and Gwalior (17 new cases). As many as 113 people who were admitted at different hospitals in the state also recovered from the disease and were discharged. With these new patients recovering, total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 10,084. Thus, more than 76% of the total people who have been tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is little less than four times of the active patients in the state as on June 28. There are only 2545 active patients in the state, while 10084 people have so far recovered from the disease. Reports of more than 3.44 lakh samples have been received in the state so far and of those 13186 have tested positive. Meanwhile administration has announced 1081 localities across these 51 districts as containment zones and any kind of movement in these containment zones is strictly prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cases-in-mp-cross-13k-mark-recoveries/articleshow/76678767.cms||Amarjeet Singh
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Fire in Kusht Ashram, tragedy averted||Ludhiana: A major tragedy was averted after a fire broke out in two rooms of Kusht Ashram in Khanna on Sunday morning. Luckily, there was no loss of human lives even as clothes of the inmates and a television got burnt in the blaze. Kali Maha Anand, who lives in Kusht Ashram, told fire department officials that he, along with other inmates, was sitting in the room when they switched on the television. He added that no sooner did they switch it on, then there was a short circuit and it caught fire. The victim told officials that after that the fire spread in the room and their clothes also got burnt. He added that after they raised an alarm, an onlooker informed the fire department. Officials of the fire department said that as the office of Khanna fire department is about one and half minutes drive from the ashram, which is in GTB Nagar, a fire tender was immediately rushed to the spot. Fire officer, Khanna, Yashpal Rai said after he, along with five more members of the team, reached the spot after they got information about it around 9.30am, they found two persons with slight physical deformity in the room, where the fire had occurred. He added that they first rescued the two persons from the room and later also rescued a physically challenged person, with no legs, from another room. The fire officer said it took them 15-20 minutes to control the fire. He added that television and clothes of the inmates got burnt. Fire department officials said with the timely intervention of the firemen, the blaze was prevented from spreading to the neighbouring quarters or it would have caused a major tragedy. They added that as there are 12 quarters in the ashram, chances of fire spreading faster was higher as quarters are close to each other. Fire officer said that the speedy action ensured that there is no loss to human lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fire-in-kusht-ashram-tragedy-averted/articleshow/76679453.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Amritsar||We’ve taken solace in sharing grief with nation: Martyred Sepoy Gurtej Singh’s kin||BATHINDA: “We have lost a brave soldier, but have taken solace in the entire nation showing concern for us and sharing our grief. We have the satisfaction of chief minister personally enquiring about the well-being of the family and assuring a job to at least one family member,” said martyred Sepoy Gurtej Singh’s brother Tarlok Singh on Sunday, after he got a call from Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Tarlok said the family was proud of the courage shown by Gurtej in the skirmish with Chinese soldiers at Galwan valley in Ladakh on June 15, as was told by soldiers who brought his body and now as the CM spoke of his courage. Capt Amarinder spoke to both Tarlok and father Virsa Singh. He extended condolences and spoke about the sepoy’s bravery in the video call. “He fought with the Chinese all by himself, we have lost a warrior and you should be proud of him,” said Amarinder. Asked about the qualifications of family members for the government job, Tarlok (27) told the CM he is a graduate and his younger brother, Gurpreet Singh, did a diploma from ITI after Class XII. The family sought a job for Gurpreet, but said it would be better if Tarlok too got a job as they had lost work due to lockdown. He said the family needed the government’s support too. Capt Amarinder asked them to contact him directly for any need. Praising the 3 Punjab Regiment, Amarinder also posted a tweet. “Spoke to family of late Gurtej Singh of 3 Punjab who displayed the remarkable courage and bravery in the Galwan valley clash with the Chinese. Just 23 years old, Gurtej has immortalised himself by his fearless valour and patriotism. Salute his bravery, Jai Hind!” he said. Gurtej is survived by his father, mother and two elder brothers, who live at Birewala Dogra village in Mansa district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/weve-taken-solace-in-sharing-grief-with-nation-gurtejs-kin/articleshow/76680148.cms||Neel Kamal
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Chemist association to get FIRs lodged against Jindu today||Ludhiana: The chemist body here is up in arms against Baljinder Singh Jindu, who runs a chemist shop named Guru Nanak Modikhana after video clips of him went viral on social media, in which he is claiming that a lot of traders are fleecing customers by charging exorbitant amount for the medicines which cost very less but have inflated MRPs written on it. The chemists association has now threatened to get an FIR registered against Jindu on Monday after he in his clips had said he was selling the medicines at the cost price and due to his service to the public a lot of people have become his enemies and an MP and a minister are trying to get his shop shut down. Even medical companies have refused to supply stock of medicines to him under pressure from the traders who are indulging into minting money from people. Speaking on the issue, GS Chawla, general secretary of Punjab Chemists Association, said, “This person is only indulging into false propaganda by claiming that chemists are looting public in connivance with the pharma companies. From his speeches it is clear that this person only wants to gain publicity by levelling baseless charges against the chemists fraternity. The truth is that government fixes rates of the medicines and pharma companies have to abide by these and accordingly affix MRP on their products. This person is defaming chemists and is also misguiding people by claiming that he is selling a medicine with MRP of Rs. 100 for Rs 32 , whereas the medicine which he is talking of in his video is a generic product, which are not sold on MRP by any chemist but only on the actual price by adding 5-10% margin on it.” Chawla added that, “We do not have any problem with him running his business but at the same time he should stop indulging in mudslinging on other chemists and stop his false propaganda. The entire chemist fraternity has been working selflessly for the welfare of public during the time of this pandemic and a lot of chemists contracted corona just during the course of their work and during service to humanity. His videos have went viral not only in Punjab but entire India and he has tried to project chemists as extortionists, so everywhere there is huge resentment against this person. Therefore on Monday, chemists all over Punjab are going to get FIR registered against him at all places in the state and if within 15 days no action is taken against him, then we will launch a stir all over Punjab.” Meawhile, Jindu was not available for his comments, but support is pouring for him from several quarters. Speaking to TOI, Sukhjit Singh, a Duragapuri resident, said, “This is a conspiracy against Jindu to stop him from doing the good work he is doing for public. Several of my contacts have started getting medicines from his shop and there is a huge difference in his rates as compared to other shops. Therefore, we stand fully with Jindu and we will oppose any attempt by anyone to harm him or his business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chemist-association-to-get-firs-lodged-against-jindu-today/articleshow/76679458.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Highest single-day spike of 35 Covid-19 cases in Amravati||Amravati: The district posted the highest single-day spike of 35 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the total to 543. The new cases were reported from urban as well as rural areas while some patients came from Akola and Yavatmal districts too. Among the 35 cases, 21 are males and 14 females. The fresh cases include five staffers of Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College (PDMC) Hospital here. Anjangaon Surji too reported five cases while seven came from Ashok Nagar in Amravati city. Badnera reported five cases to take its count to 74. Besides Anjangaon Surji, cases were reported Waslgaon, Paratwada, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, while patients from Hiwara Dharni village in Yavatmal district, Parsoda in Akola district tested positive here. Mahatma Phule Hagar and Yashoda Nagar in Amravati city reported a case each. On the other hand, 12 patients were discharged from Covid hospital here, taking the number of recovered patients to 389. According to information available from civil surgeon’s office, three men (60, 50 and 20) and two women (25 and 37) from the PDMC staff tested positive, taking the number of Corona Warriors, including two doctors, from this hospital contracting the infection to 10. Old and New City areas of hotspot Badnera reported a man (30) and a woman (48) respectively testing positive in the morning. Amba Gate too reported two cases, both women (25 and 35), which took its count to eight, while Rampuri Camp reported two cases — both men (65 and 27). A 65-year-old female from. Ashok Nagar tested positive in the morning and six new cases came from the locality in the evening. A 40-year-old male from Gopal Nagar took the locality’s count to five while a 50-year-old man from Parsod village in Akot tehsil of Akola district became the fourth patient from that tehsil to test positive here. The CS office release said that the district's count of 543 includes 23 deaths and 131 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/highest-single-day-spike-of-35-covid-19-cases-in-amravati/articleshow/76680161.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vijayawada||347 cases in Rayalaseema||Tirupati: On a day when AP registered its highest single- day spike in Covid-19 cases, Rayalaseema districts accounted for 347 cases. With 111 new cases, the overall number in Kadapa has touched 794. With six deaths, the death toll in Kurnool district rose to 58. With 103 new cases, the overall number reached 1,787--active cases 770 and 959 discharged. In Anantapur district, 51 tested positive on Sunday. The overall number reached 1,371 with 662 patients undergoing treatment. There were 82 new cases in Chittoor district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/347-cases-in-rayalaseema/articleshow/76678775.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Sikhs fighting for ethnic tick-box in UK claim victory||The Sikh Federation UK (SFUK) is celebrating a “victory” in its campaign to get a Sikh ethnic tick-box added to the 2021 UK census after Scottish ministers agreed to put a prompt for Sikhs in the “other” part of the ethnicity response options. They also assured to “monitor Sikhs as an ethnic group as well as religion” going forwards. The SFUK, which claims to have the backing of more than 150 gurdwaras and Sikh organisations, has withdrawn its legal case in Scotland but is still battling ahead with a second judicial review against the Cabinet Office over the lack of a Sikh ethnic tick-box in the proposed census for England and Wales. On May 7, the Census (Scotland) Regulation 2020 was laid in the Scottish Parliament which included a prompt for Sikhs and Jews in the “Other” response option to the question “What is your ethnic group?”. “At the top there is a choice of White, Mixed, Asian, African, Caribbean and Other. Sikhs is not within Asian, it is coming under Other,” said Dabinderjit Singh OBE, principle adviser to the SFUK. The Federation’s tick-box campaign got a further boost in a letter dated June 24 from Scotland’s economy secretary Fiona Hyslop. The letter, which TOI has seen, states she will now “work with the Sikh Federation (UK) to ensure public bodies in Scotland monitor Sikhs as an ethnic group, as well as a religion”. In the past public bodies have only followed the Census categories for ethnic data collection. “The only reason we wanted a Sikh ethnic tick-box box was to force Scotland to monitor Sikhs,” explained Singh. “We feel we have won the war in Scotland and do not feel there is any point in continuing legal action in the court of session.” The Federation has also withdrawn its appeal against a December 12, 2019, judgment handed down in a first judicial review the SFUK brought against the Cabinet Office over the England and Wales census after the government objected to there being two cases running simultaneously over the same issue. On June 11, SFUK submitted an application for a second judicial review to the high court seeking to quash the Census (England and Wales) Order 2020 on the grounds it was unlawful after Mrs Justice Lang ruled the first legal challenge was premature. Bringing the first case cost the Federation just over £1,00,000 in ‘capped’ legal costs for both sides. If the second judicial review is allowed, the legal costs may not be capped and if the Federation win the case, the UK-wide census scheduled for 21 March 2021, could be delayed. On June 16, the high court ruled the second judicial review would be “expedited” and put before a high court judge on or before July 3 to make a decision as to whether it can be allowed. Lord Singh, director, Network of Sikh Organisations, said: “The Sikh Federation UK has already racked up £100,000 in legal costs and continues legal action in the high court in London. They need to be held to account for this, and ordinary members of Britain’s Sikh community, who the evidence suggests are satisfied in being recorded under religion in the census, must inform politicians here and in Scotland that this action is not in our name.” A Cabinet Office spokesperson said: “Anyone who chooses to identify as being of Sikh ethnicity in this census will be able to by using the write-in option and the search-as-you type function online.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikhs-fighting-for-ethnic-tick-box-in-uk-claim-victory/articleshow/76680143.cms||NAOMI CANTON
June 29, 2020||Goa||Ensure proper water supply in Canacona: Isidore to PWD||Poinguinim: With certain areas of Canacona facing irregular water supply, deputy speaker and local MLA Isidore Fernandes directed officials from the PWD’s water supply division to resolve the issue. “Since everyone pays for water consumption, it is imperative and obligatory on the part of the PWD to ensure water supply without causing hardships to citizens,” Fernandes told officials during a meeting which was attended by Canacona municipality chairperson Nitu Sameer Desai and some sarpanchas. The sarpanchas pointed out that water is often released at around midnight, while many booster pumps are out of order. Some of the elected representatives also said that some areas face water shortage for nearly 8-12 days, and claimed that overhead tanks are lying unused at Agonda, Vaizwada in Shristhal, Loliem and Cotigao. They suggested that the duty chart and names of on-duty valve operators should be made available to them. The Canacona legislator demanded that the PWD’s assistant engineer, junior engineer and valve operators hold bi-monthly visits to villages to understand the people’s grievances and address their problems. Fernandes also said that sufficient water tankers should be dispatched to areas where there is inadequate water supply. PWD’s assistant engineer Lester D’Souza said that five borewells will be constructed at Cotigao and four in Gaondongorim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-proper-water-supply-in-canacona-isidore-to-pwd/articleshow/76680153.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘102’ call centre staff, PAC jawan among 23 new Covid patients||LUCKNOW: A woman employed at the statewide 102 ambulance call centre, a PAC jawan of the 32nd battalion and two infants were among 23 people testing positive for novel coronavirus infection on Sunday. With this, the number of cases since Covid-19 outbreak in the city on March 11 has touched 1023. So far, as many as 660 patients, including 25 on Sunday, have been discharged after recovery while 18 others, mainly elderly, could not survive. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “Most of the Covid-19 positive cases reported on Sunday either had travel history or were contacts of those already tested positive.” The jawan of PAC 32nd battalion, who was tested positive, is a resident of Badali Kheda area. Two jawans and three of their contacts of the battalion have been diagnosed with the disease so far. In all, 98 jawans of various battalions and their contacts have been found Covid-19 positive. The 102 call centre employee of ambulance services run by a private company, GVK-EMRI, lives in Krishnanagar. Earlier, five employees of the company’s 108 ambulance call centre had tested positive following which the building was closed for sanitization for 48 hours. Other cases included two infants. One-year-old girl from Aashiana, daughter of an Aligarh-based epidemiologist, had tested positive upon return to Aligarh from Lucknow on June 26. Another patient was the six-month-old daughter of a couple from LDA colony, Kanpur road, who had earlier tested positive. A postman at the general post office and a resident of Husainabad who recently returned from Delhi were also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/102-call-centre-staff-pac-jawan-among-23-new-covid-patients/articleshow/76680152.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hawkers of Juna Bazaar haven’t had customers in 100 days||PUNE: Residents of the Juna Bazaar slum in Mangalwar Peth — once a bustling space for local commerce — have been cooped up in their small homes since April 20, when the area was declared a containment zone. Those selling everything from clay pots to furniture, haven't had customers in nearly 100 days. The slum has a population of nearly 7,000 people. Shalan Shinde, a potter, said, "My shop has been shut for over three months. It's summer, but we are missing the buzz of customers. I hope things will go back to normal soon. We have suffered substantial losses." There are some signs of hope. There have been no new Covid-19 cases in the last 15 days across certain parts of the Juna Bazaar area that fall under survey numbers 216 and 217 within Mangalwar Peth. The slum pocket comes under Vishrambaugwada-Kasba Peth ward of Pune Municipal Corproation . But officials overseeing containment measures in the area said they remain wary of a possible spread if restrictions are relaxed too soon. Ashish Mahadadalkar, assistant commissioner of the Vishrambaugwada-Kasba Peth ward, said, "Number of new cases has indeed dipped. But we cannot relax the police bandobast here. We remain apprehensive because hawkers residing in the slum could immediately resume sales on the street, which could draw shoppers from all over the city. There's still the threat of the contagion spreading like this." Vishrambaugwada-Kasba Peth ward has had a total of 1,660 Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths so far. "Of them, the Juna Bazaar slum had 300 positive cases," said PMC's surveillance officer Vaishali Jadhav. Residents said easing restrictions could mean resumption of livelihoods. Mohasin Khan, a hawker, has three children and an ailing mother. "I sell all types of seasonal items on the street. But for three months, I have not had any sales. I have been borrowing money to buy medicines for my mother. I am worried about my children's education. I'm unable to afford gadgets they'll need for online classes.” Others said they have been reduced to relying on ration kits and other aid from NGOs and PMC. Tohik Shaikh, who makes nylon bags said, "People here are neck-deep in debt. The PMC, local corporations and NGOs are giving ration kits. But there are a host of other things for which we need money, which hasn't been coming in."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hawkers-of-juna-bazaar-havent-had-customers-in-100-days/articleshow/76680149.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||‘I don’t have faith in govt laboratory test reports’||Lok Insaf Party (LIP) leader and MLA from Ludhiana south assembly constituency, Balwinder Singh Bains, has won the last assembly elections with even a bigger margin as compared to his previous election. A large chunk of those votes came from the migrant community. But as a sizeable population of those had to suffer after the government imposed lockdown due to Covid-19 scenario, he faces a bigger political challenge now. He talked to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on various issues related to the current scenario. Q: How do you see the scenario in Ludhiana, especially in view of the Covid-19 related threat? A: The government has failed to handle the scenario. The laboratory the government has is giving positive and negative reports as per their wish. It cannot be called suitable testing. When the sangat came from Hazur Sahib, I had said at that time that let us have their test from AIIMS so that we have trust. Our laboratories didn’t even give reports to those whom they tested positive. This will not work for long. We have said that the chief minister should come out of his nest and self imposed quarantine and work as per the situation. It seems that he will not come out even when the state is on fire in case of some emergency. Q: Do you think the current testing is enough in Ludhiana? A: I don’t trust the tests they have done and these should be get done from AIIMS. So, random tests of those testing positive should be done at AIIMS as there are people who don’t have such symptoms. It will help us to ascertain where we stand. I respect doctors and wish to request them that they will have to come forward and not leave the treatment at the hands of health workers like nurses. Q: How do you rate handling of the pandemic by the state government? A: The government didn’t reach the common masses. Whenever I asked the deputy commissioner about the distribution of ration among common masses, he would tell me that 50,000 such packets had been distributed. I told him that you were talking about 50,000 packets when not even 5,000 packets had reached those concerned. Instead that ration is being sent to shops. I had asked for the list of such distribution, so that we could check whether it had reached or not. It went from the government’s kitty but didn’t reach people. Q: Your constituency has maximum number of migrants. Do you feel you could help them? A: Sherpur and Gyaspura have large population of people from UP and Bihar. I had asked them to run trains from Dhandari railway station instead of Ludhiana railway station as the people willing to go their native states have to face difficulties in the city. It would have been easier for them to board a train from Dhandari railway station. The government couldn’t handle such situation even as they had resources. I feel bad that some people have to walk to their states as the government’s didn’t have the intention to help them. As an MLA from the area, I don’t have funds but I managed to arrange around Rs 7 lakh and distributed ration in areas, including these ones. I also feel that the way the government could have helped it didn’t do so even as I had made suggestions regarding the same. Q: Do you feel industry operations can run in view of the current scenario? A: Industry will not run on its own. Labour will come back as they get amenities in Punjab, and they won’t find these anywhere. They need to bring them back by providing proper facilities. Q: Some of opponents allege that somewhere it is your failure that you couldn’t help the people in such circumstances? A: The government which has funds couldn’t help and an MLA doesn’t have funds. I arranged funds to help the people after asking for money from my friends, near and dear ones, etc. and helped them at personal level. We also have given one month’s salary to the government pool. It is not right to label it as MLA’s failure. I had once suggested that those getting more than Rs 50,000 salary should give the extra money beyond that to government so that it could be used to help needy people. Q: How can the rise in Covid cases be checked in Ludhiana? A: The cases can be checked only when we come to know that the tests being done are authentic. After we know the clear picture, a strategy to tackle the same can be made and it will become easy to check the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/i-dont-have-faith-in-govt-laboratory-test-reports/articleshow/76679462.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bapunagar woman cheated of Rs 25,000 by cybercrooks||AHMEDABAD: A Bapunagar woman lost Rs 25,000 from her bank account when she gave details of her debit card and OTP to an unsolicited caller, who claimed to be calling from the head office of the bank where she held her account. Himani Patel, 27, registered a complaint with Bapunagar police on Sunday alleging that a cybercrook had called her up on Friday and had stolen money from her bank account. According to case details, Patel, a resident of Hirawadi Road, Bapunagar, works as a technical assistant in Krishnabhavan, Gandhinagar. She lives with her husband and aunt. On Friday, when Patel was at her office, at about 1.45pm a woman called her up and said she was Sheetal and calling from the head office of the bank where Patel held her account. “The caller said that a credit card has been issued in Patel’s name. When Patel said she doesn’t want a credit card, the caller said that to stop the process she will need to have Patel’s debit card verified. The caller then took Patel’s debit card number, the CVV number, and within seconds Patel received a one-time password (OTP) on her mobile phone, which she gave to the caller. Promptly, Rs 25,000 was stolen from Patel’s bank account,” a police official said. The complainant then dialled 100 and lodged an application online at the cybercrime police station. “From there she was given a ticket based on which she lodged a complaint at Bapunagar police station on Sunday,” said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-cheated-of-rs-25000-by-cybercrooks/articleshow/76679470.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh discom earns over Rs 109 crore extra revenue||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) has earned over Rs 109 crore as total additional revenue by exceeding electricity generation targets from its hydel projects in 2019-20. The additional revenue has been calculated on the basis of the national average power purchase cost (APPC) of Rs 3.60 per KWH. Hydel projects like the 126 MW Larji Hydropower Project, 120 MW Sanjay Jal Vidyut Pariyojna, 66 MW Bassi Power House Project and 60 MW Giri Power House Project are major initiatives of HPSEB. These projects, along with others like 22.5MW Ghanvi-I, 16.95MW Andhra, 10MW Ghanvi-II, 6 MW Binwa and 10.50 MW Gaj, have exceeded targets set by the central electricity authority in 2019-20. Officials said the power houses generated 454.999MW energy against the target of 403.26 MW, which is 18.36 % more than the targeted generation. Additional revenue grossed in 2019-20 on account of excess generation is Rs 36.37 crore, Rs 30.72 crore and Rs 11.3 crore for Larji, Bhaba and Bassi respectively whereas Giri and other power houses earned additional revenue of Rs 12.56 crore and Rs 18.62 crore respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-discom-earns-over-rs-109cr-extra-revenue/articleshow/76680151.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Cong lies exposed, MSP regime to stay’||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress’s lies about the end of the minimum support price (MSP) regime had been exposed with a third time announcement by the Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday said. The Union minister had said that MSP system and assured procurement of paddy and wheat would continue in future, the NDA constituent party said. SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said with Tomar’s clear cut announcement, the resolution dictated by the Congress to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and other “friendly political leaders” invited to the all party meeting recently had become infructuous. “With the Union agriculture minister making it clear that there would not be any change in the MSP regime as well as assured procurement of foodgrain, the Congress is in no position to carry on uttering lies to befool the farmers to divert attention from various multi-thousand crore scams,” said Cheema. He said that these scams included the liquor, seed and ration scam which were “perpetuated by the Congressmen in league with various mafias”. The former minister said it did not behove a chief minister to leave aside facts and rely on emotional appeals to force the opposition to believe the propaganda being spun by him. The Akali functionary said that the Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar should now tender his resignation after the unequivocal statement of the Union agriculture minister. Cheema said the chief minister as well as Jakhar had now started falling back on emotional appeals in the absence of any facts to sustain their false and mischievous claims that MSP and assured procurement were being discontinued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-lies-exposed-msp-regime-to-stay/articleshow/76680154.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||Cops stop senior citizen from jumping into Mutha||Pune: A 75-year-old woman was about to jump into the Mutha river near Shaniwar Peth on Sunday early morning, when a few passers-by noticed her and alerted the police. The woman had reached the spot near Nana Nani park after leaving her Shivaji Road residence and was standing on the edge of the embankment. ddd Police teams from Khadak and Shivajinagar rushed to the Mutha river embankment near Shaniwar Peth. They grabbed the woman by her arms before she could jump into the river. The police then counselled her and took her to the police station.  Later, she returned home with her son-in-law. The police said the woman had some health issues and was disturbed. The woman had been receiving treatment for the last eight months at a private hospital. She lives with her daughter, son-in-law and grandchildren.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-stop-senior-citizen-from-jumping-into-mutha/articleshow/76680155.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Toll in Krishna rises, district tops number of deaths in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district, along with Kurnool, continues to report the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the state. Four Covid-19 deaths were registered in the district on Sunday, taking the toll to 58. The district administration has started the process of analysing the death rate. Twenty-eight deaths were reported in June and a majority of all deaths have been reported from Krishna Lanka, Chittinagar and Vidhyadharapuram in Vijayawada. The high alert for the administration continues with Sunday throwing up 79 positive Covid-19 cases. The number of cases stands at 1,331, of which 701 are active and 572 have been discharged after posting a complete recovery. As part of intensifying testing, the district administration is focusing on identifying asymptomatic cases that can act as super carriers. Officials have suggested home isolation for patients with mild to no symptoms. Doctors are continuously monitoring those with mild symptoms over the phone and medications are being home delivered. A majority of these patients have recovered quickly with nutritious diet and care, district health wing authorities said. The district administration has increased testing capacity to 4,000 tests per day, officials said. Machilipatnam, Nuzividu, Gudivada and Vuyyuru have also registered a large number of cases. In Vijayawada, door-to-door testing has been ramped up with every 48 houses in high-risk areas divided into clusters and healthcare workers performing rapid tests here. Those who test positive start to undergo treatment immediately. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said they are working with a target or completing Covid-19 tests in 26 high risk wards in the city by July 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/toll-in-krishna-rises-district-tops-number-of-deaths-in-state/articleshow/76678788.cms||Venu Lanka
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||6 deaths for sixth time in June, Vid toll 152||Nagpur: Vidarbha recorded its highest single-day spike of 170 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the region’s count to 4,456. Also, six deaths were reported in a day for the sixth time in June, taking the death toll of Vidarbha to 152. Three of the six deaths were reported from Akola, while one each from Nagpur, Yavatmal and Wardha. The day also saw a record 135 patients getting recovered and discharged, for a total of 3,306 and recovery rate of 74.20% for Vidarbha. In Nagpur district, total 69 patients recovered and got discharged in a day when 20 new cases were reported. Now, out of the total 1,450 cases, 1,133 have recovered at 78% rate. A 24-year-old youth from Sikar, Rajasthan was brought dead at IGGMCH, Nagpur, and tested positive for Covid-19. This is 24th Covid-19 death in Nagpur, but out of them 10 were residents of other districts or states. Akola: In a record, 89 new Covid-19 positive cases, including 50 prisoners from district jail, were reported from Akola on Sunday. Earlier, 18 prisoners from the jail had tested positive. The remaining cases were reported from rural areas like Patur, Balapur, Akot, Barshi Takli and from Akola Municipal Corporation limits, taking the district’s total to 1,510, which is highest in Vidarbha. Nagpur is at second spot with 1,450 cases. After a relief of two days, the district recorded three more deaths on Sunday. The deceased include a 62-year-old man from Ashok Nagar who was brought in a critical condition on June 26 and died at GMCH the same day. His samples tested positive on Sunday. A 55-year-old man from Balapur, who was under treatment since June 14, died on June 27 late night while a 53-year-old man from Barshi Takli died on Sunday afternoon. He was admitted on June 16. The district has now recorded 77 Covid deaths. With 1,075 recoveries, the district recovery rate is 71.20%. AMRAVATI: The district posted its highest single-day spike of 35 Covid-19 positive cases since lockdown on Sunday, taking the total to 543. The new cases were reported from urban as well as rural areas and some patients came from Akola and Yavatmal districts too. Among the 35 new cases, 21 are men and 14 women. They include five staffers of Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College (PDMC) Hospital here. Anjangaon Surji too reported five cases while seven came from Ashok Nagar in Amravati city. Badnera reported five cases to take its count to 74. Besides Anjangaon Surji, cases were reported Waslgaon, Paratwada, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, while patients from Hiwara Dharni village in Yavatmal district, Parsoda in Akola district also tested positive here. Mahatma Phule Hagar and Yashoda Nagar in Amravati city reported a case each. On the other hand, 12 patients were discharged from Covid hospital here, which took the number of recovered patients to 389. The district has recorded total 543 cases, including 23 deaths, and there are 131 active cases. YAVATMAL: A 75-year-old man died in the district on Sunday, taking the death to 11. The day also one positive case and 16 recoveries. The deceased hailed from Parthad-Gole village in Ner tehsil while the new case came from Ladkhed in Darwha tehsil. Currently, there are 51 persons admitted in the isolation ward while 97 swab samples were sent for testing. WARDHA: A 65-year-old man from Gurgaon, who had come to Dattapur to set up a solar power project, died at Kasturba hospital, Sewagram, during Covid-19 treatment on Sunday. The deceased had tested positive on June 12. A diabetes and high blood pressure patient, the man was put on ventilator in the intensive care unit from the beginning. During treatment his body was not responding to medicines, said doctors. His wife and son who had come with him have tested negative. Three new cases of Covid-19 were also reported in the district on Sunday. Two of the patients are from Aurangabad and one from Pulgaon. BULDHANA: With double-digit spike for third day in a row, Buldhana’s total Covid-19 count surpassed the 200-mark on June 28. Total 15 new cases were reported from rural areas of Shegaon, Malkapur, Sagrampur and Jalgaon-Jamod tehsils. Out of 213 cases, 144 have been discharged so far. The district has reported 11 deaths till date while 58 patients are under treatment. Guardian minister Dr Rajendra Shingane on Sunday visited Dhamangaon Badhe village from where 11 patients and a death have been reported. GONDIA: Gondia witnessed an increase of seven new cases on Sunday; one is a Mumbai-returnee while six others are employees of the company in Gondia whose manager had succumbed to Covid-19 in Nagpur recently. Reports of 137 samples are awaited. Gondia has total 112 cases, out of which 102 have recovered while 10 patients are under treatment. Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Washim districts did not report new cases on Sunday. Two patients each recovered from Chandrapur and Gadchiroli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-deaths-for-sixth-time-in-june-vid-toll-152/articleshow/76680172.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 29, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 55, beaten to death by cousins with a cricket bat||Bareilly: The fight over sharing of offerings at a shrine between the families of two caretakers took a bloody turn on Sunday when a man was beaten to death allegedly by the members of the other faction in Saidpur area of Budaun district. The incident took place on Saturday night.Police have registered an FIR against four persons and one of them was arrested on Sunday. The family members of Mohammed Shaqir and Anwar maintained the shrine of their ancestors in Saidpur village and used to share the offerings at the shrine.A few days ago, both the families had a tiff over the sharing of the offerings.On Saturday night, Anwar along with his aides Bachchan, Sartaj and Shahbaz barged into the house of Shaqir and attacked his family with a cricket bat and sticks.Shaqir sustained an injury on his head while his son Sonu received minor injuries on his hands. Both were taken to hospital where Shaqir died during treatment.Circle officer Raghvendra Singh said, “There was a fight between the family members of two relatives over sharing of offerings at the shrine. A 55-year-old man died after being hit by a cricket bat. We have booked four accused under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) on the complaint of son.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-55-beaten-to-death-by-cousins-with-a-cricket-bat/articleshow/76677961.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vadodara||Murder accused detained under PASA||Vadodara: Notorious criminal Suraj Kahar has been detained under the Prevention of Anti-Social Act (PASA) and sent to Surat jail by the city police. Kahar had caused a major embarrassment to the police over 24 days ago when he took out a rally in the city after he got bail in a murder case registered against him. The cops were caught unawares and registered a case of flouting notification against him only after videos of the rally went viral. The detection of crime branch (DCB) began search for him but Kahar kept evading arrest. The prevention of crime branch (PCB) nabbed him two days ago from his sister’s home in Narmada district. To avoid further embarrassment and preventing Kahar from creating any other trouble, the cops decided to book him under PASA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/murder-accused-detained-under-pasa/articleshow/76677650.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||Fraudster siphons off Rs 96k from woman’s a/c||Pune: The Yerawada police on June 27 booked a fraudster for siphoning off Rs96,000 from a Kalyaninagar-based woman’s account in May. The woman’s husband (65), a retired Army officer, lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police stating that an unidentified man called his wife on May 4 and told her to complete the Know Your Customer (KYC) process of her e-wallet and siphoned off the money. After preliminary verification, the cybercrime police forwarded the complaint to the Yerawada police for more investigation. The complainant in his FIR stated that the man represented himself as an executive of the e-wallet company and informed the woman that her KYC needed to be updated. The fraudster told the woman to follow some steps on her cellphone to complete the KYC process. He claimed that if the KYC was not completed, her e-wallet would stop functioning, the police said. The police said the man then kept on talking to her and got the details of her e-wallet and he siphoned off Rs96,000 from her account. The police said they suspect fraudster is a resident of Somatne Phata near Dehu Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fraudster-siphons-off-rs-96k-from-womans-a/c/articleshow/76680158.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Bone tumour removed from 11-year-old girl’s leg||AHMEDABAD: Asha (name changed), 11, a resident of Jamnagar, was back on her feet recently after a major surgery at Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI). The girl’s Ewing’s Sarcoma – a rare bone cancer – had spread on her right leg and caused a malignant tumour. A team led by bone cancer surgeon Dr Abhijeet Salunke carried out a detailed plan to save her limb while removing the tumour. “Challenge in the younger patients is to keep in mind that the bones will grow, and thus conventional methods don’t work,” he said. “Through CAD-CAM, we created a special expandable joint from titanium from the scratch. As her legs grow, we will adjust the joint,” Salunke said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bone-tumour-removed-from-11-year-old-girls-leg/articleshow/76679469.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||‘PM Narendra Modi must explain Chinese donations’||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi needs to explain whether donations were received from Chinese companies in the PM Cares Fund. Jakhar said it was alarming for national security that donations were reportedly received by the Prime Minister from Chinese companies in the PM Cares Fund when no one knew the constitution or the operational framework of the fund. He said this fund was not even subjected to audit by any public authority, including the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The PMO had gone to the extent of saying that this fund is not a public authority, said Jakhar, adding that the PM Cares Fund is not subjected to Right to Information (RTI). Punjab Congress president alleged that the fund appeared to be solely run by the Prime Minister in an opaque and secretive fashion with zero accountability. According to reports, he said, on May 20, the Prime Minister received Rs 9,678 crore in this fund. He said he was shocked that the PM received money from Chinese companies even as Chinese forces had transgressed into Indian territory. “Even as chief minister of Gujarat, we saw his close association in his four Chinese visits. He is the only Prime Minister who has visited China five times,” said the Punjab Congress president. Jakhar alleged that though the Chinese had transgressed into our territory in four different places — Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso Lake area, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains — the Central government led by BJP is resorting to diversionary tactics and disinformation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pm-must-explain-chinese-donations/articleshow/76680156.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Morning walkers look forward to reopening of Rabindra Sarobar||KOLKATA: Prabal Kumar Basu temporarily shifted his base from Delhi to Kolkata just before the lockdown was announced in March. Basu is a poet and by profession, a senior executive of an MNC. Back in Delhi, he would regularly go for morning walks at the Jahapana City Forest in Greater Kailash. While in Kolkata, he enjoyed his walks in the Rabindra Sarobar. But not any more. While so many places have opened up, the Lake is still out of bounds. He now walks along a busy Southern Avenue. Basu is among the many morning walkers who are looking forward to the reoping of the Lake. “Earlier, when there was no traffic, it was possible to walk down Southern Avenue. But now, there are a lot of cars. Hence, walking down Southern Avenue in the morning has become quite risky. Prolonged periods of staying at home has impacted all of us. If malls can open, I’m sure opening the Lake can’t be a problem,” said Basu. Times ViewAvoiding infection spread is of paramount importance but agencies managing the area can look at allowing some activities, with all necessary precautions. If someone is anyway going for a morning walk, then where s/he is going hardly makes a difference. Walking in a traffic-free area is, actually, a safer option.A senior KMDA official told TOI: “Recently, a morning walkers’ group has sent us a letter with a request for reopening the Lake. While our offices there are open, the Rabindra Sarobar has not yet been reopened for the general public. We are waiting for the government directive on this.” Mrityunjoy Chatterjee, one of the key members of Lake Lovers Association, used to spend his mornings at the Lake for the past 40 years. “More than 1,000 people would go there daily. It is very important to open the lungs of south Kolkata,” Chatterjee said. Percussionist Pt Bickram Ghosh, who is missing his regular stroll at the Lake, said: “The Lake can open if social distancing, monitoring and restricted entry is ensured.” Green activist Sumita Banerjee has been getting many calls from Lake-regulars. “Unfortunately, many have a bad habit of spitting and don’t maintain social distancing while going for walks. Many live in small flats and giving up on the habit of spending some time at the Lake is difficult,” she said. “I request people to be patient. The Covid infection figures are still high. I ask them to wait for the government’s decision to reopen the Lakes. I believe other parks in south Kolkata are also shut,” she added. (With inputs by Suman Chakraborti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/morning-walkers-look-forward-to-reopening-of-rabindra-sarobar/articleshow/76679457.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pride parade off streets, but spreads love online||NEW DELHI: The streets of the capital were quite colourless on Sunday as the pride parade couldn’t be held this year because of prohibition of gatherings owing to the novel coronavirus pandemic. To make up for the loss, Jamia Queer Collective decided to take the parade celebration online in the last week of the pride month. Using different social media platforms, the collective asked everyone to post pictures celebrating pride and expressing their idea of identity using the #virtualprideparade hashtag. A member of the group said the virtual pride parade first started on Instagram and later moved to Twitter. June is celebrated as the month of pride, commemorating the StoneWall riots that led everyone to pay attention to the LGBTQ community. Tara, a member of the core team, told TOI, “On the first day of the pride month, I was thinking about how many parades I was going to miss this year because of the pandemic. This triggered the idea for the virtual pride parade. I pitched the idea to the rest of the team and they loved it.” Since then, the team has received an overwhelming response with many even complimenting them on spreading positivity. “We didn’t expect so much participation. We nominated many of our favourite LGBT accounts and they all participated with zest and zeal. Our slogan, let’s paint this app rainbow, actually became a reality,” said Tara. The group even put out a tweet asking people to participate. It said, “Let’s bring a little positivity to everyone’s timeline in these difficult times.” It has also been running a pride series creating awareness about LGBTQ issues. “The Pride Series is an educational series on our Instagram page. Every day of the pride month is dedicated to celebrating a particular gender or orientation. We share facts, history and pictures that exemplify love, acceptance and equality,” Tara said. The first of the series gave out notes on what “genderfluid”, “bigender” and “trigender” meant, apart from other binaries related to the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pride-parade-off-streets-but-spreads-love-online/articleshow/76679480.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 29, 2020||Amritsar||Kartarpur Sahib priest too appeals for reopening||Amritsar: With its unilateral proposal to open Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartapur Sahib being rejected by India, the Pakistan government on Sunday evening circulated a video of the head granthi of the Sikh shrine in which he appeals to the government to allow Indians to visit the shrine, even as Punjab province in the neighbouring country has reported over 74,000 Covid cases. In the 1.30-minute video, head granthi Giani Gobind Singh is heard expressing gratitude to the Pakistan government for opening the gurdwara. “Sikhs living around the world are happy with Pakistan government’s decision to reopen the gurdwara, so they could visit for ‘khule darshan deedar’ (easy access),” he said in the video. According to Pakistan media reports, 74,202 cases of Covid-19 and 1,673 fatalities have been reported in Punjab province. Gobind also appealed to Indian government to allow sangat to visit the shrine. Dr H S Nagal, who had earlier visited the gurdwara through the seven-month-old Kartarpur corridor, welcomed the move, but said Indian and Pakistani ‘sangat’ shouldn’t be allowed to mix up in the wake of the pandemic. “The management of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib should have different timings for Pakistani and Indian sangat, and it should adhere to all precautions recommended to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” he said. India has already rejected Islamabad’s proposal of opening Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, situated just four and a half kilometers inside Pakistan from Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district of Indian Punjab. India had reasoned that as per agreement, both countries had to share information about travellers at least seven days before the date of traveling and there was also a need to consult with health authorities and other stakeholders to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/kartarpur-sahib-priest-too-appeals-for-reopening/articleshow/76680160.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||NU waives late fee, but demand for 75% exam fee refund||NAGPUR: The Nagpur University (NU) had allowed submission of exam forms till June 25, and also waived off super late fee in view of the Covid pandemic, which led to closure of all academic activities in March. However, NU senate members and students organizations have demanded that the exam section must refund at least 75% of the fee, as summer exam haven’t been held. Officiating pro-VC SR Chaudhari told TOI the exam forms were allowed to be submitted on the directives of the state government as everything was shut in March. As per rules, super late fee would have become hefty for students to pay if the university had not waived it off. At times, students have to pay more than Rs10,000 per subject instead of Rs300 to 500, in case they wish to avail the facility of applying late. On June 11, NU had issued a circular asking colleges to forward exam forms of students by June 25. “The government had directed us to accept forms of those who couldn’t submit them in March. So the university is taking forms without late fee. The waiver decision was taken at the university level, and it was put up before the management council. As per rules, late fee has to be charged. But looking at Covid situation the late fee was waived off,” Chaudhari said. He said there was no clarity if universities would be allowed to hold exams or not. “Even now detailed guidelines are awaited. Like a GR has been issued for final year exam, but no such order has been conveyed regarding first and second year exams. By filling up the exam form, student becomes an examinee and the fee is collected. But management council will decide what is to be done with the fee. Results would be declared so university will incur administrative and marksheet charges,” he said. Advocate Manmohan Bajpai, who is a senate member, said NU must refund 75% exam fee as no exam was held. “The university must inform students what it intends to do with the fee collected from them. I understand that it will incur some expenses on processing, and therefore we are only demanding 75% refund,” he said. ABVP city President Amit Patle said though they have been demanding exams for final year, they have submitted a request to refund first and second year students exam fee. “We had written to NU to even waive off the entire fee beside requesting promotion of all ATKT students,” said Nationalist Students’ Congress’s city working President Rudra Dhakde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-waives-late-fee-but-demand-for-75-exam-fee-refund/articleshow/76679482.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 29, 2020||Kanpur||Locust swarms enter Kanpur Dehat district||Kanpur: Swarm of locusts, after crossing Madhya Pradesh, entered Kanpur Dehat district and travelled ahead to reach the industrial city on Sunday following which an alert has been sounded in city outskirts such as Mandhana, Tikra and Chaubeypur. Farmers are also on alert in Shivrajpur area. They took measures like they beat dhols and created loud sounds to scare the insects and prevent their attack on the crops. District magistrate Brahmadev Ram Tiwari sent a team of the agriculture department instructing it to prevent crops from locust attack. The team ensured spraying of pesticides on crops to save it. The district magistrate said that the district administration had received information about entry of locusts in Shivrajpur area but they had not descended on the crops. “All efforts are being made to ensure that locusts change their route and fly away,” he added. Farmers have already started guarding their fields and sprayed pesticides to ensure that no harm is caused to their crops by the locusts. The team of the agriculture department has asked farmers to inform it in case locusts descend on the field. “We saw a small swarm of locusts near Baghpur village close to city”, said a farmer. According to the agriculture department, locusts were witnessed in two groups--one in Chaubeypur which headed towards Unnao and the other returned to Kanpur Dehat district. No swarm of locusts was noticed in Kanpur Nagar district, the agriculture department claimed. Meanwhile, around 70% of locust swarm that entered Jalaun was eliminated in a six-hour-long operation. Deputy director (agriculture) RK Twari said chemicals were sprayed on the locusts which entered Jalaun from Jhansi on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/locust-swarms-enter-kanpur-dehat-district/articleshow/76679883.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 cases spike but crowds at Sunday markets, liquor shops seem unconcerned||Visakhapatnam: The maintenance of physical distance among people, one of the prime precautions to combat the pandemic, has become a challenge for frontline warriors, particularly on Sundays in the state. Failure of social distancing has mainly been reported from fish markets, rythu bazaars, liquor shops, meat shops and fish tanks in rural areas across all 13 districts. Nor has a series of campaigns or the increasing number of positive Covid-19 cases helped in curbing crowds. The case of a large number of people gathering at a fish tank in Sahapuram village under Pedapudi mandal in East Godavari district, violating social distancing norms, is an indication of how safety measures are being disregarded. “On Sunday morning, Sahapuram villagers gathered at the fish tank to buy fresh fish caught in the tank. Most of them did not wear masks and completely failed to maintain social distance,” said an eyewitness. On Sunday, a video surfaced of people gathering at a liquor shop in Kancharapalem in Vizag city, raising concerns at a time when cases across the state are rising. Admitting that maintaining social distance at liquor outlets is a difficult task, though necessary, Visakhapatnam excise superintedent B Srinivas told TOI that liquor shops have been opened only in non-containment zones. “We opened only five out of 38 liquor shops in Visakhapatnam city till Sunday. From Monday, we will close the liquor shop at Siripuram junction in the city. I personally monitored the liquor shop at Peda Waltair till 1pm and later closed it on Sunday,” Srinivas said. A senior revenue official at the secretariat said they are chalking out plans to handle liquor sale. The plan proposes closing all liquor shops, except for a few located in large spaces which will be kept open. This is expected to control the rush and bring relief to excise staff who will not have to monitor crowds at several outlets. “This is still at a planning stage, it has not yet come into force,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-cases-spike-but-crowds-at-sunday-markets-liquor-shops-seem-unconcerned/articleshow/76678798.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||Married days ago, couple tests +ve||Lucknow: Barely 10 days into their marriage, a newly wed couple tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday. The woman is from Delhi and had come to the city on June 16 with her family to get married to the Lucknow youth. She and her husband have been staying in an apartment in the city after their marriage. They visited a private doctor after experiencing some of the symptoms of the disease, who recommended that the couple get tested for Covid-19. The report came positive on Sunday. “The man and his wife tested positive are residents of an apartment building on Meera Bai Marg,” said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. Their family members have been asked to home quarantine and will be tested. If they are found positive, other contacts including those who took part in the wedding ceremony will also be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/married-days-ago-couple-tests-ve/articleshow/76680163.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Bring down mortality rate: Pb CS to DCs||Chandigarh: Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday directed deputy commissioners across the state to take all required steps to check mortality rate due to Covid-19 and bring it down from the current 2.4%. While interacting with the DCs through video-conferencing for the first time after taking over as the chief secretary of the state, Mahajan asked them to ensure special care of critical patients and directed them to take help of the state expert group chaired by Dr K K Talwar. She also instructed the DCs to allow Covid patients to go to private hospitals at their own expense, if they so wish. They were also asked to allow patients in government centres to get their own food, if needed. The Punjab government is working to increase the Covid-19 testing capacity to 20,000 per day, as it recently approved four new testing laboratories that are expected to be operational soon. Mahajan also asked the DCs to ensure that every resident of Punjab wears the mask, follows the instructions issued by the government and avoids large gatherings, especially in closed spaces. It was observed at the meeting that a concerted effort should be made to remove the stigma that is being attached to Covid-infected persons, as it is like any other disease where people need to rest and keep away for two weeks so as not to spread the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bring-down-mortality-rate-pb-cs-to-dcs/articleshow/76679478.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kanpur||June 30 meeting to decide reopening of religious places||Kanpur: To open or not to open religious places in the city from July 1 will be decided by the district administration and religious leaders at a meeting to be held on June 30 District magistrate Brahamadeo Ram Tiwari on Friday evening convened a meeting with the religious leaders to know their opinion regarding opening of the religious places. There were differences of opinion among them as some of them were of the view that when markets and factories have been allowed to open then why should religious places remain closed? On the other hand, some religious leaders said that since corona is contagious and a deadly virus, children, old age persons and chronic patients are most vulnerable to it, therefore people should wait for a green signal from the government. The government too is of the view all decisions in this connection should be taken after considering the health of the people. “Everybody has faith in their religion. We should pray from our houses as we had been doing for the last three months during the lockdown”, they said. The DM said, “The decision of religious leaders should be unanimous. Whatever has been decided so far was followed in true spirit. We should take special care to protect ourselves”, he added. SSP Dinesh Kumar said everyone should act wisely. The gravity of the deadly virus should be understood from the fact even schools and colleges had been ordered to be closed, he said.The meeting was adjourned till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/june-30-meeting-to-decide-reopening-of-religious-places/articleshow/76679964.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: 50-year-old man dies in Karnal district jail, kin say negligence||KARNAL: A 50-year-old inmate died under mysterious circumstances in Karnal district jail on Sunday. The family members of deceased Kulvinder Singh, a resident of Shiv Colony in Karnal, refused to cremate the body and accused jail authorities of not providing medical treatment, thus being responsible for his death. Kulvinder’s brother Gurmeet Singh alleged that the deceased was arrested by Ramnagar police under the NDPS Act a few days ago. He said his brother was a drug addict, but police arrested him on the charge of selling banned tablets. The jail authorities, however, denied the allegation. Karnal jail deputy superintendent Sanjay Bangar said Kulvinder was brought in jail on June 19. “On Sunday morning, he complained of high blood pressure. H was referred to Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead,” he said. Police said a judicial inquiry was under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/50-yr-old-man-dies-in-jail-kin-say-negligence/articleshow/76680165.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chennai||Government bulletin on Covid check at Chennai’s airport misleading||CHENNAI: The city airport does not test all arriving domestic passengers for Covid-19 infection, but the data in daily health bulletin released by the health department gives an impression that it does. The bulletin lists air passengers tested positive under two categories — domestic air passengers tested positive daily without specifying the airport and total domestic passengers tested positive so far. This gives an impression that all domestic passengers arriving are being tested at Chennai airport while only thermal scanning is done. The column “Passengers returned from other states by domestic airport tested positive today” on page two of Sunday’s bulletin says the number of passengers and place of origin as Karnataka 13, Delhi nine, Telangana eight, Maharashtra four, and Gujarat, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh ,and West Bengal one each. However, there is no break-up of the airports these passengers landed at. On the bulletin’s page 15, a table says 80,903 passengers had arrived by domestic flights from May 26 to June 27 in Tamil Nadu and 306 have tested positive. Here too there is no airport-wise break-up. On the same page, a table for “air surveillance up to June 27 (domestic flights) says 895flights brought 53,709 passengers and 127 had tested positive at Chennai airport. But there is no mention of whether all 53,709 passengers have been tested or not. An official at the Covid-19 control room which prepares the bulletin said “the numbers shown on page two are gathered from all airports and show the origin of passengers, but there is no move as yet to mention which airport they have landed in Tamil Nadu.” The state government is yet to start testing all passengers arriving at Chennai airport; they are screened and only those with symptoms are tested. An airline official said, “People get a wrong impression looking at the bulletin that all are being tested. Many call up the airport and airline counters and ask whether samples will be taken from them on arrival.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-bulletin-on-covid-check-at-citys-airport-misleading/articleshow/76679481.cms||V Ayyappan
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Private operators unwilling to run buses despite CM’s nod||Jalandhar: Even as Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday allowed all buses in the state to operate at their full passenger capacity, private transporters say operations are not viable as there are not enough passengers even for the limited number of buses being run now. Private transporters want the Punjab government to make more efforts, especially in terms of tax waiver, to make operations viable. Enquiries revealed that even government buses, which are already operating, are not getting enough passengers. “We are not running buses according to the time-table, which provides halt time of only a few minutes for every bus. We station a bus at the counter specified for a destination and when it gets reasonable number of passengers, we move. Sometimes it takes even half an hour to get 40% to 50% passengers,” said a Punjab Roadways official. Official sources said passengers mostly comprise police personnel who don’t have personal cars for medium or long distance travel. “Only those passengers who don’t have personal vehicles and can’t avoid travelling take buses,” said a Pujab Roadways employee. Punjab Motor Transport Union general secretary and Congress MLA Bawa Henry, who is director of Kartar Bus Service, a prominent operator in Doaba region, said operations are not viable without practical relief to transporters. “From Jalandhar, there are around 2,000 daily time slots. Currently, only 110 slots are being operated. Even these buses are not getting enough passengers and find it tough to fill 50% of seats, then how can other buses operate at full passenger capacity? People are wary of infection and they would not be ready to sit side by side,” Henry said.  “Allowing buses to carry passengers to their full capacity is not at all practical and does not mean anything on the ground. We have already suggested to the state government to give some real relief in taxes so that operations can start and employees paid. The state government can extend the period of toll tax barriers while waiving off toll tax. Bus stand fee etc can be waived. Tax should be waived for future months also,” he said. Hike in fuel prices has also hit private operators hard. “Several buses would need renewal of insurance. Increase in diesel price is unprecedented. Government should provide diesel at a reduced price for public transport,” said Jarnail Singh Garhdiwala, Jalandhar-based bus operator core committee member of Minni Bus Bachao Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/private-operators-unwilling-to-run-buses-despite-cms-nod/articleshow/76680167.cms||IP Singh
June 29, 2020||Goa||Blame game over removal of sand bags from beaches||Colva: Sand bags abandoned by shack owners after the premature closure of the tourism season are getting washed into the sea with the heightened force of the waves due to the monsoon. However, the tourism department and Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) are pointing fingers at each other on who should clear the sand bags, which are proving to be destructive to the shore as well as to the marine life. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said that following a report in TOI’s June 10 edition, he deputed his staff along the Benaulim-Colva beach stretch to check which shack owners had abandoned sand bags on the beaches. “My staff reported that the sand bags were of the shacks permitted by the GCZMA, so the GCZMA has to ensure the removal of these sand bags,” D’Souza said. When pointed out that even owners of shacks permitted by the tourism department had not cleared the sand bags, D’Souza said that he would again get the beach stretch inspected. GCZMA member secretary Johnson Fernandes said that only shacks in private properties have been permitted to retain their structures. “I had written to the tourism department earlier this month to get the sand bags cleared,” Fernandes said. “The tourism department can engage the workers of the beach cleaning agency to remove the sand bags from the beaches,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/blame-game-over-removal-of-sand-bags-from-beaches/articleshow/76680168.cms||Nisser Dias
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Private operators in Punjab unwilling to run buses despite nod||JALANDHAR: Even as Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday allowed all buses in the state to operate at their full passenger capacity, private transporters say operations are not viable as there are not enough passengers even for the limited number of buses being run now. Private transporters want the Punjab government to make more efforts, especially in terms of tax waiver, to make operations viable. Enquiries revealed that even government buses, which are already operating, are not getting enough passengers. “We are not running buses according to the time-table, which provides halt time of only a few minutes for every bus. We station a bus at the counter specified for a destination and when it gets reasonable number of passengers, we move. Sometimes it takes even half an hour to get 40% to 50% passengers,” said a Punjab Roadways official. Official sources said passengers mostly comprise police personnel who don’t have personal cars for medium or long distance travel. “Only those passengers who don’t have personal vehicles and can’t avoid travelling take buses,” said a Pujab Roadways employee. Punjab Motor Transport Union general secretary and Congress MLA Bawa Henry, who is director of Kartar Bus Service, a prominent operator in Doaba region, said operations are not viable without practical relief to transporters. “From Jalandhar, there are around 2,000 daily time slots. Currently, only 110 slots are being operated. Even these buses are not getting enough passengers and find it tough to fill 50% of seats, then how can other buses operate at full passenger capacity? People are wary of infection and they would not be ready to sit side by side,” Henry said.  “Allowing buses to carry passengers to their full capacity is not at all practical and does not mean anything on the ground. We have already suggested to the state government to give some real relief in taxes so that operations can start and employees paid.  “The state government can extend the period of toll tax barriers while waiving off toll tax. Bus stand fee etc can be waived. Tax should be waived for future months also,” he said. Hike in fuel prices has also hit private operators hard. “Several buses would need renewal of insurance. Increase in diesel price is unprecedented. Government should provide diesel at a reduced price for public transport,” said Jarnail Singh Garhdiwala, Jalandhar-based bus operator core committee member of Minni Bus Bachao Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pvt-operators-unwilling-to-run-buses-despite-nod/articleshow/76680166.cms||IP Singh
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||45-yr-old man dies in accident, cousin injured||Ludhiana: A 45-year-old man died while another sustained injuries after their bike rammed into a car at Bharat Nagar Chowk here on Sunday.The deceased, Gurudita Singh, 45, a resident of Muktasar district, and his injured cousin Gurmeet Singh, 35, had come to a shrine in Khanna three days ago and were returning in the morning when the incident took place.Division 8 police station ASI Dharamveer said Gurudita was driving the bike, while Gurmeet was pillion riding. Gurmeet in his statement said his cousin was driving the vehicle at high speed. They were coming from the bus stand side and were to take a left turn form Bharat Nagar Chowk. But, Gurudita apparently lost control over the vehicle and rammed into a car coming from the opposite direction. Gurudita died on the spot.In another case, a 26-year-old man suffered severe injuries when his car crashed into a truck parked on Chandigarh-Ludhiana highway near Sahnewal on Saturday evening. The man works as a civil engineer in Mohali and was on way to Ludhiana for the weekend when he met with the accident. After the incident, the truck driver fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. The injured person has been identified as Paramveer Singh of Guru Nanak Pura, Civil Lines here. He was alone in his Hyundai i10 car around 7.30pm when he hit a stationary truck without any reflectors near Jimidara Dhaba on the national highway. He has been admitted to a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/45-yr-old-man-dies-in-accident-cousin-injured/articleshow/76678824.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||First, second year assessment begins, results likely by July 15||Nagpur: To process the results of first and second year students, Nagpur University’s (NU) exam section has started seeking their internal assessment marks from colleges. The government resolution had directed the universities to declare the results in 120 days from July 1. Like the ATKT students, the NU has also sought clarification for backlog students from the first and second year. The results of those without any backlog are being processed. Officiating ProVC SR Chaudhari told TOI that like every year, internal marks are being filled up online by colleges. “Colleges have been given one week’s time to submit the internal assessment marks. Probably, the results for the second semester (first year) and fourth semester (second year) are likely to be announced by July 15,” said Chaudhari. Unlike final-year students, Chaudhari explained that the results for first and second year would be announced for all streams and courses. While the state had issued government resolution cancelling all final-year exams for non-professional courses in non-agriculture universities, those of professional courses like engineering, pharmacy and management were left for their respective apex bodies to decide. On June 27, TOI reported about chief minister Uddhav Thackeray writing to prime minister Narendra Modi requesting him to support the MVA government’s decision of cancelling all exams. “The GR has given a formula to calculate the marks of students to process their results. Say a fourth semester student scored 75% in his previous class (3rd sem), then 50% of that performance will be the common addition to all subjects of the current semester. This would be added to the subject-wise internal assessment marks which would be considered out of 50 for all,” said Chaudhari. No summer exams for the second and fourth semester were held. Only their internal assessment had been completed when the lockdown was imposed. The officiating ProVC said a clarification on backlog students from first and second year, too, is awaited from the state higher education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-second-year-assessment-begins-results-likely-by-july-15/articleshow/76679484.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||Chocolates, Vit C supplements most sought items for lockdown haul, says IIM-L survey||LUCKNOW: Chocolates were the most stocked packaged item during nationwide lockdown with 42% consumers keeping it in their homes to make children happy and to be used by adults as a dessert, according to a study conducted by the Indian Institute of Management-Lucknow (IIM-L). The survey, conducted by IIM’s Centre for Marketing in Emerging Economies (CMEE) to understand shopping habits and lifestyle of consumers, showed that during the first phase of lockdown, 39% consumers experimented with newer brands which were usually not in their purchase repertoire. Their willingness to compromise on their preferred brands increased to 54% in the second round of lockdown, giving way to newer brands to establish themselves in the market. Capturing consumers feeling of overstocking to face Covid-19 pandemic, the survey showed 75% and 65% people stocked rice and flour, respectively. Among veggies, onions and potatoes were stocked the most. The survey also revealed how health and wellness took centre stage during lockdown. While 40% consumers who participated in the survey said they stocked items like sanitary napkins, nappies and tissues, 39% and 36% bought disinfectants and cleaning agents, in excess. To keep Covid-19 at bay, consumers also focused on boosting immunity and purchased supplements like vitamin C and amla. The survey, conducted on 931 people from metros, tier I and II cities through social media platforms, also studied how people spent their time during lockdown. Asked about the activities they used to relax, 53% said they watched television while 45% said they resorted to online activities and sleeping. Only 24% people who took the survey said they read books and news during lockdown. Talking about hobbies, 44% of the surveyed lot invested their time in cooking new dishes while 20% took to meditation and prayers. The most sought after activity was taking up household chores while 32% kept their kids engaged. Prof Satya Bhusan Dash, who led the study, said: “We are seeing a new normal. Health and hygiene as well as concern for family well-being, including spending quality time with them, will become ingrained habits. Marketers will do well to adopt strategies that address these core needs.” Ashu Sabharwal from Qualisys, who partnered in the survey, said: “Past studies have shown that a significant proportion of consumers who experiment with new brands tend to shift, if the experience is satisfactory. The biggest challenge for newer brands was the consumer inertia to even try a new brand.” Lockdown helped companies to establish their brands, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chocolates-vit-c-supplements-most-sought-items-for-lockdown-haul-says-iim-l-survey/articleshow/76680179.cms||Isha Jain
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Businessman in debt fakes theft to claim insurance money||KOLKATA: A businessman — neck-deep in debt — was arrested on Sunday after cops found he had faked a robbery at his own store to claim insurance money that would help him pay off his loans. The incident was reported from Baruipur in South 24 Parganas where officers of Jibantala police station arrested Md Noor Ahmed Molla (35) after he had lodged the fake complaint on Thursday, alleging that thieves had broken into his mobile phone store and decamped with 30 expensive smartphones and Rs 10 lakh. The store is right next to the police station and cops immediately started a probe led by officer in-charge Subhas Ghosh. “We had doubts about Molla’s claims. He said the store’s CCTV cameras had broken down just two days before the robbery. Moreover, he had no record of the 30 cellphones and could not account for the Rs 10 lakh, which he claimed was stolen from the store After a detailed probe, he broke down and confessed to have faked the robbery,” said a senior officer. Police said early on Thursday, Molla had himself ransacked the store and left some empty mobile phone boxes strewn on the floor. He then broke the shutter lock and raised a hue and cry alleging the robbery. “We found that he had an outstanding debt of Rs 42 lakh and was being hounded by moneylenders. That’s what he ,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bizman-in-debt-fakes-theft-to-claim-insurance-money/articleshow/76679476.cms||Manotosh Chakraborty
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Damaged meters: PSPCL charging for 15 months instead of six, say bizmen||Ludhiana: Opening a front against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), Janta Nagar businessmen have asked it to roll back its decision to impose “unfair charges” on consumers with damaged meters. According to businessmen, the department was asking for charges equivalent to their 15-month power consumption, whereas as per the rules it could charge six months’ consolidated bill for the month the meter was not working. Businessmen warned if they did not send revised bills, they would resort to agitation. Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small-Scale Manufacturers’ Association (JSMA), said, “Dozens of consumers in our area whose meters got damaged or developed a fault or got burnt are being sent bills as per 15-month consumption. According to the department’s rules mentioned in the supply code, if any meter gets damaged, the consumer will be liable to pay the bill of six months for that month. So PSPCL is clearly violating its own rules. If by next week the bills of such consumers are not revised, we will be forced to stage an agitation.”“PSPCL levies six months’ charges, as its rules say that if a meter has stopped working, it would have developed a fault in the past months. And therefore, charges for previous months too should be imposed on the consumer,” Thukral added.Inderjit Singh GS, a businessman from Janta Nagar, saw a conspiracy in this. “Some officials are maligning the image of the state government, which is trying to bring industry back on track. After several businessmen reported about this problem, we requested the PSPCL officials to correct the bills, but nothing was done. On Monday, we will meet the chief engineer and if no solution comes out, protest will be inevitable.”Vlaiti Ram Durga, another businessman from Janta Nagar, said, “Rather than asking businessman and consumers to obey the rules, PSPCL should first ask its officials to study them. How could they commit such a blunder? PSPCL is charging almost three times than is allowed. How can businessmen pay such huge charges that too when these are illegal?” Junior engineer of PSPCL’s Janta Nagar division could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/damaged-meters-pspcl-charging-for-15-months-instead-of-six-say-bizmen/articleshow/76678849.cms||Mohit Behl
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 toll rises: 65-yr-old woman from Hoshiarpur dies||TNNLudhiana: An elderly Covid-19 positive woman from Hoshiarpur died here on Sunday morning. Besides, 46 persons from Ludhiana district tested positive for the disease. Mohandai Oswal Hospital spokesperson Balwinder Sharma said the 65-year-old woman was a cancer patient and also had a kidney disease. He said she was admitted to the hospital on June 19 and her sample was taken as she was a suspected case. She tested positive after two days and died on Sunday morning. He added that till now, 35 corona patients have been cured at their hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 281 pending samples, 250 tested negative and reports of 31 samples came out as positive. He said of these cases, 28 patients were from Ludhiana and the remaining from Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Fatehgarh Sahib. He added that of the positive cases in Ludhiana, seven were from Jamalpur, four each from Islam Ganj and Mall, two each from Khanna and New Janta Nagar, one each from Ishar Nagar, Jangpur, Mundiyan Kalan, Hargobind Nagar, Azad Nagar, Preet Colony, Badewal, Bhamiyan Kalan and Gurpreet Nagar. The health department officials said of the 1,013 samples sent on Saturday, 1,006 tested negative and seven positive. All seven are from the district — two from Khanna, one from women’s police station and four others. They said of the seven positive reports from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), two cases each were from Samrala, Dhandari Kalan, and one each belonged to Haibowal, Model Town and Gurdev Nagar.They added that of the two positive reports received from Christian Medical College and Hospital, one patient belonged to Bhai Ravinder Singh Nagar and the other to Khud Mohalla.Besides, a positive case was reported by SPS Hospital. The patient is from Salem Tabri. The civil surgeon said another corona positive case whose report was received from Mohandai Hospital belonged to Jamalpur. He said thus on Sunday, 46 positive cases were reported of the district residents and three were from outside. “This brings the total number of positive cases in the district to date to 790. Besides, 186 patients from outside the district have tested positive here. Total number of deaths in Ludhiana is 19. Twenty-two persons were discharged on Sunday,” he added. Those tested positive include four cops, two pregnant women and a private hospital staff nurse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-toll-rises-65-yr-old-woman-from-hoshiarpur-dies/articleshow/76678855.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chennai||Cops scout for spaces to park seized vehicles in Chennai||CHENNAI: With Chennai under lockdown 5.0, the Greater Chennai police, who have seized more than 50,000 vehicles since June 19, are running out of space and taking over the parking lots of private institutions to hold the seized vehicles in. With Covid-19 cases fast increasing, police have been implementing the lockdown strictly by intensifying vehicle checks at 288 points in the city. Barricades block arterial roads and flyovers to restrict movement of vehicles. While the 52,234 vehicles seized during this lockdown will not be released till June 30, several impounded in May continue to sit in parking lots of police stations, leaving the force pinched for space. Police sources said lockdown 5.0 was announced even as they were releasing previously seized vehicles in a phased manner. As a temporary set up, police are using cordoned off roads and approaching private parking lots since it would be safer. With CMRL’s nod, Anna Nagar traffic enforcement wing has taken over the Anna Nagar East metro station’s parking lot. They have also approached colleges and business establishments that have huge parking spaces. A thorough check of the place is done before using it to hold the vehicles, police said. “We ensure the place is secured with CCTV cameras and post policemen to guard the vehicles every day to prevent theft or any other untoward incident,” said a senior police official. They are in talks with some people to take over more parking spaces. “Most people still flout the norms and continue to use cars even for buying groceries,” he said. Disinfectants are being sprayed on the vehicles regularly as they are in open air, he added. On Saturday, police seized 6,107 vehicles, 5,588 of which were two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-scout-for-spaces-to-park-seized-vehicles/articleshow/76679491.cms||Sindhu Kannan
June 29, 2020||Chennai||Man who flew out stopped at Kolkata as result returns positive||CHENNAI: A 26-year-old construction worker who took a flight from Chennai to Kolkata on Saturday before his Covid-19 test results arrived was stopped at Kolkata airport following an alert from Chennai that he has tested positive. Being asymptomatic, he was not caught at the thermal screening at Chennai airport. The alert was sent out just on time since the authorities found him waiting at the passenger screening area at the Kolkata airport. Police sources said he had booked the ticket a month ago since it was cheaper and chose to travel despite the Chennai corporation officials asking him not to leave the city before the results came in. A civic staff who reached his accommodation in Manali New Town with an ambulance on Saturday could not find him there, and was informed he had taken a flight to his native. Corporation officials alerted the local police who contacted the city airport. Since the flight had left already, Chennai airport officials alerted their counterparts in Kolkata. He was in Chennai since 2019, working on a project under construction for Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. He got tested voluntarily on June 25 at a nearby public health centre (PHC). Those who were in contact with him at his accommodation here were taken to a quarantine facility. According to the neighbours, he rarely stepped out. Officials in Kolkata, taking all necessary precautions, admitted him in a Covid treatment ward at a government hospital there. “The man was asymptomatic, so it could have been easy for him to go unstopped during checks. He was not aware that he was Covid-19 positive,” said an investigating officer.“None of his neighbours have tested positive so far. We are tracking his contact history along with corporation officials,” a Chennai police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-flew-out-stopped-at-kolkata-as-result-returns-ve/articleshow/76679486.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Ex-employee accuses factory owner of rape||LUDHIANA: The police have booked a factory owner for raping and sexually exploiting his former employee for years. The woman had lodged a complaint with police in 2015. The FIR, however, was lodged on Saturday following an inquiry. The 31-year-old woman, who worked in the city-based office of the accused, said in her police complaint, “Earlier, my father used to work in the office of the accused. In 2004, when I was 16-year-old, the accused offered me a job in the same office. He then asked me to pursue higher studies to get a promotion. He bought me and my father a house in the company’s name and we used to pay installments to him. In 2008, the accused started asking me to work till late evening and assured to drop me home.”  As he had won her trust, she agreed. “One night when my employer was going to drop me home, he took the car to an isolated place and raped me. He threatened me against speaking about the incident. Then onwards, he kept exploiting me, but I could not do anything as our house was in the company’s name. In 2014, I got married. But that did not stop my employer from sexually assaulting me. He also tried to defame me in front of my husband and in-laws. I then decided to approach the police,” she added.  The survivor lodged a police complaint in 2015. Later, the accused got a false FIR lodged against her father and husband of cheating, she said Investigating officer Balbir Singh said, “The case was registered on Saturday following an inquiry. The accused is yet to be arrested.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/former-employee-accuses-city-factory-owner-of-rape/articleshow/76678842.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||‘Courts must be accessible to persons with disabilities’||Panaji: The social welfare department has directed all judicial and quasi-judicial bodies to ensure that persons with disabilities have the right to access court, tribunal, authority commission or any other body which has judicial or quasi-judicial or investigative powers without discrimination on the basis of disability. This is stipulated in Section 12 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016. Director of social welfare Umeshchandra Joshi in a circular stated that all judicial, quasi-judicial bodies as well as those having investigative powers must ensure that all public documents are in accessible formats. The bodies must also take steps to ensure that the filing departments, registry or any other office of records are supplied with necessary equipment to enable filing, storing and referring to the documents and evidence in accessible formats. Steps must also be taken to make available all necessary facilities and equipment to facilitate recordings of testimonies, arguments or opinion given by persons with disabilities in their preferred language and means of communication. “It is therefore enjoined on all judicial and quasi judicial bodies to strictly ensure that all the steps mentioned above as envisaged in Section 12 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 are taken in letter and spirit for the empowerment of Persons with Disabilities in the state on “Top Priority” basis and compliance reported to this office immediately,” Joshi stated in the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/courts-must-be-accessible-to-persons-with-disabilities/articleshow/76680196.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Damaged meters: PSPCL billing unfair, say bizmen||Ludhiana: Opening a front against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), Janta Nagar businessmen have asked it to roll back its decision to impose “unfair charges” on consumers with damaged meters. According to businessmen, the department was asking for charges equivalent to their 15-month power consumption, whereas as per the rules it could charge six months’ consolidated bill for the month the meter was not working. Businessmen warned if they did not send revised bills, they would resort to agitation. Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small-Scale Manufacturers’ Association (JSMA), said, “Dozens of consumers in our area whose meters got damaged or developed a fault or got burnt are being sent bills as per 15-month consumption. According to the department’s rules mentioned in the supply code, if any meter gets damaged, the consumer will be liable to pay the bill of six months for that month. So PSPCL is clearly violating its own rules. If by next week the bills of such consumers are not revised, we will be forced to stage an agitation.”“PSPCL levies six months’ charges, as its rules say that if a meter has stopped working, it would have developed a fault in the past months. And therefore, charges for previous months too should be imposed on the consumer,” Thukral added.Inderjit Singh GS, a businessman from Janta Nagar, saw a conspiracy in this. “Some officials are maligning the image of the state government, which is trying to bring industry back on track. On Monday, we will meet the chief engineer and if no solution comes out, protest will be inevitable.”Vlaiti Ram Durga, another businessman from Janta Nagar, said, “Rather than asking businessman and consumers to obey the rules, PSPCL should first ask its officials to study them. PSPCL is charging almost three times than is allowed.” PSPCL’s Janta Nagar division JE could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/damaged-meters-pspcl-billing-unfair-say-bizmen/articleshow/76678859.cms||Mohit Behl
June 29, 2020||Trichy||Delay in testing leads to Covid spread in families||Trichy: People infected with Covid-19 in turn spreading the infection among their family members has contributed to the surge in cases in the city. As almost all the cases involved people returning from outside the district, the delay in getting them tested has paved the way for transmission within a family as the number of cases has climbed from about 40 in May to 341 on June 27. The pattern started from a house in ward 45 in Karumandapam in K Abishekapuram zone, where a man who returned from Chennai had spread the infection to his family. Days later, a Southern Railway employee hailing from Kottapattu in Ponmalai zone who was suspected to have contracted it from a Chennai returnee tested positive. He spread the infection to seven members in his family. In Ariyamangalam zone, a Chennai-returnee to Varaganeri had spread the infection to six of his family members besides one neighbour. Attending events has also caused the disease to spread among many peole. A family of five from the same house tested positive in Raghavendrapuram in Srirangam as they attended a funeral near Manapparai that had Chennai returnees. Two shopkeepers in Thillai Nagar without any travel history spread the virus among four family members each. Failure to isolate themselves on developing symptoms and absence of screening measures to quarantine Chennai returnees were cited as the reasons for most of the cases. Between June 4 and June 23, at least 10 houses across the 4 zones of Trichy have recorded at least 60 positive cases. “With the isolation facility launched, we can prevent the infection within family members. Soon after a family member tests positive, the rest of the family will be isolated at the isolation centre in Yatri Nivas,” a health official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delay-in-testing-leads-to-covid-spread-in-families/articleshow/76680184.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 29, 2020||Mysuru||Anganwadi centres to resume growth monitoring exercise after 3 months||Mysuru: As Covid-19 impacts livelihoods across communities, malnutrition and food deprivation emerge as grave threats to the health and well-being of children in the state. With the anganwadi centres closed and frontline health staff diverted to Covid-related work, the beneficiaries — children up to the age of six years and expectant/ nursing mothers — are being distributed food grains. In several places, children who have migrated to other parts, are deprived of these as well, raising concerns about growing malnutrition among kids from poor families. As a measure to check the undoing of decades of progress in reducing malnutrition among children, the state women and child welfare department has launched a survey of all anganwadi centres. Each child will be examined by doctors and paramedical staff and if any child is found malnourished, he/she will be provided additional nutritional food items, including eggs. Children suffering from severe malnourishment will be referred for further nutritional support. The department has also decided to supply nutritional food kits for the children from migrant families to ensure that no child will suffer from malnourishment. Women and child welfare department director KA Dayananda said the monitoring exercise of children could not be carried out since the lockdown. “Every month we monitor the height and weight of children. But for the last three-four months, it could not be done. So, we have to restart the again,” he said. Women and child empowerment minister Shashikala Jolle said if any parent is not able to visit the anganwadi centre with their children for the survey, growth monitoring and check-up will be done at their doorstep and the required intervention will be ensured. Women and child welfare department deputy director K Padma said all the anganwadi centres in Mysuru are being sanitised with assistance from grama panchayat before the children and their parents visit them for the survey Special drive for migrant children A special drive has been planned to examine the health status of anganwadi kids in Mysuru. “In Mysuru over 1.30 lakh children are enrolled in anganwadis. The drive will see migrant children being examined and given required nutritional support,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/anganwadi-centres-to-resume-growth-monitoring-exercise-after-3-months/articleshow/76679124.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ludhiana||No moving to isolation facility after 8pm||Ludhiana: Director, health services, Punjab, Dr Avneet Kaur said, “No Covid-19 positive patient will be moved to isolation facilities and hospitals after 8pm. All teams will be sensitised to deal with patients with empathy and respect their right to privacy.” Earlier, once a patient was declared positive, the district teams would reach his house, even at odd hours, to transfer him to an isolation facility, showing complete insensitivity and invading a person’s privacy, stated the department of health and family welfare circular.A 29-year-old man from New Gurunam Nagar, Jassian Road, said, “I got myself tested on June 26 and now I am isolated at Meritorious School. I received a call from the health department at 7.30pm and they picked me up at 1.30am. After that no doctor attended to me here and no screening was done. Though I was asymptomatic, someone should have at least come for a health check-up.”A 17-year-old girl of Prem Nagar said, “After I tested positive, I was told late in the evening that a health department team will come to pick me up. An ambulance came to pick me around 2am.”A 40-year-old woman, also of Prem Nagar, said, “Many times, patients are treated as criminals as police and health teams come to their houses at odd hours. I was picked up around 11.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-moving-to-isolation-facility-after-8pm/articleshow/76678866.cms||Mehak Jain
June 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, Vietnam seems to be the place to party||VISAKHAPATNAM: Though it may be some time yet before fears surrounding the pandemic subside, a group of ten from Visakhapatnam has booked an international travel package to Vietnam in September, but with flexible dates. This is the first booking in the state for an international tour package since the outbreak started. “I have a group of friends who travel thrice a year, twice with families and once with friends. And this year will not be an exception. We have booked a nine-night-ten-day package for Vietnam for September. However, we are flexible with dates and might travel in October if international flight services don’t resume by then,” N Sri Nagesh, president of National Real Estate Development Corporation (NAREDCO), Visakhapatnam north zone, told TOI. Given the risk of infection that travel poses this year and the uncertainty around flights, Nagesh’s colleague, A Ramesh Babu said they chose a country with only around 350 Covid-19 cases among a population of over 90 million. “Every year we normally travel to European countries or to the USA. This year we chose Vietnam because it is almost Covid-19-free. In fact, we feel staying in Hanoi during this time is a better option than staying in Visakhapatnam,” Ramesh Babu told TOI. Vietnam has also been one of the first countries to resume tourism and to welcome international tourists. There are no quarantine norms for passengers arriving in the country, nor do passengers have to undergo Covid-19 tests. The Vietnam National Administration of Tourism had made preparations to facilitate tourists from foreign countries. From July 1, the Vietnam government will grant e-visa to international tourists from around 80 countries, including India. “To woo tourists, hotels and airlines are offering discounted rates. Most importantly, booking dates are flexible and you can reschedule the dates for flights and accommodations as per your convenience. Apart from Vietnam, a few other countries are slated to resume international travel in the next two months,” said K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-vietnam-seems-to-be-the-place-to-party/articleshow/76678870.cms||Arpit Basu
June 29, 2020||Vadodara||Massive industrial fires break out in Padra, Khambhat||Vadodara: Two major industrial fires were reported at Padra in Vadodara and Khambhat taluka of Anand district on Saturday night. Fire brigade from Vadodara and major industrial functionaries were pressed into operations to bring the fire under control. At Padra’s Dhobikuva village, the fire had started at a food processing company- Jain Farm Fresh Foods Ltd’s storage plant around 10 pm. Firemen from Padra municipality tried to douse the fire but when it started engulfing the manufacturing unit, the staff from Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services were called in. “When we reached, the fire had taken a huge form. However, we tried to minimise the damage in the manufacturing and office building,” said fire officer Nikunj Azad of Makarpura GIDC fire station. “The company had fire hydrant system but it was not functional due to which they had to run water relay system to get water from other places. “If there would have been proper resources of water, we would have controlled fire quickly,” he added. The fire was doused at around 6 am on Sunday. Another fire broke out at Jay Chemical Industries Ltd at Khambhat around the same time. Besides fire staff of local municipalities, firemen from emergency response centre (ERC) at Darjipura, IOCL, ONGC and GSFC were also called in. “The raw material storage plant of the company had caught fire. It took us around seven to eight hours to douse the fire,” said Harshwardhan Puwar, fire officer, ERC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/massive-industrial-fires-break-out-in-padra-khambhat/articleshow/76677664.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘#LU boycott exam’ trends on Twitter||LUCKNOW: #LU_students_boycott_exam was among top 20 twitter trends in India on Sunday with over 32,000 tweets – both serious and hilarious – till late evening, opposing Lucknow University’s decision to hold examinations from July 7 amidCovid-19 pandemic. A section of students and teachers has been opposing the decision to hold examinations since June 18 on grounds that assembly of a large number of people on the campus for the examinations will amount to an open invitation to the virus predicted to peak by mid-July. The tweets highlighted worries of students who have been saying since the beginning that holding a 'contact less' examination is nearly impossible and raised the issue of outstation students who will be exposed to risk while travelling to Lucknow. They also used TOI clippings that highlighted concerns of the students. According to some twitter trend tracking websites, the #LU_students_boycott_exam was at 16th position among trends in India at around 2pm. Many outsiders, too, tweeted with this hashtag. SP leaders, including former UP assembly speaker Mata Prasad Pandey and ex-chairperson, UP’s child rights commission, Juhie Singh also tweeted in students’ support. Some tweeples tagged UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union human resource development ministry (MHRD) while drawing attention towards the fact that many universities across the country, including several in Lucknow, have cancelled their examinations and promoted students as per the MHRD advisory. One Riyaz Ahmed tweeted, “Indian Institute of Technology has cancelled the final year exam, but LU wants to conduct it. Now LU is the best university in India and not the IITs', you can learn from LU” (sic). Malvika Gupta tweeted “You can't risk lives of thousands of students like this. Are we not humans if we are in the final year of our studies'? (sic) LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said: “The university will refrain from commenting on the specifics of an event behind which there is a group with vested interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-boycott-exam-trends-on-twitter/articleshow/76680190.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||PM Modi should withdraw his statement in all-party meet over China, says Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Accusing PM Narendra Modi of committing a ‘blunder’ in the all-party meet over China, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said Modi’s statement that neither China came to our land nor it had annexed our territory has knowingly or unknowingly given a certificate to the neighbouring nation of what it wanted (claim over the land). “The statement, which was not required, was welcomed by the Chinese media and its government. The Congress party demands that Modi should withdraw his statement,” he said. At a press conference held on Sunday by all Congress-ruled states, Gehlot reminded Modi of his relationship with China to take on the BJP’s repeated allegations of Gandhi family’s proximity with China. “Modiji visited China five times when he was the CM of Gujarat and four times as PM since 2014. He met Chinese premier for around 18 times in the last six years. China ke president ke sath mein jhule bhi jhule the, apko yaad hai Ahmedabad mein (Modi sat on a traditional swing with Chinese president Xi Jinping in Ahmedabad, do you remember). The time when he was swinging with his Chinese counterpart, our soldiers were facing the skirmish with Chinese troops on the border. Modiji should have understood the intention of China then,” he added. Calling Modi to take the entire country into confidence over the China intrusion, Gehlot put forward a series of questions for him. “It is the right of citizens to know how many soldiers have attained martyrdom? What is the actual status of the Line of Actual Control (LAC)? How many Chinese soldiers were killed? The incident took place on June 14 or 15? How much Indian land has been under Chinese control? Even the nation didn’t know whether any construction activity is happening or not. The questions I have asked is the right of every Indian to know,” said Gehlot. Taking on another allegation levelled by the BJP of holding the Congress responsible for the failure in the war with China in 1962, Gehlot said you are aware of the situation of the country in 1962. “Neither we had weapons, guns or tanks. Our brave soldiers had shown exemplary courage. Do you know the battle in 1967 with China in which our soldiers killed 400 Chinese troops and 40 Indian soldiers martyred. Since then, India has become a superpower equipped with modern weapons, nuclear power, missiles, modern tanks like Bofors which was used to defame the former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi,” said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/modi-should-withdraw-his-statement-in-all-party-meet-over-china-says-gehlot/articleshow/76680197.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Trichy||Retired staff resent suspension of OP facility at BHEL hospital||TRICHY: Thousands of retired BHEL employees have expresssed apprehension over the Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) Trichy management’s decision to suspend the outpatient treatment facility at its main hospital in Kailasapuram Township near Thuvakudi. Citing Covid-19 precautionary measures, the Bhel Trichy management has restricted the movement of outsiders including retired employees to the township where the main hospital is located. Circular No HR: WLF dated June 21, 2020 from the company’s human resource department states that outpatient facility for retired employees in the main hospital has been suspended since June 22 till further orders. The retired employees residing outside the township were told to purchase medicines from other pharmacies and apply for reimbursement. The move seems to have disappointed thousands of retired BHEL employees and dependents residing within 5-8 km radius of BHEL Trichy. The management’s decision has impacted the beneficiaries residing near the BHEL factory relying regularly on the hospital. “Many of us including heart patients were undergoing monthly health check-ups at the hospital. We cannot visit unfamiliar hospitals for emergency consultation since they do not know our history of ailments,” K Ramadoss, retired general manager, BHEL Trichy said. Though the management claims most of the gateways to the township were sealed as a part of Covid-19 safety measures, retired employees pointed out that people in the township still go out. “The doctors at the main hospital should be given proper PPE kits to attend outpatients. While government hospitals and private clinics have outpatient facility, why not the BHEL hospital,” V Nadaraja, president, BHEL AITUC, told TOI. If the main hospital was not opened for outpatients, the management should empanel at least 20 private hospitals in Trichy for the retired staffs to get treatments free of cost akin to the system in place in Chennai for the retired BHEL employees, the retired employees said. “The outpatient service has been suspended to avoid Covid-19 spread. We have appointed volunteers at the entrance to help the retired employees get their regular medicines,” an official source in BHEL said. The management claimed that people in the township are going out only for emergency needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/retired-staff-resent-suspension-of-op-facility-at-bhel-hospital/articleshow/76680193.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Unfazed by Covid, students firm on moving out to study||LUCKNOW: For the past one year, Aeshita Marwah (18) has been preparing for Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) examination to get a seat in National Law University, Delhi or Cuttack. The coronavirus pandemic and lockdown left her uncertain and demotivated for few days, but she recovered and stuck to her plan. “Planning to study in a different city and preparing for exam is a long process. I have invested too much, both mentally and financially, so altering the plan because of the situation at the moment does not seem a wise decision. Last year, I fell short by a few marks. My only goal this year is to get admission in NLU, Delhi or Cuttack. No matter how late the admissions get, I will go,” said Marwah, who aspires to be a criminal lawyer. And she is not the only one to stick to her plan. Despite the pandemic disrupting life and work, many students are still ready to leave their hometowns to pursue careers. Sahiba Kaur, a fashion designing aspirant, has been convincing her father to let her go to Mumbai for studies. “No parent would want to send their child to another city during pandemic. My mother is firm that if I go to Mumbai, I will stay with a relative. There is no designing institute in Lucknow, and I cannot give up my dream to study in the fashion capital of our country, nor am I willing to drop a year,” added Kaur, a resident of Alambagh. Rishabh Razdan is already pursuing his studies in Noida and refuses to defer his postgraduation plan. “Most students are anxious about their future since competitive examinations have been put on hold and admissions postponed. I still want to pursue my MBA in Delhi,” he said. Some students are, however, keeping Lucknow colleges as a backup option. “I want to do masters in business administration after graduation. I will apply in Delhi University and some Mumbai and Bengaluru colleges, but have kept Lucknow as a backup option. Though my parents are now scared to send me out, I want to focus on my studies,” said Utkarsh Goel, who plans to do bachelors in business administration. Prashant Bajpai, an English honours aspirant has applied in Lucknow University also but is aiming for admission in Delhi University. “If I get a seat in Delhi, I will have to find an accommodation. I hope this coronavirus ends by the time DU completes admissions,” he added. (With inputs from Vidushi Agarwal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unfazed-by-covid-studentsfirm-on-moving-out-to-study/articleshow/76680202.cms||Aditi Singh
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP uses virtual platform to reach out to masses||JAIPUR: Lockdown is the time for the BJP to keep its cadre engaged and reach out to the new audience every day. Throughout the day, senior party members follow a strict time table by holding a series of meetings via video conferencing from home, field or from the party headquarters. On an average, they have been holding 15 such meetings every day involving party workers, farmers, industrialist, doctors and engineers. They have reached out to those who are generally touched by the political class during polls like barbers, potters, tailors, nomads and scavengers. The process is rewarding as it has thrown some new faces, giving issues to take on the state government, and people who can fuel their campaigns. Party leaders like state president Satish Poonia, former CM Vasundhara Raje, leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, national joint general secretary V Satish and state general secretary (organisation) Chandrashekar have been regularly holding sessions with their MPs, MLAs to the grassroots party worker. The focus here is to keep the frontline leaders updated with the developments related to Covid, India-China tension, atmanirbhar campaign (self reliance) and economic developments to spread the word in their constituency. The interactive sessions with commoners are for learning and understanding the issues from the real stakeholders. It has given the party lead in raking up issues during the lockdown related to the distribution of ration kits, anomalies in the National Food Security Act and distribution of funds by the state. Counting the benefits of the outreach programmes, Poonia said that the virtual platform has helped them in reaching out to the masses in the remotest corner of the state from a village in Hanumangarh to a tribal village in Dungarpur together. “In every such session, we are adding new friends and allies. It’s been a learning process to interact with a wide range of people and to understand their challenges first hand during the pandemic. So far, such meetings have been held with people/professions in 25 categories district/region/state wise. During these interactions, the suggestions received from them have helped us in forwarding it to the central and the state government,” said Poonia. He agrees that experience of holding such sessions has helped them in making the three virtual rallies reach the record-breaking level. Initially, it has started to monitor the relief work being done by the BJP in the state since the first lockdown came into effect. The party realised that it has turning out to be a potent tool in expanding its outreach. “The highest number of such meetings held in a day was 70 with 10 of them ran parallel to each other at a time. It has transformed the outreach system for the party by allowing us to address and meet a diverse group of people at a time,” said Laxmikant Bhardwaj, spokesperson, Rajasthan BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-uses-virtual-platform-to-reach-out-to-masses/articleshow/76680192.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Trichy||Congested Srirangam zone cries for attention||Trichy: With 99 Covid-19 positive cases so far, Srirangam zone in Trichy Corporation has contributed to 30% of the positive cases in Trichy city. The total active cases in Srirangam zone have outnumbered the total active cases in entire rural Trichy on several days. But Srirangam that has city’s most congested residential and commercial streets is deprived of special attention in contact tracing and conducting random tests where multiple positive cases were recorded. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reported so far in Srirangam zone as on June 17 is 15, the lowest of all four zones in Trichy city with other zones recording higher numbers - Ariyamangalam (21), Ponmalai (33) and K Abishekapuram (40). But, on June 24, the Covid-19 cases in Srirangam surged to 83, the highest for any rural blocks and urban zones in the entire district. Several factors including Chennai returnees, family gatherings, and infection in frontline workers and their contacts were attributed to the sharp increase in Covid cases. The congested Big Bazaar Street and surrounding commercial streets falling under Srirangam zone have reported dozens of cases in the past two weeks. Big Bazaar Street is home for five of the total 12 containment zones in Trichy city. In spite of this, Srirangam zone residents, particularly, those hailing from the cross streets of Big Bazaar Street were apprehensive of the measures. They said Covid-19 testing was conducted only for symptomatic people. “I was not summoned for Covid-19 test though I attended an event hosted by Covid-19 positive neighbours. After they tested positive, I voluntarily gave my samples at Trichy GH that too after a struggle, but the result was negative. The civic body did not track me,” a resident of Big Bazaar Street told TOI. Five streets in the locality alone have reported 6-12 positive cases in a week including traders. Even after reporting dozens of positive cases, mass screening has not been done in the closely packed streets. “We are testing 300 to 350 people in Trichy city every day. We have instructed health officials to take samples from people in that area (Big Bazaar Street). Within a week, we will improve the situation in the containment zones,” Trichy district collector S Sivarasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/congested-srirangam-zone-cries-for-attention/articleshow/76680198.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cop suspended for warning of custodial torture in FB comment||CHENNAI: A police constable from the armed reserve (AR) wing was suspended on Sunday for a posting a message on social media threatening those who criticized the Sathankulam twin custodial deaths. The custodial deaths of father-son Jayaraj and Beniks in Tuticorin district has drawn criticism nationwide. While several traders had downed shutters condemning the police brutality, members of the milk vendor’s association on Sunday took to Facebook to state they will not supply milk to police personnel and their families. M Sathish Muthu, an AR police constable in Chennai, commented on the post saying, “We were looking for people to be victims of another custodial death and now we have found you. (It is time to check) If you guys have rectum”, referring to the torture meted out to the father and son. Soon after, the comment went viral and was picked up on by senior police officials who ordered for an inquiry. The post was removed within 2 hours. During the initial inquiry, Sathish told his higher ups that he did not post the comment. A senior police officer privy to the inquiry said, “Muthu maintained that he had given his Facebook ID and password to several friends and that one of them posted the comment without his knowledge. He’s been suspended for being irresponsible and for bringing shame to the department.” A detailed inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cop-suspended-for-warning-of-custodial-torture-in-fb-comment/articleshow/76679496.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Centre allocates Rs 283 crore for Kerala’s noon meal programme||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Union government has approved the Rs 449-crore noon meal programme for schools in Kerala for 2020-21 academic year. The programme approval committee of ministry of human resources development cleared the project at a meeting in New Delhi on June 19. Of the Rs 449 crore programme, Rs 283 crore comes as Union government funds. “The annual work plan and budget for 2020-21 submitted by the state government was accepted by the Centre without any changes. The central assistance this time is Rs 66 crore more than the previous year,” said director of general education Jeevan Babu K. The Union government representatives were in awe of the successful and creative implementation of the noon-meal programme in government and aided schools in Kerala. The practice of providing milk and egg to students as part of the programme was appreciated very much. The practices of providing breakfast to students, setting up of kitchen gardens, lab test of food samples, training sessions to cooking staff also impressed the central team. The meeting of central-state government officials was held via videoconferencing. The programmes proposed by the state government for setting up kitchen gardens in 9,025 schools in 2010-21 academic year got the stamp of approval. As per the scheme, every school would get Rs 5,000 for setting up a vegetable garden. The Centre has also approved the education department’s proposal to distribute locally available fruits to school students during seasons. Union government has promised to consider sympathetically a few other proposals such as increasing the central share in the honorarium of cooking staff from existing Rs 600 to Rs 4,500 and central funding for construction of dining halls in schools. Free noon meal is given to all children in classes up to 8th standards in government and aided schools in the state. According to government statistics, over 95% students attending public schools claim the benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centre-allocates-rs-283cr-for-states-noon-meal-programme/articleshow/76678922.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 2.6 crore collected in fines for violations during lockdown||JAIPUR: During lockdown, a total of 72,134 people were fined for not wearing masks in public places while another 71,820 were penalised for not maintaining appropriate social distance. The total amount compounded for various violations under Rajasthan Epidemics Ordinance was Rs 2.6 crore. Apart from this, Rs 9.1 crore were collected under Motor Vehicles Act. Police also kept a vigil on those spitting and drinking in public and 4,489 people were penalised in just 24 hours between Saturday and Sunday. In the same duration, Rs 7,25,700 was collected in fines from across the state. According to data compiled by police, 3,461 FIRs were registered for violation of prohibitory orders (quarantine norms) against 7,182 people out of which 5,415 were arrested and 2,348 chargesheets have been submitted. In social media-related violations, 38 cases have been registered and besides arrests by state police, the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested seven people in similar category of violations. No complaints were lodged related to social media over the weekend. “Officials are following all the guidelines with the easing of lockdown to ensure that there is no spread of coronavirus. Police personnel routinely organise awareness campaigns so the public follows all the norms. There is coordination with volunteers and health workers so that the set guidelines can be followed,” said a senior police officer. In over two months of lockdown, under the Essential Commodities Act, 136 FIRs were registered and 91 people were arrested while 31 cases were chargesheeted though no fresh complaints were registered since Saturday. Under preventive action, 20,554 people were arrested while 5,25,163 were penalised as per the MV Act and 1,45,241 vehicles were seized. Out of the total fines collected under the MV Act, Rs 7,04,802 were collected over the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-2-6cr-collected-in-fines-for-violations-during-lockdown/articleshow/76680207.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Trichy||2 held for bid to enter Trichy with fake e-pass||Trichy: The Navalapttu police in Trichy district arrested a man for using a fake e-pass to try and enter Trichy district on Saturday. His accomplice who forged the e-pass was also arrested. Police intercepted the accused during a vehicular inspection on Trichy-Pudukkottai national highway on Saturday evening. Sources said police intercepted a car coming from Sivaganga at the check post near MIET College which was bound for Pudukottai. As the driver showed the e-pass, police personnel scanned it and found that the document was fake since the QR code did not match with the details of the e-pass holder. On inquiry, the driver, identified as Murali, confessed that the e-pass was fake and was forged by a person named Srinivasan, who runs a computer centre at Srirangam. Both of them were arrested. Murali had ferried a few people to Devakkottai with the fake e-pass and was on his way back when he was caught. The computer and printer used for making the fake e-pass were confiscated. Police have registered a case against the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-held-for-bid-to-enter-trichy-with-fake-e-pass/articleshow/76680205.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||From Rs 6/kg in May, wholesale tomato price soars to Rs 60||New Delhi: The wholesale price of tomato shot up to Rs 60 on Monday in some parts of the city due to widening gap between the demand and supply.Traders at Azadpur said the supply fell to less than half of what it should have been during this time of the year as pre-monsoon rains in parts of the country destroyed the crop. This led to a shortage of the vegetable in Delhi and surrounding areas.Strict quarantine rules in Maharashtra, where tomatoes witnessed a decent crop, prevented north Indian traders from visiting the farms and making direct purchase from farmers, thereby leading to a shortage of the most important ingredient in Indian curries.According to traders, tomatoes sold up to Rs 1,000 per crate of 25 kilos in Azadpur on Monday and its effect was witnessed in retail prices in various residential pockets of the city. “We used to get a supply of 45 truckloads of tomato in June, which has come down to about 20-22. There is almost no supply from Bengaluru and Maharashtra,” said Anil Malhotra, a tomato trader and a member of Azadpur Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee.Interestingly, tomato was selling at just about Rs 6 per kg at Azadpur in May, as there were fewer buyers due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Farmers, in fact, were forced to throw away their crop as most restaurants, where a huge percentage of tomato is consumed, were closed. Since the farmers were not able to recover their investment in the crop, they preferred to dump their produce instead of spending huge amounts in transportation.Rajveer Kasana, a prominent vegetable dealer in Greater Noida, said the situation would start increasing from July and may stabilise by August. “In a month’s time we hope of getting tomatoes from the upper echelons of Himachal Pradesh. It will help bridge the gap between the demand and supply,” Kasana claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-rs-6/kg-in-may-wholesale-tomato-price-soars-to-rs-60/articleshow/76699636.cms||Atul Mathur
June 29, 2020||Hubballi||Priyank Kharge isolates himself after neighbour tests positive||Kalaburagi: Former minister and Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge has isolated himself as a precautionary measures after a neighbour of his Bengaluru residence was confirmed infected with Covid-19. He has requested his followers and voters of his constituency and public not to come to his Bengaluru residence to meet him. He has addressed his constituents and followers on Facebook, and friends and well-wishers have asked him in turn to be careful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/priyank-kharge-isolates-himself-after-neighbour-tests-positive/articleshow/76678901.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Tilted tree worries Mala residents||Panaji: The locals living along the Filipe Neri Xavier road in Mala, Panaji, are worried as an avocado tree tilted towards the road after last week’s heavy showers. The tree which is located inside a private property is halfway jutting out onto the street. Members of the BN Melvani senior citizens recreation centre have written to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) to trim the tree before it is uprooted with the next rain and damages property. Part of the tree is at risk of crashing on the recreation centre evoking strong reactions from the members. “The tree is tilting towards the narrow Mala road and we are worried that it may damage the building. Once the rain progresses and the tree continues to bend further, it may fall on to the vehicles parked outside or on people passing by,” members said. The recreation centre had requested the CCP to intervene, however, they were asked to further write to the North Goa deputy collector to take care of the matter. “Since the collectorate has the authority to issue the order, we have also written to the North Goa deputy collector,” a member said. City mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the ward corporator has communicated with the owner in this regard. “The owner wants some of the avocados to ripen so we have given him eight days’ time to pluck the fruits. After that, the tree will be trimmed. Tree cutters have inspected the site, the situation is not very dangerous.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tilted-tree-worries-mala-residents/articleshow/76680222.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hefty fine makes two-wheeler riders in Visakhapatnam reach out for helmets||VISAKHAPATNAM: According to traffic police, 95 percent of two-wheeler riders in the city have taken to wearing helmet. Now, pillion riders too should wear helmet as traffic cops are set to impose fine. The city police chief RK Meena said the change has come about in motorist’s behavior due to vigorous enforcement drive. The number of vehicles in Vizag has increased to over 12 lakh in 2019 from 5.5 lakh in 2012. Two-wheelers account for 80 percent (8.8 lakh two-wheelers) of the city’s total vehicular population, followed by cars 10 percent (1.16 lakh cars). A senior cop said that earlier strict enforcement of helmet rule had led to arguments with public. Now penalty has been raised from Rs 135 to Rs 1,035, making many fall in line, he added. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch Adinarayana said majority of the fatal road accidents was among two-wheeler riders without helmets. Even at a very short distance of 100 meters to the destination, road-crash may happen and people lose their lives. Police can mitigate road-crashes and fatal accidents only if the motorists realise their responsibility of wearing helmet and seat-belt and follow the traffic rules with self-discipline, he added. An increase in demand has seen the market flooding with helmets without ISI mark in the price range of Rs 500 whereas the branded goes for Rs 1,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hefty-fine-makes-two-wheeler-riders-reach-out-for-helmets/articleshow/76678898.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Drive to curb virus clusters in markets||Coimbatore: Having seen how big a Covid-19 cluster that a market could become from the Koyambedu experience, the civic body is on a drive to prevent such a scenario in the city by testing traders for the infection. The cases from MGR wholesale vegetable market and Anna market also seem to have put the city corporation on high alert. On Sunday, city corporation officials collected nasal and throat swabs from the traders in Ukkadam retail fish market and Anna market on Mettupalayam Road. A source with the city corporation said, “We have already tested traders in several markets, including the wholesale fish market and farmers’ markets in the city. The remaining, including the flower market, would be covered soon. Traders fall into the vulnerable population category as they come in contact with many people daily.” It was during a routine screening drive, the source said, three people from MGR wholesale vegetable market and one from Anna market were found to be infected. Pointing out that the MGR market was closed subsequently, the source said alternative place would be allotted to the traders there to resume business only after testing all of them for Covid-19. “Otherwise, the very purpose of closing the market wouldn’t be served.” The city corporation has already tested more than 1,500 people from the market areas. On Sunday, they collected 185 samples from the fish market and another 538 from Anna market. The civic body has also formed a special team per zone to test people with influenza like illness symptoms from the affected localities. “Whenever a person tests positive, samples would be collected from neighbours, irrespective of them having any symptoms, and a minimum 50 contacts of the patient would be traced. In addition, the special team would be deployed in that localities. People who suspect to have symptoms could approach the team for testing,” the source said. The city corporation had earlier deployed health and sanitary workers to carry out door-to-door survey to trace people with flu like symptoms. “They identify about 15 to 20 such people a day and all such people would be subjected to Covid-19 test. They have also been collecting details like whether the residents have comorbidities like hypertension and diabetes, and travel history, if any, among others,” the source said. He said both the active and passive surveillance would be carried regularly. “It is a continuous process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drive-to-curb-virus-clusters-in-markets/articleshow/76679502.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Give us fuel subsidy, say Tirupur farmers||Coimbatore: Farmers in Tirupur want the state government to provide subsidy for fuel as most of them, who depended on public transportation system, are now forced to rent private vehicles or use own vehicles to transport produce to the markets. “Before the lockdown was imposed, the farmers depended on buses to transport produce to the markets. Now, as bus operation is limited, they are forced shell out at least Rs 150 per day to rent autorickshaws or use their two-wheelers. They travel a minimum of 30km to and from markets,” said district secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association R Kumar. “As fuel price is increasing almost every day, they can’t afford private transportation. The state government should provide them fuel subsidy depending upon their average travelling distance.” The association also urged the district administration to provide fair compensation to the farmers, whose farmlands were earmarked for the high-voltage transmission line project in the district. The central government should withdraw the proposed ordinance to bring cooperative banks under the RBI regulation, Kumar said. The association passed several resolutions at a meeting held at Perumanallur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/give-us-fuel-subsidy-say-tirupur-farmers/articleshow/76679500.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 69,000 works to be completed under Centre’s Rojgar Abhiyaan||JAIPUR: Under the ‘PM Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’, which was launched to provide livelihood opportunities to returnee migrant workers affected by the lockdown, 69,449 works will be completed in the state at a budget of Rs 1,468.96 crore in the next four months (125 days) under MGNREGA scheme. Meanwhile, under Swachh Bharat Mission, building of 5,347 community sanitary complexes will be completed in the villages of the 22 districts selected. About 13.34 lakh migrant workers have been identified by the sub-divisional magistrate’s (SDM) offices in these 22 districts. According to the work plan, 17 anganwadi centres will be constructed at a cost of Rs 2.87 crore; in promotion of livestock (cattle, goat and poultry sheds), 23,238 works will be completed at an expenditure of Rs 139.43 crore. About 4,498 vermicomposting works will be completed at a cost of Rs 4.50 crore. The plan also states that building of 22,226 farm ponds will be completed at an expenditure of Rs 133.35 crore. Around 8,286 water conservation works will be completed in 22 districts at a budget of Rs 814.79 crore; 6,618 plantation works will be completed at a cost of Rs 9.93 crore; 745 pasture development works will be done at an expenditure of Rs 167.69 crore. About 820 traditional water bodies will be renovated at Rs 40.97 crore. As part of road connectivity, construction of internal roads and streets, 3001 works will be completed at a cost of Rs 150 crore. In the state, the Rojgar Abhiyaan will be carried out in 22 districts including Pali, Udaipur, Jalore, Nagaur, Sirohi, Dungarpur, Sikar, Rajsamand, Barmer, Chittorgarh, Alwar, Karauli, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Bhilwara, Bharatpur, Banswara, Ajmer, Hanumangarh, Churu, Jhunjhunu and Jaipur. Any district receiving over 25,000 migrants from other states, has been listed for undertaking 25 different activities to be completed in 125 days. Rajasthan is among six states (116 districts) in the country where the campaign has been launched. Earlier, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to increase the limit of guaranteed employment under MGNREGA from 100 to 200 days per family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-69k-nrega-works-to-be-completed-under-rojgar-abhiyaan/articleshow/76680208.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Bizmen take up bank loan issues with FM||Coimbatore: Industrialists in the district have represented the issues they face in getting bank loans to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a recently held webinar. Representatives of the joint council of micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) associations said they had asked her to intervene and ask big private banks to speed up loan disbursals. They have also sought loans under the emergency credit line guarantee scheme to be issued based on their sanctioned limit and not on their outstanding working capital loans. R Ramamurthy, president, Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia), who represented the joint council in the webinar, said several MSME units had transactions with big private banks, which were a bit slow in disbursing loans. According to bank sources, as on June 24, the nationalized and private banks have disbursed loans to the tune of Rs 560 crores for MSMEs. During an interaction with industrialists here on Thursday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had said loans to the tune of Rs 761.52 crore had already been sanctioned to 9,991 MSME units in the district. Ramamurthy, however, said some big private banks were yet to implement the schemes and that their loan disbursement process was slow. “We represented the issue to the finance minister. She told us that the issue has been addressed and asked us to write to her if we were to face any more problems.” Another issue that the council represented pertained to the emergency credit line guarantee scheme through which business and MSMEs could ‘avail up to 20% of their entire outstanding credit as on February 29 this year from banks and non-banking financial companies’. But Ramamurthy said MSMEs could lose out on the loan amount they could get, as this value was a fluctuating one. “Rather, the emergency credit line should be allowed up to 20% of the ‘sanctioned limit’ of working capital or cash credit limit from banks and NBFCs, without any conditions. As the sanctioned limit is a constant value, the units could get the loans that they are actually eligible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bizmen-take-up-bank-loan-issues-with-fm/articleshow/76679512.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Homeless, evicted Jeeva Nagar residents bemoan their plight||Coimbatore: Evicted from Jeeva Nagar near Kavundampalayam, Shanmugasundaram, who is the only earning member of his family, is clueless on how to pay his house rent or where he would move in with his family if the landlord asks them to vacate if he delays payment. A document writer by profession, the lockdown has hit his earnings, which had dropped to just Rs 4,000 last month. For the past three months, his landlord has been deducting the rent (Rs 4,000) from the security deposit. “With the meagre earnings, I can’t even meet the daily expenses of my four-member family. How will I pay the rent then?” he wondered. Life wouldn’t have been in this wretched state for Shanmugasundaram and more than 90 other families of Jeeva Nagar, had the city corporation not demolished their houses until they obtained alternative accommodation, or the slum clearance board provided them flats within the assured time. In October last year, the civic body had demolished more than 250 houses that were encroaching upon 70ft link road (Jeeva Nagar) following a court direction. When the residents refused to move to its housing unit at Keeranatham, the slum clearance board had decided to allot them flats in its under-construction housing unit near Kappikadai bus stop in Saravanampatti. “The officials informed us they would allot us houses upon the completion of construction works which they said would take another five months, and advised us to stay in rental houses. Nine months have lapsed, but construction work hasn’t completed yet,” Shanmugasundaram said. Another resident, Balan, a daily wage labourer, is also staring at uncertain future. He had rented out a house at Saibaba Colony for Rs 3,000 a month. His wife is a domestic help. “Until recently, we could afford the rent. Now that our jobs are irregular, we hardly earn enough to meet our daily expenses. The house owner, who was patient for the past two months, has started demanding rent. We are paying that in instalments now.” Meanwhile, sources privy to the development said the slum clearance board was yet to ready the housing unit and that the work was affected by the pandemic. Despite several attempts, slum clearance board officials were unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/homeless-evicted-jeeva-nagar-residents-bemoan-their-plight/articleshow/76679505.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘Migrants’ influx may raise revenue-related disputes: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath cautioned officials about the possibility of revenue-related disputes arising due to massive influx of migrants following Corona-induced lockdown and directed them to be alert and take prompt action. Reviewing Covid-19 preparedness and development projects in Gonda at a meeting held at police lines on Sunday, the CM told officials to remain alert and not allow people to take law in their own hands. He also laid stress on the need for containing cattle smuggling and clashes. Emphasising on door-to-door Covid surveillance, Yogi said, “Till the time a vaccine is developed for novel coronavirus, we have to strictly follow all precautions to curb infection from spreading.” Yogi directed officials to spread awareness among people about using face mask and also impose fine on those found not wearing them while going out and in public places. Instructing officials to ensure availability of adequate food items in hospitals and quarantine centres for patients, the CM directed officials to keep attendants and family members of patients updated about their condition. Reviewing the preparations for communicable diseases campaign scheduled to start from July 1, Yogi said the district administration should not allow crowding in any area during the drive. “Similarly, officials need to plan the forthcoming plantation drive in such a way that crowding of people should not take place anywhere,” the CM said. The state government has decided to plant 25 crore saplings in July. He also underlined the need for a plan to combat floods and curb water-borne diseases during monsoons effectively and laid stress on providing job opportunities to migrant workers who have returned to their native places. Later, the chief minister inspected the district hospital and interacted with patients. Social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri was also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrants-influx-may-raise-revenue-related-disputes/articleshow/76680215.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Trichy||Countries struggling, but Covid-19 under control in Tamil Nadu: Health minister||TRICHY: Asking people not to panic owing to the increasing number of people testing positive for Covid-19, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has reiterated the government’s claim that there is no community transmission in Tamil Nadu and that the spread is under control. Speaking after a review meeting with health officials in Pudukottai on Sunday, he asked people to remain cautious and support health workers in the fight against the pandemic. “Tamil Nadu is testing more people than any other state in the country and positive cases are under control. While cases in Chennai are high, people need not panic. At the same time, they should be cautious and follow directions from the state government,” he said. “While developed countries are struggling to contain Covid-19 spread, Tamil Nadu has kept it under check,” he added. He said Remdesivir and Tocilizumab are available at all government medical college hospitals in the state, and urged people recovering from the disease to come forward and donate plasma. In Pudukottai, 1,708 beds have been kept as standby in hospitals and an additional 5,008 have been set up in Covid-19 care centres to accommodate asymptomatic patients. Meanwhile, Dr B Sudharshan, a community medicine expert at Velammal Hospitals in Madurai, said that community spread could not be completely ruled out. “TOI has reported that 40% of the cases in Madurai did not have a contact, this could be an indication of community spread,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/countries-struggling-but-covid-19-under-control-in-tn-health-min/articleshow/76680209.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Trichy||Govt schools to create Whatsapp groups||Trichy: To facilitate e-learning among state board students of Classes I–X, schools have been asked to create WhatsApp groups for each class including parents. This is to issue suitable directions and assist students learn through e-learn.tnschools.gov.in website, an initiative of the school education department to provide digital contents. Many of the private schools have been taking online classes by engaging students by sending instructions and inputs through WhatsApp. Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi said that unlike private schools, students in government schools may not be able to attend online classes using smartphones. “In many homes there will be only one smartphone which the parent may take for work,” she said. State Council of Educational Research and Training has Youtube links of lessons for all classes. Students can access these online classes besides Kalvi TV which is telecasting classes for various subjects.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-schools-to-create-whatsapp-groups/articleshow/76680219.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Man crushed to death at stone crusher unit||Coimbatore: A 42-year-old man working at a stone crusher unit at Vellavavipudur near Dharapuram in Tirupur was crushed to death after his hand was caught inside a machine on Saturday. The victim, L Karuppasamy, was busy at work when his right hand got stuck in the belt of a stone crusher, sources said. Though he tried his best to free his hand, he was dragged into the machine and was killed. His colleagues stopped the machine and retrieved the body. The Moolanur police sent the body to the government hospital for autopsy. It was handed over to the family on Sunday. The unit’s owner, Jaishankar, had leased it out to Thangasamy, Mahendran and Raja, a police officer said. “They did not provide the workers safety equipment,” he said. Police have registered a case against Jaishankar and the three operators under Section 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-crushed-to-death-at-stone-crusher-unit/articleshow/76679510.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Police planning course of action in case against Ramdev and others||JAIPUR: Police are chalking out a course of action in the case related to FIR filed against yoga guru Ramdev, two of his associates and two top officials of city-based National Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), where the yoga guru’s Patanjali Research Institute had recently carried out a clinical trial on Covid-19 patients, for making ‘misleading claims’ on Covid cure. Police had registered the FIR on Friday. “An advocate Balbir Jakhar has filed an FIR against five people in clinical trials case alleging that the claim of Covid cure is misleading. We will first record statement of the complainant about what are his objections and complaints. On the basis of that, course of action in the FIR will be decided,” said Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay, station house officer of city’s Jyoti Nagar police station. The FIR, filed by advocate Balbir Jakhar on Friday, named Baba Ramdev, Patanjali CEO Acharya Balkrishna, Patanjali scientist Anurag Varshney, NIMS chairman Balbir Singh Tomar and NIMS director Anurag Tomar. The complainant alleged that they have misled people by claiming that they have found a cure for Covid-19 in their formulation ‘Coronil’. The NIMS had claimed that a scientific study was carried out by them for and on behalf of Patanjali Research Institute, Haridwar, on the impact of Indian traditional ayurvedic treatment regime for nCoV-2 (Covid-19). After the study, Patanjali had claimed to have produced the first and foremost ayurvedic remedy ‘Coronil’ for mitigating coronavirus-induced mild and moderate clinical signs and symptoms. NIMS had said that the medicine had cured 100% of the patients who received it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-planning-course-of-action-in-case-against-ramdev-and-others/articleshow/76680211.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 3.1cr worth drive for water management||Coimbatore: The district agriculture department is all set to implement supplementary water management activities for irrigation purposes in the district with a project allocation of Rs 3.1 crore. To be implemented as a supplementary component of the micro irrigation scheme, the initiative aims to create water sources near farmlands, said R Chitradevi, joint director of agriculture, Coimbatore. The activities include providing 50% subsidy for installation of diesel pumps or electric motors for 600 fields in the district, for which Rs 90 lakh has been set aside, 50% subsidy for laying conveyance pipes in 200 farms, for which Rs 20 lakh has been allotted, and another 50% subsidy for construction of groundlevel water storage structures in 500 fields, for which Rs 200 lakh has been allocated. Farmers should already have installed micro irrigation facilities in their fields to be eligible for the subsidy. “It’s a back-end subsidy and the amount would be directly deposited in the farmers’ bank accounts,” a communication from the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-3-1cr-worth-drive-for-water-management/articleshow/76679514.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||With 5 new cases, thermal scanning must for pvt cos||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiris recorded five more cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the district tally to 71. While 45 active cases are being treated at ESI hospital in Coimbatore and Ooty government headquarters hospital, 26 people have been discharged after treatment. Officials said the hill district is witnessing a dip in imported cases after sealing off its district borders, but a spike in contact cases of previously positive patients. Of the five new cases, three are secondary contacts of a public relation officer of a private manufacturing company in Yellanhalli near Ooty. The fourth case is a 46-year-old man from Muttinadu, a secondary contact of an earlier positive patient. The fifth case is of a 65-year-old man from Ooty but working in Chennai. He will be cross-notified to the Chennai’s tally, officials said.  Due to a spike in contact cases, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya issued an order on Sunday making it mandatory for all private organisations/companies in the Nilgiris to employ thermal scanning measures and checking oxygen level using pulse-oximeters on a daily basis for all employees.  “If symptoms of cold, cough and fever are found in any of the employees, also, if the oxygen level is found to be less than 90 percent, the employers should contact the nearby government hospital or contact 1077 at the control room in the collectorate”, said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/with-5-new-cases-thermal-scanning-must-for-pvt-cos/articleshow/76679517.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Plea to put off JEE as Covid tests resolve||NEW DELHI: Dilshad Khan had dropped a year in 2019 hoping to make it to one of the IITs in 2020. He prepared well the entire year to get a good score in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). But then the lockdown due to Covid-19 started and the exam was rescheduled to be held from July 18 to 27. Now, when the exams are nearing, Khan says he is fearful about writing exams at a centre amid rising novel coronavirus cases. “I have invested a lot of time in preparing for the JEE but right now, I am mentally stressed and cannot concentrate on studies. I can’t even afford to lose another year. We students request the authorities concerned to postpone the exam till the Covid-19 cases stop rising,” said Khan who lives in Gurgaon. National Testing Agency (NTA) conducts the JEE (Main) for admissions into the engineering colleges. It is also a qualifying exam for admissions into IITs. Students who crack JEE (Main) become eligible to appear for JEE Advanced. The JEE (Main) was earlier scheduled to be held in April. “If CBSE, UPSC, CTET exams can be cancelled and postponed, can’t they postpone our exams by a month more. The MHRD should release a statement clarifying the status. Also, JEE is a fully computer-based test. From thumb impression to keyboard, everywhere we have touch systems. And who is going to manage the large crowd outside the examination centre?” questioned Sajid Nazir, another IIT aspirant. A parent whose child is supposed to appear for the exams also questioned the delay of the authorities concerned in announcing changes. “When it involves future of lakhs of students, why does the government have to wait for the last minute. They are well aware of the situation. Lack of clarity on the exam dates is adding to the anxiety among students,” said Samarth Mathur, whose son wants to study computer science at any of the IITs. These students have also taken to social media and petitioned HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank urging him to take a quick decision. “What if one of the aspirants is Covid positive? How is NTA and the government going to check from which area students are coming to write the exam. It is about each one’s future and no one will want to miss the exam. But holding exams in present times will put health of lakhs of students at risk,” said Udit Mishra, another aspirant. According to NTA authorities, there will be a review of the situation based on which exam-related decisions will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-to-put-off-jee-as-covid-tests-resolve/articleshow/76681303.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Shabbir Shakir installed as Rotary district governor||Nagpur: Witnessed by over 900 Rotarians across Rotary District 3030, Shabbir Shakir was installed as district governor (DG) by his mother Suraiyya in a heart-warming moment on the digital platform. Rotary International director Kamal Sanghavi was the chief guest. The his speech Shakir implored the Rotarians to serve with passion and happy face. “Give in such a way that you are emulated. People don’t give because they don’t know the joy derived from the act of giving,” said Shakir, adding, “People like us should do something for others.” In context of the present times, DG Shakir said that the community has proved that people contribute despite the differences. “Good people are there. Look around and find people in need of you,” he said. Outlining his plans for the future, Shakir said that the thrust, this year too, will be on literacy and water management. Contributions to the Rotary Foundation will continue and global grants sought to do projects for the needy. Covid-related activities will be continued. Serve so it becomes infectious, Shakir concluded. While appreciating the work done by Rotary, Sanghavi said that every Rotarian is a leader in his own right. In his lucid address, Sanghavi elaborating on the sutras of success, urged the Rotarians to take responsibility. “Responsibility is taken not given, he said, adding, “Be an inspiration to bring the change — change of goodness. Just make a credit balance of goodness. It never goes waste.” President of Rotary Club of Nagpur Parag Paranjape presided over the installation which was conducted by district secretary Tauby Bhagwagar. Earlier, outgoing DG Rajendra Bhamre outlined the activities carried out in 2019-20. District treasurer Meeta Shaw welcomed the guests. The proceedings commenced with the Ganesh Vandana. While Shakir was introduced by conference chairperson Atul Shah, Zahra Shakir and district secretary Tauby Bhagwagar, Zoher Shakir brought forth the badge. District directory 2020-21 was released by district directory chair Nilufer Rana. The governor’s monthly letter was released by GML editor Khushnoor Chugh and GML advisor Sanjiv Chugh. District secretary (events) Kishor Rathi proposed a vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shabbir-shakir-installed-as-rotary-district-governor/articleshow/76678080.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three-month-long vacation over for lower court judges in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The three-month-long vacation for lower court judges will be over on July 1 with the Gujarat high court asking principal judges of all courts to put more judicial officers on duty “for attending to maximum possible work.” However, the courts are not likely to start functioning physically and the judges have been instructed to discharge judicial functions only through video conferencing until further orders due to the aggravating Covid-19 pandemic situation. Conscious of stalled work in courts, the high court’s circular says, “To avoid a further prolonged scenario of the judicial officers remaining without work, concerted efforts should be made to ensure maximum possible judicial functioning including the matters which may not be of extremely urgent nature but are possible to be conducted through video conferencing, by expanding the scope of virtual functioning of the courts as much as possible and feasible.” For more than three months, the lower courts functioned with a couple of judicial officers who were given urgent charge. However, the principal judges used to issue standing instructions for all judicial officers that they could not leave headquarters. Various bar associations have been pressurizing the judiciary to open courts and start functions physically claiming that the majority of lawyers are without work ever since the nationwide lockdown was imposed, and courts were closed on March 25. The Bar Council of Gujarat (BCG) under pressure decided earlier this month to allow lawyers to take up other professions till December, which is prohibited under law. On June 26, the chief justice and other judges decided that the lower courts should take up those matters also which are not so urgent. Till date, all courts were strictly instructed to hear only urgent matters, preferably bail and detention matter. The HC has permitted litigants to be allowed on court premises, where it is necessary to make payments in cases of motor accident claims, land acquisition, maintenance, alimony etc. The litigants and lawyers will be allowed in courtrooms, when there is inevitable circumstances, but with strict observance of social distancing norms. The HC has asked lower courts to switch over to electronic mode of payment. The judges have been ordered once again to quickly deliver pending verdicts and start hearing final arguments in cases through video conferencing. VC booths in lower courts The high court has ordered to prepare video conferencing booths for lawyers to participate in court hearings. This arrangement is to be made in a couple of rooms in court complexes for those lawyers who do not have means or gadgets to address courts. HC has said that this facility does not require special studios and hardware. “Only laptops /desktop with web-cameras and mic-speaker are requirement for using Zoom Cloud VC application. Web cameras may be procured by the courts, if required,” it said. Long wait for maintenance amount gets overIt has been more than three months that the Gujarat high court has now cleared way for those destitute women and elderly who are dependent on maintenance amounts from family members under court orders. The HC has permitted family courts to take up five such applications for withdrawing maintenance amounts deposited with the courts. The Ahmedabad’s family court has decided to expedite this process by taking up 10 such applications in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-month-long-vacation-over-for-lower-court-judges/articleshow/76679521.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Goon killed after kidnap threat||NAGPUR: An enraged man stabbed and stoned a former murder accused to death at Jat Tarodi on Sunday after the victim threatened to abduct his sister during a drunken brawl. The victim, Girish Wasnik operated a gambling racket and had stepped out of jail in January. Wasnik was reportedly upset with Abhishek Borkar, now rounded up by Imambada police for the murder, for having joined his rival Sachin’s camp. A couple of days ago, Wasnik had roughed up a youngster from Sachin’s group. There was also a police complaint but the matter was settled. Friends close to Wasnik said that he was consuming liquor on the terrace of one Atul Bhoyar. Nilesh Ambadarera, who had been arrested for kidnapping attempt on a businessman and released from jail a day ago, too was with them. Police said Borkar joined Wasnik and others on the terrace where they got into an argument. Wasnik threatened Borkar and also hinted about abducting his sister. Later, when Wasnik was leaving the place on bike, Borkar allegedly stabbed him repeatedly on his chest and also brought him down along with his bike. It’s learnt, Borkar fled the place but returned to smash Wasnik’s skull with a boulder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-killed-after-kidnap-threat/articleshow/76679525.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 29, 2020||Delhi||No plan to allow stores to sell liquor, govt tells Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The AAP government has informed Delhi high court that it has no plans at present to come out with a policy to allow departmental stores to sell beer and wine. Appearing for the government, standing counsel Ramesh Singh told Justice Navin Chawla that there was no intention to come out with a new policy to grant l-12/l-12F category licences. The high court had earlier sought the government’s stand on a plea seeking renewal of licences under the two categories since the existing ones expired in March this year. After taking note of the government’s stand, Justice Chawla issued notice to the government and asked it to explain its stand why it won’t continue or renew the policy allowing departmental stores to keep soft liquor for the year 2020-21. The court was hearing a plea by a departmental store filed through advocate Rushab Aggarwal challenging this decision of the government along with the decision of the Delhi cabinet taken in December last year where licences of all such 125 stores were withdrawn on the ground of alleged violation of excise rules. According to the petitioners, there was alleged violation by only 41 licencees but the government scrapped the licences of all the stores and refused to renew these, violating their right to conduct legitimate business. The plea also underlined that starting every summer, such stores usually saw maximum sales and business for the next six months, but this time three months were lost due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “The loss of peak season is resulting in extreme financial losses and consequent hardship to the petitioner,” the plea added. Last year, soon after the government’s decision, the licencees had moved the court against the move of the excise department to cancel 125 licences mid tenure on the basis of the raids conducted by it. The high court had then granted a stay on the withdrawal of these licences for the year 2019-2020 whose time period ended on March 31, when they were to be renewed. The decision was taken by the Delhi cabinet following complaints that several permit holders had turned their stores into full-fledged liquor vends in violation of the excise rules. The government’s move hit 125 departmental stores selling imported and Indian-made wine and beer in Delhi. According to the permit conditions, these outlets operating on L-12 and L-12 F licences were allowed to use 10-15% of the total carpet area of the store to stock and sell wine and beer, apart from keeping a 300-litre refrigerator. The rest of the space had to be used to sell other household goods, such as grocery, vegetables, bakery products, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-plan-to-allow-stores-to-sell-liquor-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/76679522.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ramesh Chennithala alleges graft in e-mobility consultancy||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala levelled allegations of corruption on Sunday in the Rs 4,500crore e-mobility project in the state, saying that the government had violated norms to award preparation of DPR to PwC ( PricewaterhouseCoopers). Ramesh said that the firm was facing a two-year ban by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) and the state government violated tender norms to award the work to PwC. “This company has been given contracts by Kerala government since 2017. When this came to notice, justice(retired) AP Shah, founding member of Citizens’ Whistleblowers Forum wrote a letter to Kerala chief minister,” he said. The opposition leader said that no mandatory norms were complied with in case of awarding work to PwC. Tenders were not called for and Secretariat manual was not complied with in this case, he said, adding that chief minister took direct interest in giving consultancy to this company. He said that the government also awarded consultancy for K-Fone project and Kochi-Palakkad industrial corridor to PwC. The order to give DPR work to PwC was issued by department of transport in November 2019 as per resolution of meeting chaired by chief minister in August 2019. The order said that it was decided to pursue the possibility of e-vehicle manufacturing in the state and also decided to prepare a DPR. PwC was entrusted with preparation of DPR. “The government has no right to issue such an order. The government should cancel this order and legal steps should be initiated against those behind awarding of work to PwC,” said Ramesh. He asked whether the transport minister was aware of such an order regarding e-mobility project. Kerala’s electric vehicle policy targets 1 million electric vehicles on the road by 2022. The policy envisaged 2,00,000 two-wheelers, 50,000 three-wheelers, 1,000 goods carriers, 3,000 buses and 100 ferry boats by 2020. In 2018, Sebi had debarred PwC from auditing listed companies in the country for two years following its alleged role in Satyam scandal. In September 2019, the securities appellate tribunal (SAT) quashed the two-year ban on PwC. Later in November 2019, Supreme Court stayed the SAT order, quashing the two year debarment on PwC. Meanwhile a spokesperson of PwC clarified that the entity performing work for Kerala government’s department of transport is PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (“PwCPL”). PwCPL is a limited liability company which provides consulting services and is not an audit firm. The Sebi order of January 2018 neither applied to PwCPL nor did it impose any restriction on PwCPL whatsoever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ramesh-alleges-graft-in-e-mobility-consultancy/articleshow/76678944.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Meerut||Ghaziabad builder goes missing, his car with blood marks found in Muzaffarnagar||Muzaffarnagar: The car of a Ghaziabad builder, 37, who went missing Friday evening, was found in Muzaffarnagar on Saturday with blood stains on its seats. Police teams from both the districts have now expedited the search and involved forensic department sleuths to help them.Vikram Tyagi, a building contractor, had left his Ghaziabad office for his house in Raj Nagar Extension. In between, he stopped at a wine shop for a bottle of alcohol and called a family member. But almost immediately after, the call got snapped and Tyagi’s phone went unreachable at about 8pm.When Tyagi did not reach home till late in the night, family members approached the local police station and a case of kidnapping was registered in Ghaziabad. His phone was put under surveillance but it bore no results.On Saturday evening, about 115km away in Muzaffarnagar’s Titavi area, local residents found an abandoned car and informed the police.After finding out the owner’s identity through its registration number, policemen in Muzaffarnagar alerted the Ghaziabad brass. Soon, cops accompanied by forensic team sleuths rushed to the spot.A wide search operation is on, said a senior officer. Station house officer (SHO) of Ghaziabad’s Sihani Gate area, Dilip Singh Bisht, said, “Several police teams are working to find him. CCTV footage is also being scanned. We hope to crack the case soon.”Tyagi’s uncle, Vinit Tyagi, said, “We had alerted police after he went missing. Now his car has been found with blood marks. We are very worried.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ghaziabad-builder-goes-missing-his-car-with-blood-marks-found-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/76677267.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||Fighting Covid, battle-ready for 2022 with funds for roads||LUCKNOW: While battling the pandemic from the frontline, the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has not lost sight of its electoral war in 2022, when assembly polls are scheduled. And the government decided to plough in funds to develop roads in the hinterland, releasing Rs 150 crore in the first phase for relaying seven stretches in four districts of Aligarh, Moradabad, Kushinagar and Kanpur. The PWD department, in a communique sent to engineer-in-chief and head of the department, Rajeev Ratan Singh, said development and maintenance of district roads would be done by the World Bank division of PWD and the project cost is pegged at Rs 1,614 crore. Of the seven stretches, three are in Aligarh, two in Kanpur and one each in Kushinagar and Moradabad. The letter shot off on June 26 stated that funds would be utilized as per financial rules laid down by the state government and won’t be diverted for any other purpose other than rebuilding roads. The state government asked the PWD brass to ensure there’s no funds allocation from any other head. Chief engineers of these districts have also been asked to photograph execution of the project and send inspection reports, while following guidelines of Asian Development Bank and Union government. Accordingly, release of funds would be staggered. PWD would not be allowed to keep allocated funds in banks, post office or public ledger accounts. The state government has also asked PWD not to compromise on quality. For this, engineer-in-chief and chief engineer (external aided projects) would be held accountable. The department has been asked to avoid duplicity and meet deadlines. The progress report will be sent to the state government and the World Bank after every three months. On completion of the project, the PWD would be required to get work audited and a detailed report would be sent to the state government and World Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fighting-covid-battle-ready-for-2022-with-funds-for-roads/articleshow/76680225.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vadodara||Two drown, one missing in Narmada||VADODARA: Two persons from Bharuch got drowned and one went missing after they got dragged away in Narmada river at Nareshwar in Karjan taluka on Sunday. According to police, a group of 10 people from Bharuch had come to Nareshwar on Sunday. Of them, three persons identified as Ayushman Singh, Utsav Modi and Aditya Mange got dragged away in the water and went missing. Others in the group alerted police and locals. Sources said that initially, locals searched for them and later a team from Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services also joined the search. Fire department sources said that by late evening bodies of Singh and Mange were found, but Modi was still missing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-drown-one-missing-in-narmada/articleshow/76677707.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government school curriculum to go online||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s education department will now be uploading its curriculum on ministry of human resource development’s online platform, Diksha. This means books on happiness, entrepreneurship, etc, can now be accessed by anyone in any part of the country. Announcing the initiative called Lead, which promotes learning through e-resources, deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia tweeted, “Har Ghar mein diksha, har din shiksha. Announcing LEAD - an initiative by State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Delhi, to maintain continuity in learning and teaching”. Explaining the initiative, a senior official of Directorate of Education said, “The ministry had asked states to upload their e-learning material on Diksha to create an online repository. Each state has its own. In Delhi, we decided to call it Lead. The idea behind it is that each state can learn from each other.” Under the initiative, study material prepared by SCERT will be uploaded to the online portal. This will include Pragati textbooks prepared as part of Mission Buniyaad, support material for entrepreneurship curriculum, among others. Teachers said it was a great platform for both students and teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-school-curriculum-to-go-online/articleshow/76679530.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana testing rate up 4 times in 3 months||CHANDIGARH: Haryana is one of the leading states in the country as far as testing for Covid-19 is concerned. While the national average of tests per million is around 5,500, in Haryana for every one million people, around 9,646 persons are tested. Till Saturday, the state has tested around 2.45 lakh persons for coronavirus infection. Haryana started testing on April 3, with 1,325 persons checked for the virus presence. Thereafter, in the next 30 days till May 3, the state had conducted 33,953 tests, with an average of around 1,132 tests every day. However, the state witnessed a sudden increase in testing thereafter and in the next 30 days, from May 3 to June 3, 92,613 tests were conducted with an average of around 3,088 per day. From June 3 to 27, in a period of around 24 days, the state conducted 1,16,639 tests. If one looks at month-wise average, in June (till Saturday) the average testing has been recorded at around 4,681 tests every day, while in May it was around 3,000 tests every day, and in April it was around 940 every day. The state has massively improved its testing facilities from two laboratories in March to around 18 laboratories having testing capacity of around 11,500 persons every day till now. In these 18 laboratories, 12 are run by the state and remaining six are private. The state has recently fixed Rs 2,400 as the rate for Covid-19 test by private laboratories. Among the 12 state-run labs: PGIMS at Rohtak and BPS Khanpur Kalan each can process 1,500 samples per day; ESIC Medical College at Faridabad, Kalpana Chawla Medical College at Karnal, SHKMGMC at Nalhar and NRCE Hisar can each handle 500 samples per day; Civil Hospital at Gurgaon and Civil Hospital at Panchkula can test 100 sample per day; PGIMER, Chandigarh, can test 50 samples per day; CSIR at Mohali can test 200 samples per day; THISTI at Faridabad 250 samples per day; and Civil Hospital at Ambala can test 180 samples per day. The six private labs at Gurgaon conducting Covid-19 tests are: SRL (800 samples per day(; CORE Diagnostics(1,600 samples per day); Modern Diagnostic & Research Centre Lab (1,500 tests per day); Path Kind Lab (1,000 samples per day); MolQ-A unit of Molecular Quest Healthcare P Ltd (500 samples per day); and Strand Life Science (220 samples per day).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-testing-rate-up-4-times-in-3-mths/articleshow/76679531.cms||Ajay Sura
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 2,000 crore to raise force like CISF to fortify religious cities in UP||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSSF), the proposed special force to look after the security of religious cities, courts and other vital installations, will be raised at a cost of around Rs 2,000 crore and will have five battalions of 1,278 personnel each, officials said. Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) will be the nodal agency to raise the force. Being set up on the lines of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), UPSSSF will look after the security of religious cities of Ayodhya, Varanasi and Mathura, the Taj Mahal in Agra, courts and other vital installations. The force will also fortify financial institutions, airports and Metro rail. Senior officials at the DGP headquarters said similar forces are currently working in Maharashtra and Odisha. The proposal for the constitution of a special force was made on the directions of the Allahabad High Court after incidents of violence were reported on the premises of courts. Talking to TOI, director-general, law and order, Prashant Kumar, said: “The move will reduce extra cost on other agencies and also relieve the police so that they can pay attention on other duties.” He said the government was planning to set up such a force ever since the Metro was flagged off. Another senior officer said the state cabinet’s nod was awaited to kick start training of the force, adding that expenditure of at least Rs 2,000 crore would be made in raising the five battalions. “The force will be trained at PAC battalions by experts from CISF and NDRF. Later, new headquarters of UPSSSF will be established,” the officer added. Tasks will be divided among the battalions. For instance, a specialized battalion will guard the courts while another would protect religious cities and Metro rail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-2k-cr-to-raise-force-like-cisf-to-fortify-religious-cities-in-up/articleshow/76680234.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Goa, Maharashtra, Karnataka must unite to conserve tigers: Wildlifers||Keri: Days after the Maharashtra government declared the Tillari corridor as a conservation reserve, wildlife enthusiasts have called for a collective effort by Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa to protect the tigers that inhabit the area bordering the three states. “There is an urgent need for a collective effort to protect the tigers of the Mhadei-Tillari region,” said Subodh Naik of the Vivekanand environment awareness brigade. “The Goa government, in declaring Mhadei as a wildlife sanctuary in 1999, and Karnataka declaring Bhimgad as one in 2011, gave added impetus to the conservation of the tiger, as habitat fragmentation, degradation and intensive poaching were major threats to the big cat.” A wildlifer from Sal, Sanket Naik said that tigers hardly know boundaries created by human beings. “Wherever there are threats, tigers migrate and take refuge in areas where there is a substantial population of herbivores,” he said. Over the past five years, the Maharashtra forest department has documented around 25 tigers moving through the region’s corridors. From 2014 to 2019, wildlifer Girish Punjabi identified seven tigers in the state’s Tillari region. “Recently, a bison in Khadfade and two buffaloes in Ambeli were most probably killed by tigers,” deputy conservator of forests, Sawantwadi, Samadhan Chavan, told TOI. “There are tigers in this region.The creation of the Tillari Conservation Reserve will strengthen our efforts to protect tigers.” In Karnataka, Bhimgad and Kankumbi shares borders with the Mhadei wildlife sanctuary. “A collective effort is needed,” said deputy conservator of forests, North Goa, Arulraj Jebastin. “We are ready to share information, and we will plan the strategy accordingly.” In Keri, range forest officer Vivek Gaonkar said that two sightings of tigers were reported on the Goa side of Chorla Ghat. “We followed the tracks, and found pug marks in the Anjunem reservoir.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-maharashtra-karnataka-must-unite-to-conserve-tigers-wildlifers/articleshow/76680232.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Landlady’s son in Bapunagar slashes tenant’s chin for rent||AHMEDABAD: The son of a landlady in Bapunagar slashed at a tenant for his failure to pay Rs 10,000, on Friday. Police have booked the accused, Mukesh Asodia, under Sections 323, 324 and 294(b) after a complaint was lodged by the victim, Krishna Dasdi, 34. According to the complaint, Dasdi lives with his family in a rented house owned by one Lakhi Asodia, and works at a readymade garment shop in Kalupur Revdi Bazar. On Friday night, when he was standing outside his house in Bapunagar, Asodia’s son Mukesh came there and started abusing him. “Mukesh demanded from Dasdi the remaining Rs 10,000 of the rent. When Dasdi told him not to abuse him, Mukesh started beating him. Mukesh then pulled out a knife and slashed Dasdi’s left chin. Hearing Dasdi’s cries for help, his maternal nephew Rakesh Iravat came out to help Dasdi. Mukesh then picked up a log and tried to hit Iravat on his head but Dasdi put his hand in between, injuring his finger,” said inspector of Bapunagar police station N K Vyas. Hearing the commotion, neighbours rushed there and took Dasdi to Shardaben Hospital where he was treated as outdoor patient. After getting information, a police team reached the hospital and the accused was nabbed within hours of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/landladys-son-slashes-tenants-chin-for-rent/articleshow/76679528.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Blackmailed by school owner for property, businessman kills self in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 51-year-old businessman died of suicide after he was allegedly blackmailed by the owner of a school for his property. The incident took place in outer Delhi’s Rani Bagh on Thursday. On Friday, police registered a case of abetment to suicide. No arrests have been made so far. According to police, the victim, Bhupender Gupta, had consumed poison. The deceased had a rice trading business at Naya Bazar, Old Delhi. A Koan, DCP (outer) said, “Gupta left a suicide note alleging that he was facing harassment by his partners, due to which he decided to kill himself. The ownership documents of Gupta’s residence were kept as collateral by the accused people with a bank. The accused were putting pressure on Gupta to transfer one more property document for settling business transactions.” In the suicide note, Gupta named four people, including the owner of the school, principal, employee and the son of the owner. The note also mentioned that the accused men were also blackmailing him, saying that they would also upload his obscene pictures. Police officials said they are looking into the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/blackmailed-by-school-owner-for-property-bizman-kills-self/articleshow/76679540.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt starts antigen testing||CHANDIGARH: In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19, especially in NCR areas of state, Haryana government has started antigen testing besides normal testing. Sero testing will also be started soon. With a testing rate of 9,955 per million on Sunday morning, tests have crossed the 2.52 lakh mark. Testing rate has risen consistently from March 1 to June 28. In March, 541 tests were conducted. This went up to 24,754 tests in April and rose by over three times to reach 88,479 in May. This month, 1,17,727 tests have been conducted, with the overall figure touching 2.52 lakh. However, the Covid-19 tally of the state has also risen steadily over the past three months to reach 13829 cases and 223 deaths on Sunday morning with almost 80% of cases and deaths reported from the NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Palwal, Nuh, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Panipat, Rewari and Mahindergarh districts. After RT-PCR tests, health authorities are now all set to conduct antigen rapid covid tests with Korean kits manufactured by a Manesar-based company. Sources said Haryana government has already received a consignment of 25,000 of 1 lakh kits last week. A total of 8,000 kits have been provided to Gurugram and Faridabad districts while 4,500 each have been given to Panchkula and Sonipat. “The ICMR cleared these kits a fortnight ago. Consequently, we sent our teams for training and now testing has begun in four districts. Once we receive more stock, testing will start in other districts as well. Our idea is to reach out and test as many persons as we can,’’ said Dr Usha Gupta, a senior official in the National Health Mission. Meanwhile, the state government is also ready to start sero testing, for which they are waiting for kits. According to information, this testing was done at random in Kurukshetra district, which was part of 84 districts of the country shortlisted to check community spread. Rajiv Arora, ACS (Health), said, “Haryana government is committed to take any measure to contain spread of this infection at any stage. Antigen testing and sero testing has already started but RT PCR will continue to be the mainstay of Covid-19 detection due to its proven reliability. Antigen detection will of course help in quick detection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-govt-starts-antigen-testing/articleshow/76679537.cms||Manvir Saini
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizam-era rail press closure deferred||Hyderabad: The Railway Board, which decided to shut remaining printing presses across the country, including the Nizam-era printing press in Secunderabad, has deferred the closure by another six months. A decision to this effect has been taken after repeated appeals by employees, who feared that closure of the printing press was a step towards privatisation of railways which would in turn have an impact on their jobs. In a notice to all general managers of Indian Railways on June 26, 2020, it was conveyed that the closure of five printing presses has been deferred up to December 31, 2020. It read, “Closure of the following five printing presses, which was deferred earlier up to June 30, 2020 vide Board’s letter of even number dated February 20, 2020 has now been deferred by Railway Board for a period of further six months.” The other four presses which were to be closed are at Howrah (Eastern Railway), Delhi (Northern Railway), Chennai (Southern Railway) and Byculla (Central Railway). Speaking to TOI, SCR Mazdoor Union president K Srinivas said, “The board has extended the due date after the sustained pressure from employee unions all over the country. Closing down railway presses and going for privatisation even after December 31 will hamper the systematic functioning of the railway operations. We still oppose the decision.” “The railway printing presses play a major role in ticketing system,” a source from SCR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizam-era-rail-press-closure-deferred/articleshow/76680250.cms||Moulika.KV
June 29, 2020||India||Manipur extends lockdown, Maharashtra and Telangana to follow suit||NEW DELHI: Maharashtra is all set to extend the lockdown for a month while Telangana may do so for 15 more days with stricter norms in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region even as the Manipur government announced on Sunday that restrictions will continue till July 15. The present lockdown in the three states, which have seen an exponential surge in Covid cases in the last few days, was scheduled to end on June 30. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray made it clear on Sunday that lockdown in the state will not be lifted post June 30, but more relaxations will be given to speed up economic activities. He said even if relaxations are being given, it does not mean that the danger or the crisis has ended. “We are walking on the edge, we have to walk slowly. Just because relaxations are being given, people shouldn’t think that the battle is over. It is not.” His comments came on a day when Mumbai Police issued directives asking people not to venture out more than 2kms from home unless it was for office or for essentials. Police said that all trips — whether for shopping or for exercising or visiting salons — should be made within a 2km-radius “else action will be initiated”. Nakabandis were conducted throughout the city on Sunday to enforce the new directives and nearly 7000 vehicles were impounded by police. “If we find that people are venturing out without any reason or travelling unnecessarily, then we will have no option but to go for the stricter imposition of the lockdown again in the areas with a rise in cases,” the CM added. A senior IPS officer said many people aren’t taking the lockdown seriously. “There have been instances where people living in the distant suburbs have been found strolling on Marine Drive. Beaches are packed with visitors, many of them not wearing masks,” he said. Senior officials in Mantralaya said the state government has given power to the local district collectors and police commissioner to go in for localised lockdowns in certain areas where cases have risen. With Covid cases increasing by nearly a thousand every day in Telangana, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao said his government will go for a stricter and total lockdown in greater Hyderabad — which is the worst affected region — for at least 15 days. He said the decision on dates will be taken in the next three to four days. “There should be a day-long curfew with one or two-hour relaxation to buy essentials. Flights and train services have to be stopped,” he said. Currently, there is only night curfew in the state from 9 pm to 5 am. Health minister Eatala Rajender informed a review meeting chaired by the CM that several health officials and medical experts have suggested another 15-day lockdown in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Limits to bring the situation under control. Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh said that the government has decided to extend the ongoing lockdown in the state till July 15 with some relaxations. “The government will open inter-district bus services from Wednesday by maintaining SOPs and guidelines,” he said. Manipur has 1,094 Covid cases and 660 of these are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/manipur-extends-lockdown-maharashtra-and-telangana-to-follow-suit/articleshow/76680646.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Paedophiles use modern tech to mask identity, escape law||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Temporary phone numbers and emails that self-destruct within 15 minutes are the newest tech used by paedophiles to get into messenger groups that share child pornographic content, according to the police. The Countering Child Sexual Exploitation wing of state police had on Saturday busted several groups on WhatsApp and Telegram apps and arrested 47 persons. ADGP Manoj Abraham, who leads the State Police Cyberdome, whose vigil led to the raids and consequent arrests on Saturday, said that users relied on websites and apps that can generate temporary phone numbers of emails to get access to these groups. “Perpetrators use temporary numbers generated using these websites or apps to create a new account on WhatsApp and Telegram in order to conceal their real identity. Once the OTP is received and new account is active, the phone number is no longer needed. The number ceases to exist after 15 to 20 minutes,” the ADGP said. Even though those numbers can be seen on the members’ list of the group, it is impossible to call or send text to these numbers. In the case of Telegram groups, there are options to hide phone number from other group members. Hence Telegram users use similarly acquired temporary emails to receive the invite link of groups. These temporary numbers also make it hard for the cyber sleuths to locate the users. “We could arrest only two users who were using this technique. A great deal of effort, including technical and tactical, went into locating and nabbing them. Both these users turned out to be IT professionals,” Abraham said, adding that a great number of paedophiles who are using this method to mask their identity are still at large. The police have identified more than 3,000 chatrooms of paedophiles across darknet, WhatsApp and Telegram platforms. There are many chatrooms exclusively run by Malayalis in darknet. But it is too difficult to identify its members and collect evidence against them. The police have also noticed numerous numbers originating from Pakistan and Gulf countries too in the groups where Malayalis were found. The police have managed to track down the activities of paedophiles in cyberspace using most modern digital tools as perpetrators often communicate in code language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/paedophiles-use-modern-tech-to-mask-identity-escape-law/articleshow/76679015.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Why containment zones in Delhi went up from 280 to 421 in two days||NEW DELHI: Within two days of Delhi government beginning its exercise to redraw the boundaries of the containment zones to fight novel coronavirus, the number of sealed areas in the capital jumped by 50% on Sunday. The capital had 280 active containment zones till Thursday, which increased to 421 on Saturday, a rise of 141. The new zones have been carved out of the existing sealed areas by breaking them into small segments on the basis of clusters of novel coronavirus cases, said a source. Badarpur, Shaheen Bagh and Sangam Vihar in South East district; Hari Nagar and Tilak Vihar in West; GTB Enclave and Meet Nagar in Shahdara; Jahangirpuri, Thakran, Narela Road and Mahendru Enclave in North; and Ghanta Ghar, Pratap Nagar and Shora Kothi in Central district are some of the new zones, an official said. The count may jump further as some districts are yet to complete the task, he added. The decision to redraw the boundaries was taken in a meeting of the Centre and Delhi government chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah last week. Smaller containment zones will help the district administration carry out better surveillance to ensure that infected people remained isolated completely, said the source. Following the meeting, Delhi Disaster Management Authority, chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, asked National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to chalk out a new strategy for better containment of Covid-19 clusters. According to a central panel, 19% of the Covid-19 cases in Delhi originated in containment zones while 45% were found in clusters. For the exercise, district officials located clusters within the existing sealed areas to create micro containment zones. While most economic activities are allowed in the rest of the city, there is complete restriction on entry and exit and any kind of human interference in the containment zones. The areas are periodically sanitised and essential goods are delivered at doorsteps so that residents don’t have to venture out. The exercise will not only lead to more effective surveillance with the help of local police and technology, the areas with no positive case can also be opened up and normal activities can be allowed, said an official. Shah on Friday approved the combined use of the Aarogya Setu and ITIHAS apps as strong predictive tools for detection of Covid-19 outbreaks in populated clusters and NCDC has trained district teams. South West district now has the highest number of active containment zones at 77, followed by 52 in South, 48 in North, 40 in Central and 35 in Shahdara. Despite being the most densely populated, North East has the lowest count at six while New Delhi has 18 and North West 20. The district authorities have de-contained 87 areas. An area is de-contained if no new case is reported in 28 days from the last Covid-19 patient being found in the area. “If a case is reported on the 27th day, the counting begins afresh,” said an official. West district has the highest number of de-contained zones at 25, followed by 18 in South East and 11 in East. Surveillance has been descaled in 37 containment zones, including 11 in North district and eight in North West. Scaling down restrictions start after the 21st day of no new case from the last one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-containment-zones-went-up-from-280-to-421-in-two-days/articleshow/76679546.cms||Atul Mathur
June 29, 2020||Goa||Cong: PM Cares took funds from China||Panaji: Countering BJP’s accusations that China donated Rs 10 lakh to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Congress on Sunday said that Chinese firms, or Chinese-backed firms, donated around Rs 150 crore to the PM Cares fund. Congress claimed that Modi visited China on four occasions as chief minister of Gujarat, and five times as Prime Minister, the only Indian Prime Minister to do so. Challenging BJP and Modi to deny these accusations, state Congress president Girish Chodankar said that BJP was using “diversionary tactics” to hide China’s transgressions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Every time the Modi government is questioned on the Chinese transgressions on our territory a deceptive Modi government and a paranoid BJP resorts to diversionary tactics and disinformation,” Chodankar said. He said the acceptance of funds from Chinese firms into the opaque PM Cares fund, during hostilities with China, is alarming. Congress said that Huawei donated Rs 7 crore, Tik Tok contributed Rs 30 crore, Xiaomi donated Rs 15 crore and PayTM -where a Chinese firm has 38% ownership - donated Rs 100 crore to the PM Cares fund. “If the Prime Minister will compromise his position by accepting donations from Chinese companies in the controversial and opaque Fund, how will he defend the country against Chinese aggression,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-pm-cares-took-funds-from-china/articleshow/76680267.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC colony in Sarojini Nagar’s Palika Awas now a red zone||NEW DELHI: Sections of blocks C & D in Sarojini Nagar’s Palika Awas area were declared containment zones on Sunday after five people tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Since a number of people in the adjoining areas had come in contact with the Covid positive patients, a site visit was conducted by civic officials and later in a joint meeting held under the SDM of Vasant Vihar and members of the district surveillance team on Friday, it was decided to contain sections of blocks C & D, while simultaneously declaring the adjoining areas as buffer zone. “Palika Awas is a group housing society for New Delhi Municipal Council employees and some of the residents here work in the accounts department at Palika Kendra, where a number of people have tested positive for Covid-19 the recent past. We carried out the disinfection drive as soon as the directions were received from the SDM office. Sometime back, five people of three families were tested positive for coronavirus at Palika Vihar (neighbouring colony) belonging to NDMC officers,” an NDMC official said. No sooner were the four cases in C block and another positive case in D block was reported, all residents near their houses were surveyed and no one was suspected to having developed any symptom for Covid 19, stated the order issued by SDM Vasant Vihar. According to the latest data, the total number of containment zones in the capital stands at 421. Of these, 87 have already been de-contained, 34 have been scaled down, while 307 are active containment zones. NDMC has been asked to keep a track on regular sanitation of areas, including the adjoining buffer zones. Police have also asked to cordon off the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-colony-in-sarojinis-palika-awas-now-a-red-zone/articleshow/76679554.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra may reduce cut-off for engineering and pharmacy courses||PUNE: The cut-off for group subjects for pharmacy and engineering courses may be reduced by nearly 5% marks in keeping with the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) guidelines for admissions in the 2020-21 academic year. An in-principle approval to this effect was made during a recent meeting between minister for higher education Uday Samant and representatives of the State Association of the Management of Unaided Institutes in Rural Areas as well as NCP chief Sharad Pawar. The cut-off marks for Physics, Chemistry, Biology (PCB) and Physics, Chemistry Maths (PCM) groups in Std XII board exams will be 45% instead of 50% for open category students and 40% instead of 45% for engineering students. For pharmacy students, the pass percentage of Std XII will be considered for admissions. Apart from this score, marks garnered in entrance tests will be considered during admissions. The association’s director Ramdas Jhol said, “We have been pressing for the issue since the past five years. On our insistence, Sharad Pawar set up the meeting in Mumbai with officials of the education department. After we explained that the AICTE has set guidelines that the Maharashtra government must follow and not set a higher bar for admissions, especially when engineering seats are left vacant. After hearing us out, an in-principle approval was given to make the change in the cut-off marks and a government notification to this effect will be issued by next week.” A senior official at the state Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) said, “We will have to wait till the education department issues an official notification. The issue had been raised earlier but the ministers wanted to set the bar higher to ensure quality is not compensated. Hence, the cut-off was set higher than the AICTE recommendation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-may-reduce-cut-off-for-engg-pharmacy-courses/articleshow/76679550.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bharatpur shifts Covid patients at home back to govt facilities||JAIPUR: The Bharatpur district administration has shifted all 350 asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in home quarantine to institutional facilities after the infected persons failed to follow quarantine protocol. The earlier decision to let asymptomatic patients be in self-quarantine at home was reversed after the move backfired, with patients failing to comply with quarantine norms, leading to a sudden spike in new cases. Many of them were found to be flouting ICMR norms of home quarantine. This raised concern for the health department in Bharatpur, which held these patients responsible for the sudden rise in the number of Covid cases in the area. Despite signing an undertaking that they would remain indoors and adhere to the self-quarantine protocol, some of them were seen at ATMs and markets. Many had also infected their family members. “Till May 27, there were only 150 Covid cases in Bharatpur. But, after that, there was an outbreak in the vegetable and grain mandis compounded by the increased number of migrants testing positive for the virus. Over the next 20 days, cases increased to 1,400 due to intense contact tracing, screening and testing. Since, 95% of the patients were asymptomatic, we allowed home quarantine for 350 such confirmed Covid cases. They had given an undertaking that they would adhere to home quarantine protocol. We were regularly monitoring their activities and movement and found many of them were flouting norms. Also, other family members were found to be infected with the virus,” Bharatpur collector Nathmal Didel told TOI. Home isolation rule ‘exploited’ The decision by the district administration and health department to let asymptomatic patients recover in the comfort of their homes was 'exploited' by some of the patients, said officials. When they noticed that home quarantine could further worsen the situation, the district administration swung into action and immediately shifted all the asymptomatic patients to institutional quarantine facilities. “At this point, there is not a single Covid -patient in home quarantine in Bharatpur. All of them have been shifted to a hostel and college. While many of them recovered, we have 110 asymptomatic patients in institutional quarantine facility, with 56 symptomatic patients undergoing treatment at the district hospital in Bharatpur,” said Didel. Bharatpur has reported the third highest number of Covid cases in the state at 1,522, below Jaipur (3,249) and Jodhpur (2,645).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bharatpur-shifts-covid-patientsat-home-back-to-govt-facilities/articleshow/76680255.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 29, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra may reduce cut-off for engineering and pharmacy courses||PUNE: The cut-off for group subjects for pharmacy and engineering courses may be reduced by nearly 5% marks in keeping with the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) guidelines for admissions in the 2020-21 academic year. An in-principle approval to this effect was made during a recent meeting between minister for higher education Uday Samant and representatives of the State Association of the Management of Unaided Institutes in Rural Areas as well as NCP chief Sharad Pawar. The cut-off marks for Physics, Chemistry, Biology (PCB) and Physics, Chemistry Maths (PCM) groups in Std XII board exams will be 45% instead of 50% for open category students and 40% instead of 45% for engineering students. For pharmacy students, the pass percentage of Std XII will be considered for admissions. Apart from this score, marks garnered in entrance tests will be considered during admissions. The association’s director Ramdas Jhol said, “We have been pressing for the issue since the past five years. On our insistence, Sharad Pawar set up the meeting in Mumbai with officials of the education department. After we explained that the AICTE has set guidelines that the Maharashtra government must follow and not set a higher bar for admissions, especially when engineering seats are left vacant. After hearing us out, an in-principle approval was given to make the change in the cut-off marks and a government notification to this effect will be issued by next week.” A senior official at the state Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) said, “We will have to wait till the education department issues an official notification. The issue had been raised earlier but the ministers wanted to set the bar higher to ensure quality is not compensated. Hence, the cut-off was set higher than the AICTE recommendation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-may-reduce-cut-off-for-engg-pharmacy-courses/articleshow/76685597.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 14 hotspot dists account for 60% active cases, 65% deaths||LUCKNOW: Fourteen districts account for over 60% of the active Covid-19 cases and 65% of deaths reported so far in the state. According to an official data, there are 6,679 active Covid cases in the state of which 4,012 belong to these 14 districts. Of 660 deaths reported in UP, 429 took place in these districts. Nine of these districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Hapur, Aligarh, Bulandshahr, Mathura, Agra and Firozabad, are in western part of the state. The remaining five districts are Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Etawah and Gorakhpur. Health officials stated that district-specific containment plans are in place and individual monitoring of the situation is under way. “The CM has already instructed to upgrade health facilities in most of these districts besides deputing a senior officer to monitor the situation on daily basis. In addition to this, testing is being ramped up in a big way in these districts,” said a senior officer. Meanwhile, 606 fresh cases were reported in the state in 24 hours. With this, UP’s tally crossed 22,000-mark to reach 22,393. The state also recorded 11 deaths, taking the total to 660. As per the bulletin, two deaths were reported in Jhansi, while one death each was recorded in Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar, Kanpur Nagar, Moradabad, Ghazipur, Sambhal, Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Etawah. Of the fresh cases, Gautam Budh Nagar accounted for the maximum of 82 cases followed by Ghaziabad where 60 fresh cases were reported. The other districts with double digit entries included Kanpur Nagar (29), Kasganj (24), Etawah (23), Bulandshahr (23), Lucknow (23) Bijnor (21), Meerut (21), Baghpat (17), Varanasi (15), Jhansi (15), Azamgarh (12), Mau (12), Agra (11), Rampur (10), Hapur (10), Mathura (10), Gorakhpur (10) and Bareilly (10). Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said that surveillance activities were underway in the state. He stated that the house-to-house survey slated to begin across the state from July will also include a co-morbidity assessment of patients to create a risk-profile for the state. “The purpose is to ensure early detection so that minimum loss of lives and weaken the chain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/14-hotspot-dists-account-for-60-active-cases-65-deaths/articleshow/76680245.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Crime rate spikes in Rajasthan as lockdown rules ease||JAIPUR: With the easing of lockdown, the state saw a 80% spike in crimes from April to May. While criminal activities had reduced considerably after the lockdown was imposed in March, it has picked up again, with a few categories such as murder witnessing an increase of more than 100%. While there is an increase in crime from April to May, compared to May last year, there has been a dip in crimes for the month this year. Although the numbers have increased in the past few months, the overall number of cases registered is fewer compared to last year. While the total number of cases registered in May 2019 was 22,519, it reduced to nearly half in May this year at 13,907. The number of cases registered in March this year was 14,733, which indicated that in the months of lockdown, crime cases took a dip. It reduced further to 7,710 in April but picked up again in May. ‘State cops working to curb crimes’“This was always the concern for police. As soon as the lockdown eased, crimes were bound to increase. In categories like murder, abduction, rioting and theft, the jump has been more than other categories and police personnel are working non-stop to curb this,” said a senior police official. Nearly a month after the lockdown was implemented, cases registered under various categories of crime in the state showed a decline by 51.16% in April compared to the same month last year. But the trend soon changed in the following month. However, as compared to May 2019, the crime rate has gone down by 38.2% this year. But in May this year, 6,197 more cases has been registered compared to the previous month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crime-rate-spikes-in-raj-as-lockdown-rules-ease/articleshow/76680261.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Blood donation is passe: RWAs now seek plasma in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Instead of inviting volunteers at blood donation camps, these days Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWA) have been focusing on encouraging people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma. The Greater Kailash-II RWA started this initiative three days ago after receiving desperate calls of help from a couple of people daily. The RWA president, Sanjay Rana, said, “We circulated the messages on our colony group, sharing details of people who needed plasma therapy urgently and the type of blood group that would suit them as per the advice of doctors. Details of those ready to help were shared with the families of infected patients and their identities were kept a secret.” “We found a person yesterday who agreed to help a patient in the colony. A person who has been infected with the disease knows the difficult times others can go through, so they should come forward to help others,” added Rana. In convalescent plasma therapy, the antibodies of a person who has recovered from the novel coronavirus are taken and transfused into an infected person to help boost the immune system. A person can donate plasma 14 days after his/her test comes negative. In Navjiwan Vihar, besides maintaining a database of all Covid-positive patients and their household workers to help the authorities with contact tracing, details of recovered patients who are ready to offer their plasma is also being maintained by the RWA. Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjiwan Vihar RWA, said, “A resident offered to give plasma to a person from Vasant Kunj admitted at Fortis Hospital on Sunday. Though the patient had arranged for the plasma from elsewhere by then, this kind of great act is needed during this crisis. In fact, one of our residents offered to design an app for this purpose. The idea has been passed on to the South district magistrate.” RWA members claimed to have persuaded 35 other associations to maintain a similar database. Safdarjang Enclave RWA has started the process and even written to the Union health minister, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to institutionalise the system. Pankaj Agarwal of Safdarjung RWA said, “We are coordinating with donors and patients and the south Delhi members of Rotary Club. However, contacting five groups as well as individuals is a time-consuming exercise. We have requested the government to formalise the system. This will save time and minimise chances of delay and corruption.” The government should direct hospitals for counselling of patients coming for Covid-19 tests or treatment to help others in the future, the RWAs added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/blood-donation-is-passe-rwas-now-seek-plasma/articleshow/76679570.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 29, 2020||Chennai||Protectors to violators: Need to raise accountability bar||CHENNAI: Less than a month after the killing of George Floyd by the Minneapolis police that sparked global outrage, their counterparts in Sathankulam unleashed a brutality on a father and son for allegedly violating lockdown rules imposed to check Covid-19. The deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks have shaken the collective conscience of civil society. The reluctance of the police department to take responsibility for the illegal actions of its personnel is a huge cause of concern and challenges the rule of law upon which society is founded. The lack of a rigid stance in condemning police excesses often weakens the confidence of common man in the system. The act of protecting citizens is associated with authority, which has become synonymous with force. An analysis of how the police department functions tells us that the portfolio of police administration, more often than not, is held by the heads of states. That is perhaps why an indictment of any police officer is viewed mostly through a political lens, thereby conveniently ignoring unlawful transgressions. In the process, the wrongful act is protected under the guise of saving the face of the office of that head of state or protecting the image and reputation of the government. It is also common knowledge that incongruous wrongful commissions and omissions of erring personnel are often shielded by superiors in the police department in their anxious attempt to protect the glory of the institution rather than upholding the supremacy of the rule of law. The play-safe-criticism approach does not work, rather it erodes the fabric of society. There are several disconcerting questions that arise from repeated instances of police excesses resulting in custodial deaths. In India, the law concerning police and its administration belongs to the colonial era. The first and foremost legislation on police that is widely followed, even today is the Indian Police Act, 1861 that was enacted by the British after the famous Sepoy Revolt of 1857. The primary objective of the law was to control and suppress the people by treating them as colonial subjects. Unfortunately free India not only inherited those colonial-era police laws but also inherited the ghost of that colonial attitude. In spite of constitutional guarantees, a number of statutory protections and guidelines, police excesses have continued unabated. According to the Annual Report, 2017-2018 of the National Human Rights Commission, about 2,896 cases of deaths in judicial custody and 250 cases of deaths in police custody were recorded. Only a couple of years ago, the Tamil Nadu submitted before the Madras high court that 157 cases of custodial deaths were reported in the state between 2012 and 2016. From April 2017 to March 2018, TN intimated the state human Rights commission about 11 cases of police custodial deaths and 72 cases of judicial custodial deaths. In Tamil Nadu, more than a quarter of century ago, the (late) Justice Khalid Commission was constituted to probe into the police excesses and custodial torture. Though the report was submitted on time, the recommendations are yet to see light of the day. Despite the many attempts to bring accountability, the country is yet to have a mechanism in place to check these atrocities. Though India is a signatory to the United Nations Convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment on October 14, 1997, it is yet to ratify it. The fervent pleas from the National Human Rights Commission in this regard have had no effect. The 273rd Law Commission report had also recommended various amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1973, the Indian Evidence Act of 1872 and submitted a draft bill called the Prevention of Torture Bill, 2017 to bring about compatibility with international standards. But no progress worth a mention has even been attempted so far. Civil society cannot be expected to remain neutral for long, especially when the rule of law is challenged with rampant police excesses and unjust custodial deaths. The law is clear. It does not postulate custodial cruelty. It is only the perverse desire to inflict harm upon the detainee that indicates a pathological problem which poses a serious threat to orderly society. (The writer is an advocate at the Madras high court)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/protectors-to-violators-need-to-raise-accountability-bar/articleshow/76679556.cms||R S Raveendhren
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's major religious places to stay shut till July 31||JAIPUR: All religious places in Rajasthan except the small ones in rural areas, which attract 50 devotees a day or below, will remain shut till July 31. The decision was taken by chief minister Ashok Gehlot at a Covid-19 review meeting held at his residence on Sunday. It was taken after considering suggestions made by committees to district authorities which did not favour opening religious places, the official statement said. “The religious places in rural areas, which have a footfall of up to 50 persons in a day, will be allowed to open on the condition that they follow all Covid protocols and standard operating procedures put in place by the state and central governments,” said the statement. Religious places with footfall higher than 50 will remain shut in rural areas. Reacting to the decision, mahant Kailash Sharma, chief priest of Moti Doongri Temple said, “I welcome the decision taken by CM Ashok Gehlot. I am sure they must have not found it appropriate to open the religious site.” Most religious places against reopeningIt was not easy for the government to take a call on the status of religious sites shut since the lockdown. The government had formed committees in every district to look into the issue of opening religious places and provide safety to each and every devotee. Sources said none of the religious places with higher footfalls had suggested any convincing opening formula. While most of them said "no" to opening till the situation gets normal, some wanted religious places to be open like other institutions during Unlock 1.0. At a meeting with Ajmer district collector Vishwa Mohan on July 25, Syed Moin Chishti, president of Anjuman Moinia Fakhria Chistia (a body of khadims), had said that around 20,000 families in Ajmer of all religions were dependent on devotees. He had said that any delay would create a hunger-like situation for those who are dependent on the shrine. Meanwhile, the government has dropped the mandatory provision of 14-day home quarantine for those returning from other states. It has also extended the Jagrukta Abhiyan till July 7 after the door-to-door health survey of residents proved to be a success. The 10-day campaign will get over on June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/major-religiousplaces-to-stayshut-till-july-31/articleshow/76680265.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||Covid battle half won, development should pick pace: Yogi Adityanath||AYODHYA: Hours after touching down in Ayodhya, his second visit to the temple town in three months, chief minister Yogi Adityanath during a review meeting with district officials and BJP leaders said, half the battle against Covid has been won and the state has to successfully combat the pandemic in the remaining phase of the frontline war. “The challenge is not over and half the battle remains. But, we have to shield ourselves from the virus and expedite development too. While remaining alert and following Covid protocols, we have to move the wheels of economic activity,” he said. Before driving down to Ramjanmabhoomi to offer prayers and meeting Temple Trust members and seers, he reviewed progress of purchase of land for international airport and construction of medical college at Faizabad. He said, it was mandatory to set up well-equipped Covid helpdesks and ensure all beneficiaries are given ration cards. He also instructed officials to set up community kitchens and distribute cooked food so that nobody goes hungry. Officials at the Faizabad Circuit House gave a presentation on development work at Ayodhya Dham, Queen Hau Memorial Park, Ramkatha Gallery, Ram Ki Paidi and Laxman Ghat. Ayodhya MP Lallu Singh and five party MLAs were also present at the meet. Later, he went to Ramjanmabhoomi and offered prayers to Ram Lalla and inspected ground-levelling work in the premises. Here, he met Ram Temple Trust members Champat Rai and Anil Mishra, Vishwa Hindu Parishad leaders, including Purushottam Narain Singh and planted saplings. Before performing rituals at Ramjanmabhoomi, the chief minister met Ram Mandir Trust president Nritya Gopal Das and other seers at Mani Ram Chawni temple. Some social activists who wanted to hand over a memorandum to the chief minister demanding school fee waiver during the lockdown were put under house arrest ahead of the chief minister’s visit. Talking to TOI, Faizabad deputy superintendent of police Arvind Chaurasiya said, those detained include Manish Pandey, district president of Hindu Mahasabha, Nawab Singh, president of district parents committee, Dharam Sena president Santosh Dubey and a Congress leader Sharad Shukla. Earlier, the CM touched down at Ayodhya after a night halt at Devipatan temple in Balrampur district. He also visited the district hospital and reviewed services at OPD, emergency and other wards and talked to patients and asked about their well-being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-covid-battle-half-won-devpt-should-pick-pace/articleshow/76680268.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 29, 2020||Mumbai||Social media erupts over 2km ‘circle of confusion’ in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The city police on Sunday issued directives asking people not to venture beyond 2km from home unless going to the office or for essentials. All trips—whether for shopping or exercising or visiting salons—should be made within a 2km radius from home, failing which action will be initiated, the police said. Nakabandis were conducted throughout the city on Sunday and over 6,600 vehicles impounded. Confused citizens stormed social media, angrily asking how they could be expected to make last-minute arrangements. They also asked how the police intend to implement the rule. For example, how can the police tell if someone lies while citing a reason for being out? The police have advised that motorists carry any ID proof with their residential address on it; those out for medical reasons can carry medical documents. Watch: Don't move out beyond 2km of home, urges DCP (Operations) Pranaya Ashok, Mumbai Police#CautionYesPanicNo… https://t.co/LqrVVPrFTI— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1593339685000TimesViewThe 2km-rule is arbitrary. We’re all for rational and reasonable precautionary measures; for instance, the wearing of masks in public spaces should be mandatory, and strictly enforced. Every effort should also be made to observe social distancing – and to that end, controlling the size of public gatherings is in public interest. But to limit movement beyond a radius of 2km makes little sense. Will the police stop a person from visiting her aged parents who live, say, 4km away, and impound her car? Even assuming a family decides, after three months of lockdown, to go for a drive, should they be penalized for it? This has been a stressful time for everyone, and its adverse impact on mental health has been widely documented. So why not let people feel a little happy so long as they act responsibly? All this new rule will do is encourage harassment.“Our observation has been that people have not been taking the lockdown seriously. People living in the distant suburbs have been found strolling on Marine Drive. Beaches are packed with visitors, many without masks. The threat of Covid is still here. The objective behind these directives is to ensure that people do not needlessly step out and endanger themselves,” a senior IPS officer said. As per the guidelines, vehicles found plying outside the 2km radial limit without a valid reason would be impounded. Also, shops and markets not following social distancing norms would be closed. Wearing masks outdoors continues to be mandatory. The sudden move came under heavy criticism from concerned citizens. “It would help if there was greater clarity and consistency in the directives issued by all authorities—the government, the police, the BMC—and if policy changes weren’t done at a moment’s notice. At least 48 hours’ notice should be given, except in a truly dangerous emergent situation,” said activist and lawyer Armin Wandrewala. Some motorists had their vehicles impounded without being given a proper reason. “I was out to buy provisions and was barely 500 metres from home at Jogeshwari’s Society Road when a cop asked me to halt and my bike keys were taken away. I had a helmet and a mask on, but despite asking the cops repeatedly, no reason was provided. At least 100 others were asked to halt and the road was packed,” said Bhagyesh Raut, a local. Another motorist said he was detained at Kherwadi police station while he was going to the office around 11am. Netizens posed questions on a lot of practical problems. “I’m a professional freelance photographer. How do I prove to the police each time that I'm going for a shoot or collecting equipment? All of us don’t have offices or personal studios,” tweeted Kartik Sadekar. Baker Shraddha Agarwalla tweeted whether it would be considered an official trip if she went out to deliver birthday cakes for orders that she had taken last week. People also expressed anxiety over how they would be able to look after old and ailing parents who lived alone in another corner of the city. “How do the police know if someone is telling the truth. I could always say I'm going to office and go to a salon instead,” said Pragya Sharma, a motorist. Government officials said that even when the relaxations were announced in Unlock 1.0, long-distance travel for non-essential reasons was not permitted. On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray once again appealed to avoid unnecessary travel. “Just because we have given relaxations does not mean everything has normalised. The Covid crisis is not over and we have to tread cautiously,” said Thackeray. “Would it not be a better idea to police beaches, public places, and promenades rather than the 2km rule?” said a motorist Suresh Sharma. “If someone is a mason or a plumber wanting to buy work-related material from markets in south Mumbai, what proof could he possibly show?” (With inputs from Bhavika Jain)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/social-media-erupts-over-2km-circle-of-confusion-in-city/articleshow/76680507.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Nearly 50% returnees who took Kuwait amnesty test +ve||HYDERABAD: Almost half of the Gulf workers who returned from Kuwait on amnesty to Andhra Pradesh have tested positive for Covid-19. AP Covid-19 state nodal officer Arja Srikant told TOI, “From Kuwait, around 2,300 workers came to Andhra on flights. Out of them, around 50% tested positive for Covid-19. Gulf workers’ rights activist P Basanth Reddy said that the situation of emigrants is worse in several Gulf countries. “Most of them who went to Kuwait are from East and West Godavari districts and Rayalaseema districts like Kadapa. Most of them work as maids and in construction and housekeeping fields. The government should give free quarantine facility in Telangana for those returning from Gulf like in AP. These gulf workers are falling prey to coronavirus on a large scale in Gulf countries. Kuwait has announced amnesty to those who are undocumented,” said Basanth Reddy. AP state nodal officer Arja Srikanth said apart from Gulf returnees, inter-state travellers also tested positive in Andhra Pradesh. Srikanth said, “Cases in AP are increasing because of inter-state movement of people by trains. On Monday, around 813 cases were reported. It is an alarming situation. People are cautioned and awareness campaigns are being taken up. A few deaths of asymptomatic patients were also reported.” He added, “We are getting around 200 cases of those who are coming from Hyderabad. In the entire country, Maharashtra and Delhi are topping in positive cases. While national recovery rate is 59%, Gujarat and Maharastra top in recovery. In Andhra, we need to improve the recovery rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nearly-50-returnees-who-took-kuwait-amnesty-test-ve/articleshow/76680274.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Rahul pays tribute to ex-PM Rao||Congress’ Rahul Gandhi on Sunday paid tribute to P V Narasimha Rao. In a Facebook post, Rahul Gandhi wrote, “My tribute to former Congress President and Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao Ji on his birth anniversary.” IANS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rahul-pays-tribute-to-ex-pm-rao/articleshow/76679573.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mumbai||Citizens enjoy a good hair day after three months in Mumbai||MUMBAI: All too eager to put behind their disasters with corona cuts and hot wax, Mumbaikars queued up at salons that opened on Sunday after nearly three months. Clients were welcomed with thermal scanners, consent forms and rigorous sanitisation. While the big brands opened to full appointments, the rush of customers found standalone salons grappling with staff shortage. “The response has been overwhelming and extremely positive. We are completely booked for the coming days. The clients who visited today have been happy with the enhanced service protocols and detailed measures implemented for their safety in the new environment,” said Pushkaraj Shenai, CEO, Lakme Lever. At the Lakme Salon in Hiranandani Estate in Thane, seven customers had taken appointments for day one. Clients were expected to fill up a consent form before they came in, staff checked their status on the Arogya Setu app on arrival and seats were sanitised before use. The salon is using disposable kits for each client. Shreya Karangutkar, a finance professional who visited the salon on Sunday to colour her hair, said, “I had found out about the safety protocol that was being followed before I came to the salon. As a working professional, grooming services were essential.” Most salons have resumed only hair and waxing services. Malad-based Glam factor catered to 12 clients on Sunday of which men outnumbered women. “The moment we posted about the salon opening on Sunday, we were inundated with responses. All our slots were full for the first day. After three months people are eager to have their hair cut or coloured,” said Farah Siddique, co-owner of the salon. Similarly, at Beyond the Mirror salon in Thane, out of the nine clients who came in, six were men who wanted a haircut. “We have ordered PPE kits and thermal scanners. We will then begin offering threading and other services,” said co-owner, Vandana Sharma. The salon is using only three of its six chairs to maintain social distance. At Archana Haria’s Splash Salon, Ghatkopar (E) haircut, colour and threading were the most popular services availed by the nearly 25 clients who visited. However, several standalone barber shops in various parts of the city did not open up on Sunday. Some salons couldn’t resume services at full strength. Babbu Siddiqui, part of the managing staff at Wellington Hair Dressing Hall, Dhobi Talao, said business was slow, but he expected it to pick up soon. “We usually have about a dozen staffers, but due to the lockdown many have returned home. Currently, we have to manage with just three staffers. We expect the others to return soon. Considering all the disposable items we have to use for safety and sanitisation, the price of a haircut has gone up to Rs 150 from Rs 100.” While the government’s notification listed out the kind of services that can be offered, salons said there was no clarity on the timings of operations. Home salon services resumed on Sunday too. Mukund Kulashekaran, SVP, Beauty and Wellness, Urban Company said that many of their loyal customers came back on day one. “Haircuts for men and basic services like waxing and threading are popular. Over the coming weeks, we expect to recover over 50% of our pre Covid-19 business as more of loyal users come back to get haircuts and basic beauty services,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citizens-enjoy-a-good-hair-day-after-3-months/articleshow/76680514.cms||Rebecca Samervel
June 29, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Man found hanging in temple||MYSURU: A 33-year-old man was found hanging inside a temple at KR Nagar taluk. In a video believed to be taken before his death, the man held a few persons responsible for his suicide. The deceased is Balaraj Gowda, a resident of Mulepetlu village. Villagers who found his body hanging inside Maramma temple informed KR Nagar police, who visited the spot. The video has Balaraj stating that his friends cheated him and beat his mother. They threatened to kill him if he complained to police. Family members and relatives claimed that it was a case of murder and not suicide. Police are investigating the case to know the cause of the death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-found-hanging-in-temple/articleshow/76679398.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest officials revive ailing male elephant||Coimbatore: A patrol team of the forest department rescued an ailing male elephant in the Sirumugai forest range in the district division on Sunday afternoon. After being treated by the department’s veterinary doctors, the cured elephant walked into the reserve forest on Sunday night. Around 12.15pm, the patrolling team found the elephant lying on the ground. Immediately, forest veterinary doctor Sugumar and two veterinary doctors Thiyagarajan and Sathishkumar came to the spot and administered fluids to the elephant. Later, the elephant managed to walk into the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-officials-revive-ailing-male-elephant/articleshow/76679582.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Agra||Associate professor of Agra university shot at||AGRA: An associate professor of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University was allegedly shot at by two bike-borne men on Sunday morning. The victim, identified as RK Bharti, was taken to a private hospital. His condition is said to be critical. According to police, the primary investigation revealed that the professor was attacked over a land dispute. A resident of Tedi Bagiya locality under Etmadaula police station, Bharti had gone for morning walk when the incident happened. Bharti was shot in his stomach and one in the leg. Etmadaula station house officer Udayveer Singh said, “Video clips of the attackers on a blue bike have been retrieved from CCTV cameras, installed at a nearby factory. We are trying to identify the two men. We have received a formal complaint from the family members of the professor and soon a case will be registered”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/associate-professor-of-agra-university-shot-at/articleshow/76678158.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru kids may attend classes in Tree Park||Mysuru: Schoolchildren in Mysuru may soon have an opportunity for attending classes amidst nature. Forest officials, who have mooted the idea, are having a discussion with education department officials so classes are held at Tree Park developed at Lingambudhi Lake. Holding classes outside the confines of four walls is on the lines of the ashram concept. Forest officials believe such ambience enhances the students’ learning abilities. The forest department maintains the lake, which is a major destination for various migratory birds which come to breed there. The park has trees of hundreds of varieties, amphitheatre, drinking water facility, toilet, playing equipment and other facilities for children. DCF (Mysuru division) K C Prashant Kumar told TOI that classes were held outdoors in olden days, with children being taught amidst nature. “The concept is followed in ashrama schools. We have mooted the idea so our children can enjoy learning amidst nature. They will also get to know about trees, fruits, birds and animals in the park. They can also enjoy playing outside,” he said. Kumar said that they have approached the education department with the idea, and are awaiting its response. “Once in a month, schools can visit the park to hold classes. The school managements have to inform the forest department about their proposed visits. It will be an experimental basis. If succeeds, it can be adopted throughout the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-kids-may-attend-classes-in-tree-park/articleshow/76674113.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested with 1.1kg marijuana||Coimbatore: A 28-year-old man was arrested by Thudiyalur police with 1.1 kg of marijuana at Vellakinar. Police said the accused, N Ravi Chandrababu, 28, had already done time in prison in a few drug-peddling cases and had been released from prison recently. Ravi was unmarried and told police that he peddled marijuana for a livelihood. On Saturday evening, Thudiyalur police sub-inspector Kuppuraj and his team got a tip-off that a person was roaming near Vellakinar railway tracks. A police team apprehended him and seized the huge cache of marijuana. In his statement, Ravi told the police that he bought the contraband from two sellers from Madurai district and Kerala. A hunt is on to find the whereabouts of other peddlers involved in the racket. The accused was remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-with-1-1kg-marijuana/articleshow/76679586.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Congress to hold year-long centenary celebrations of PV Narasimha Rao||HYDERABAD: Terming former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao as a visionary who put the country on the path of prosperity and self-reliance through his bold economic reforms, state Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy announced that the party will celebrate Narasimha Rao’s centenary year in a befitting manner. Uttam and other senior party leaders paid rich tributes to Narasimha Rao on his 99th birth anniversary at Gandhi Bhavan on Sunday. Uttam also sought to ask TRS leaders to explain their ‘new-found love’ for Rao. He said that AICC president Sonia Gandhi has directed the party to organise the centenary celebrations on a grand scale. “A committee would be constituted to conduct various programmes as part of the celebrations. Family members of Rao would be invited to all the programmes,” he said. Reiterating the demand for Bharat Ratna for Rao, the TPCC chief announced that he would raise this issue in the Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-to-hold-year-long-centenary-celebrations-of-pv/articleshow/76679585.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Report: Children between 11-15 yrs most vulnerable in cases of eloping||Panaji: The victim assistance unit (VAU) of the Goa police, in its report submitted to the government, said that children in the age group of 11-15 years were found to be most vulnerable in cases of eloping.“When we refer to kidnapping, these cases are mostly elopement or runaway cases. When the age segregation was done, children in the age group of 11-15 years were found to be most vulnerable,” VAU coordinator Emidio Pinho told TOI. VAU was set up Under an order issued on February 25, 2014 by the department of women and child development. Pinho also said VAU saw an alarming rise in cases of minors eloping (relationships) and a rise in attempts at suicide. “Early in 2020, the rate of teenage pregnancy was high. Hence, we started conducting awareness sessions in schools for children, teachers, parents, and other stakeholders,” Pinho said.VAU also holds training programmes quarterly for police officers which has led to faster filing of chargesheets, and streamlining various processes. This needs to be continued for all stakeholders VAU said.Referring to the village child committee to be started under panchayats and municipalities, Pinho said that this was mandatory under the Goa Children Act (GCA) 2003. “If this system is put in place it would encourage child participation and help strengthening child protection mechanism at the grassroots. We envisage that if this is activated in Goa, then cases of child abuse would be reduced,” Pinho said.VAU also said that there should be mandatory police verification of all persons working with children in homes and other services. “This would help in keeping a check on people who are employed to work with children as it would help keep child perpetrators away from such institutions. The department should also conduct survey of staff from other states employed in children’s home and get police verification done,” he said.VAU said that there is a need for identification of orphans in children’s homes. “There are many children admitted as orphans to the children’s homes. These children can be placed in adoption or foster care and brought up in a family instead of an institution, as mandated in the Juvenile Justice Act 2015,” Pinho said.Referring to the child protection policy for schools and child care institutions, Pinho said that there is no such policy in place in Goa. “This policy would help in getting a commitment from schools and homes towards child protection. It would also have a detailed process to follow in cases of child abuse within the school or child care institutions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/report-children-between-11-15-yrs-most-vulnerable-in-cases-of-eloping/articleshow/76679593.cms||Murari Shetye
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi won’t have 5.5 lakh cases by July, says Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s warning that the number of Covid cases in Delhi would reach 5.5 lakh by July-end had sparked fear among people and expressed confidence that the prognosis would not come to pass. In an interview to news agency ANI, Shah also said Sisodia’s remark prompted many people to consider moving out of the capital and led Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ask the home ministry to help the Delhi government fight the pandemic. “Around the second week of June, Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia said that by July 31, there will be 5.5 lakh people infected with the virus. He said there will be no place left, no beds left and the situation will be difficult. This created a lot of fear in the minds of people in Delhi. His estimate was based on figures. I do not want to go into whether the estimate was right or wrong. But a situation of fear arose and some people started mulling an exodus (out of Delhi),” Shah told ANI in reference to Sisodia’s remarks after a meeting of the state disaster management authority. Shah said ordinarily, the responsibility of coordination and improving the systems in the capital was that of the Delhi government. “But after the remarks of Manishji, I felt that the central government should not stay idle. Modiji has accountability towards the country. The PM also told me that the home ministry should take the initiative and help the Delhi government,” he said. “I can say now with confidence that the situation of 5.5 lakh cases will not come on July 31. We will be in good condition (by July 31) because we have laid stress on preventive steps, including more tests and contact tracing,” he added. The minister disagreed with the Delhi government’s stand that the city was already in “community transmission phase”, and said that stage had not been reached and if that stage arrived, the central government would not hesitate in making the announcement. “I have talked to three senior-most officials — Dr Paul (from Niti Aayog), IMCR chief Dr Bhargava and Dr Guleria (AIIMS director). This situation has not come to Delhi. Such situation appeared because of the total tests done, earlier 30% turned out to be positive and that was happening because tests were done at the last moment. Now that we have started doing 20,000 tests on average, this condition is not there. I have held technical discussions on this... today, this situation is not there in Delhi. There is no need to fear,” he said. While Shah struck a concilatory tone in the interview and emphasised that decisions regarding the fight against the virus were being taken in collaboration with the state government and by keeping CM Arvind Kejriwal in the loop, he disagreed with Delhi government’s now-reversed decision to reserve Covid-19 hospitals in the city exclusively for residents of the capital. Emphasising that he was also from outside, Shah said, “Where will I go if something happens to me. Delhi is the capital of the country. And people from different states stay here, come and go.” Shah said shortcomings came to attention in the meetings he held on the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and it was decided that every house in containment zones would be surveyed by June 30. The minister said testing was also ramped up. In the interview, Shah also said 30,000 beds would be available by the end of this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wont-have-5-5l-cases-by-july-shah/articleshow/76679592.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat traders seek longer business hours||AHMEDABAD: With customer footfall at retail outlets and shops getting affected due to timing restrictions on operational hours of stores, traders in Gujarat have sought further relaxation in timings. In a representation made to Gujarat chief minister, Vijay Rupani, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF) has stated that trade is not getting enough momentum due to the restriction in timings imposed on shops. Thus, the trade body has sought permission to allow shops remain operational till 10pm and lift the curfew completely. Shops are currently allowed to remain open till 7pm and a curfew is imposed from 9pm to 5pm, restricting public movement except in case of emergencies. “With this restriction, most shopkeepers tend to down shutters by 5-6pm. Due to this, customers don’t visit the stores. Moreover, the restrictions on public transport has limited the number of traders from other cities visiting wholesale markets,” the representation states. “Restaurants and eateries have just not resumed business because most of their sales take place during the evening, and due to the 7pm time restriction, it is impossible to maintain the flow,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, GTF. “During the evening, the situation is no different than what it was throughout the lockdown period. If restaurants and eateries can’t sustain their business, it will lead to unemployment. Complete lifting of curfew and extension of operational hours for shops and establishments will help regain normalcy for businesses and public life,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/traders-seek-longer-business-hours/articleshow/76679623.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||As civic bodies mount drives, citizens call for stronger measures against public spitting||Pune/Pimpri Chinchwad: What was some months ago a vile habit that left behind dirty walls, is now a full-blown public health hazard. Spitting in public, officials have warned, can endanger lives and cause Covid-19 containment measures to fail.Both the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation have started drives to fine those caught spitting or smoking in public. Officials from the PMC said the civic body has collected nearly Rs 1.8 lakh in fines from 392 people who were penalised for littering or spitting, since April 1. The PCMC has reported higher numbers: as many as 1,724 fined for spitting with Rs 2,58,600 collected as fines from the rule-breakers, between April 23 and June 26. “It is an unacceptable offence during a pandemic,” said PCMC commissioner, Shravan Hardikar. “Those caught spitting in public will not be spared. Besides fines, we will be initiating criminal action against them under the Bombay Police Act. They are endangering the community.”In late May, the state’s public health department had invoked provisions of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, to deal with spitting or smoking in public. The department decided to send offenders behind bars for up to six months and repeat offenders for up to two years.“We want stricter laws to be invoked so that these offenders are strictly punished,” health minister Rajesh Tope had said shortly after Disease Act was enforced. “People should work on changing their attitude.”Citizens, however, said the civic bodies should boost their messaging to combat public spitting. “The pandemic is, in fact, the perfect intervention,” said MK Govardhan, a resident of Kharadi. “I would urge both the PMC and PCMC to have zero-tolerance for public spitting. I go out for regular morning walks and I still see people casually spitting on footpaths. This is a problem we need to deal with right now.”Saliva from even the mildly ill has traces of the new coronavirus. One such study in February found traces of the SARS-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, in 11 out of 12 patients — over 90% of the sample size.According to the PMC, 357 citizens were penalised for garbage dumping; just 13 for public spitting and 22 others for not wearing masks — since April 1.“The civic administration has been taking action against those caught defacing the city. The drive will continue,” said Dnyaneshwar Molak, head of the PMC’s solid waste management department.But citizens TOI spoke to said they often find themselves at risk of exposure from people spitting in the open. Nisha Gorde, a resident of NIBM Road, said, “I was out buying essentials when I saw a worker at this popular food joint here simply spitting in the open. He was not chewing paan or gutkha; just a force of habit. I had to take matters into my own hands and went on to give him, and his boss, an earful. They apologised, but the problem doesn’t stop here.”Arjun Joshi, a resident of Kothrud, said, “There's no one today who doesn’t know about the coronavirus — the lockdowns made sure of that. It’s then surprising to see people openly spitting on the roads. I was standing in queue to withdraw money from an ATM recently, when one person in front of me spat right there in the open. There were at least 10 people in the queue. He put all our lives at risk. This is more than just about dirty walls now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/as-civic-bodies-mount-drives-citizens-call-for-stronger-measures-against-public-spitting/articleshow/76679607.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana's Atmanirbhar model in tribal schools to beat tech handicap||HYDERABAD: With online classes reaching barely 50% students in the state, students in Telangana’s social and tribal welfare residential institutions along with their teachers have started their own learning circles to beat the digital handicap. These centres which are being operated from community halls, sarpanch offices or even places of worship have around eight to ten students per centre. Even older students have taken up roles of student-teachers to impart education to their younger schoolmates and peers. The initiative has been effective in helping those from economically backward families and those staying in remote areas continue their education. “We have supplied a blackboard, chalk pieces and textbooks to students. As our students are part of a Freedom School — where students are encouraged to teach their juniors — they know how to prepare and take classes. If they have any doubts, they immediately contact teachers over the phone,” said BM Swarna Latha, principal of Social Welfare Residential School in Adilabad district’s Boath. It is one of the 23 Freedom Schools under the society. Latha said that these learning circles have been started by the students in five villages in Adilabad district and by next week such circles will be started in the remaining 25 villages. “I was not sure if everyone will be comfortable coming to the learning circle if it is started in someone’s house. So, we started it in a church. Every day, eight of us gather there for a couple of hours. As students are in different classes, I started with revising basics—tables, grammar, formulae, among others and once it is completed, we will go for peer learning,” said S Sujatha, a class 10 student, who is teaching students of classes six, seven and ten at her village, Kokasmannur. The students revise the basics for an hour and then dedicate their time to completing homework. In villages, where there are no student-teachers, principals are directed to arrange for mobile phones or television so that students can watch reordered lessons or through the TSAT channel at the centre.“Soon, all the lessons will be copied into a pen drive and will be made available to learning centres so every student can get benefit,” said society secretary, RS Praveen Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/atmanirbhar-model-in-tribal-schools-to-beat-tech-handicap/articleshow/76679609.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 29, 2020||Agra||Handicapped cow elephant undergoes laser therapy in Mathura||AGRA: A 25-year-old handicapped cow elephant suffering from arthritis, resulting in difficulty in bearing weight on forelimbs, is undergoing laser therapy at the Wildlife SOS Elephant Hospital in Mathura. According to an NGO official, the elephant was rushed for treatment to the hospital from Amroha two days ago by its owner as its condition deteriorated. Preliminary examination revealed foot ailments, abnormal forelimb conformation, osteoarthritis and stunted body confirmation of its body. The cow elephant was found to be highly underweight, weighing less than 2,000 kg. Its poor health is due to severe neglect, lack of medical attention coupled with years of poor nutrition, veterinarians said. It will require long-term care and specialized treatment along with medical procedures like laser therapy and hydrotherapy, said Dr Pramod Rajput, veterinarian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/handicapped-cow-elephant-undergoes-laser-therapy-in-mathura/articleshow/76678164.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Four deaths, 983 Covid-19 cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Four persons died and 983 more tested positive for coronavirus in Telangana on Sunday as authorities said they are preparing for a bigger battle to contain the virus. Nearly 31% of the samples tested in the state on Sunday turned out to be positive for Covid-19, with the total count now standing at 14,419. The death toll in the state rose to 247. Along with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits where the majority of the positive cases have been reported, Medchal, Rangareddy, Karimnagar and Nalgonda continue to see an increased number of cases. Mancherial is the latest among the Telangana districts to see a surge with 33 new cases. So far, 5,172 patients have recovered from the virus, while 9,000 active patients are currently in the state. A video of a Covid-19 patient who succumbed at the state-run Chest Hospital saying that his oxygen supply was pulled away by staff surfaced on Sunday. The patient succumbed later and the video created a flutter on social media about the lack of facilities and the neglect by hospital authorities. When contacted, a senior official from the state health department said that they will probe the issue. Meanwhile, special chief secretary (medical and health) Shanta Kumari, in her repor,t pointed out that the number of deaths due to the virus is at a low rate in the state. The average deaths due to Covid-19 at the national level is 3.04 while it is 1.52 in Telangana, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-deaths-983-covid-19-cases-in-state/articleshow/76680284.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||PV brought economy back to life: Guv||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday said the visionary leadership of former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao had brought the country’s economy back to life from the intensive care unit. The governor virtually inaugurated the Sthitapragna PV Narasimha Rao Memorial Museum, set up by the former prime minister’s daughter Vani at Madhapur, while paying tributes to the late Congress leader on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pv-brought-economy-back-to-life-guv/articleshow/76679598.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||All-round efforts paying off: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said the efforts made by all agencies to contain novel coronavirus were paying off and the situation was not as bleak as it looked in the first week of June. The statement came hours after home minister Amit Shah told ANI that Sisodia’s comment that Delhi would have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31 had created a situation of fear and people thought about exodus. Reacting to the interview, Sisodia said, “We are hopeful that the situation will improve in the coming weeks and will certainly not be as bleak as it looked in the first week of June when domain experts predicted 5.5 lakh cases by July 31.” Hitting out at lieutenant governor Anil Baijal for reversing Delhi government’s decision to reserve state-run and private hospitals for Delhiites till the situation improved, Sisodia had said on June 9 that there would be 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31 and 80,000 beds would be needed. Giving credit to the Centre, religious organisations and NGOs among others for their help, Sisodia said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal believed the battle was big and no individual person or agency could deal with it alone. “In this spirit, the CM has brought everyone together and his efforts seem to be paying off,” the deputy chief minister said. “Last week saw things stabilising — the recovery rate has increased to 62%, more patients are recovering in Delhi than those falling ill, number of deaths are coming down and positivity rate is decreasing rapidly,” he added. Sisodia said there was a sudden spike in the first week of June, leading to the shortage of beds and testing. Kejriwal immediately reserved 40% beds in all big private hospitals in addition to declaring some big hospitals like GTB as Covid-designated health facilities, he said. Another 3,500 beds were added by turning hotels into temporary hospitals. “Today, there is no shortage of beds in Delhi.” On Saturday, Kejriwal accepted there was shortage of beds in June first week, which led to the rise in death counts. Sisodia said Centre had helped Delhi in procuring rapid antigen kits, increasing testing in the city by four times. “The Centre provided us with oxygen cylinders, ITBP doctors and nurses for the Radha Soami Covid centre and guidance from domain experts,” Sisodia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-round-efforts-paying-off-sisodia/articleshow/76679604.cms||Atul Mathur
June 29, 2020||Pune||834 fresh Covid-19 cases in Pune, 27 patients succumb||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region added 834 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 20,857. With 27 fatalities, the death toll for the region crossed the 700-mark, standing at 720, the district administration stated on Sunday. According to the data provided by the district health officer, 2525 of the 834 cases from the region were recorded in the Pune Municipal Corporation Limits, while 248 more people tested positive in Pimpri Chinchwad. The rural areas and the cantonment board limits together had 24 cases on Sunday. . This takes the total tally in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Limits close to 3,000, at 2,926. As on Sunday, PCMC areas have 1,035 active cases. Meanwhile, 10 policemen from various police stations tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday, a senior police officer said. Since March, 120 policemen have been infected. Of them, three had succumbed to the virus, while over 80 have been released from quarantine centres, police officials said. On Saturday, the Pune Metropolitan Region witnessed the sharpest one-day spike yet, with 996 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally past the 20,000-mark. District health officials said more than 60% of those found positive so far have recovered and been discharged. According to a statement issued by Pune Municipal Corporation, a majority of the 27 people who died on Sunday had co-morbidities. They were suffering from health issues like respiratory trouble, heart ailments, hypertension and pneumonia, PMC stated. Seven of the deceased breathed their last at Sassoon General Hospital, while the rest died in various private hospitals. PMC’s statement further said the deceased were residents of areas such as Satara Road, Nagar Road, Kondhwa and Peth areas. State capital Mumbai, meanwhile continued to report deaths in big numbers due to data reconciliation. On Sunday, it added 87 deaths to its overall toll, of which 64 were from previous days. Of the 160 deaths in the state, 96 are from previous days. Civic officials said that 23 deaths were reported in the last 48 hours. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that hospitals have been given an ultimatum to report all undeclared deaths by June 29. “So death figures are likely to go up since the reconciliation is not over,” he said. Another civic official said that even positive cases could increase in Mumbai as more people resume work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/834-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-pune-27-patients-succumb/articleshow/76679588.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Society secretary faces FIR for violating government orders||PUNE: The city police on Sunday filed an FIR against the secretary of Rohan Nilay Cooperative Housing Society at Aundh following a complaint by the deputy registrar of cooperative societies Sneha Joshi. In effect, the complaint states that the society violated the district collector’s order by making its own rules. Joshi filed a complaint on the collector’s order after preliminary police investigation showed that the secretary violated the collector’s order by creating arbitrary rules. This is the first time such action has been taken against any member of a cooperative society. On June 25, secretary of the society Sunil Shivatare held off Langhu Lukia, who is seven months pregnant, and her family at the society gate along with their luggage for want of a medical certificate. When the family eventually got a medical certificate, Shivatare continued to keep them waiting doubting its veracity. The family’s plight was highlighted in the TOI on June 28. The collector’s order states that societies cannot demand a medical certificate or put people coming from different areas of the same city under needless quarantine. “Anyone acting on their own whims and violating the district administration’s order will be taken to task,” district collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI on Sunday evening. “The order given by the administration cannot be taken lightly,” the collector added. Shivatare said he would not like to comment further and he would present facts in the matter to the government authorities and the police. “If you want to know further, please come to the society gate or to the police station tomorrow, where we will talk,” he said. “The police did visit us and took down both our versions on Sunday afternoon. I told the police the facts and I hope they get to check the CCTV footage. We were just seeking to move in and stay peacefully. We hope now we are allowed to carry on with our lives peacefully,” said Lukia’s husband Sudhir Masih. Civic health department officials said that the medical certificate requirement was done away with to reduce the strain on an already stretched system and to put asymptomatic patients out of harm’s way by preventing needless hospital visits. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, ““I had forwarded a link to the newspaper’s story to the Chatushrungi police station for necessary legal action. Accordingly, after verification, an offence has been registered under section 188 (disobedience of an order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/secretary-faces-fir-for-violating-govt-orders/articleshow/76679618.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 29, 2020||Goa||Temple ruins found during road expansion at Navelim||Panaji: The ruins of an ancient temple have been unearthed during the highway expansion works at Navelim, in Salcete. The archaeology department is now approaching the PWD to allow them to supervise the work and salvage the remains, which they fear could become a casualty of the highway if they do not intervene.“One of the locals informed us of the remains that look like a temple structure. These were near the Chapel of St Xavier’s close to which the highway expansion project has been going on,” assistant superintendent of archaeology Varad Sabnis said.A joint inspection was conducted last week by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and archaeology department officials. Archaeological experts have denied that this could be an instance of the Portuguese era when new religious structures were erected in place of existing ones. The architecture of the St Xavier chapel is fairly recent, Sabnis said. “The chapel is a newly built one,” he said.“We would like to inspect the site when the work is ongoing to see if there are any more remains. The remains can be displayed either at the department or at the state museum,” Sabnis said.Sources said that the highway expansion works have currently halted due to the monsoon. The archaeology department is in the process of writing to the PWD to permit them access to the site.Experts estimate that the remains belong to the 13th or 14th century. However, an exact date and time stamp is yet to be placed on the find.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/temple-ruins-found-during-road-expansion-at-navelim/articleshow/76679614.cms||Nida Sayed
June 29, 2020||Agra||Tourism industry urges govt to open Taj and other monuments||AGRA: Expressing concern over the losses suffered by them, representatives of Agra tourism industry have urged the Union and the state governments to open all the historical sites and monuments including Taj Mahal for reviving tourism. Taj Mahal, along with other monuments, has been shut since March to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The industry representatives claim that monuments should be allowed to open on the lines of markets and necessary precautions should be taken as a part of their standard operating procedures (SoPs). Vice-president of Agra Tourism Guild Rajeev Saxena said that since the recovery rate of Covid-19 cases has increased considerably, it is a safe time to open the monuments and revive the tourism business. He said, “By opening the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) monuments, a positive message will go across the globe that the situation in Agra is approaching normalcy.” Echoing similar views, Agra Tourist Welfare Chamber President Prahalad Agarwal said, “Instead of closing the monuments, the government should start it with safety guidelines.” “It would be of great help to boost Agra tourism and allied trades as it would mean work for thousands of associated industries and professionals that survive on it,” vice-president of Jaypee palace Agra Hari Sukumar said. According to industry representatives, people connected to the tourism industry are already facing difficulties and the government is not providing any assistance. Last month, stakeholders of the industry had demanded an economic package from the government for its revival, but to no avail. Their demands included 50% payment of salaries of at least half of the employees working in hotels, resorts and restaurants in order to save their jobs that have been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Existing tourism policy should be modified and 50% relaxation in property tax should be given till March 2021, tax exemption on bar licenses till December 2020 and payment of compensatory amount should be provided to registered tourist guides till December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tourism-industry-urges-govt-to-open-taj-and-other-monuments/articleshow/76678171.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 29, 2020||Agra||Swarms of locusts invade Agra region, farmers claim losses||AGRA/BIJNOR: After invading parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, swarms of locusts entered Pinahat block of Agra district and neighbouring Aligarh during the weekend and also attacked Mathura’s Naujheel division, causing losses in varying degrees at different places. Meanwhile, an alert has been sounded in Bijnor and Meerut districts after a swarm flew over the neighbouring Bulandshahar district on their way to Aligarh district and arrangements have been made to spray chemicals by fire tenders and tractor-mounted spraying machines to protect crops, besides sensitising the farmers on crop protection, said agriculture department officials. “Farmers are advised to beat utensils, drums and burst crackers to drive away locusts,” said an advisory issued by the agriculture development officer. Ram Kumar, a farmer in Mathura’s Birjugadhi village, said the swarms of locusts stayed there for around two hours. “We cannot assess the loss as of now, but they have destroyed the standing crops,” said Kumar. Barauli MLA Thakur Dalveer Singh said, “Locusts destroyed standing maize crop and mangoes. I visited the area with district administration officials today (Sunday) and assured the farmers of help after a proper survey.” Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Locust swarm from Rajasthan’s Dholpur entered Pinahat block of Agra district on Saturday evening. However, during the overnight operation, locusts that had settled on tress were killed by spraying chemicals by five fire tenders and 65 tractor-mounted spraying machines.” Bharatiya Kisan Sangh regional president Mohan Singh Chahar, however, claimed, “The locust attack in Agra region has resulted in a significant loss to the farmers in over two dozen villages. Besides, green vegetables and fruits, locusts damaged brinjal, pearl millet (bajra), green gram (mung) and fodder.” Deputy director, Bijnor agriculture department, JP Chaudhary, meanwhile, said, “The chances of locust invading Bijnor, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar districts are slim, but we are ready to deal with the situation.” The Locust Warning Organization (LWO) of the Union ministry of agriculture and farmer welfare had warned of attacks in May-June this year. The first locust attack this year was reported in Ganganagar, a north Rajasthan district bordering Pakistan, on May 11. On May 20, locusts were spotted around 100 km away from the UP border in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/swarms-of-locusts-invade-agra-region-farmers-claim-losses/articleshow/76678169.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Face-detection cams set to nab violators in Thrissur||Thrissur: For the first time in state, Thrissur city police installed six face-detection cameras in various parts of town to track violations of Covid-19 guidelines. “Face-detection cameras will be monitored from the control room 24 hours a day. We can find violations like people moving around without wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing in public places using the cameras. If we find serious violation, a police team can rush to the spot and take action,” said the police. More cameras will be fixed in various parts of town and the locations include Guruvayur, Kunnamkulam, Chavakkad and Wadakkanchery, said Thrissur city police commissioner R Aadithya. In April, Thrissur saw an all-woman police patrol team working within city station limits to check on lockdown violations, said officers. Earlier, in March, police had also used drones for surveillance. “For the first time, city police used drones for surveillance during lockdown and it was a success. Then, drones were used all over the state to track similar covid-19 norm violations,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/face-detection-cams-set-to-nab-violators-in-thrissur/articleshow/76674132.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Face-detection cams set to nab violators in Thrissur||Thrissur: For the first time in state, Thrissur city police installed six face-detection cameras in various parts of town to track violations of Covid-19 guidelines. “Face-detection cameras will be monitored from the control room 24 hours a day. We can find violations like people moving around without wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing in public places using the cameras. If we find serious violation, a police team can rush to the spot and take action,” said the police. More cameras will be fixed in various parts of town and the locations include Guruvayur, Kunnamkulam, Chavakkad and Wadakkanchery, said Thrissur city police commissioner R Aadithya. In April, Thrissur saw an all-woman police patrol team working within city station limits to check on lockdown violations, said officers. Earlier, in March, police had also used drones for surveillance. “For the first time, city police used drones for surveillance during lockdown and it was a success. Then, drones were used all over the state to track similar covid-19 norm violations,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/face-detection-cams-set-to-nab-violators-in-thrissur/articleshow/76674137.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Police identify 14 women duped by extortion gang||KOCHI: City police probing the network of conmen, who allegedly threatened actor Shamna Kasim as part of an extortion bid, have identified more than 14 women who have been duped by the gang at various locations in the state. Senior officers with the city police said apart from the confinement of nine women at a hotel in Palakkad, they have been able to confirm three other similar confinements of women in which they were duped of money and ornaments. Senior officers again said on Sunday that the aim of the racket was to dupe women of money. “Though there is a complaint of molestation, we don’t think sexual abuse was the target of the accused. They were basically con artists,” said an official. Meanwhile, police have strengthened the lookout for other accused in the case. SIT probing the case is looking into the reason for the gang choosing Shamna and how they managed to reach her. Also, police said the accused managed to infiltrate WhatsApp groups of aspiring actors and models to connect with them before cheating them of money and ornaments. The SIT have so far arrested seven people, including key accused Sharif and Rafique who contacted Shamna using a fake identity as part of a marriage proposal. More cases against gang who cheated actor Police officials at Vadanappally in Thrissur have registered a case against the gang that attempted extortion on actor Shamna Kasim following a complaint of cheating from a homemaker in the area. Irinjalakkuda ACP Famous Varghese said the woman has complained that she was cheated of around Rs 16 lakh by Rafique and his gang members. Vadanappally CI Bejoy P R said the gang had indulged in impersonation, claiming that they were agents of man from a prominent family in Malappuram. They started cheating money from the 29-year-old woman way back in 2018 and she complained to police when she realised that it was the same gang members who had cheated Shamna also. The CI said there is no complaint of sexual abuse in the case. Police said gang members Rafique and Salam have been listed as accused. Detailed investigations are on and as per the present hints, more accused are likely to be involved in the case, the CI said. The ACP said some other cases of cheating and frauds are pending against the gang members at Valappad, Kattoor and Irinjalakkuda police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-identify-14-women-duped-by-extortion-gang/articleshow/76679028.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation more than doubles testing capacity||PUNE: The weekly coronavirus testing capacity of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has more than doubled in around a month’s time. The civic body is currently testing around 19,000 samples every week, a substantial increase from the 8,500 samples it was testing late May. Officials attributed the jump in testing to tie-ups with private labs in the city. According to a report prepared by the PMC and the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited, the civic body was testing 8,568 samples between May 29 and June 4. That number rose to 11,337 between June 5 and June 11. Officials further increased that to 15,024 between June 12 and June 18 and now, the testing capacity — between June 19 and June 25 — was slightly over 19,000. But officials said more tests need to be carried out to improve the ratio of tests per portion of population. Control measures such as containment policies and home quarantining depend on sample testing capacity. “The PMC has to make sure the death rate within its limits is reduced. And early detection of cases is key to reducing the number of deaths. The PMC has to carry out as many tests as possible,” said municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. Gaikwad said the civic corporation has joined hands with private labs to complete all the tests. The PMC was seeing a backlog of at least 300 to 400 cases each day. But ever since the tie-ups with the private labs, the daily sample testing capacity has been boosted to 500 per day. Officials from the PMC said both the Centre as well as the state government have demanded an increase in testing capacity. An expert committee formed by the Centre, which had visited Pune to review the Covid-19 situation, had also called for a higher testing capacity. The total number of tests conducted since the start of the outbreak in March is 1,07,310. The PMC has carried out 24,227 tests per million people. Of the total number of people tested, 14.09% have emerged positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-more-than-doubles-testing-capacity/articleshow/76679600.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi man duped of Rs 24,000 after he orders liquor online||NEW DELHI: A Hauz Khas resident was duped of Rs 24,000 after he ordered liquor on the phone and made the payment to a man through a mobile app. The victim claimed to have searched for a liquor delivery store over the internet. According to the police, by the time he realised he was duped, the money had already been moved to four different accounts by the accused. Police later arrested the accused, identified as Akib Javed (25), from Bharatpur in Rajasthan. Javed claimed to be employed as a driver with an app-based cab aggregator. Villagers at Bharatpur, meanwhile, pelted stones at the police team that had gone to arrest Javed. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said: “On June 2, the victim searched for an online shop to purchase liquor and found a shop in south Delhi’s Saket. He ordered the liquor over the phone and the person asked him to make the payment online. The victim transferred the money, but his order was never delivered. The mobile number on which the payment was made was later switched off.” Probe revealed that the mobile number and the bank account, in which the money was transferred, were obtained on the basis of fake KYC details. Police said the accused would transfer the amount into fake accounts and payment wallets registered in Maharashtra, Assam and Meghalaya, before finally transferring it into their genuine accounts to withdraw the amount. Police officials claimed the same modus operandi was also used by criminals of Mewat, Nuh and Bharatpur for online frauds. Police have identified another associate of Javed, who is on the run. “The wine shop does exist in Saket but the accused changed the number on the internet to theirs so that people would call them and place the order. Javed has confessed to having duped around 50 people.” Thakur said. Watch Cyber fraud: Sanjay Baru orders liquor online, loses Rs 24000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-duped-of-rs-24k-after-he-orders-liquor-online/articleshow/76679610.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||Man slaps wife, assaults hosp staff||Pune: The Baramati rural police detained a man for assaulting the security guard of a primary health centre in Dorlewadi near Baramati on Sunday after he was informed that his wife had given birth to a baby girl. The guard had intervened after the man repeatedly slapped her, the police said. The woman had shifted to the centre at Dorlewadi, about 120km from Pune, on Saturday. When the man visited the hospital to see her on Sunday, he was congratulated by the staff. When he heard it was a baby girl, the man rushed into the maternity ward and started slapping his wife. Hearing her cries, the security guard stopped him. The man slapped him too. He was overpowered and taken out of the premises. However, when they lost grip over him, he picked up a stone and hurled it at a staffer who sustained head injuries, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-slaps-wife-assaults-hosp-staff/articleshow/76679608.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Struggling gyms in Hyderabad seek government nod for reopening||HYDERABAD: The government’s decision to not allow fitness centres to start their operations has put trainers and owners in a fix as many of them are suffering heavy financial losses. Mohammad Nayeem of MK Gym in Mehdipatnam, told TOI that they are are not even able to pay rent of the premises which is Rs 40,000 per month. “The only option left for us to pay the rent is to sell off the equipment which I bought with my savings when I set up the gym. While salaries were paid to trainers for the month of March, I paid half a month’s salary for April. Now, the situation has become so bad that I am not even able to survive,” said Nayeem. Those in the fitness business point out that depending on the size of the gym, the investment can vary from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 2 crore depending upon the location, experienced trainers and quality of equipment. “Along with rent of the premises, the trainers and gym owners also have pending loans, electricity bills and house rents to clear,” said Mohammad Arfath Khan, trainer of Fitness 7 gym in Moti Nagar. A group of trainers and owners plan to send a representation to the district collector to allow them to reopen their gyms. “We are ready to reduce customers per session and ensure safety norms,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/struggling-gyms-seek-govt-nod-for-reopening/articleshow/76680303.cms||Moulika.KV
June 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Active Covid-19 cases in PCMC limits cross 1,000-mark||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits crossed the 1,000 mark on Sunday. ‘Active cases’ refers to those patients still undergoing treatment for the infection. As on Sunday, a PCMC health department report stated 1,035 Covid-19 patients were still being treated. The number of active cases in the twin township was just 218 on June 1. Within four weeks, 817 new active cases have been reported. On Sunday, the total number of Covid-19 cases, until 9pm, stood at 2,926. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said that the number of positive cases rose considerably, especially after the lockdown was eased on May 18, and later from June 1. “Even though the number of cases has increased, around 80% of the patients are asymptomatic,” Hardikar said. “Since most of the cases are asymptomatic, they have reduced power to infect others and, if proper precaution is exercised, we can avoid community transmission. Home isolation or quarantine is one of the possible solutions in this regard and we have already appealed to citizens to prepare themselves for home quarantine in case of asymptomatic infection,” he said. Hardikar said such patients will be monitored by the health department and that there were several guidelines for home isolated-patients, which if complied properly, can prove helpful in reducing the transmission of the contagion. Meanwhile, the report further stated that from March 13, over 16,000 suspected patients were placed in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-cases-in-pcmc-limits-cross-1k-mark/articleshow/76679619.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao writes to PM Narendra Modi, seeks to rename HCU after PV Narasimha Rao||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday said he will soon meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek Bharat Ratna for former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao and urge him to rename Hyderabad Central University as PV Narasimha Rao Central University (HCU) after launching the year-long celebrations to mark the birth centenary of the late leader on Sunday. Paying rich tributes to PVN Rao at an event at PV Gnana Bhoomi on Necklace Road here, KCR said he will personally lead a delegation to the PM to rename HCU after Telangana’s muddu bidda (precious son) and invite him along with President Ramnath Kovind and former presidents and PMs for a national-level conclave which will be held in PVN Rao’s memory. In a letter to the PM on Sunday, he said, “There is a strong local public demand in Telangana to name Hyderabad Central University after P.V. Narasimha Rao. Incidentally, this university was set up in 1974 as a result of the Telangana agitation at that time under the six-point formula to address the imbalance in education infrastructure in Telangana. I take this opportunity to request the Government of India through your good offices to name this institution as P.V. Narasimha Rao Central University of Hyderabad, which will be a fitting tribute to him during his birth centenary year.” “PVN Rao was a multi-faceted personality, a statesman and visionary. In a nutshell, a 360-degree personality. He was a personality who was on par with Jawaharlal Nehru,” the chief minister said. Political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar said KCR, with this move, has usurped the scope for BJP to utilise the name of PVN Rao to embarrass its main political opponent, the Congress, and derive political mileage by projecting him as a Telangana icon, respected by the BJP. “On a couple of occasions, PM Narendra Modi has himself praised Narasimha Rao. The BJP also does not have an iconic leader on its side. It has been using the name of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel to corner the Congress although Patel himself was a Congressman,” Nageshwar said. KCR along with state ministers, PVN Rao’s daughter Vani Rao and son PV Prabhakar Rao, state Congress chief Uttam Kumar Reddy and others paid tributes to PVN Rao at P V Gnana Bhoomi on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-writes-to-modi-seeks-to-rename-hcu-after-pv/articleshow/76679622.cms||Roushan Ali
June 29, 2020||Pune||Salons, beauty parlours resume business on a cautious note in Pune||PUNE: Salons and beauty parlours across the city finally resumed business after three months of nCoV-forced closure. Far from the expected bustle, many establishments restarted work on a cautious note and with fewer customers. After with fewer customers to deal with, after three months of closure due to the lockdown. “We are happy to be back in business,” said Anand M Konharkar, owner of a chain of salons. “Today we had a decent turnout, all things considered. All safety precautions are being followed and an appointments register is being maintained,” he said. Manasee Dogra, who runs family-owned salons in Camp, Kalyaninagar and Kharadi, said they spread the word via WhatsApp. “We got a positive response, but it’s been slow because we’re catering to clients by appointment only — only two appointments per hour, followed by a 30-minute sanitizing break,” Dogra said. Meenakshi Sharma, who runs a small neighbourhood salon, said, she ordered a sanitization machine and PPE kits. “I have to increase rates because I have to accommodate for sanitization costs, Bbt some of my regulars dropped in throughout the day, I have a small place so I am service only one client at a time,” Sharma said. Shiv Dixit, a student from NIBM Road, got a much-needed, albeit slightly expensive, haircut on Sunday. I drove around and chose a salon which was spacious and looked clean. There are many small salons not following regulations. This should be checked by the authorities,” Dixit said. Arif Shaikh, who runs a salon in Kondhwa, said, “It seems, many people are still in two minds about whether to visit a salon or not. We are taking all prescribed steps and hope the footfall increase as days pass.” Another salon owner in Kedarinagar said, “A few requested us to for facials or a steam face bath, but we refused as other beauty treatments have not been allowed. I have had to increase the rate our costs have increased.” For Saba Poonawala, who runs a bridal studio and academy on MG Road, the first day of reopening was all about sanitization and preparation. “We have always followed strict protocol when it comes to cleaning. We are taking clients by appointment only and providing only those services which have been allowed like hair-dyeing and cutting and waxing. No skin services at all. We are encouraging clients who belong to the same family to come in together. With social distancing, we will be up to 60% our pre-Covid capacity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/salons-beauty-parlours-resume-biz-on-a-cautious-note/articleshow/76679626.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Suicide by 651 farmers between January and April||PUNE: As many as 651 farmers committed suicide in Maharashtra between January and April this year despite good rabi harvests and no major adverse weather event, state revenue department data has revealed. The highest number of suicides, 200, was registered in February, while 195 suicides were recorded in January. The lockdown months of March and April together saw 256 farmers taking the extreme step. Though March and April had relatively fewer suicides in comparison to January and February, farm experts said over 600 suicides in a year of no adverse weather event was worrisome. They said farm distress peaked in March and April because of the lockdown imposed to tackle Covid-19, when horticulture farmers faced a major setback and crop prices crashed to one-fourth of the expected rates. The experts feared that the lockdown impact might last for long and any rise in the debt burden would hit the farmers hard. “Horticulture farmers suffered a huge setback during the lockdown. The farmers didn’t have labourers to harvest crops. Even when the crop was harvested, there were transport bottlenecks. The supply chain had more or less collapsed,” said Sangeeta Shroff, professor at Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics and in-charge of the Agro-Economic Research Centre of the institute. “I received a photograph of a farmer in Sangli selling watermelons for Rs 3 per piece. Grape farmers suffered huge losses. Almost 30% of grapes could not be harvested. A big quantity of grapes couldn’t even be exported due to the curbs, while the local market prices crashed. It is difficult to attribute a particular cause to the suicides in March-April or January-February, as suicidal tendencies build up over time and it may take months for a farmer to be driven to take the extreme step,” she told TOI. “At present, there’s no pressure on the farmers to repay the loan because of the lockdown and moratorium on loans announced by the Reserve Bank of India.When the pressure of loan repayment builds, the farmers are often pushed to take the extreme step,” she said. In 2020, water availability in the state, except in some parts, was better than the same period in 2019. Dinesh Kulkarni, all-India organizing secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, cited a recent suicide by a farmer in Nagpur — a step the tiller had taken after the seeds he bought turned out to be bogus. “The farmer could not sell his cotton during the lockdown because of the disruption in the supply chain. His verification in the crop loan waiver scheme was pending. As a result, he could not avail of more crop loan from banks, as they claimed he was already under debt. Under such circumstances, he bought seeds that later turned out to be bogus. This drove him to suicide,” Kulkarni said. Farm activist Kishore Tiwari told TOI that while suicides by farmers in Maharashtra might have dropped by 20-25% in March-April 2020 in comparison to the corresponding period last year, farm distress remained high. He said, “Problems worsened for the farmers in May. The major reasons why farmers commit suicide were less during March-April this year due to the lockdown and the ban on congregations such as weddings to curb the pandemic spread.” Tiwari said crop failure was one of the causes for the suicide by farmers, which was minimized this year because of favourable weather conditions and water availability, except in a few areas. “But over 600 farmers committing sucide is a worry. Rural economy has suffered after the lockdown, even more than the urban parts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/suicide-by-651-farmers-between-jan-april/articleshow/76679616.cms||Neha Madaan
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Aarogya Setu app must to write Telangana Eamcet||HYDERABAD: Aspirants appearing for Telangana Eamcet from July 6 to 9 are required to download the Aarogya Setu app in order to declare their health status. Meanwhile, those who do not possess a smartphone are required to sign a self-declaration stating they are not Covid-19 positive or a potential carrier of the virus. According to instructions issued by Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE), a candidate will have to show the Aarogya Setu app dashboard to the security guard at the entrance of the centre. “This is mandatory. In case a candidate does not have a smartphone, he/she will have to bring in a signed declaration to this effect and show the same to the guard...,” read the instructions. Officials said they are also mulling setting up an isolation test centre for candidates who may be suffering from fever or Covid-19 symptoms and still want to take the exam. Officials denied rumours that the test might be postponed. “We will be sanitising the centres after each exam. Our intention is to save the academic year of students and commence admission process at the earliest,” said TSCHE chairman, Papi Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aarogya-setu-app-must-to-write-eamcet/articleshow/76679782.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Man triggers ‘corona scare’, then kills self||NAGPUR: A 40-year-old man ended life at Jaitala on Saturday after leaving family unnerved by claiming he was infected with coronavirus. The man, a painter, was jobless since a month. His neighbours, who later came to know about victim’s last words, too were reeling under fear. Though the victim was drunk when he committed suicide, police too did not take any chance after reaching the place. “Though we had an inkling that the victim may have uttered irrelevant things, we preferred to alert the NMC to shift the body. Generally, we call ambulance or take due precaution in shifting bodies ourselves following the Standard Operating Procedure,” said assistant sub-inspector Vijay Nemade of MIDC police station under the supervision of senior inspector Hemant Kharabe. Police said the victim, having two children, had told his wife and mother not to touch him or come near as he was ailing with Corona. Shortly afterwards, the man locked himself up in the bedroom. As there was no response from inside, the victim’s mother barged into the room to find her son hanging from the ceiling rafter with a scarf. After the family raised an alarm, the neighbours rushed to their place. One of them alerted the police control room. MIDC police said the body was shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem by NMC under special care. “Police stayed away from the place. His swab sample would be tested soon,” said ASI Nemade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-triggers-corona-scare-then-kills-self/articleshow/76679580.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad water board hopes rain will boost revenue||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is banking on bountiful rain to boost its revenues this season. Fresh inflows into the Manjeera reservoir, one of the major potable water source to the city and industries located in and around Medak, Sangareddy, Patancheru and Ramachandrapuram may help the water board boost finances. Officials are hopeful of providing enough water to the domestic and commercial customers. According to records, HMWS&SB used to get close to Rs 10 crore income every month. But with Manjeera reservoir not having enough water for past three years the board’s revenues were drying up. “With little water in the reservoir, our revenues have been adversely affected. We used to get a lot of money by supplying Manjeera water to nearly 15 major industries. Many of our customers have turned to water tankers as we are unable to meet their demands,” said a senior HMWS&SB official. “Water board is ready to supply water as inflows into Manjeera reservoir are quite encouraging,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-hopes-rain-will-boost-revenue/articleshow/76679811.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Moulana’s sons booked for flouting norms during funeral||HYDERABAD: Taking suo-motu action against two sons of Moulana Naseeruddin for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines while performing the funeral and burial of their father, Saidabad police have registered cases under various sections of the IPC. The funeral and burial was carried out by the Moulana’s sons — Muqeemuddin Yasir, Baleeguddin Jaber — and son-in-law, Sheikh Saifullah Khaled on Saturday. While it is reported that funeral and burial were in violation of orders promulgated by the government, the family claims that they had a negative report for the deceased Moulana. The family members were booked under IPC sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). On June 27, Saidabad police is said to have obtained a medical report of Moulana Naseeruddin from a private laboratory at Karmanghat, which claimed that the deceased had contracted the coronavirus. After his death, a team of Saidabad police comprising sub-inspector Deen Dayal Singh had visited their home since there was a gathering. He contacted his sons Yasir and Jaber and explained to them about the Covid-19-positive result of their father. Police suggested them the burial procedure for the deceased under the Covid-2019 norms issued by the Centre as there was a likelihood of the virus spreading in a public gathering. Despite instructions by the police, family members of the cleric performed a large scale funeral at Ujale Shah Eidgah and burial at its abutting graveyard in Saidabad without maintaining social distance. “Though specific instructions were made to the family members not to mobilize more followers of Moulana Naseeruddin and to restrict the numbers for funeral as per government norms, they all violated hence an FIR was issued” said SI Deen Dayal Singh of Saidabad police station who is also the complainant.  Wahdat-E-Islami Moulana president Mohammed Naseeruddin died on Saturday after suffering respiratory problems and fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/moulanas-sons-booked-for-flouting-norms-during-funeral/articleshow/76679772.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||Markets see steady footfall, some opt for a long drive in Pune||PUNE: A large number of citizens made the most of the opportunity to step out of their home after months. With more relaxations in place, some residents opted to shop for household items or visit salons, while others decided to go on a long drive around the city. Markets areas, such as Tulshibaug, Laxmi Road, Mandai, among others, saw a steady rush of customers looking to purchase household items. Electronic shops also reported sales of refrigerators, music systems, televisions, laptops and mobile phones. Meenal Deshpande, a homemaker, set off for Laxmi Road on Sunday morning to buy utensils. “Due to the lockdown, I have not been able to buy some kitchen essentials that had to be replaced. At the market, it looks like a normal day as many people have stepped out.” Karvenagar resident Vaidehi Bokil decided to focus on self-care on Sunday. “Luckily, I got an appointment at the parlour on the first day. The parlour is booked till July 7. The beauticians are maintaining hygiene, using masks and face shields. They asked clients to get their own mask, gloves and towels to the parlour.” Sanjay Purohit, a resident of Kharadi, bought a refrigerator from an electronics shop in Vimannagar. “We wanted to buy a double-door refrigerator in February but we kept postponing the purchase. When the lockdown was imposed, we had to put our plans on hold. Now that shop owners are taking enough precautions, we visited the showroom to make the purchase.” At a ready-made apparels shop on MG Road, owner Sarvesh Jain said, “After almost three months, we are seeing some customers step in. Business is not as usual but at last even seeing people window shop is a big relief. I had to pay the shop rent for three months without any business. We hope to recover from the loss soon.” In Kalyaninagar too, citizens ventured out for some Sunday shopping. Local resident Rashmi Toshniwal said, “Being a weekend, people usually stock up on household items and Kalyaninagar was abuzz in the morning with shoppers seen in good numbers. The wine shop had a queue until 4pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mkts-see-steady-footfall-some-opt-for-a-long-drive/articleshow/76679629.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger kills farmer in Chandrapur district||Chandrapur: A farmer was killed in tiger attack in FDCM Tohgaon forest range and the body was found on Sunday. Divisional manager FDCM Central Chanda, Navakishor Reddy, claimed that the farmer, identified as Dinkar Thengre (57), had gone into the jungle adjacent to his farm on Saturday evening had to collect bamboo. When he did not return, his family member searched for him but to no avail. They again started looking for him on Sunday morning and found his mutilated and partially eaten body in compartment no. 26. They informed FDCM officers who sent the body for post mortem after inquest formalities. DM Reddy ratified that the farmer was killed in tiger attack. He claimed that they have recovered pugmarks near the body and camera traps have been installed to identify the animal. Officials have also collected swab samples from the body to cross confirm identity of the tiger. Range officials have provided ex gratia aid of Rs25,000 to the kin of the deceased and claimed that remaining compensation will be paid after completing formalities. This is the 17th human kill in predator attacks in Chandrapur this year. While 16 have been killed in tiger attack, one other was killed by a leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-kills-farmer-in-chandrapur-district/articleshow/76679563.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 29, 2020||Noida||82 test Covid-19 +ve in Noida, 60 in Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 82 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida on Sunday. Also, 83 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recovered patients in the district to 1,219. The total number of cases in the city now stands 2,151. The district also reported one more death on Sunday. Among the new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday, three are from Dankaur.  The district health department conducted an intensive sampling through all three types of tests — antigen, RT-PCR and TruNat — on Saturday, where 1,115 samples were collected.  Meanwhile, 60 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ghaziabad. The number of active cases in the district is 715. So far, 628 people had been discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/82-test-ve-in-noida-60-in-ghaziabad/articleshow/76680320.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
June 29, 2020||Pune||Eatery worker hangs himself||Pune: A 32-year-old man, who worked at a misal-paav eatery, was found hanging from the ceiling fan inside the shop at Dhankawdi behind Bharati Vidyapeeth campus in Pune on Saturday. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police found a four-page note, purportedly written by him, which did not blame anyone, but mentions that he was disturbed and depressed. He shared the PIN of his cellphone and his family details. The man is from Ahmednagar and was alone when he committed suicide. The police said he is survived by his wife and two children. Sub-inspector Mahendra Patil of Bharati Vidyapeeth police told TOI, “We have contacted his family members who arrived on Sunday morning.” The note says he came to Pune five years ago and worked hard at the eatery. He had taken a loan when he was employed with a private company in Chakan. He left the company, but did not go back home and did not inform anyone about his whereabouts. A family member lodged a missing person’s complaint with the Chakan police station, Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eatery-worker-hangs-himself/articleshow/76679634.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Builder missing, kin suspect kidnap||GHAZIABAD: A 36-year-old project manager with a Ghaziabad-based construction company went missing on his way back home from his Patel Nagar office on Friday night. His Toyota Innova Crysta was found 100km away in Muzaffarnagar. Police said there were blood stains on the back of the driver’s seat. Vikram Tyagi, a resident of KPD Grand Savanna society in Raj Nagar Extension, worked at his uncle’s company — Rajeshwar Builders — which has constructed several highrises across the state. Vikram is said to have left office around 7.30pm on Friday and had apparently stopped at a liquor outlet to buy booze on his way home. He had last spoken to his wife Nidhi around 7.45pm, telling her over the phone that he was just 100 metres from the society gate and would come home in 5 minutes. Vikram stays with his wife and two children — a 12-year-old son and an eight-year-old daughter. When he did not reach home by 8.30pm, Vikram’s family members tried calling him on his cellphone, but it was switched off. The next morning, his relatives approached police, and got an FIR registered under IPC Section 365 (kidnapping or abduction with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine a person). Vikram's cousin Abhay Tyagi said the family had searched all the roads around the society on Friday night. “We had checked almost all areas in Raj Nagar Extension when he did not come home even after 10pm. We went to his office, but it was locked. We spend the whole of Friday night trying to trace him on our own. On Saturday, we went to the cops,” he added. The family suspects Vikram may have been kidnapped. “He would not have been robbed. He never carried a wallet. That day, he only had some Rs 1,500 and his credit card with him,” Abhay said. The last location of Vikram’s phone was found near Gaur Cascades in Raj Nagar Extension, which is just a few metres ahead of his society. On Saturday evening, police told the builder’s family they had found Vikram’s Innova in Muzaffarnagar. According to his cousin, a police team deployed at a checkpoint in Khatauli area of Muzaffarnagar had stopped the Innova around 1am. There were two men inside, and they apparently told the cops they were associated with Delhi Police. “When one of the cops peered inside the vehicle with his torch, he found blood stains at the back of the driver’s seat. Asked what was wrong, the man at the wheel stepped on the accelerator. The cops chased them for 15km, but they managed to flee in the darkness. The car that was found abandoned 40km away did not have any number plate,” Abhay said. When the Innova was found, its rear portion was damaged, suggesting it had been rammed by another vehicle from behind. Vikram’s car is unlikely to have crossed any toll plaza as money had not been deducted from his Fastag account. “The accused may have taken some village road to reach Muzaffarnagar,” a senior officer said. Police in four districts — Ghaziabad, Hapur, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar — are scanning footage from 500 CCTV cameras to look for clues. “The builder has gone missing under mysterious circumstances and efforts are on to trace him. His car was found in Muzaffarnagar. We have formed eight teams to work on the case. We expect a breakthrough soon,” Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said. The case bears resemblance to the manner in which Gaurav Chandel, who worked with a private firm in Gurgaon, had gone missing in January this year in Noida. Chandel was returning from office when he was allegedly attacked and his car snatched at gunpoint. His body was found near Gaur Chowk, five minutes away from his house in Gaur City. (With inputs from Mohd Dilshad in Muzaffarnagar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/builder-missing-kin-suspect-kidnap/articleshow/76680306.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Despite being rejected twice, Centre and state kept Bander auction move alive||Nagpur: Far from being a sudden development, the move to auction Bander coal block near Tadoba appears in the making for months. Despite being rejected twice, Centre kept the issue alive even after a decade by seeking NOC from gram panchayats. On May 29, 2009, these blocks were allotted to Bander Coal Company Pvt Ltd (BCCPL), Mumbai, a joint venture of Amar Iron & Steel, Yavatmal; Century Textiles Industries, Mumbai; and JK Cements Ltd , Kanpur. The blocks were rejected twice - once in 1999 and then again in 2011. Still, the district administration wrote to five gram panchayats in January 2020 seeking a report on forest land allotted to tribals under the Forest Rights Act, 2006. These gram panchayats are Shivapur (Bander), Shedegaon, Amarpuri, Majri Begde and Gadgaon. Over 1,170 hectare forest land will be diverted for mining in Bander. Chandrapur district collector on November 5, 2019, had sought report from gram panchayats ensuring compliance of Forest Rights Act (FRA) before diverting the forest land in Bander for coal mining. Collector Kunal Khemnar was not available for comments. Even as district collector has kept the 2009 process alive by ensuring compliance of FRA, BJP government at the Centre again put the blocks for auction on June 18, 2020, causing a flutter. SDO Prakash Shankpal said, “As 1,170.16 hectare forest land is proposed to be diverted for non-forestry purpose for Bander mines, I sought report from these gram panchayats. However, these GPs have not responded yet. A reminder will be sent to them soon to know their views.” Shivapur (Bander) sarpanch Shribhrosh Dhok said, “The gram panchayat received SDO’s letter in February. We are yet to respond as our role is secondary, especially when 80% of the mining area lies in forest and 20% is non-forest. Most villagers are also against coal mines. Hence, we are not in a hurry to pass any resolution.” “SDO and collector’s letter clearly shows how the government functions. The right hand doesn’t know what left is doing. When the mine proposal was rejected a decade ago, how could the blocks be released again for auction,” questioned Bandu Dhotre, president of NGO Eco-Pro, Chandrapur. “The Centre somehow wants to keep the issue alive. It seems to be a well-planned strategy to push mining around Tadoba. Allowing Bander would mean paving way for rejected Lohara (east & west) coal blocks in the tiger corridor south of Tadoba,” said Suresh Chopne, president of Green Planet Society, Chandrapur. The society has already written to environment, coal and steel ministers to scrap the auction process for Bander, which was among 41 coal blocks released for auction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-being-rejected-twice-centre-and-state-kept-bander-auction-move-alive/articleshow/76679611.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 29, 2020||Goa||GSIDC lists projects to complete by Sept 2021||Panaji: After the state government issued a directive last week to identify major projects to be completed on priority, the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) has listed 15 projects to be completed by September 2021. The chief minister’s office (CMO) had directed the GSIDC and other departments to list 15 projects having a minimum cost of Rs 5 crore each. The CMO will monitor these projects and help redress any issue that may come in the way of their completion. A GSIDC officer said some of the projects listed are on the verge of completion, while a few were delayed on account funds. We have already dropped some projects such as construction of panchayat ghars and are not taking up small projects due to fund crunch, he said. “No new projects are planned. We are focussing on completion of the projects,” he said. Due to the financial condition, the GSIDC has been left with no option but to stop work on some of its projects, the officer said. Work on some Goa Medical College (GMC) projects, including construction of an administrative block has been halted and deferred by a year, he said. In case of GMC, the GSIDC will only undertake maintenance works, the GSIDC officer said. The expansion of the Institute of Psychiatric and Human Behaviour (IPHB) that includes construction of day care centres has been stopped due to lack of funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsidc-lists-projects-to-complete-by-sept-2021/articleshow/76680304.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 29, 2020||Pune||Researchers rediscover extinct plant after 136 years||PUNE: Researchers from Pune, Calicut and Kozhikode have rediscovered the plant, Globe Andersonii, from Sikkim Himalaya which has been considered extinct for the last 136 years. Their research was recently published in an international journal, Botany Letters. The plant dicovered by them is commonly called Dancing Ladies or Swan flower and has been enlisted as a critically endangered species. It usually grows in dense areas on rocky slopes in evergreen forests. Sachin Punekar, who is the co-author of the paper, collected this species from Sevoke Hill Forest in July, 2011, after a gap of 136 years. “This taxon is critically endangered and narrowly endemic. As no live collections were made for the last 136 years, it was considered presumably extinct in the wild. Efforts made by the authors for the rediscovery of the taxon for the past several years were in vain. However, we could locate some specimens in July 2011, which was used to make a detailed description,” added Punekar, former scientist, Botanical Survey of India, Sikkim Himalayan Regional Centre (SHRC), Sikkim, and founder of Biospheres, an NGO. Other researchers were Jayakrishnan Thachat from the University of Calicut, Vadakkoot Hareesh and Mamiyil Sabu from the Malabar Botanical Garden and Institute for Plant Sciences, Kozhikode. Punekar said, “Recently, a narrowly endemic new species of Globba, ‘G. teesta’, was reported from West Bengal. On critical examination, we identified it as Globba andersonii, an endemic and endangered species.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/researchers-rediscover-extinct-plant-after-136-yrs/articleshow/76679621.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 695 stores get notice for sale of unstamped meat||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Sunday served notices to 695 meat stores for selling unstamped meat. As per the norms, stores are allowed to sell meat procured only from notified slaughter houses. The same applies to hoteliers as well. “After testing, GHMC approves that the meat is safe for human consumption. For the safety of people, hotels and meat stores should procure only the stamped meat,” said a GHMC official. GHMC issued notices to 162 meat shops in Kukatpally, 128 in Khairatbad, 79 in Secunderabad and 78 in Charminar zones. “As the meat store owners were affected due to lockdowm we did not penalise them, but inspections will continue. If they flout the norms again, stringent action would be taken and heavy penalties would be imposed,” said GHMC chief veterinary officer, Abdul Wakil. Doctors said that contaminated meat adversely affects human body. “Any contaminated food causes gastroenteritis and contaminated meat can result in brucellosis,” said Dr Hari Kishan Boorugu, consultant physician at Yashoda Hosptials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/695-stores-get-notice-for-sale-of-unstamped-meat/articleshow/76679814.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara government schools aim to save 10 crore-litre rainwater||VADODARA: When Vadodara witnessed heavy floods last monsoon, lakhs of litres of rainwater simply went down the drain due to lack of harvesting infrastructure. However, if the district sees an average monsoon this year, it will save at least 10 crore litres of rainwater. And, the water saviours will be none other than nearly 1,000 government schools that have been equipped with low-cost rainwater harvesting systems. The project, which was completed in a record time, drew praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi too, who made a special mention of it during his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on June 28. All primary and secondary schools are now equipped with the system and the project will be dedicated to the nation by chief minister Vijay Rupani through e-lokarpan on Monday.  “There is an inspiring story from Vadodara in Gujarat. Here, the district administration and locals have started a unique campaign. Under this campaign, 1,000 schools of Vadodara now have rainwater harvesting systems. As per an estimate, around 10 crore litres of water that would have got wasted, will be saved every year through this initiative. To protect our nature and environment during this monsoon season, we should also take a few such initiatives,” the PM said in his radio address. “The project was started in September 2019 and we had targeted September 2020 for completion. But we could finish it within nine months,” Vadodara collector Shalini Agrawal told TOI.  Under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), schools receive grants in the range of Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for installing rainwater harvesting systems. “But with this grant, we cannot install such a system at all the schools. We consulted SSA engineers who developed low-cost models which have been adopted and installed at the schools,” said Agrawal.  “Before the campaign started, 37 schools had harvesting systems installed through SSA grants. Now, there are 1,000 schools equipped with the system,” said Vadodara district primary education officer Archana Chaudhari.  “As per an estimate, just 8 % rainwater is harvested while rest 92 % gets simply wasted,” said Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-govt-schools-aim-to-save-10cr-litre-rainwater/articleshow/76677747.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Manager, medical practitioner killed in separate car accidents||HYDERABAD: A motorist was killed in an accident on a service road abutting Outer Ring Road (ORR) late on Saturday night. A 44-year-old man driving a high-end car under the influence of alcohol and on wrong side of the road had allegedly rammed into the victim’s car. The victim died on the spot as a result of injuries according to Narsingi police. The victim, 44-year-old V Venkata Nageshwara Rao, used to work as an assistant general manager with a popular construction company. The accused motorist, Challa Srinvas Rao, allegedly tried to flee from the accident spot after the accident but was caught hold of by the locals and later handed over to police officials. During their check to ascertain his blood alcohol concentration (BAC), police found out Srinivas Rao had a BAC count of 102mg/100ml, way above the permissible limit. At the time of the mishap, that occurred at 11 pm, the victim was travelling from his office in Jubilee Hills to his residence in Budwel. The accused, a resident of Jubilee Hills had gone to Tolichowki from where he drove off to Narsingi in his car. He was booked under Section-304a of the IPC (Negligence causing death). In another incident, a registered medical practitioner (RMP) on his way to his residence in Kamareddy’s Banswada died after his vehicle rammed into a tree. The RMP, 45-year-old K Ram Reddy had come to Hyderabad to shift a relative who was in need of treatment. Police suspect the driver may have lost control of the car due to speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manager-medical-practitioner-killed-in-separate-car-accidents/articleshow/76679819.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ghaziabad||82 test Covid-19 +ve in Noida, 60 in Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 82 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida on Sunday. Also, 83 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recovered patients in the district to 1,219. The total number of cases in the city now stands 2,151. The district also reported one more death on Sunday. Among the new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday, three are from Dankaur.  The district health department conducted an intensive sampling through all three types of tests — antigen, RT-PCR and TruNat — on Saturday, where 1,115 samples were collected.  Meanwhile, 60 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ghaziabad. The number of active cases in the district is 715. So far, 628 people had been discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/82-test-ve-in-noida-60-in-ghaziabad/articleshow/76680677.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
June 29, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Kasaragod uses coconut trees to harvest rainwater||KOZHIKODE: Kasaragod plans to make around 10 lakh coconut trees spread across 58,000 hectares in the district as tools for rainwater harvesting and water conservation during ongoing monsoon. The district will launch a campaign on Monday under which farmers will open the basins of as many number of coconut trees as possible which will enable capture of rainwater in the basins, enabling groundwater recharge and runoff retention. A coconut tree will enable capture of 1.75 lakh litres every year in its basin, according to agriculture department officials. District principal agriculture officer Veena Rani R said the programme will be inaugurated by district collector D Sajith Babu by opening a basin of a coconut tree at camp house compound on Monday. She said the department was planning to make farmers open basins of at least 10 lakh coconut trees this season after the launch of the programme. “We have made arrangements for opening of basins of five lakh coconut trees under a project to provide organic manure to coconut trees under the plan programme which is implemented in 28 of the 41 panchayaths in the district. We expect another five lakh tree basins to be opened using MNREGA workers,” she said. She said though the district receives an average rainfall of 3,000mm of rain, it is getting concentrated into some days of high-intensity rainfall and mostly in the southwest monsoon season. Simultaneous opening of basins of coconut trees in a season would help in collecting and percolating significant amount of rainwater by reducing surface runoff. “The circular basin, with width and depth of one feet each, is dug at a radius of 1.5 metre away from the trunk of the tree. According to traditional agricultural practice, the basin is opened at the commencement of monsoon in June and after the application of lime and organic fertilizer in phases, it and the basin is closed by the last week of July,” she said. Also the department is asking the farmers to revive other traditional water- conservation method of husk burial in interspaces of coconut palms which will help in absorption and retention of large quantities of water. Farmers will be eligible to get Rs 40 per trench under PMKSY scheme. “Traditionally called thaneer bunks, the rows of coconut husks buried in small trenches in the interspaces in the coconut farm would help retain eight times the weight of the husks and would last for years,” she said. Rani said the low-cost traditional water-harvesting method has the twin benefits of recharging the groundwater as well as increased yield from coconut trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/this-monsoon-kasaragod-is-putting-to-use-at-least-a-million-coconut-trees-to-harvest-rainwater/articleshow/76679096.cms||K R Rajeev
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Deprived of pay, private school teachers seek Telangana education minister’s help||HYDERABAD: With several teachers claiming to have gone without being paid their salaries since March, members of Telangana Private Teachers Forum (TPTF) on Sunday sought the intervention of education minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy. The forum submitted a representation to the minister, explaining the woes of three lakh teachers, who are struggling to make ends meet and in some cases have been forced to take up menial jobs. “Since there is no clarity on the reopening of schools, teachers should not be left in the lurch in this precarious situation,” the TPTF said in its statement. “With schools shut, managements are refusing to pay us citing that we did not work between March and May. If someone is demanding pending salaries, they are threatening to sack. Left with no option, we have approached the education minister,” said A Nirupama of TPTF. She added that as per the government orders, teachers should be paid for all the 12 months including the summer vacation period. TPTF urged the government to either announce a package for teachers, direct managements to pay them or provide private teachers alternate jobs. “The minister said the government can’t provide any financial assistance but will direct officials to hold a meeting with managements and see that our concerns are addressed,” said TPTF president, Shabir Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/deprived-of-pay-pvt-school-teachers-seek-edu-mins-help/articleshow/76679818.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Record spike of 97 in Dakshina Kannada; 40 test positive in Udupi||MANGALURU/UDUPI: The coastal district of Dakshina Kannada registered its highest ever single-day spike, with 97 people being confirmed infected with Covid-19 on Sunday. Dakshina Kannada trailed only Bengaluru (783) on the district-wise tally of Covid-19 cases for Sunday, when Karnataka reported a staggering 1,267 positive cases. Meanwhile, neighbouring Udupi district too registered a worrisome spike of 40, slotting in fourth on the list behind Ballari (71). Dakshina Kannada district also reported three Covid-19 fatalities, all of whom had a history of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Of the three patients, two were women – a 48-year-old and the other who was 51 – and the other was a 31-year-old man. Not surprisingly, returning migrants accounted for a considerable number of Covid-19 cases with 32 who had come back to Dakshina Kannada from the Gulf, and one from Mumbai testing positive for the novel coronavirus. As many as 21 patients who were confirmed infected had a history of influenza-like-illness. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that, while 10 people had been identified as primary contacts of previously infected patients, authorities were tracing the source of the infection of 28 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/record-spike-of-97-in-dakshina-kannada-40-test-ve-in-udupi/articleshow/76679583.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Accused in MLM fraud arrested for husband’s murder||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old housewife, reportedly involved in a Rs 500 crore multi-level marketing (MLM) fraud in Tamil Nadu in 2012 along with her husband, was arrested for allegedly killing him at Moula Ali recently. Initially, she told police that her husband died due to ill-health, but they became suspicious when she refused to lodge a complaint. Melange Sukanya from Tamil Nadu and her husband, Melange John Prabhakaran, 50, were previously arrested by CID in a Rs 500 crore money back policy cheating racket. Prabhakaran was arrested in 2012, but got out on bail within eight months. On the other hand, Sukanya, who was arrested in 2013, was in jail till 2018. Prabhakaran moved to Andal Nagar, Moula Ali, along with another woman soon after release. Sukanya came to know about her husband’s whereabouts recently. On June 15, she came to Hyderabad, but was shocked to see Prabhakaran staying with another woman. “Prabhakaran requested her to return. After his requests fell on deaf ears, Prabhakaran threatened her to leave the house,” a Malkajgiri police officer said. Vexed with her life, Sukanya on the intervening night of June 23 and 24 smothered him to death with a pillow while he was in deep sleep. After his death, Sukanya told police that Prabhakaran was suffering from paralysis and died due to ill health. When Sukanya refused to lodge a complaint, police grew suspicious seeing an injury on the man’s nose and registered a case. On interrogation, Sukanya confessed that she killed her husband. After the admission, police altered the section, slapped murder charges against Sukanya and arrested her on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accused-in-mlm-fraud-arrested-for-husbands-murder/articleshow/76679804.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Noida||Noida: Cases of violence up, but women’s helpline defunct||NOIDA: At a time cases of domestic violence and suicides by women have seen a rise in Noida, the UP government’s helpline for women in distress — 181 — has remained shut since June 6. Launched in March 2017, the helpline was intended at providing round-the-clock emergency response to women affected by violence of any form. For the past three weeks, not only has the helpline stopped functioning across the state, the numbers provided to its representatives in the districts have been shut. The private firm operating the helpline and managing the “sugamkartas”, who respond to the calls from the Lucknow head office and visit households, stopped the service since its workers did not get salary for the past one year. So, of the three sugamkartas that Noida initially had, two left their jobs over lack of pay earlier this year. And since the helpline was shut on June 6, the third sugamkarta has also stopped working. Moreover, the van that was used by these representatives to reach households has not moved out of the district probation officer’s office for almost a year because there is no fuel. The helpline, which had been receiving 80 calls a month on an average, could not have gone silent at a worse time. According to data sourced from Noida police, the Dial 100 team has received 156 calls about people who have already committed suicide or attempted to between March 24 and June 27. Of the 37 suicides that were committed in Noida during this period, 15 were by women over issues of domestic discord. Further, the cops have also received 536 calls about men beating up wives between March 23 and May 15. Shanvi Bani, in-charge of the one stop centre in Noida, said, “One of the sugamkartas left in January and another left soon after as she was unable to meet her expenses in the absence of any salary since June 2019. Only one sugamkarta was working since then, but she, too, left after the helpline shut.”  Manoj Rai, director in the women welfare department in Lucknow, said they would try to pay the employees their dues, but it would “take time”. “The government has been informed about their problems. GVK hasn’t been able to pay its employees because the government hasn’t cleared the dues. We are committed to paying them but will take time. The decision is pending approval at the cabinet level,” he said. Sunil Yadav, a spokesperson for GVK-EMRI, the firm that provided the service, said, “We paid employees from our side till July 2019. We do not have enough budget and can’t run the service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/cases-of-violence-up-but-womens-helpline-defunct/articleshow/76680324.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra transport body mulls diesel-LNG shift for buses||PUNE: The state transport department is considering adopting the public private partnership (PPP) model to convert its fleet of diesel-run buses to LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) ones. Around 1,200 Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses are set to be converted in the first phase of the plan. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI, “A major challenge for us at the moment is to save on the fuel cost of a fleet of almost 10,000 buses. Converting the buses to lower expenditure, all the while adopting a more environment friendly option, is a better way to move forward.” “The centre provides states with funds to take steps and adopt more environment friendly fuel options. If the Centre doesn’t provide the funds, we will subscribe to the PPP model and will rope in a company to convert the buses, as well as construct filling stations. It has been decided that the work will be done in phases and that 1,200 buses will be LNG enabled in the first phase,” Parab told TOI. Since the lockdown, the MSRTC buses have barely been making any trips with inter-district transportation being completely suspended. In some districts intra-district transportation has resumed but the state transport body has been looking at heavy losses with more than 70% of the buses having been non-operational for more than three months. “Diesel cost accounts for close to 40% of our expenditure and with the price of fuel on the rise, things could get even more difficult for the MSRTC. The idea is to cut this cost by converting to LNG. The first phase of conversion should be completed within the next three to four months. When it comes to the conversion of the whole fleet, we are looking at the first half of next year. It depends on whether things get back on track in a proper way,” another official said. The transport department is mulling restarting inter-district transportation from July but a date has not been fixed yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-transport-body-mulls-diesel-lng-shift-for-buses/articleshow/76679631.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Modi hails PV as scholar and freedom fighter||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled the role of the late P V Narasimha Rao on his birth centenary year as a “scholar rooted in culture and a freedom fighter”, a remembrance that had political overtones since India's ninth PM has been largely ignored by his Congress party in the light of his differences with the Gandhi family. So while it was the odd senior Congress leader like Ahmed Patel who paid tributes, Modi in his monthly radio talk recalled that Rao, as a 17-year-old youth, participated in mass protests against the ban on singing of Vande Matram by the Nizam of Hyderabad and said the late leader steered the country at a time of crisis. “India is paying homage to one of her former prime ministers, who led the country through a critical phase. This day marks the commencement of the birth centenary year of our former PM P V Narasimha Raoji,” Modi said, adding that Rao was a true polyglot. Modi’s praise is significant because of the rift that developed between Rao, the first Congress PM outside the Gandhi family to have completed a full term, and the Gandhis. BJP has often accused the Nehru-Gandhi family of ignoring PMs like Lal Bahadur Shastri and Rao. “He was one of the most experienced leaders of India. But there is another aspect of his life which is remarkable that we should know. Narasimha Raoji had joined the freedom movement in his teens and when the Nizam of Hyderabad refused permission to sing Vande Mataram, he took an active part in the movement against the Nizam... he raied his voice against injustice," Modi said. “Narasimha Raoji also understood history very well. His rise from a very simple background, his emphasis on education, his eagerness to learn, and, along with all these qualities, his leadership ability are all memorable,” the PM said and urged people to know about his life and thoughts .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/modi-hails-pv-as-scholar-and-freedom-fighter/articleshow/76679643.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||BSL III labs to come up in Noida, Greater Noida||LUCKNOW: The state government has decided to set up three BSL III (biosafety level) labs in Noida, Greater Noida and Shahjahanpur soon. Besides,10 BSL II labs would be set up in medical colleges within a month to boost the Covid testing facility. About two months back the UP government had announced setting up of one BSL IV lab and 13BSL III labs in medical colleges of the state to guard against biological warfare. However, it has to shelve its plan of developing the BSL IV lab and curtail the number of BSL III labs due to financial constraints in wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Talking to TOI, additional chief secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey confirmed that in the changed circumstances, only three BSL III labs would be developed in the state and the plan for establishing a BSL IV lab, at par with one in Pune, has been dropped. “Since considerable time and resources are needed to set up these labs, the state government has decided not to pursue the plan for now,” Dubey said.  Interestingly, Shahjahanpur, where the government has now decided to develop a BSL III lab, is the home district of medical education ministerSuresh Khanna. At present, only KGMU has a BSL III lab in the state. SGPGI has recently requested the state government to allow it to set up a BSL III lab, but no decision has been taken in this regard so far. Dubey said that now the state government would set up BSL II labs in 10 medical colleges. These labs, which are mandatory for medical colleges, would boost the Covid testings in the state, he said. While the BSL II labs would be set up within a month, BSL III labs would be made functional in six months, he added. Earlier, in order to insulate the state for any bio-war the state government had decided to set up a BSL IV lab at par with the National Institute of Virology, Pune. But ground realities mainly on the financial front have forced it to review its decision and go for a curtailed plan to fight againstCovid outbreak which in all probability would not relent soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bsl-iii-labs-to-come-up-in-noida-greater-noida/articleshow/76680314.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 29, 2020||Pune||Tempo with 22 cylinders stolen||Pune: Unidentified thieves stole a tempo loaded with seven filled and 15 empty LPG cylinders worth Rs 91,000 from East Street between Friday and Saturday. Kondhwa resident and owner of gas agency Jagdish Bishnoi lodged a complaint with the Cantonment police on Saturday. The tempo driver had parked along the road on Friday evening and went home after locking the driver’s compartment.  The next morning, he arrived at the spot only to find that the vehicle was missing. He looked for it for a while, but realised that the tempo and the cylinders had been stolen and informed the gas agency owner. The police have launched an investigation into the theft. Many establishments on the road have CCTV cameras and footage will help crack the case, the police said. “We hope to find the thieves once we study the footage,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tempo-with-22-cylinders-stolen/articleshow/76679633.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Pune||Light to moderate rain in Pune till Wednesday: IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted light to moderate rain for Pune city and district till July 1. On Sunday, it was sunny in the morning. Towards afternoon, maximum parts of the district experienced overcast conditions with high humidity. Some parts of Pune district received rainfall with lightning and thunderstorm activity. On Sunday, the Shivajinagar observatory recorded 14mm rainfall, while the Lohegaon observatory had nil rainfall. “Pune city is expected to get rain with thunder and lightning till July 1, in the wake of the conditions caused by the westerly winds coming from the Arabian Sea that are bringing moisture over the district,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of the forecast division of IMD Pune. The day temperatures have increased at all weather stations except Jalgaon in Madhya Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/light-to-moderate-rain-till-wed-imd/articleshow/76679637.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Noida||Winds from Rajasthan turn NCR into a dust bowl overnight||NOIDA: A part of the national capital region turned into a dust bowl on Sunday with air quality index (AQI) reading above 200 (poor) in Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram. For the rest of India, the AQI map shows a mix of green and dark green – ranging between ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’. On Sunday, Noida recorded an AQI of 251, an increase from 112 that was recorded on Saturday. Ghaziabad saw the index rise up to 271, from 126 on Saturday). In Gurugram, the AQI was recorded at 202 as compared to the AQI, which was at 104 on Saturday. “The air quality of NCR has deteriorated because of an inward dust stream from Rajasthan. The AQI is likely to remain in this range in the next few days, unless the direction of the wind changes,” said regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Utsav Sharma. As the marker turned ‘red’, Loni in Ghaziabad marked the worst AQI on the day — registered at 344. The most polluted station in Noida, meanwhile, was Sector 1 at 269. While the IMD had predicted the arrival of rains in NCR, weather conditions have continued to be dusty. The major pollutant in Noida and Ghaziabad was PM10 or coarse dust. “The dust situation is temporary and we hope that with the rains, the dust will settle down. There is nothing much we can do about the inflowing dust,” said Sharma Shakti Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said: “We have been monitoring the situation in the last 24 hours. Our officials are closely working to mitigate air pollutants. This scenario is not likely to change soon. Rain will bring some relief to the region.” A low wind speed in the area has also caused slow dispersion of pollutants. “The wind speed for Sunday was within an average range of 15kmph and is likely to slow down further over next few days,” an IMD report stated. “Despite temporary spikes, this has been a significantly clean air summer because of fewer vehicles on the road and other allied causes of low pollution due to the lockdown,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/winds-from-raj-turn-ncr-into-a-dust-bowl-overnight/articleshow/76680313.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Monkey hanged in Telangana's Khammam||HYDERABAD: In a gruesome case of human brutality, a monkey was hanged to death from a tree at a teak plantation in Vemsoor, Khammam. The incident came to light after a video showing the monkey struggling while it was hanged went viral on social media. The video also shows two dogs trying to intervene from beneath the tree, but in vain. According to the forest officials, one of the caretakers of the teak plantation, Sadu Venkateshwar Rao and two others attacked three monkeys with a sticks before he decided to hang one of them as a ‘lesson’ for the rest of the primates that entered the plantation. “They first attacked the monkeys with sticks. While the monkeys tried to escape, one of them slipped and fell in a water tank. Instead of saving the monkey, the caretaker decided to hang it to a tree to ward off other monkeys by scaring them. We visited the spot and recovered the body,” said A Venkateshwarulu, forest range officer, Khammam. “During interrogation, Rao and two others confessed to the crime and said they hanged the monkey thinking it was dead after it fell in the water tank but gained conciousness after it was hanged. Irrespective of it was alive or dead, it is a crime under Wildlife Act,” said Venkateshwarulu. “They tried to burn the body. We recovered the partially burnt body from the site,” the FRO added. A case has been registered under Section 9 of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. However, the officials informed that no arrests were made due to Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/monkey-hanged-in-khammam/articleshow/76680309.cms||Moulika.KV
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Trucks caught with 60% mud, only 40% garbage in dump yard, claims MLA Vikas Thakre||NAGPUR: West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre has claimed to have caught four trucks of two private operators appointed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and found them to be carrying 60% mud and only 40% garbage, right inside the Bhandewadi dumping yard. The trucks were intercepted by Thakre, Congress corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar and former corporator Prashant Dhawad after weighing at the entrance and just before unloading at the dumping yard, hinting at a major irregularity. Along with a press release, Thakre has released pictures and video clips of the incident. They can be seen stopping the trucks and unloading them on the road connecting the weigh bridge with the yard. As the trucks unload, huge quantity of mud comes flowing down. Thakre can be seen questioning the drivers who accept that the trucks are first filled with mud before dumping garbage above it. Thakre, also president of City Congress Committee, later told TOI, “We took details and went to the spots in Hanuman Nagar and Nehru Nagar where the mud and garbage was being loaded onto the trucks using JCBs,” he said. As per contract, the two operators are not allowed to lift and transport mud, stones, sand etc A former mayor, Thakre alleged it was a big scam and NMC should register FIR against the two operators — AG Enviro and BVG India — immediately. “It is a loot of public money. Operators are claiming for 100% garbage despite bringing 60% mud. NMC is paying for over 1,000 metric tonne (MT) per day for this irregularity running into crores,” he said. Thakre also said that he had alerted NMC by writing six times in the last two months, but to no avail. “NMC had engaged these two operators on November 16, 2019. The loss should be recovered from them from the date of work order,” he said. NMC deputy commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar said he would investigate into the matter. According to him, the truck drivers were not reachable on phone. “Notice will be issued to the two operators,” he said. Dr Dasarwar said that one personnel of the nuisance detection squad checks trucks at the entrance and the other one at unloading area. “Around 140-150 trucks enter the yard daily. Payments of 59 trucks have been stopped since February after mud and stones were found with garbage,” he said. Manager in BVG India, Amol Mane, said that his company has nothing to do with the incident. “Not a single truck of BVG was among those that were allegedly caught or checked at the dumping yard. We are doing our work in a proper manner,” he said. An official from AG Enviro refused to comment on the incident immediately. “I will get details of the case soon,” he said. On May 24, Shiv Sena leader Nitin Tiwari had alleged BVG India was mixing mud with garbage and causing financial loss to the NMC. Dr Dasarwar had given clean chit to the operator after preliminary investigation. A five-member committee led by additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi was constituted and inquiry is going on. TOI had in January and March reported that city’s garbage has reduced by 100-150 MT ever since the two operators took over the service from Kanak Resources Management Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trucks-caught-with-60-mud-only-40-garbage-in-dump-yard-thakre/articleshow/76679660.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 29, 2020||Noida||Noida plans 1,000 tests a day to track spread||NOIDA: With three testing methods at their disposal — the conventional RT-PCR, the indigenous TrueNat and the rapid antigen — Noida plans on expanding Covid-19 surveillance by testing 750-1,100 samples a day. On Saturday, the health department surveillance team had collected more than 1,115 samples — 793 for RT-PCR, 312 for rapid antigen and 10 for TrueNat. Sources said the health department has been conducting pool testing with RT-PCR, of up to samples together, to step up surveillance. In pool testing, a number of samples are tested together. If the results is negative, that eliminates all samples in one go. If the result is positive, each sample is tested again. “So far, more tests have been conducted through RT-PCR. We are expecting more batches of antigen kits this week. The health department will chalk out a strategy on the deployment of resources strategically,” said district magistrate Suhas LY. The surveillance team of the health department meanwhile, is checking the efficiency of the three options and would decide how to use them. In RT-PCR tests, swab samples are taken and the presence of RNA is tested. Results can take anything from one to four days. In rapid antigen test, a nasal swab is tested for the presence of a protein found in the virus. Results take about 15-30 minutes. The TrueNat test scans the sample for the presence of the E gene found in SARS-CoV2, which causes Covid-19. Results take about 30 minutes. TrueNat machines are installed only in hospitals. Noida has received 5,000 antigen kits this week and is expecting 10,000 more. The health department on Monday and Tuesday will decide how to conduct tests on high-risk contacts, trace active Covid-19 carriers in high-risk localities and conduct random surveillance through the three methods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-plans-1k-tests-a-day-to-track-spread/articleshow/76680319.cms||Shalabh
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Minister trying to usurp credit for work done by us, says SAD||MOHALI: War for credit is back in Mohali, with Congress and SAD locking horns over claiming credit for developmental works. In the latest instance, SAD leaders on Sunday alleged that a cabinet minister has laid the foundation stone for renovation of a dispensary, which was already under renovation. The SAD leaders claimed that Mohali MLA and health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone for the renovation of a dispensary in Sohana a day earlier, though it was already being renovated with the efforts of SAD and the work had stopped due to the lockdown. SAD leaders and former councillors from the area, Parminder Singh Sohana, Surinder Singh Rhode and Kamaljit Kaur, said during the municipal corporation’s house meeting on November 27, 2017, they had raised the issue of dispensary’s renovation and got the agenda point passed. Following their sustained efforts, the tender for the work was finally floated in December 2019 and on March 3, 2020, the work to demolish the dispensary building started. But, due to the lockdown, the work had to be stopped. Now, the Congress minister is trying to take claim for the work, they said. Last year also, two politicians — SAD’s then mayor Kulwant Singh and the Congress minister Sidhu — were at loggerheads over the inauguration of gyms and libraries. Several MC house meets held earlier would see heated arguments as SAD and BJP councillors would level allegations against the Congress councillors to trying to steal the credit for developmental works done by them. Minister Sidhu had inaugurated the water pipeline laying project worth Rs 61.77 lakh in Phase 11 last year, though the same project was already inaugurated by then mayor Kulwant Singh on September 19, 2019. In December 2018, the Congress MLA, along with supporters, had inaugurated two gyms in the wards of SAD-BJP councillors. But, Kulwant Singh re-inaugurated the gyms the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/minister-trying-to-usurp-credit-for-work-done-by-us-says-sad/articleshow/76679119.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 29, 2020||Pune||Back in native Mulshi, dabbawalas do daily-wage jobs||Pune: Ashok Dhokale, a ‘dabbawala’ from Mumbai, has been forced to work as a construction labourer at a site near his villge, Dhokalwadi, in Mulshi taluka after staying unemployed for nearly three months because of the lockdown. Dhokale was earning Rs20,000 a month as a ‘dabbawala’ but now gets Rs 400 per day. “Riding a bicycle with lunchboxes for 50km everyday was far easier than an entire day’s work here. But I have no option as I have to provide for my family,” he told TOI at the construction site, around 40km from here. Four more ‘dabbawala’ families returned to Dhokalwadi village along with Dhokale’s family. They too have taken up other jobs. “We do not own any farm land but, thankfully, we have our own houses here. Otherwise, we would have been in big trouble during the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Kisan Dhokale, another dabbawala. Hanumant Surve, president of Mulshi taluka Sarpanch Parishad, said most of the dabbawalas in Mumbai are from Pune district. “Apart from Mulshi taluka, dabbawalas are also based in Maval, Junnar, Khed and Ambegaon talukas. There must be around 5,000 of them. Most of them have taken up daily wage jobs now,” he said. Ashok Dhokale said offices in Mumbai had closed after the lockdown was declared. “Our business depends heavily on daily office-goers. We simply had to return to Pune district,” he said. Dhokale, who was staying in a rented accommodation near Vakola bridge in Santacruz, Mumbai, somehow managed to get a vehicle and returned to Dhokalwadi with his wife and two sons. His elder son is a graduate while the younger one is a final-year student. “The rent for my room in Mumbai was Rs6,000. I will have to pay rent for three months once we return to Mumbai,” he said. Dhokale said he would travel from Santacruz to Andheri and Kurla on his bicycle everyday. “Even though I had to travel around 50km daily, I had my own business. But here I have to work for someone else. If I owned farm land here, I wouldn’t have shifted to Mumbai,” he said. Dhokale’s wife Laxmi worked as a domestic help in residential complexes in mumbai. “But after the lockdown, we were not allowed to enter the building premises. My salary for March is still pending. If I would have got that money, it would have certainly helped us in the present situation,” she said. The dabbawalas are hoping the lockdown will end soon and they get back to the grind in Mumbai. Despite the hustle and bustle of the big city, it’s “Mumbai meri jaan” for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/back-in-native-mulshi-dabbawalas-do-daily-wage-jobs/articleshow/76679652.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Can create 22,000 Covid beds with govt help: Mayors to LG||New Delhi: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Monday held consultations with the newly elected mayors of the three municipal corporations of Delhi. They were advised to focus on improving the financial health of the local bodies, digital delivery of services and dealing with the issues related to Covid as well as vector-borne diseases. The meeting was held via videoconferencing in which mayors Jai Prakash (north Delhi), Anamika Mithlesh (south Delhi) and Nirmal Jain (east Delhi) were present. After the discussions, the LG tweeted: “My best wishes for constructive innings in their offices. (We) discussed challenges before the local bodies i.e. improving financial condition, urgent need of strengthening of digital delivery of public services, dealing with the pandemic Covid-19, preparing for the monsoon season and fight with vector borne diseases.(sic)” Baijal said that he has advised the new mayors to adopt a focused approach to improve sanitation and cleanliness in the city. Prakash said that various issues being faced by the municipal corporation and the city were discussed in the meeting. “All three mayors have jointly proposed that there is a capacity to create around 22,000 Covid beds in our community centres and various facilities. Delhi government should help us and utilise our infrastructure in the same spirit with which the central government is providing resources to them,” he added. The north corporation mayor said that the LG assured them that the proposal would be considered. He added that in coming days the focus of corporations will be to prevent the vector- borne and waterborne diseases, while also not losing the momentum on the disinfection campaign being run to contain Covid spread.  Mithlesh said that the main issue raised by her was utilisation of schools and community centres as an isolation ward. “We need budgetary support of around Rs 47 crore to start these isolation centres,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/can-create-22000-covid-beds-with-govt-help-mayors-to-lg/articleshow/76698975.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Six years later, tribals from Telangana's Kawal reserve still await new home||HYDERABAD: Despite repeated representations seeking relocation for the past six years, the forest department turned a blind eye to the 142 tribal families of Maisampet and Rampur villages, which are in the core area of the Kawal tiger reserve. Perturbed with several problems the tribals want to move closer to civilization. “The villagers have requested us to speed up the relocation process. Since these villages are located in very remote areas, the situation often turns tragic in case of any medical emergency,” said Utnoor ITDA chairman Kanaka Lakkerao. A few villagers told TOI that they have been waiting for years and yet there is no word from the officials on when they will initiate the relocation process. Arka Sita Bai of Maisampet village said, “We beg the government to look into our lives. Our lands have been encroached and we have to walk for kilometres through the wilderness for almost everything.” The villagers complained that a woman had suffered miscarriage recently as the roads leading out of the forest were cut off due to rains. In a letter to government on May 28, 2020, Nishant Verma, the DIG of forests for the National Tiger Conservation Authority wrote, “Till date, the utilisation certificate and the physical and financial progress report vis-à-vis the (relocation) funds released has not been received by this Authority.” Wildlife activist Diya Sur, who filed a PIL in high court on the issue said, “Unlike other tiger reserves in the country where the forest department has a tough time convincing the villagers to relocate, here people themselves are willing. Surprisingly, the relocation has not been taken up till now.” The minister for forests and environment Allola Indrakaran Reddy said, “It is true these tribal villagers are facing a lot of problems since the villages are located in remote areas. The relocation is under process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6yrs-later-tribals-from-kawal-reserve-still-await-new-home/articleshow/76680331.cms||Moulika.KV
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University final semester exams postponed till July 15||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University has postponed examinations of final semester of all courses till July 15. The move has been taken after announcement from Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, on Sunday. A communication was sent to PU by the Punjab government, stating that the chief minister has decided to postpone the exams for final semester in all universities and colleges of the state till July 15. A decision will be taken on the issue after guidelines from the University Grants Commission (UGC). According to the spokesperson, the Panjab University authorities reiterated that with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and keeping in mind the safety of students, no examination dates were announced. However, PU will abide by the guidelines of the UGC, which are awaited. From the past fortnight, a number of student parties’ had submitted representation stating that the exams should be postponed or cancelled due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-final-semester-exams-postponed-till-july-15/articleshow/76679132.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rs 100 crore project tenders to be re-issued||CHANDIGARH: Multiple complaints of favouritism have forced the engineering department of the UT administration to decide on re-issuing tenders for three crucial projects worth Rs 100 crore. Outstation contractors had complained to Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore and other senior officers that they were not given a proper opportunity to participate in the process. They had alleged that senior engineering officers of the UT in connivance with a few city-based contractors manipulated the exercise to pave the way to allot the tenders to city contractors. Sources confirmed that although some engineering officers were not keen on re-tendering the work, they had to take the decision following a meeting with finance-cum-engineering secretary A K Sinha a couple of days back. Sinha directed the officers to go for re-tendering. The complaint to Badnore, a copy of which is with TOI, said, “As per special tender condition, contractors have to personally visit the office of executive engineer a day before the last day of receiving the tender to deposit the original earnest money and to get a receipt and upload it with other required documents... Due to this special condition, manipulations were done with the connivance of local contractors to restrict contractors from outside Chandigarh by keeping the opening date of tender on May 7 and 8 well within the lockdown/curfew period in order to have no competition.” “...a secret meeting was arranged during the lockdown period between engineering officers and local contractors. It was conspired by them to pool these three tenders, two by one local contractor and one by another local contractor and to distribute the pooling amount among engineering officers, contractors and higher-ups for their support. Though the tenders are not opened, it is almost known to all contractors that which tender is going to which local contractor,” the complaint added. Sources said the condition of visiting the engineering office to pay the earnest money in this age of technology was perplexing. Sources in the engineering department said they have been following the process as per laid down CPWD manual but admitted online payment mode is necessary for transparency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-100cr-project-tenders-to-be-re-issued/articleshow/76679126.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Five arrested for trying to occupy NRI’s house in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The UT police have arrested five persons, including three women, for allegedly taking possession of a house of an NRI forcibly and fraudulently, after entering the house as a tenant. Sector 39 police received a complaint from Amanjot Singh of Ludhiana, stated that his relative owns a house in sector 40 and lives in the US with his family. He rented his house to Jayesh Panchal for 11 months on September 1, 2019. Jayesh had also paid Rs 58,000 as security. Later, Jayesh stopped paying the rent to him and sent an e-mail that he would vacate the house. On this, Amanjot Singh along with his family visited the house on June 22 and found that one woman Neeraj Malhotra had occupied the house and started quarrelling with him. In the meantime, one more woman Dilpreet Grewal came out of the house and also started fighting with them. The police found that the women had illegally occupied seven houses of NRIs in Mohali and Panchkula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-arrested-for-trying-to-occupy-nris-house/articleshow/76679128.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||Plan imaginative stir on fuel price hike: Congress to state units||NEW DELHI: Congress has directed its state units to hold “imaginative and captivating” events to make its nationwide protest against petrol price hike a success while deciding to virtually turn its leaders and workers into visual journalists to provide heft to the online leg of the demonstration. As part of its offensive against BJP where many felt that China was overshadowing the common man’s issue of record hike in fuel prices, Congress decided to hold countrywide dharna in state capitals and districts on Monday while they will cover taluks and blocks during the week. But what is interesting is the eagerness in Congress that its battle cry leave a mark, especially since corona pandemic restrictions have limited the party’s political presence on the ground and forced it to up its online game. AICC general secretary in-charge of organisation K C Venugopal has shot off a letter to state units underlining “it is highly desired to hold imaginative and captivating events like pulling bullock carts, riding bicycle etc”. The idea is that protest should not be limited to the routine idea of sitting on dharnas outside central government offices but should attract people’s attention. That the AICC should dictate to states about the need for off-beat events, however, had many in the party amused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/plan-imaginative-stir-on-fuel-price-hike-congress-to-state-units/articleshow/76680667.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 25 injured as Tihar Jail inmates try to break gates||NEW DELHI: Around 25 inmates and wardens of Tihar Jail were injured when four foreign women tried to break open ward gates to step out into the courtyard of jail number 6 in mid-June. The four women, booked for ferrying drugs, had been demanding interim bail under the social distancing norm, said an official. Officials had to use force to lock the women back in their cell. The authorities have suspended the meeting facilities at Central Jail 6. The trouble started on June 15 when a few foreign inmates came to the courtyard in the morning on some pretexts and refused to leave till late evening in protest. Since all inmates have to be locked in the evening, they were physically shifted to their cell. The next day, at least 15-20 women inmates joined these prisoners and broke open a cell door following which officials had to sound the jail-break alarm. The prisoners damaged jail properties and forced their way out of the ward, said a source. They also damaged the locks of the gates of ward number 9 and the courtyard. In a reply to a court query, the Tihar authorities said 15 inmates and 10 jail staff were injured and treated at the jail dispensary. The errant inmates will be punished as per the prison rules, they said. Officials have been counselling the prisoners that their cases don’t fall under the prescribed criteria, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/25-injured-as-tihar-inmates-try-to-break-gates/articleshow/76698991.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Pisa tests start today, students to answer 30 questions||CHANDIGARH: Students of UT Chandigarh will have to attempt creative and critical thinking practice (Pisa practice) tests from Monday till July 3. The test will be for one-and-a-half duration and the students will have to solve 30 questions. A letter in this regard has been sent by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to the UT Chandigarh. Unlike past years, the CBSE has uploaded tests on DIKSHA App this year, and students will have to attempt the test on the app, since schools are closed due to Covid-19. The exercise is aimed at developing critical thinking and problem solving abilities by engaging students of classes VI to X with real world problems and questions in the area of reading, science and mathematics. Teachers have already been requested by the CBSE to discuss the concepts and approaches to solve problems and develop right aptitude and competencies among learners. Joseph Emmanuel, director academics CBSE-cum-national project manager, PISA, said, “The schools are closed to contain the spread of Covid-19 and it is important to continue engagement of learners and provide them opportunities for continuous learning. Hence, the CBSE has uploaded this edition of the CCT on DIKSHA platform.” Teachers have been asked to instruct students to take a screen shot before submitting the practice paper on DIKSHA and send the same on WhatsApp to their classteacher. This will help schools to ensure that all students have taken the practice test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pisa-tests-start-today-students-to-answer-30-questions/articleshow/76679134.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Another 50 prisoners test +ve at Akola district jail||Nagpur: The authorities have decided to set up a Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Akola district jail after at least 68 inmates, including 50 on Sunday, tested Covid-19 positive. This is the highest number of Covid-19 cases from any prison in Vidarbha. “Officials from the civil hospital are trying to expedite the process and set up the CCC at the earliest,” said a senior jail official. Nagpur central jail has not reported any corona infection so far despite being a densely occupied one. The prison authorities in Akola are now trying to trace the source of infection. According to the senior jail official, infection might have entered their premises either when inmates went for routine medical check-ups, treatment at the civil hospital or through the ones going to the court on hearing dates. “We had taken precautions like sanitization and spraying of disinfectants. There is also quarantine facility inside the prison and a separate area outside for keeping newcomers,” said the official and added, “The inmates were also given immunity boosting lemon tea and milk with turmeric on a regular basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/another-50-prisoners-test-ve-at-akola-district-jail/articleshow/76679668.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Low testing behind 40% drop in Covid-19 cases in June, say experts||CHANDIGARH: A reduction in testing is the reason behind a 40% decrease in Covid-19 cases in June as compared to May, according to public health experts. Tests have gone down by 18% as compared to last month, an analysis of the sample tests conducted have shown. This comes at a time when the country is reporting a continuous surge in cases and health experts emphasising on enhancement in testing. They believe most of the cases are now at stage 3 of transmission — where the source of the virus is unknown — and testing is the only key to contain the spread. Official of the UT administration disagree, however. “The ICMR protocol allows us to test only symptomatic people. We are following the government of India’s guidelines for testing,” says UT adviser Manoj Parida. But an epidemiologist in PGI counters the argument, calling it an incomplete protocol of the ICMR. “High-risk contacts who are asymptomatic can also be tested. This includes close community or family contacts of the patient,” he says. May recorded the highest number of cases, when the testing was aggressive. According to data by the UT health department, there were 224 confirmed cases of the virus till May 28 and 3,215 samples were tested. In June till date, 2,639 tests were conducted and 135 cases confirmed as positive. “Testing, isolating and treatment are the only strategies that have been able to bring down the positive cases and flatten the curve,” says a public health expert in PGI. Chandigarh has three centres that conduct the RT-PCR, the only gold standard test for the virus. They are at PGI, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Institute of Microbial Technology. All of them have a daily capacity of 1,200 tests per day. “Pool testing has started in all these centres to save resources. If the testing is reduced despite the facilities, it will only worsen the situation,” warns a doctor in PGI. So, what can happen when testing is reduced and cases go undetected? “Already, more than 50% of the sectors in the city are affected by the virus. New cases have come from no family or community contact or even travel history. Going by the documented medical literature elsewhere, with low testing, the spread will become faster and those who are at risk will land up in hospitals,” says a public health expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/low-testing-behind-40-drop-in-cases-in-june-say-experts/articleshow/76679144.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 29, 2020||Mysuru||BSY must keep his word of making me a minister: Vishwanath||Mysuru: Calling chief minister B S Yediyurappa as “a tall leader known to walk the talk”, former minister A H Vishwanath on Sunday asked the CM to utilise his experience in administration renewing his demand to be accommodated in the ministry. He said the people will blame Yediyurappa if he does not keep his word of making him the minister. “Yediyurappa should not be known as a leader who went back on his words,” he said. Vishwanath was denied a ticket to contest the MLC polls earlier this week, which denies him a chance to be elevated as a minister. The former minister believes that the CM will keep the promise made to him when he quit the assembly membership last year. Speaking to reporters, Vishwanath said: “If I’m made a minister, I won’t become great. If I’m not made a minister, it will not affect my personality. But he should think about utilising my administrative experience.” He took on the former CM H D Kumaraswamy for calling his coup “unethical”. “Kumaraswamy withdrew the support from the coalition government headed by Dharam Singh and took his MLAs to a resort in 2006. He had called it a revolution then. When I revolted against him, I’m called a traitor. I’ve rebelled against the party leaders when I feel they are wrong. I revolted against former CMs Siddaramaiah and Kumaraswamy too,” he explained. Vishwanath said he has penned a book on his experience during and the aftermath of rebellion by Congress and JD(S) MLAs against Kumaraswamy government in 2019. “It deals with my days spent at a hotel in Mumbai where we were staying. I’ll release it in Delhi,” he stated. Vishwanath said he is not interested to reply to former JD(S) minister S R Mahesh’s assertion that his political life is ending. “His level is that of a gram panchayat member. I’m not that,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bsy-must-keep-his-word-of-making-me-a-minister-vishwanath/articleshow/76674241.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh civic body eyes Rs 3.5 crore from toilet blocks advertisements||CHANDIGARH: The cash-strapped municipal corporation (MC) is eyeing a revenue of Rs 3.5 crore by allowing advertisements on 55 public toilet blocks across the city. The agenda will come up for discussion and approval during the monthly house meeting to be held through videoconferencing on Monday. All these toilet blocks are situated in key areas, raising the hopes of the civic body in expecting a good amount of revenue from the auction. The charges of advertisements are fixed on the basis of the locations. “There is approximately 11,304 square feet area available on the 55 public toilet blocks of the city for advertisement purposes. Advertisement spaces on each toilet have been earmarked in a manner to provide visibility and ensure a better amount to the civic body. As majority of these toilet blocks are situated in key commercial areas, they will be useful for the successful bidder,” said an MC official. The contract of advertisement will be for five years. The successful bidder will also have to pay 10% increased annual licence fee and 5% annual advertisement fee every year. As the MC has prepared the detailed tender document, the bidders will have to follow all the related norms and MC will keep the right to cancel the tender or penalise the bidder as per laid down rules and regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-eyes-rs-3-5cr-from-toilet-blocks-advts/articleshow/76679155.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 29, 2020||Goa||May jail those not wearing masks, violating social distancing norms: Goa CM||PANAJI: With Covid-19 cases on the rise in the state, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday warned people moving around in public without masks and not maintaining social distancing norms and said there was a need to put violators behind bars for at least a day. Sawant said despite imposing fines for not wearing face masks in public places, people were still moving around without masks “I still don’t understand why people are not following these instructions. We may have to use the Disaster Management Act and State Epidemic Act to put violators behind bars for a day, if needed,” he said. Sawant, who is also the home minister, said he has instructed police to act strictly against those not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms. The chief minister, who had said on Friday that the state was witnessing community transmission, ruled out another lockdown in the state. "How long can the government have restrictions? The (earlier) lockdown was imposed to create awareness and ready infrastructure to fight Covid-19.... People should use masks, sanitisers, and maintain social distancing,” he said. Sawant, who was speaking at a function in Mapusa that has six positive cases so far, also said that if required, Mapusa would be declared a containment zone to avoid the spread of Covid-19 cases. He also advised people to take care of themselves and their families. He said people should avoid visiting their family members who live elsewhere, to avoid the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/may-jail-those-not-wearing-masks-violating-social-distancing-norms-cm/articleshow/76679674.cms||Murari Shetye
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||None quarantined, tested even three days after Covid death||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to quarantine and test family members and close contacts of a deceased, who had tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago. NMC officials say there is strong opposition from local residents, backed by some influential people. A 40-year-old woman, resident of Boriyapura at Dobi Nagar in Mominpura, was reportedly brought dead to IGGMCH from a private hospital on Thursday night. Her samples tested positive on Friday morning. NMC usually swiftly quarantines and tests all family members, neighbours and close contacts of a deceased, and, in fact, even if a person tests positive. Mass quarantine was always done till now, if family members and close contacts tested positive. All this had led to fewer cases and deaths in the city compared to other cities. In the Boriyapura case, no one has been quarantined and tested in the last three days. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe notified a small area as containment zone a day ago. But barricading was also not done by NMC in this containment zone. Mundhe told TOI, “I came to know about the case. There is strong opposition from local residents and some other people. We are trying, and will do our best.” An official from the medical team of NMC Gandhibagh zone told TOI, “Most people in the team are afraid and demoralized after the strong objections and directions for inquiries in NMC general body meeting. Also, there were strong protest from this area last month. We have many times requested Tehsil police station for sufficient police personnel, but are yet to get it.” Senior PI Jayesh Bhandarkar said, “NMC did not apply in writing for any police bandobast in this case. We quarantined some people from Golibar Square on Sunday itself.” Another NMC official said on condition of anonymity, “We requested family members of the deceased to get quarantined for testing but they are yet to respond.” Surprisingly, the number of tests from the district also reduced to 126 on Saturday and 263 on Sunday, as against 500-630 a day earlier. NMC sources told TOI, “Only family members of positive patients are being quarantined, that too subject to their wish for last 4-5 days. Therefore, the number of tests might have reduced.” Asked if NMC employees working in containing spread of Covid-19 for last 110 days were demoralized after the proceedings in the GB meeting, Mundhe said, “Yes, the medical team is demoralized but I have advised them to continue work in a positive manner. We will continue the best work in larger interest of people and city. We need support from the people for city’s betterment, to save lives and end chains of Covid-19.” NMC had earlier registered police complaints against people protesting against quarantining, including Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane. This led to the uproar in NMC general body. NMC has also registered FIRs against people giving wrong information, moving from containment zones to other locations, and not complying with home quarantine norms. However, NMC officials have not acted so swiftly in last one week. TOI had reported an influential family from Mahal had got a person tested twice, and also violated rules by returning from GMCH after giving samples. The person was at home for two days despite testing positive. No action has been taken in this case till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/none-quarantined-tested-even-three-days-after-covid-death/articleshow/76679684.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||In Punjab, 5 succumb to virus, 161 more infected||Chandigarh: With five more Covid-19 deaths in Punjab, the total number of casualties caused by the virus in the state reached 133 on Sunday. The state’s tally for cases of coronavirus rose to 5,216 as 161 people were found infected. At the moment, 1,557 cases are active and 3,526 patients have been discharged from hospitals after they recovered from Covid. As on Sunday, seven patients were critical and were on ventilator support. Besides, 23 patients were on oxygen support. The number of patients who have recovered from the virus outnumbered new patients as 206 people were discharged during the day. Amritsar, Pathankot, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur districts reported a death each. The highest number of cases was reported in Sangrur, 45. It was followed by Ludhiana (39), Jalandhar (19), Amritsar (12), Gurdaspur and Mohali (eight each), Patiala (six), Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib (four each), Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur and Kapurthala (three each), Faridkot and Nawanshahr (two each), and Tarn Taran, Muktsar and Fazilka (one each). Of the 161 new cases, 13 had travel history outside Punjab. One of the patients had reached Pathankot through a domestic flight and five had returned from abroad. Of the 12 new cases reported from Amritsar, one is of a health official, one of a police official and one of a vigilance officer. Similarly, a BSF official was found infected in Fazilka. Jalandhar has 334 active cases, followed by Ludhiana (315), Amritsar and Sangrur (175 each), and Patiala (132).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-punjab-5-succumb-to-virus-161-more-infected/articleshow/76679690.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Six children abused every week in Goa||PANAJI: In a shocking revelation, a report by the Victim Assistance Unit (VAU) of Goa Police has revealed that more than six children are abused every week in Goa. The VAU report for the period March 2018 to February 2020 stated that 635 children have been victims of child abuse, nearly 25% of the cases being sexual offences. Of the victims, 72.3% were girls and 27.7% boys. Nearly one third of these 635 children are in the 11 to 15 age group. Of the total cases handled by the VAU, 70% comprise five types of abuse — sexual, assistance, witnesses in criminal proceedings, kidnapping and assault. “From March 2014 to February 2020, the VAU referred 1,615 cases to us. Most of these were from Mapusa police station followed by Panaji and Old Goa. The type of cases were sexual abuse and kidnapping,” VAU coordinator Emidio Pinho told TOI. The Panaji, Mapusa, Pernem, Porvorim police stations, the women’s police station, and the VAU registered the highest number of cases at 59%. The least number of cases have been registered at Cuncolim, Fatorda, Maina Curtorim and Curchorem at less than 1% of the total cases registered in the state. Speaking about ways to ease the path for justice for the children, Pinho said it would be helpful if a children’s court was set up in South Goa. “There is only one children’s court — in North Goa — and it is a problem for those living in the south as they have to travel all the way to the north to attend cases,” he said. Pressing for the setting up the court in South Goa on priority, the VAU coordinator said, “When I refer to a separate court, it is not a new structure. Three days a week could be designated to cases relating to children from South Goa. In this context the district court handled by a woman judge would be designated to handle these cases.” He also pointed to the need to make the children’s court more child friendly. One way to do this Pinho said could be by eliminating the need for the accused to be physically present in court. “For this video conferencing could be introduced, which could then require only the accused’s representative and the defence lawyer to attend court. This will make the victim feel more at ease.” Referring to awareness on schemes, various authorities and helpline numbers through posters in local transport facilities, Pinho said that no such awareness drives are being carried out by the information and publicity department. “We propose stickers and poster campaigns in Goa to create awareness,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-children-abused-every-week-in-state/articleshow/76679694.cms||Murari Shetye
June 29, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 toll 62 in Bihar, tally crosses 9,000-mark||PATNA: Four more Covid-19 deaths were recorded in the state, including one in Patna district, even as the number of coronavirus patients crossed the 9,000 mark on Sunday. Altogether 245 patients were tested positive for the virus in the state on Sunday, taking the number of cases to 9,224. The disease has so far claimed lives of 62 people in the state. As many as 7,156 patients have recovered so far. The number of active patients in the state stood at 2,006 on Sunday. Altogether 226 people have been discharged from hospitals and isolation centres in the last 24 hours. Recovery rate in the state has now touched 77.5%. A 78-year-old Covid patient from Kankarbagh in Patna died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer at NMCH, said the man had been in the intensive care unit of the hospital since June 21. “He was on oxygen support and suffering from fever as well,” he said. With this, 15 Covid-19 patients have so far died at NMCH. Altogether 27 more Covid patients were admitted to the hospital on Sunday. Of them, one with mild symptoms was discharged. In Patna district, 23 new positive cases were recorded on Sunday from Patna City, Lohanipur, Kankarbagh, Khusrupur, Barh, Naubatpur, Athmalgola and Danapur areas. Six people have so far died in Patna district due to Covid-19. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said apart from Patna, Arwal, Nawada and Rohtas districts recorded one death each on Sunday. “A 40-year-old-man, who had returned from Surat to his native place in Rohtas and tested positive for Covid-19, died on Sunday. A 58-year-old man from Nawada and a 55-year-old woman from Arwal have also died due to comorbidity. Both were tested positive for coronavirus. The woman was undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna,” Singh said in a press statement. The health secretary said while the national death rate is 3%, it’s just 0.7% in Bihar. As per information shared by the health department, positive cases were reported from 32 districts, including 40 from Bhagalpur, on Sunday. Nalanda recorded 16 cases; Vaishali and Jehanabad 13 each; Araria, Samastipur and Bhojpur 10 each; Begusarai nine, Auranagabad and Rohtas eight each; Katihar, Saran, Supaul and Munger seven each; Gaya, Kaimur, Sheikhpura, West Champaran and Nawada six each; Madhubani five; Arwal, Purnia and Gopalganj three each; Buxar, Lakhisarai, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Sitamarhi and Jamui two each and East Chamapran, Kishanganj and Sheohar one each. Altogether 2,05,832 samples have so far been tested in the state. In the last 24 hours alone, 7,447 samples were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-toll-62-in-state-tally-crosses-9k-mark/articleshow/76679170.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 29, 2020||Goa||Goa gets Rs 162 crore as share of central taxes||PANAJI: The state’s strained coffers got a slight breather after the Centre released Rs 162 crore as Goa’s share of central taxes and duties, officials said. The figure, however, is a drop from the Rs 177 crore the state received from the Centre in April. Finance ministry officials said that despite the drop in the funds, which have been disbursed as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, the Rs 162 crore will help the state meet crucial expenditure requirements. A finance ministry official said that Goa is entitled to Rs 250 crore from the central government. “Goa’s share of central revenues is down because collection has gone down,” he said. As per the 15th finance commission and the Constitutional provisions, each state is entitled to a share of the collections of central excise, income tax, customs duty and other duties and taxes collected by the Centre. Due to the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories, the commission recommended that 1% of the divisible pool should be given to J&K and Ladakh, while other states would get 41% of the central taxes. Officials said that Goa is yet to receive the Rs 750 crore owed to it by the Centre as compensation for the drop in GST collections. Finance department officials said that some central policymakers are averse to borrowing to pay compensation to states during the Covid-19 crisis. Chief minister Pramod Sawant discussed the issue with PM Narendra Modi during a virtual interaction on June 17. Goa’s finances are stretched due to higher expenditure to combat the novel coronavirus even as the state’s revenues have dried up. The state government has sought Rs 2,000 crores from the Centre besides the transfer of goods and services tax compensation. Officials said that the Union finance ministry has released the funds to help states tide over the cash flow disruption caused by the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-gets-rs-162cr-as-share-of-central-taxes/articleshow/76679691.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Situation under control, daily testing to go up: Civic chief||Aurangabad: Civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey on Saturday informed that the Covid-19 situation in the city is under control and the daily testing of throat swab samples has doubled in order to contain its spread. “The central authorities asked us to increase the testing of Covid-19 suspected patients. We have been told not to worry about possible increase in confirmed cases due to enhanced testing. The testing capacity was over 200 per day in May. It has now increased to more than 400 swabs per day and will increase further,” he said. “It is noteworthy that the hotspots declared in the past are no more reporting cases in bulk. Also, the number of patients cured from Covid-19 has surpassed the total number of active cases,” he said during his public address through Facebook Live on Saturday evening. Stating that the local civic body has reserved 80% beds in leading private hospitals and increased the number of Covid care centers and quarantine facilities to deal with a possible spike in cases in July, Pandey said the current situation of Covid-19 outbreak in Aurangabad was similar to other metro cities and not showing any adverse pattern. Pandey also ridiculed claims of lack of coordination between the civic authorities, the district administration and city police. “A collective decision making process is followed in deciding local policies for battling out the outbreak of Covid-19. The views and suggestions of different public representatives are also taken into consideration. All senior government officials heading different departments are professionals who are acting on the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other government authorities,” he said. The civic chief, who is in home-quarantine currently after his cook tested positive for Covid-19, also appealed to the people to strictly follow norms related to the social distancing and sanitization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/situation-under-control-daily-testing-to-go-up-civic-chief/articleshow/76680334.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 29, 2020||Kanpur||Finally, some cheer at Kanpur shelter home||KANPUR: Tossed into controversy and trapped in a political slugfest after 57 girl inmates got infected with coronavirus, the Kanpur shelter home now has something to cheer. Despite cramped living conditions, two girl inmates scored first division marks in Class 10 UP Board examinations declared on Saturday. In more good news, the twin stars, who are quarantined in city outskirts of Panki have tested negative for Covid and are raring to achieve more. Though huddled with other inmates in the shelter home, the duo displayed extraordinary grit to score over 71% and 73% marks in high school exams. “Girls from class 1 to 5 are taught on shelter home premises under supervision of a basic education officer. Their success is an inspiration to hundreds of inmates in protective homes,” said deputy director Mahila & Bal Sanrakshan, Shruti Shukla. An NGO, which assists in rehabilitation of shelter home girls had groomed them for high school and intermediate board exams and regularly tutored them, said Shukla. “When they were apprised about their Board results, the girls were on top of the world. Both said, they will strive to find a place in merit list of class 12 exam. We organise counselling sessions and try to groom them for higher classes once they clear their class 8. We ask inmates about their hobbies and interests, before enrolling them for Board exams. Thirty other girls are pursuing higher studies at various educational institutes in the city,” she said. Currently, both girls quarantined at KDA Greens in Panki, said a senior district official. “Once they come out of quarantine, we will celebrate their success and inspire others to work hard,” he said. Similarly, three prisoners of district jail scored second division in class 10 and 12 board exams. District inspector of schools, Satish Kumar Tiwari, said, they had appeared for exams at Fatehgarh jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/finally-some-cheer-at-kanpur-shelter-home/articleshow/76680340.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: CAG raps 6 corporations, 2 depts for not finalising accounts||PANAJI: Accounts of six corporations and two government departments are in arrears pending finalisation for more than a year. The river navigation department has 13 accounts in arrears, which it has not finalised since 2006-07, while the Goa State Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation has ten accounts that have not been finalised since 2009-10. The office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of Goa (CAG) recently wrote to the state government asking it to issue immediate instructions to the erring corporations and departments. It pointed that the Companies Act, 2013, stipulates that audited accounts should be approved and placed in the annual general meeting of the shareholders within six months of the closure of the financial year. The CAG stated that under the Companies Act, the board is personally liable and can be punished for non-compliance. After receiving the communication from the CAG, the debt management division of the finance department has directed the defaulting corporations, companies and departments to expedite finalisation of accounts. They have been asked to submit an action taken report. An officer said it is a serious offence and that officers under whose authority it happened must be held accountable. The finances of some corporations is very bad, but there is no excuse to leave the accounts without finalisation for years, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cag-raps-6-corps-2-depts-for-not-finalising-accounts/articleshow/76679700.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||1 Covid death, 1 +ve in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: A 75-year-old Covid-19 positive man, hailing from Parthadgole in Ner tehsil, died on Sunday, taking the death toll from the district to 11. Ladkhed in Darwha tehsil reported one case of corona infection. The day also saw 16 patients recovering and getting discharge. Total 115 samples were received at the GMC in last 24 hours, of which 114 tested negative on Sunday. Samples of 98 suspects have been sent for testing. Currently, 68 persons including suspects are admitted in the isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-covid-death-1-ve-in-yavatmal/articleshow/76679710.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH warns against prescribing medcines from outside||Aurangabad: Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean Dr. Kanan Yelikar has issued written directives to all head of departments, resident doctors as well as other health staffers asking them to abstain from prescribing medicines from outside the hospital. Citing serious objections and a volley of allegations made by Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel, the letter issued by Yelikar warned of action against any health staffer associated with the GMCH if he/she is found giving prescription to patients or their relatives for purchasing articles from outside. The strong worded communication has asked the health staffers to ensure that the medicines from the stock are only used for the patients admitted in GMCH. Stating that the patients and their relatives are being given prescriptions for purchasing medicines as well as basic things like sanitizers, hand gloves, masks and even sanitary pads from pharmacy stores outside GMCH, Imtiaz demanded suspension of dean. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-warns-against-prescribing-medcines-from-outside/articleshow/76680335.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||No facials, only cuts as parlours, salons open||NAGPUR: Beauty parlours and hair salons opened in the city after a gap of three months due to the coronavirus lockdown. Owners had expected a huge rush but not many turned up as people are scared about contracting Covid. TOI talked to some salon and parlour owners and their customers to know the situation on the first day. Mangesh Pardhi, owner of Kool Kuts, Subhash Nagar, said, “I had expected a huge rush as salons were opening after three months and it is a Sunday. However, very few people turned up as customers are afraid of contracting coronavirus. I am not allowing anybody to wait at my shop. As soon as I finish with one customer, I call the next one from his home. This is necessary to maintain social distancing.” Ashish Wania, owner of 90 Degrees Cuts, Dharampeth, said that he had a lot of problems in maintaining social distancing and this probably cost him a few clients. “I did not allow any customer to wait at my salon. We turned down requests for shaving, dyeing, facials, etc. We will start dyeing later as it is allowed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC),” he told TOI. Richa Mandhania of Hair Habits, Sadar, said that the response was good on the first day but she did entertain requests for facials. “I don’t know the reasons for not allowing facials. We will take as much precaution as we are doing for haircuts,” she added. Mandhania said that it was not clear whether the odd even rule was applicable to beauty parlours and hair salons as well. “I will keep my establishment open daily unless I get any instruction from NMC,” she added. Akriti Mirajkar, a college student, was disappointed as she could not get a facial. “I was very happy when I read in the newspaper that parlours will open from Sunday. However, the parlour people told me that they would only give me a haircut if I wanted. I did not need one. My trip to the parlour was worth nothing,” she told TOI. Amit Patil, said that he had got a haircut today. “When the hairdresser started cutting my hair he was wearing a mask but soon he took it off due to heat. There were some people waiting at his shop and there was no social distancing. However, I had no option but to get a haircut. I had cut my hair on my own and it was looking very bad,” he further said. Sanjay Singh, who got a haircut early on Sunday, said that a barber had come to his home about two months ago but had charged Rs160 instead of the usual Rs60 he paid. “I was therefore eagerly waiting for salons to open. I took my own towel, mask and sanitizer,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-facials-only-cuts-as-parlours-salons-open/articleshow/76679709.cms||Ashish Roy
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Questions over Joshi’s position as NESL director & chairman||Nagpur: Like in the case of Smart City company, NSSCDCL, appointment of mayor Sandip Joshi as director and chairman in Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) another special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL) — has thrown up a few questions. Joshi has been holding powers as NESL chairman since December 4, 2019. TOI on Friday had reported that Joshi is “not a valid director” of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL), as per experts in Companies Act, 2013, as his director identification number (DIN) has been disqualified by Registrar of Companies (RoC) for the period November 1, 2016, to October 31, 2021. He is also not in the list of directors in NSSCDCL with Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) despite being inducted by board of directors (BoD) on December 31, 2019. Mayor is supposed to be director and chairman of NESL which is responsible for city’s drinking water supply costing over Rs200 crore per annum and execution of 24X7 Water Supply Project costing Rs440 crore. Joshi was elected as mayor on November 22, 2019. As per data available with NESL and MCA, he had chaired two BoD meetings of NESL on December 4 and 31 last year and some decisions were also reportedly taken. As per Companies Act, DIN is mandatory to be appointed as director of a company. Without it and a mandatory declaration that he/she is ‘not disqualified to become a director’ under the Companies Act, any person cannot be a valid director. Also, company or director has to be registered with MCA within a period of one month of incorporation/appointment. In NSSCDCL, Joshi was a nominee director. But in NESL, he is chairman who decides schedule of meeting and also takes decisions. Joshi told TOI, “I am a politician and have no detailed knowledge of Companies Act. I am director and chairman of NESL being an elected mayor. It is the responsibility of officials of NMC and NESL to take care of all procedures. I will seek explanation from the NMC officials and inquire in BoD of NESL,” he said. Joshi’s name is not in the list of directors with MCA which continues to have name of his predecessor, Nanda Jichkar. The documents of NESL are updated till February 6 with MCA. This raises a question why Joshi’s appointment as director and chairman was not updated. Corporator Virendra Kukreja is among the directors on MCA though his tenure as standing committee chairman came to an end in March 2019. Corporator Pradip Pohane had taken over charge from Kukreja and completed his one year tenure as standing committee chairman in March this year. It indicates Pohane was never on BoD with MCA. Existing chairman Vijay Zalke is among directors as he was appointed in the capacity of chairman of water works consultative committee. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe is not on the board as no meeting was held after he assumed the charge. Names of two officials, Shashikant Hastak and Rizwan Siddiqui, continue on the board despite resigning, also for the reason that meeting was yet to be held after their resignation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/questions-over-joshis-position-as-nesl-director-chairman/articleshow/76679698.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 29, 2020||Aurangabad||13 vendors booked for violating norms||Aurangabad: The Pundaliknagar police station on Sunday morning booked 13 vegetable vendors for rampantly violating social distancing norms as well as other prescribed guidelines of the state government for preventing further spread of Covid-19. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said that the requests as well as warnings were found falling on deaf ears, following which the action was initiated against the violators. “Considering the fact that they are poor people, so far our men deployed on bandobast duty at market places were only warning them. We briefed the vegetable vendors multiple times, but in vain,” he said. The officer said that the vendors concerned were asked to ensure that their customers follow social distancing norms and avoid touching the vegetables unnecessarily. “It being Sunday, more number of people turned up in the market areas and the norms were found getting violated rampantly,” said Sonawne. The officer said that all the vegetable vendors have been booked under IPC section 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by the authorities). Later during the day, they were let off with warning that any future violation of the norms would result in stringent action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/13-vendors-booked-for-violating-norms/articleshow/76680337.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Central funds for data packs for teachers||PANAJI: The Centre has approved Rs 21.3 lakh under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan scheme to procure high-speed data packs for teachers of government and government-aided secondary schools. Teachers will also be provided pen drives pre-loaded with content and modules. All of this will be made available during the academic year 2020-21 after online training conducted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). Goa officials have been told that for the high-speed internet pack, teachers will be provided the amount on a reimbursement basis. The financial support is meant to assist the state as teaching activity has gone online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials from the Union ministry of human resource development (HRD) have told the state that online Nishtha training modules will be prepared for teacher training by NCERT, and that states should introduce teachers to teaching methodologies through live-streaming of online tutorials and massive online open courses (MOOCs) through the NCERT’s Nishtha and Diksha platforms. “Teachers may be provided with a platform to share their experiences, ideas, best practices, issues and concerns related to e-learning. Use of e-learning platforms like Diksha, e-Pathshala, Swayam, Swayam Prabha, National repository of open educational resources (NROER) and Nishtha may be promoted among teachers and students,” state officials have been told. Academicians, NGOs and teachers may be encouraged to develop and contribute content in line with the state/UT curriculum.” The content created by the state’s teachers should be uploaded on Diksha after requisite curation and approvals by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), the state has been told. SCERT should also develop guidelines on the usage of various available e-learning platforms regarding the sample schedule of the sessions to be conducted online and number of hours of usage. “The teachers can conduct virtual classrooms/discussions,” central officials have told Goa after a review of the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan programme in the state. “The classroom sessions should be either live-streamed or recorded. Queries and doubts of students should be adequately answered. The planning of the access should be done such that no child is left behind. State/UT governments may ensure that learning content is accessible to the needs of children with special needs. In areas with low internet connectivity, radio and TV may be used to reach the remotest locations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/central-funds-for-data-packs-for-teachers/articleshow/76679704.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Primary contacts of infected SSLC student in Hassan test negative for novel coronavirus||Udupi: The reports of a student who appeared for SSLC examination on Saturday testing positive for the novel coronavirus in Padubidri in Udupi triggered panic among those who had shared the room with the student, and among the officials of department of public instruction (DPI) in the district. But there was also cause for cheer on Sunday after 18 students and the supervisor who had shared the room with the infected student in Hassan on the same day tested negative for the novel coronavirus. Minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar told TOI that the student in Padubidri had been tested for Covid-19 after her father had been confirmed infected. “Since the reports confirmed that the student was positive for the novel coronavirus, the exam centre has been sanitised, and it will not serve as a venue for the science examination on Monday. The other students will be accommodated in the reserve room in the centre and all of them will be provided with N95 masks,” the minister said. Kumar said that they would take a call on replacing the invigilators, deployed in the room where the Covid-19 patient was seated at the Padubidri centre and subjecting students in the room to tests soon. This follows a similar move where DPI had decided to replace all invigilators at an examination centre in Pavagada taluk in Tumakuru district after an observer was confirmed infected. The minister sought to allay the fears of parents of those students who were at the Mallipatna college in Hassan, stating that the institution had been shut and sanitised. “The student in question was shifted to a reserve toom since the officials at the centre learnt of the test results when the exam was about to end,” Kumar added. Meanwhile, the department of health and family welfare has identified as many as 25 students with Covid-19, all of whom have been exempted from appearing for the SSLC examination. Kumar said that the health department had mandated adherence to the standard operating procedure as far as safety was concerned, which was being followed to the letter at the centres. “So, the other students at the exam hall cannot be counted as contacts. They may be permitted to write the remaining exams, either in another room, or we will allow them to take the supplementary exam,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/primary-contacts-of-infected-sslc-student-in-hassan-test-negative-for-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/76679628.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 29, 2020||Vadodara||Societies form association to tackle flooding menace||VADODARA: Repeated flooding and their unsuccessful appeals to bring a long-term solution for flooding of Vishwamitri river has forced the residents of Siddharth Bungalows to up the ante against the civic administration. After last year’s massive floods in the city, the residents have gathered more societies that are regularly affected by floods to form an association, named Flood Victims of Vadodara. Talking to TOI, Hitesh Patel, president of the association, said, “There are many other societies which get inundated every year and the only reason is that the river’s capacity has decreased due to various reasons. But over the years neither the government nor the civic administration have done anything to correct the problem.” Shah said that the residents personally went and met members of these societies to explain them why it is necessary to have an association and fight unitedly to solve a common problem. “So far around 40 resident welfare associations from areas like Sardar Estate, Ajwa Road, Karelibaug, Manjalpur and Vishwamitri have extended their support to this group. We are not taking money from any of these societies but just want support for our initiative,” said vice-president of the association Manish Shah. Flood Victims of Vadodara also wrote letters to CM Vijay Rupani as well as urban development and urban housing department this year, but no satisfactory response has been received so far. The members also met municipal commissioner Nalin Upadhyay to clear the debris along the river on Sama-Savli Road. “After our repeated appeals they have only done the pre-monsoon cleaning which they should do it otherwise too. But the construction debris still lie as it is,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/societies-form-association-to-tackle-flooding-menace/articleshow/76677878.cms||Jay Pachchigar
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||1 Covid death in Wardha, 2 Aurangabad returnees among 3 +ve||Wardha: A 65-year-old man from Gurgaon, who had come to Dattapur to set up a solar power project, died at Kasturba hospital, Sewagram, during Covid-19 treatment on Sunday. Three new cases of Covid-19 were also reported in the district on Sunday. Two of the patients are from Aurangabad and one from Pulgaon. The deceased and his wife had come to Wardha from Gurgaon on June 5 to set up a solar energy-based project on the premises of Maharogi Seva Samiti (Manohardham) at Dattapur. They were placed under home quarantine at a guesthouse in Dattapur on June 6. On June 9, the man’s swab sample was sent for Covid test and he was admitted to Kasturba hospital due to serious breathing trouble. On June 12, he tested positive for Covid-19. A diabetes and high blood pressure patient, the man was put on ventilator in the intensive care unit from the beginning. During treatment his body was not responding to medicines, said doctors. His wife and son who had come with him have tested negative. Among the three new cases of novel coronavirus infection, two patients are from Aurangabad and one from Pulgaon. This is the third day in a row when Covid-19 patients have been found in the district. Two 25-year-old employees of Bajaj company in Aurangabad were admitted to the isolation ward of general hospital here. Their swab samples sent on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19. One of the youths hails from Madana village in Arvi and another is from Samata Nagar in Wardha city, said district health officer. The third patient is a 62-year-old man from Pulgaon, who was admitted to AVBRH, Sawangi for treatment. According to Omprakash Dubey, secretory of Maharogi Seva Samiti, “Being active in social work, the 62-year-old deceased had decided to set up a solar energy project at Dattapur at his own expense.” Dubey further said that it was a landmark project that would have made a vast difference to Manohardham and cause of serving leprosy patients. “The deceased was dedicated to serve leprosy patients and had shifted here permanently with his family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-covid-death-in-wardha-2-aurangabad-returnees-among-3-ve/articleshow/76679718.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||NIA raids houses of ISI agent, damning documents seized||LUCKNOW: Two months after lodging an FIR against ISI agent Mohammed Rashid, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted searches at three places in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. The searches were carried out at the house of Rashid in Chandauli and his relatives’ places in Lucknow and Varanasi. Uttar Pradesh anti-terrorist squad (ATS) had arrested Mohammed Rashidfrom Chandauli district on January 19 for his links with Pakistan based Inter Services Intelligence (ISI). The case was transferred to NIA on April 6. On Sunday, NIA sleuths searched residences of Rashid in Chandauli and his relatives in Varanasi and Lucknow and recovered a mobile and some incriminating documents. The seized items would be sent for forensic examination. NIA said that Rashid visited Pakistan twice and during these visits he came in contact with ISI. Rashid was forwarding photographs of sensitive installations to ISI handlers in Pakistan, the NIA said and added that he also used to inform them about the movement of Armed forces. Videos and photographs of vital establishments of CRPF, Kashi Vishwanath temple, Gyanvapi mosque, Sankat Mochan temple, Cantt railway station, Dashashwamedh ghat, Malaviya bridge and Cantonment were also passed on to ISI by Rashid, the NIA added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nia-raids-houses-of-isi-agent-damning-documents-seized/articleshow/76680360.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Patna||Do plot-wise survey for irrigation facilities: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday asked water resources department (WRD) officials to conduct a plot-wise survey across the state to make an accurate assessment about the existing facilities and required irrigation capacity for each farmland. While reviewing a presentation on ‘Excellent irrigation campaign for high-yield crops’ made by the WRD, Nitish said providing irrigation water to each farmland was his government’s target. “Conduct a proper survey to find out what is the irrigation capacity in a particular area? How much water is available and how irrigation water can be made available in a particular area? Also find out what kind of irrigation facility is required in a particular area,” Nitish told the officials. He asked the officials to constitute teams for conducting the plot-wise survey. “The survey team will also interact with local farmers and try to find out as to what kind of irrigation facility they want for their areas,” Nitish said. He also asked the officials to find out possibilities for interlinking rivers in the state. The CM called for increasing the groundwater level by maximizing rainwater harvesting. “Ahars, payens and ponds are being renovated under the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan with an aim to revive the traditional irrigation system. Please expedite the ongoing renovation work of water bodies,” Nitish told the officials. He said the farmers willing to irrigate their fields through pumping sets were being provided special power connections through agriculture feeders so that their expenditure on irrigation could be reduced. “Where a farmer using diesel set for irrigation spends Rs100, his expenditure on power bill comes to just Rs5 for irrigating the same area,” he pointed out. The WRD officials also made a separate presentation on the Bagmati flood management scheme-03B and 05. Nitish asked the officials to use iron-sheet piling in construction of embankments. He also asked them to take all necessary steps to protect Kusheshwar Sthan in Darbhanga district from floods and find out ways for draining out floodwaters from the area. WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, chief secretary Deepak Kumar and WRD secretary Sanjiv Hans were present during the presentations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/do-plot-wise-survey-for-irrigation-facilities-cm/articleshow/76679200.cms||Madan Kumar
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||RTE verification committee meet on Monday||Nagpur: Members of Nagpur district’s RTE verification committee will meet on Monday afternoon to discuss how to carry on their normal work, which has been impacted due to the lockdown. The state education department has directed its officials to give provisional admissions to all students selected in the online lottery. Post verification of documents and physical school reopening, the admission can be confirmed. But as TOI reported, the difficulty in verifying documents in the current situation may give parents forging documents an edge. Already eight fake documents have been found among applications for a popular CBSE school located in the heart of the city. Shahid Sharif, member of the RTE verification committee, said, “The meeting on Monday afternoon will discuss important things and focus on how we can carry on with the verification work. At any cost, we have to ensure that only an eligible student gets admission under the RTE quota.” Since admissions under RTE are free, there is a lot of impetus for parents to ‘forge’ documents to become eligible. The most forged document is the income certificate, which makes them eligible to apply under the economic category. The second document is the address proof, as admission priority is given to those staying closest to the school. Earlier, parents were getting the original income certificates made with incorrect information, but now a few have moved on a step further. Sharif said, “We found one income certificate which is completely fake. Was probably made on photo shop by some tech-savvy person. Such parents are liable for criminal action if they proceed further with their admissions.” Schools also say that they get many applications in which the forgery is apparent. A CBSE school situated on Kamptee Road had in 2018 received an application from a Jaripatka businessmen, wherein the income certificate put his annual income below Rs1 lakh. The school’s director, who did not wish to be named, said, “But the address proof was of the electricity bill which showed us that the monthly average bill was Rs5,000. So, if Rs60,000 goes only in paying electricity bills, I wonder how the family was surviving in the remaining amount.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rte-verification-committee-meet-on-monday/articleshow/76679721.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths: They writhed in pain for hours without treatment||CHENNAI: Jeyaraj Ponraj and his son Beniks Jeyaraj who died after they were allegedly brutalized by two sub-inspectors at the Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin district earlier this week, suffered injuries, had medical complications and remained unattended to for several hours before they were lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail and later hospitalised. The police said they sustained injuries after they “fell and rolled over” close to an autorickshaw stand in Sathankulam around 8.30pm on June 19. But they were taken to the hospital with injuries on the soles, gluteal region and hands after they were locked up in the police station for 12 hours. The handwritten note dated June 19 of ‘Sathankulam sub-inspector’ to the medical director at Sathankulam government hospital sought medical treatment for Jeyaraj and Beniks. The memo written in Tamil said the two “rolled” on the ground and sustained injuries. Medical officer Dr Venilla who examined Beniks, 31, at 9am on June 20 recorded an accident report that said “alleged history of injury in the leg, right index finger”. She also noted swelling in the foot (soleside), 0.2x0.1cm aberration on the index finger with swelling and aberration on the buttocks. Dr Vennila could not be reached despite repeated attempts, but her colleagues said she independently asked the patients the cause for their injury. “His blood pressure was 180/100mmHg. She had given him medicines and kept him in the hospital for about one-and-a-half hours as per protocol,” said a government doctor, seeking anonymity. Dr Vennila prepared another accident report for Jeyaraj, 58. She noted that he had an aberration of 2x3cm on his buttock region and treated him for elevated blood pressure (140/100mmHg). These symptoms find mention in the ‘performa for health screening of prisoners on admission to jail’, along with a footnote: “file for remand”. There were no records of bleeding injuries, anal tear or lacerations in the medical report although there are allegations from family and friends that lathis were inserted into their anal cavity by the Sathankulam police. Health department sources confirmed that a rectal examination was not performed. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president Dr K Senthil said, “Our doctors told us that both patients walked into the hospital. They have followed protocols judiciously. It is unfair to ask why doctors failed to do a rectal examination. She wasn’t given a history of such injury nor was there any clinical reason for it. Such examinations can’t be routinely conducted on everyone.” At the Kovilpatti sub-jail, they were examined by a government doctor, who dressed the wound and wrote in the register: “to come for sugar and x-ray @ Kovilpatti GH tomorrow.” The time and date of this advice is not clear. On June 22, Beniks was taken to the Kovilpatti GH at 8pm with difficulty in breathing, palpitation and sweating. His pulse rate was high, BP was mildly elevated and oxygen saturation was low. Senior assistant surgeon Dr T Balasubramanian found nearly foot-long -- 25x20cm and 20x20 cm – wounds on both buttocks. Doctors called for an ambulance to transfer him to Tirunelveli Medical College and Hospital. At 9pm, he was pronounced dead. In less than two hours, Jeyaraj was taken to the hospital with fever, body ache and “breathlessness”. Dr Balasubramaniam noted similar wounds on his buttocks. By 5.20am on June 23, he suffered “cardiopulmonary arrest” and was pronounced dead at 5.40am. Their bodies were sent to the hospital in Tirunelveli for postmortem on “oral request” by policemen from Kovilapatti East Police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/they-writhed-in-pain-for-hours-without-treatment/articleshow/76679726.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Good quarantine strategy, early testing must to deal with Covid-19||NAGPUR: Covid-19 numbers are continuing to surge across the country, and all over the world. However, a study by department of community medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, says the pandemic has been definitely slowed due to strict lockdown measures in India at the beginning. This has allowed development of the capacity to test and treat, for example, Maharashtra, which had only three labs to test Covid-19, now has 104 labs. AIIMS has analysed various measures taken by policymakers and brought out the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT model). “Key message of our SWOT analysis is that the most cost-effective strategy for combating Covid-19 should be prevention of entry of the virus into the country by early and strict travel restrictions, well organized and monitored quarantine strategy, and early rigorous testing of susceptible cases using a highly sensitive testing strategy,” said Col (Dr) Arvind Khushwaha, additional professor of community medicine, AIIMS, Nagpur. The analysis also has some interesting observations about the entire management of the pandemic. It says that screening at airports was not successful in earlier days. “Self declaration and thermal scanners did not result in detection of suspected travellers, and thus infection could not be limited at the entry at airports,” the document reads. On quarantine strategy, the experts have concluded that home quarantine did not yield optimum compliance, leading to infection spill over to families and the society. Commenting on testing strategy, it says that a more inclusive and intensive strategy at the beginning of the pandemic was required, which could have led to containment of infection. However, lockdown played an important role. “Had there been no second lockdown, we would have reached 50,000 cases on April 27. But, with lockdown in force, we reached this figure by May 7,” reads the report. SWOT ANALYSIS Strengths - Leadership /strong government measures - Dedicated medical manpower and resources - People’s participation - To generate additional beds to deal with surge in cases - Use of social media for communication Weaknesses - Poor policy and implementation of home quarantine - Movement of people from cities to villages - Environmental conditions in urban slums - Lack of skilled manpower to tackle health condition like SARI - Poor surveillance and active case search, cases are detected late Opportunities - Enhance measures for institutional quarantine - Contain disease in urban areas and prevent infection spilling over to rural - Beef up medical resources and infrastructure - Utilize resources like home guards/armed forces/paramilitary - Provision of daily needs through govt auth sources (PDS) at defined periodicity (weekly) Threats - Health care workers getting infection - Elderly population getting affected - Spread of disease from urban to rural areas - Social unrest and tiring out of lockdown among population - Poverty, stigma, discrimination, social isolation, mass hysteria||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/good-quarantine-strategy-early-testing-must-to-deal-with-covid-19/articleshow/76679734.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 29, 2020||Itanagar||Last spotted by British, WII finds rare snake after 129 years||DEHRADUN: More than a century after it was last spotted by British tea planter Samuel Edward Peal in upper Assam, scientists of Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, have found Herpetoreas pealii, the non-venomous, aquatic snake commonly known as the Assam keelback, in Arunachal Pradesh. Their peer-reviewed findings of having found a species “after 129 years of struggle’’ have been published in the June issue of “Vertebrate Zoology”, a journal published by Museum of Dresden, Germany. In 1891, after Peal deposited a specimen of the Assam keelback at the Natural History Museum, London, British zoologist Lutly Sclater formally named it Herpetoreas pealii after its collector. The snake has never been spotted since. “At the time the snake was first discovered 129 years ago in Sivasagar district of upper Assam, the region was covered in impenetrable evergreen forest teeming with rich wildlife," said WII scientists. “In September 2018, our team set out on an expedition to find the snake, long considered to be lost, and stumbled upon a female in Poba Reserved Forest, on the inter-state border of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. To ensure it is the same snake, WII contacted Natural History Museum, London, which confirmed it to be the Assam keelback, based on ‘morphological and molecular comparison’,” said WII scientist Abhijit Das, lead author of the study ‘Lost and found: rediscovery and systematics of the Northeast Indian snake Hebius pealii’. Dr Deepak Veerappan, research associate at Natural History Museum, London, said, “Approximately 82% of the 315 snake species found in India were discovered more than 150 years ago. Species descriptions from this time period are often short and are rarely accompanied by color plates. Sometimes accurate verification of species identity becomes difficult only with type description. This is where type specimens and historical collections help, as these allow one to re-examine morphological characters in detail. NHM London is one of the largest repositories for such specimens. In this study, we compared the new H. pealii specimen Abhijit (Das) collected with one of the oldest and only known good specimens of this species at NHM.” Director of WII Dhananjai Mohan told TOI, “During two days of post-monsoon fieldwork in September 2018, rare species such as slow loris (Nycticebus bengalensis) and at least 20 herpetofaunal species were also seen by the WII team." The part where the snake was found falls under Arunachal Pradesh. Experts fear that the species moving up from Assam -- the habitat it’s endemic to -- to the hills of Arunachal Pradesh, is a sign of biodiversity destruction. “Assam keelback is endemic to lowland evergreen forests of upper Assam, which were already fragmented into small patches, mainly from the expansion of tea plantations, (human) habitation and agriculture. Emerging threats of coal mining and oil exploration will only deteriorate biodiversity values of these fragmented patches,” explained a scientist who did not wish to be named. According to the scientist, the Assam keelback prefers evergreen forest and marshy land, which was once available in Assam, before the rampant destruction of habitat and urban development. “Its habitat is under constant pressure, as is the snake. Spotting it at a slow-flowing stream inside a forest proves that the conservation of ‘special habitats’ needs to be prioritized, in order to safeguard microhabitat specialized species,” he added. However, there’s a silver lining. “We hope to find the species in the neighbouring forest patches close to Poba RF, including Pani Dihing Wildlife Sanctuary, Dibru Saikhowa National Park in Assam and D’Ering Wildlife Sanctuary in Arunachal Pradesh,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/itanagar/last-spotted-by-british-wii-finds-rare-snake-after-129-years/articleshow/76688355.cms||Shivani Azad
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||Last spotted by British, WII finds rare snake after 129 years||DEHRADUN: More than a century after it was last spotted by British tea planter Samuel Edward Peal in upper Assam, scientists of Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, have found Herpetoreas pealii, the non-venomous, aquatic snake commonly known as the Assam keelback, in Arunachal Pradesh. Their peer-reviewed findings of having found a species “after 129 years of struggle’’ have been published in the June issue of “Vertebrate Zoology”, a journal published by Museum of Dresden, Germany. In 1891, after Peal deposited a specimen of the Assam keelback at the Natural History Museum, London, British zoologist Lutly Sclater formally named it Herpetoreas pealii after its collector. The snake has never been spotted since. “At the time the snake was first discovered 129 years ago in Sivasagar district of upper Assam, the region was covered in impenetrable evergreen forest teeming with rich wildlife," said WII scientists. “In September 2018, our team set out on an expedition to find the snake, long considered to be lost, and stumbled upon a female in Poba Reserved Forest, on the inter-state border of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. To ensure it is the same snake, WII contacted Natural History Museum, London, which confirmed it to be the Assam keelback, based on ‘morphological and molecular comparison’,” said WII scientist Abhijit Das, lead author of the study ‘Lost and found: rediscovery and systematics of the Northeast Indian snake Hebius pealii’. Dr Deepak Veerappan, research associate at Natural History Museum, London, said, “Approximately 82% of the 315 snake species found in India were discovered more than 150 years ago. Species descriptions from this time period are often short and are rarely accompanied by color plates. Sometimes accurate verification of species identity becomes difficult only with type description. This is where type specimens and historical collections help, as these allow one to re-examine morphological characters in detail. NHM London is one of the largest repositories for such specimens. In this study, we compared the new H. pealii specimen Abhijit (Das) collected with one of the oldest and only known good specimens of this species at NHM.” Director of WII Dhananjai Mohan told TOI, “During two days of post-monsoon fieldwork in September 2018, rare species such as slow loris (Nycticebus bengalensis) and at least 20 herpetofaunal species were also seen by the WII team." The part where the snake was found falls under Arunachal Pradesh. Experts fear that the species moving up from Assam -- the habitat it’s endemic to -- to the hills of Arunachal Pradesh, is a sign of biodiversity destruction. “Assam keelback is endemic to lowland evergreen forests of upper Assam, which were already fragmented into small patches, mainly from the expansion of tea plantations, (human) habitation and agriculture. Emerging threats of coal mining and oil exploration will only deteriorate biodiversity values of these fragmented patches,” explained a scientist who did not wish to be named. According to the scientist, the Assam keelback prefers evergreen forest and marshy land, which was once available in Assam, before the rampant destruction of habitat and urban development. “Its habitat is under constant pressure, as is the snake. Spotting it at a slow-flowing stream inside a forest proves that the conservation of ‘special habitats’ needs to be prioritized, in order to safeguard microhabitat specialized species,” he added. However, there’s a silver lining. “We hope to find the species in the neighbouring forest patches close to Poba RF, including Pani Dihing Wildlife Sanctuary, Dibru Saikhowa National Park in Assam and D’Ering Wildlife Sanctuary in Arunachal Pradesh,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/last-spotted-by-british-wii-finds-rare-snake-after-129-years/articleshow/76678313.cms||Shivani Azad
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||Defunct street lights posing threat for commuters in residential areas of the city||Dehradun: City residents and passers-by are facing inconvenience due to faulty street lights in localities of EC Road, GMS Road, and Dalanwala, among others. Locals claim that it has been eight months since these lights are lying dysfunctional and several complaints have been made to the municipal corporation to get them fixed but they have fallen on deaf ears. SL Gupta, a resident of the city’s Old Survey Road, said, “The street lights are lying defunct for the past several months but no official has taken any step to repair them. It becomes all the more dangerous for commuters as the roads are also in a dilapidated state.” Kanhaiya Lal Pokhriyal, a resident of Tiranga Enclave in Kailash Puri, said “Some of the street lights here have been defective for more than a year now. We have made repeated complaints to the municipal corporation and the power department but nothing has been done in this regard.” Other than the residential areas, the street lights at the railway overbridge at Haridwar bypass road are also not working. The commuters say that driving at night time on the overbridge becomes cumbersome as even the dividers are not visible. Shanu Doniyal, who often uses the stretch, said “The only light that we get at the overbridge is from the headlights of our vehicles. It is unfortunate that despite being one of the main overbridges of the city, the road lacks the presence of any streetlights.” Commuters at Kargi Chowk, Rajpur Road near Madhuban Hotel, near Purani Chungi at Rajpur Road are facing similar issues. Ramesh Gothalwal, a resident of Rajpur Road, told TOI, “Streetlights are a basic necessity. If officials cannot even keep the street lights working, what should we expect from the smart city project.” Meanwhile, the officials (requesting anonymity) said that they will look into the specific complaints of the residents and get the streetlights repaired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/defunct-street-lights-posing-threat-for-commuters-in-residential-areas-of-the-city/articleshow/76678338.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plasma curing 17 patients in Ahmedabad, donations dry up||AHMEDABAD: If you have fully recovered from Covid-19, by donating your blood plasma you could save people currently fighting the infection. Today, only 17 Covid patients in Ahmedabad are receiving the convalescent blood plasma treatment. The treatment is being offered at Civil Hospital and SVP Hospital. These patients have responded well to treatment and are in various stages of recovery. The treatment is being administered as part of a nationwide clinical trial led by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research). Researchers are upbeat about the prospects as the treatment is helping save lives. TimesViewThe government has launched massive campaigns urging people to wear masks and exhorting them to avoid stigmatizing misconceptions. A similar campaign is the need of the hour for blood plasma donations. The government should target the ignorance and fears that are preventing people from donating plasma. Technologies should be explored with which doctors can easily recover plasma from cured patients’ homes.Sadly, of the 600-odd people who were cured of the disease in the city, only 35 agreed to donate plasma. The 600 were approached by doctors and counsellors. The appeals were made over the course of a month. The majority of people who refused to donate plasma cited the stigma attached to the disease. Some expressed the misconceived fear of losing “strength” and “immunity”. Others said hospitals scared them or revealed that family members were not allowing them to donate. The central government will soon announce the results of the countrywide plasma trials. So researchers and doctors in the city are making fervent appeals to the cured patients to come forward to help those in need. “Since these patients have fought the infection, their plasma contains Covid-19 antibodies,” said a senior doctor who is connected with the trials. “We require only a small amount of plasma. There is no loss of strength after donating.” A donation is nothing short of national service, the doctor said. A senior official in the state health department told TOI that the government is planning to set up a blood plasma bank. “That will be possible when the ICMR declares the results of multi-centre trials,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plasma-curing-17-patients-donations-dry-up/articleshow/76680376.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: Himachal Pradesh cases cross 900 as 22 test positive||SHIMLA: Twenty-two new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the state’s tally past the grim milestone of 900 cases. Even as the number of cases in the state rose to 916, 17 patients recovered from the virus. When this report was filed, 367 patients were under treatment and 515 had recovered. Among the new cases, 11 were in Kangra, three each in Una and Solan, and one each in Sirmaur, Mandi, Shimla, Kinnaur and Bilaspur. Among the remaining cases, 11 have migrated out of state, seven have died of Covid-19, and two patients died of reasons other than the virus. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a seven-year-old boy from Gurial Fatehpur village, who had returned from Ranga Reddy district of Telangana with family by train to Delhi and then by car to home, was among the new parients. Other patients include a 23-year-old man from Lodhwan who returned from Pathankot by train on June 18, a 36-year-old man from Haroli village who is the primary contact of a positive case, a 54-year-old BSF jawan from Jindri village who returned from Jammu on June 18, and a 39-year-old army personnel from Rakkar village near Dadasiba who returned from Arunachal Pradesh on June 23. In Solan district, a woman from Dharampur who had returned from Ukraine tested positive. In Sirmaur, a 48-year-old army personnel who had come to Paonta Sahib from Delhi Cantonment on June 24 was the new patient Among the patients who recovered, nine were in Kangra, five in Solan, two in Bilaspur, and one in Chamba. A total of 56,819 persons had been put under surveillance in the state till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-cases-cross-900-as-22-test-ve/articleshow/76679728.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Weakness prolongs cured patients’ return to routine||AHMEDABAD: With the rise in discharge rates for the city and the state, the number of former Covid-19 patients has increased exponentially in past one month. But with the discharges, comes the issue of fatigue and muscle pain in majority of the patients, say city-based experts. They added that it’s nothing to be worried about and it could be managed with balanced diet and vitamin supplements. Dr Tushar Patel, a city-based critical care specialist and part of the state government’s advisory board on Covid-19, said that the discharged patients show signs of weakness, complain about breathlessness after a short walk even feeling of tiredness. “The signs of viral fatigue remain present in the patients. But psychological factors are also at work,” he said. Experts said that the quarantine of at least a week is thus advised to give time to the patients to recuperate. High-protein diet along with multi-vitamins is prescribed to all the discharged patients, said Dr Manoj Vithalani, a city-based physician. “Vitamin D is also prescribed as the patients remain indoors and have little physical activity. In majority of the cases, the patients recover well within one month,” he said. “Antibodies take about 28 days to develop. Care must be taken even after discharge.” Dr Nirav Visavadia, a city-based intensive care specialist, said that weakness is reported in majority of the patients – which is normal and should not worry the patients or relatives. “Remaining healthy by mind is also important for recovery. Relapse is not a rarity but it’s not recorded in high numbers,” he said, adding that the virus is here to stay for long and all must take enough precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/weakness-prolongs-cured-patients-return-to-routine/articleshow/76680373.cms||Parth Shastri
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reports 32 new cases, 1 death||Dehradun: With 32 fresh cases, Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand reached 2,823 on Sunday. Also, a Covid death was reported from Nainital taking the toll to 28 in the state. According to the health department, of the 32 new cases, 14 were reported from Nainital, followed by 10 from Dehradun, four from Tehri, two from Chamoli and one each from Champawat and Rudraprayag districts. Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid control room at health directorate, said, “With 106 patients getting recovered on Sunday, the total recoveries reached 2,018 in the state. The recovery rate also crossed 71%.” According to the health department, one death of Covid-19 positive patient was reported from Nainital on Sunday. The deceased was a 65-year-old man and was admitted to a hospital in Haldwani with gastric complaints. “We are still awaiting the details of the cause of death in the case,” Tripathi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-32-new-cases-1-death/articleshow/76678334.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown cost Telangana over Rs 1,700 crore/day, realty crumbled like house of cards||HYDERABAD: As businesses and trade shut due the Covid-19 induced lockdown, Telangana saw losses of more than Rs 1,780 crore per day, according to a detailed analysis of eleven major sectors in the state, including real estate. The analysis conducted by the centre of economic and social studies (CESS) was conducted between March and April, when there was 80% restriction on activities in some sectors and total restrictions in most. Employing the gross value added (GVA) figures, the analysis revealed that majority of the losses were incurred by the industry and services sector. For the production sector, majority of the losses are estimated to be due to disruption in the procurement operations. The livestock sector saw less impact of the slowdown and the crop yields were not impacted at all. “The analysis was conducted to gauge the economic imapct in March and April. But since Telangana is agri-driven with good irrigation facilities, no crop loss was witnessed,” said Dr Revati, the director at centre of economic and social studies (CESS). It is estimated that agriculture sector contributes around 16% to GSDP, and industry around 19%. The rest of 65% is contributed by the service sector. “The total lock down impacted mostly the industry and service sectors as farm operations were continuing to some extent,” the study said. Experts have said that the losses would reduce after the state starts the unlock process resumes. However, the recovery may only be seen when economic activities pick up as they were before the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-cost-t-over-rs-1700-cr/day-realty-crumbled-like-house-of-cards/articleshow/76679744.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 29, 2020||Surat||Sharp rise in Surat, fewer cases in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Analysis of weekly cases reveal that compared to last week, Surat has recorded rise of 82% from June 15 to 21. The district had recorded 654 Covid-19 positive cases, which rose to 1,191 in the week from June 22 to 28. However, Surat was not alone. Out of 33 districts of Gujarat, 18 recorded 80% or more weekly rise. In Gir-Somnath, the weekly cases rose from 3 to 17, in Chhota Udepur 1 to 14, in Kutch 9 to 39, in Valsad from 12 to 60 and in Navsari 9 to 45. For Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar, the week brought good news – in Ahmedabad, one of the national hotspots for the viral infection, the weekly cases got down by 25%. In the last week, the cases were 2,197 which dipped to 1,643. Similarly, the state capital clocked 24% dip – from 96 to 73 cases. Overall cases for Gujarat also rose by 9.5% - from 3,727 to 4,080. Gujarat brought down the death rate by 22% — compared to deaths of 186 patients of Covid-19 last week, this week 145 succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sharp-rise-in-surat-fewer-cases-in-abad/articleshow/76685850.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sharp rise in Surat, fewer cases in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Analysis of weekly cases reveal that compared to last week, Surat has recorded rise of 82% from June 15 to 21. The district had recorded 654 Covid-19 positive cases, which rose to 1,191 in the week from June 22 to 28. However, Surat was not alone. Out of 33 districts of Gujarat, 18 recorded 80% or more weekly rise. In Gir-Somnath, the weekly cases rose from 3 to 17, in Chhota Udepur 1 to 14, in Kutch 9 to 39, in Valsad from 12 to 60 and in Navsari 9 to 45. For Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar, the week brought good news – in Ahmedabad, one of the national hotspots for the viral infection, the weekly cases got down by 25%. In the last week, the cases were 2,197 which dipped to 1,643. Similarly, the state capital clocked 24% dip – from 96 to 73 cases. Overall cases for Gujarat also rose by 9.5% - from 3,727 to 4,080. Gujarat brought down the death rate by 22% — compared to deaths of 186 patients of Covid-19 last week, this week 145 succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sharp-rise-in-surat-fewer-cases-in-abad/articleshow/76680371.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP MLA infected, admitted to Gurgoan private hospital||Kurukshetra: BJP Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha tested positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Gurgaon on Sunday, said a health department official of Kurukshetra. Sudha is from Kurukshetra district. “MLA Subhash was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon on Saturday evening, with infection in lungs and fever as he was facing problem in breathing for two-three days. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and is undergoing treatment there,” said the official. In the meanwhile, a new case was reported in Kurukshetra on Sunday and 17 patients were discharged from hospital after they recovered from the virus, said district civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. A man (46) of Sector 2 in Thanesar, who had travelled to Jhajjar, tested positive for the virus. “The district’s tally for coronavirus cases has now reached 115, but 96 patients have been discharged and 19 are under treatment,” said Dr Sukhbir. The official said the MLA and some BJP leaders had participated in a solar eclipse related event held at Brahamsarovar in Kurukshetra on June 21, following which he got himself tested for Covid-19 and tested negative in Kurukshetra district. However, later, Sudha’s health deteriorated and he faced problem in breathing, due to which he went to Medanta in Gurgaon on Saturday.” Gurgaon civil surgeon said they had sent Sudha’s report to Kurukshetra district health department. However, civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir said, “We have not yet received the hard copy of Sudha’s report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-mla-infected-admitted-to-gurgoan-private-hospital/articleshow/76679735.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Upload attendance of students, says directorate of govt exams||Coimbatore: The directorate of government examinations (DGE) has asked district education officials to calculate the attendance percentage of students and upload it on its website. Earlier this month, while cancelling the Class X board exams, the state government had announced that all Class X students would be promoted, and 20% of their marks would be awarded based on attendance and the rest based on scores in quarterly and half-yearly exams. Following this, the school education department asked all principals and HMs to submit the attendance registers of Class X students at the respective district education offices on June 12. Now, the directorate has asked district education officials to calculate the number of days students have attended classes based on the entries in attendance registers and upload it on its website. The district education officials have been asked to form five teams each comprising of mark verification officers, tabulators and scrutinising officers in each education district. These teams have been directed to calculate the total working days till March 16 this year, and the number of days attended by students. After this, they have to fill in the details in the top sheets downloaded from the DGE website. From June 30, these details should be uploaded in DGE’s website, said a communication from the directorate. Based on this, the students would be awarded 20% of the marks. Teachers said most schools have already calculated the number of days their students had attended classes. “This has just to be entered in the top sheets and subsequently in DGE website,” said a government school teacher from the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/upload-attendance-of-students-says-directorate-of-govt-exams/articleshow/76679731.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Chennai||Custodial killers roam free, as magistrates go easy on reports||CHENNAI: Taken for a ‘routine’ inquiry, a 23-year-old tempo driver, Malairaj of Sivangangai, died in police custody on Gandhi Jayanti last year. He was picked up by police at 9.30am, but declared dead at a government hospital at 4pm. The mandatory magistrate inquiry ensued, but the report is yet to be submitted, and no criminal proceedings initiated. The same happened in the case of auto driver A Manikandan, who was picked up by Karimedu police in Madurai in June 2019. He was involved in a fist fight with fellow drivers. He also died in police custody and an inquiry followed. As per National Crime Records Bureau, Tamil Nadu reported 12 custodial deaths in 2018, the second highest in the country. Though magisterial inquiry followed, none of the police personnel involved has been prosecuted. Some were placed under suspension and some were transferred. Some also paid compensation to the family. In 2018, the government told the Madras High Court that 157 custodial deaths had taken place between 2012 and 2016. While 123 were concluded based on reports from judicial magistrate, inquiry in 23 cases is yet to be completed. Of the 71 cases filed against the police, only three are under trial. Twenty-six were arrested, but none prosecuted. Advocate-activist A P Suryaprakasam, said, "Inquiries into custodial deaths are an eye-wash. Unless an exclusive police complaint authority headed by a retired judge, as mandated by the Supreme Court and where apart from the kith and kin anyone can complain, is formed there would be no neutral criminal proceedings in such cases. There should be nil-delay in filing FIRs against erring cops and investigation should start immediately to safeguard witnesses and evidence," he said. V Kannadasan, former special public prosecutor of human rights court in Chennai, said magisterial inquest report that details the cause of death should be submitted within a week. "Every district has a human rights court vested with powers to try and punish the deviant. But not a single case has been registered there. Unless criminal proceedings are started against these police personnel involved in such acts, there will be no change," he said. Social status of families does play a role in action, he said citing the case of a 20-year-old man in Uthangarai in Krishnagiri. The scheduled caste member was picked up for inquiry and dropped at home two days later. His parents rushed him to the hospital where he died of injuries later. The police said it was death due to ‘heart attack’. S Balamurugan, an advocate who fought the Tirupur custodial death case in 2015, said it is extremely rare for a policeman to face murder charges, leave alone being convicted for the crime. Most of such cases are withdrawn after the witnesses and kin are either threatened or ‘compensated’. "Picked up by Velampalayam police in Tirupur for a theft case, Sanjeevi died four days later. Criminal proceedings were not even initiated," he said. Last year, the state human rights commission requested the government to give the wife a compensation of Rs 5 lakh. But no criminal action was taken against police officials, doctors and forensic experts involved in the case," he said. In most cases, it is the wives or mothers who fight the cases alone without any support from the department. There is no institutionalized mechanism in place to take the cases to their conclusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/custodial-killers-roam-free-as-magistrates-go-easy-on-reports/articleshow/76679732.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Rajkot||Active contact tracing helped Amreli contain nCov spread||Rajkot: Amreli district administration had remained on the edge, fearing a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, due to massive influx of people from Covid hotspot Surat to their native villages. It was only on May 13 that the first case was reported from the district, but the spread has been significantly contained, thanks to active contact tracing of positive patients. Despite meagre resources, Amreli has one of the highest per patient contact tracing in Gujarat with the administration successfully finding 145 persons per patient. Amreli collector Aayush Oak told TOI, “We are taking all such preventive measures to identify possible Covid patients in the early stages. This will help us reduce the mortality rate. We did our best to control community spreading, as we are the highest in contact tracing of positive persons among all the districts.” Oak said that the administration is trying its level best to save a patient even in situations where the condition deteriorates. “We have given patients anti-viral injection that costs about Rs 36,000 and are rarely available. We have given this injection to four critical patients, of whom we could save two lives.” Besides Amreli, Jamnagar and Porbandar too managed its pandemic threat in a more systematic way. After June 1 when borders opened, Covid cases soared in these districts with an influx of positive carriers from the two major business hubs - Ahmedabad and Surat. On May 30, there were only nine active cases in Jamnagar’s GG Hospital while on June 25 there were 78 active cases under treatment. There are on average 15 to 20 people per day tested positive in the district. Jamnagar collector Ravi Shankar said “We have parked dedicated ambulances outside Ayurved University and ESIC Hospital so that a patient needing oxygen support can be brought immediately. Even a recovered patient who is discharged is not given home quarantine but provided government quarantine facility. We also don’t ask positive patients to take treatment at home.” Bhavnagar also reported over 200 cases which are all treated in Sir T Hospital, of whom 140 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/active-contact-tracing-helped-amreli-contain-ncov-spread/articleshow/76679228.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Restrictions in seven more micro-zones in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In addition to 37 micro-containment zones declared more than a week ago, the civic body in Ahmedabad has declared seven more micro-containment areas in the western parts of the city. A total of 1,252 houses are under containment in these seven additional micro-containment areas — Maruti Complex near Subhash Chowk in Bodakdev, Juno Rohitvas in Sarkhej, Krupa Flat near Lavanya Society in Vasna, Thakorvas in Sabarmati, Tejendranagar Society in Chandkheda, Karnavati Flat in Naranpura on 132 Feet Ring Road and Gajraj-2 Society in Chandlodia. Extensive door-to-door health surveys have been conducted in the areas surrounding these housing clusters after which the societies were declared a micro-containment zone. “Housing clusters where more than five Covid-19 cases have been reported have been considered for micro-containment," said a senior AMC health official. He added that the list will be revised after the number of cases drop in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restrictions-in-7-more-micro-zones/articleshow/76680377.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Dexamethasone should be used with discretion’||Ahmedabad: On Saturday, the central health ministry cleared use of dexamethasone, a corticosteroid, for treatment of Covid-19 positive patients, indicating that it should be used in managing moderate to severe cases. However, even before the official guideline, some of the city-based patients were found to be using the medicine, said city-based experts. Dr Atul Patel, a city-based infectious diseases specialist, said that use of this medicine is not advisable if the patient only shows basic symptoms. “We came to know that there were at least five cases where the drug was administered at the first stage of viral infection – ironically four were doctors,” he said. “It is not anti-viral and should be used discretely only after indications of hyperinflammation through blood tests such as CRP test, D-dimer test, Ferritin or IL6 test.” City-based experts said that self-medication, especially in cases of Covid-19 should be avoided and it must be understood that all the drugs have side effects. Thus, the choice of drug or line of treatment should be decided by a treating intensivist or physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dexamethasone-should-be-used-with-discretion/articleshow/76680372.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||Monsoon to cover entire U’khand, intense rains expected from June 29: Met dept||Dehradun: After subdued rain activity, monsoon is set to get active across the state with widespread rain showers expected to lash major parts of Uttarakhand from June 29 onwards, according to the Meteorological Office. The officials said that the Kumaon and Garhwal region will come under the grip of intense monsoon activity during next week. “The state has witnessed subdued monsoon activity in the past few days. However, monsoon is going to pick up pace across the state from June 29 onwards. Heavy rainfall is also expected at isolated places in districts of Kumaon region,” said Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre. While districts in Kumaon region have been witnessing intermittent showers, the Garhwal region has been devoid of rains and witnessing a rather dry weather comparatively. Notably, several places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Nainital and Dehradun districts are likely to receive spells of heavy rainfall during the next 48-hours starting from June 29. Moreover, the monsoon activity is going to further intensify in the Himalayan state of Uttarakhand from July 5 onwards, according to Singh. Meanwhile, the temperatures are settling above normal levels in both plains and hill areas of the state. The relative humidity has been high in the last few days causing inconvenience to the people. In Dehradun, the maximum temperature was recorded at 35.6 degree Celsius, almost three notches above normal and the minimum temperature remained at 24.8 degree Celsius with relative humidity touching 86%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monsoon-to-cover-entire-ukhand-intense-rains-expected-from-june-29-met-dept/articleshow/76678358.cms||Gaurav Talwar
June 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city gets moderate rain||Nashik: The city witnessed scanty to moderate rainfall in different areas on Sunday, leading to waterlogging in low-lying areas. Moderate rain was reported in the main city area as well as on the outskirts like Adgaon, Satpur and the Ambad Link Road areas. Since it was a Sunday and with a curfew imposed from 7 pm, daily life was not disrupted. The city has been receiving good rainfall since the monsoon started this year. As per the district administration, June 2020 witnessed 136 % of the rain compared to the rainfall recorded during the same period last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-gets-moderate-rain/articleshow/76802596.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Coimbatore||90-yr-old man dies of Covid-19 in city; 46 new cases in dist||Coimbatore: A 90-year-old man, who tested positive for Covid-19, died when he was being taken to ESI hospital from CMCH on Sunday. Meanwhile, 46 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday, taking the tally to 460 and active cases to 274. Many of the Sunday’s cases were from Periyar Colony at Peelamedu, which has emerged as a latest cluster. The 90-year-old man from Telungupalayam was suffering from breathlessness and admitted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Saturday. He also had symptoms of flu as well. He tested positive for Covid-19. As his test results showed positive for Covid-19, doctors decided to shift him to ESI Hospital. When he was shifted to ESI Hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. However, officially the 90-year-old man’s demise has not been declared as Covid-19 death. Meanwhile, 17 people from Periyar Colony tested positive for the coronavirus while three people tested positive from Olympus at Ramanathapuram. Three people each from Sri Murugan Nagar at Thudiyalur and Addis Street tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, seven female, three males, five boys and one girl were discharged from ESI hospital on Sunday. Tirupur district reported three new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/90-yr-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-city-46-new-cases-in-dist/articleshow/76679737.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: In just three weeks, cases shot up from 31 to 209 in Bengaluru South||BENGALURU: While the pandemic was steadily spreading across the city in the first week of June, Bengaluru’s South Zone appeared largely untouched with a mere 31 cases, 23 of whom had recovered. Three weeks on, the zone is struggling to cope. It had a total 209 cases on Saturday, 73% of which were active ones. As on Saturday, Bengaluru South reported 11 deaths. The zone comprises BTM Layout, Basavangudi, Jayanagar, Padmanabhanagar, Vijayanagar and Padarayanapura besides parts of Byatarayanapura with an estimated population of 19 lakhs. Authorities admit they are in a fix since they cannot trace the source of infection in a majority of cases as they neither have travel history nor contact with Covid-19 patients. BBMP officials on the ground privately admit community transmission is on and that it needs to be factored in, but the brass denies community spread. Officials say the spike began innocuously enough with a few who had international travel history. Then cases spurted in Padarayanapura, many of whom had inter-state travel history. The floodgates opened when the influx of returnees from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. They were put in quarantine, but many violated norms. Still, the situation appeared under control. Following Unlock1.0, citizens from these areas, who depend heavily on city market and the neighbourhood for groceries, were infected. Though it was brought under control in these places, community transmission was truly on, a health official said. What added to the problem was police personnel and other staff deployed in sealed areas, especially Padarayanapura, turning carriers. The recovery percentage also drastically decreased over the 21 days. South Zone has 27 health centres and about 300 health staff. New patients in these areas are from all sections of society, but a big majority is in the working-class age group of 20-40 years. Authorities only expect the numbers to increase in the coming days. “The government needs to put asymptomatic patients in home quarantine and focus on utilising available health infrastructure to provide treatment for people in need. Or else this will be a lost battle,” an official said. They, however, said the number of tests in the past 10 days has increased in the zone and on an average they are conducting 1,200-1,500 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-just-three-weeks-cases-shot-up-from-31-to-209-in-bengaluru-south/articleshow/76678796.cms||Kiran Parashar
June 29, 2020||Hubballi||Devotees reconciled to safety measures at shrines in North K’taka||Hubballi: For the pious, Ashada and Shravana months in the Hindu calendar are two very auspicious periods during which visiting temples and offering prayers accrue more significance. Consequently, temples register a sizeable spike in the number of devotees visiting the shrines. However, the Covid-19 crisis has upended the norms and prompted the management of famous temples across Karnataka to revise the norms and etiquette usually observed at the holy places. To begin with, some of the more popular shrines in North Karnataka have decided to do away with giving thirtha and prasadam to devotees, while all visitors are being subjected to thermal screening, in addition to getting their hands sanitised. The authorities entrusted with the upkeep of the temple have strictly asked all devotees to comply with the safety norms. Kudalasangama in Bagalkot district, counted among the most popular shrines in North Karnataka, is among the places that has witnessed a steep fall in the number of devotees this holy season. “The development board of the shrine is allowing only one devotee inside the temple at a time, while the hundi has been shut. Devotees are being sent along a longer route towards the sanctum sanctorum, while names and mobile numbers of all visitors are being tabulated. Senior citizens and children aged under 10 are prohibited entry,” said Sadashiv Shivayogi, owner of a pharmacy near the shrine. Secretary of Jagadguru Tontadraya Math in Gadag Shivanagouda Goudar said that the priest officiating at the math’s temple had been asked to give only petals of the flowers used in the pujas to devotees, and not to provide thirtha and prasadam. Former chairman of Sri Siddharoodha Matha Trust, Hubballi Mahendra Singhi said that, as part of the safety measures adopted at the shrine, the box that held the ‘angara (holy ash)’ that the devotees considered equivalent to gold, had been closed. Psychology graduate and astrologer Shrinivas Shastri said that the authorities in temples had even prohibited devotees from ringing the bell, given the number of people who visited the shrines, and the hazards of the novel coronavirus being transmitted. “But both devotees and temple authorities are coping with the situation. This is an indication that they are balancing spirituality with scientific temper,” Shastri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/devotees-reconciled-to-safety-measures-at-shrines-in-north-ktaka/articleshow/76677211.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh postpones exit exams in universities, colleges||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced postponement of exams for the exit classes in all the universities and colleges of the state till July 15 due to Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister, however, made it clear since all the universities and colleges in the state are accredited or affiliated to the University Grants Commission (UGC), any decision on the examinations can only be taken by the statutory body under the Union ministry of human resource development. New directions or guidelines are expected to be released by the UGC any time. Amarinder issued the clarification while responding to the concerns expressed by students and parents on the conduct of examinations during the ongoing Covid pandemic. The chief minister said the postponement of the examinations for the exit classes till July 15 will also give all the stakeholders, especially the universities, time to adapt and align to the new guidelines that will come from UGC. The universities across Punjab had taken a decision to conduct exams of exit classes in the month of July, in accordance with the guidelines issued by UGC on April 29. Later, the UGC had announced that it would review the situation again. The UGC decision regarding academic activities, especially conduct of examinations, is still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-postpones-exit-exams-in-varsities-colleges/articleshow/76679740.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||Bagwal festival to be celebrated symbolically this year||Pithoragarh: Uttarakhand’s traditional Bagwal festival will be celebrated only symbolically this year in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken on Sunday by Devidhura Temple Committee in consultation with district administration officials. Every year, devotees turn up in large numbers at the Devidhura temple in Champawat district to throw stones at each other. It is believed that the goddess, Barahi Devi is pleased only after blood, equivalent to a human sacrifice, is shed during the sport. The festival is celebrated on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.“The annual fair during Bagwal will not be organised this year. We will conduct prayers but the rituals will be performed only symbolically. Other details regarding the festival will be decided later,” LS Lamgaria, patron of Devidhura Temple Committee, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bagwal-festival-to-be-celebrated-symbolically-this-year/articleshow/76678348.cms||Prem Punetha
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||No masks: Three offenders fined per minute in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The number of people caught without masks in public has doubled in the last seven days and now the daily count of offenders has crossed 3,000. On Friday, 3,022 people were fined outside the 9pm-5am curfew hours in the city, which works out to three offenders being fined per minute by AMC teams. These figures do not include those detected by the police control room which is also issuing e-memos by catching offenders though CCTV. So far, the AMC has collected Rs 60.29 lakh from 70,486 offenders caught without masks from April 15 till date. The three zones –West Zone, North West Zone and South West zone in the western part of the city accounted for nearly 40% of those fined, while the remaining four zones accounted for the remaining 60% of the cases. AMC officials said that 150-odd teams of the solid waste department are moving in the city and issuing fines for not wearing masks. Harshad Solanki, director of AMC’s solid waste department said CCTV footages cover those who are driving a two-wheeler or a four-wheeler, but the AMC teams are going to marketplaces and areas not covered by CCTV cameras. Solanki said for the past one week the teams have been fining 3,000-odd people every day on an average and on Friday they collected over Rs 6 lakh in fines from 3,022 persons caught without masks. Solanki said 2,274 people were issued e-challans by police and Rs 4.55 lakh collected in fines on basis of footage of on-road cameras. The amount of fine was fixed at Rs 200 only recently in the first week of June, said Solanki. He added that in most shops the teams found shopkeepers and customers without masks, and they hurriedly put on masks on seeing the AMC team. In one case a team found people had handkerchiefs tied round their necks and they pulled the kerchiefs up, whenever they saw any AMC official. A civic body official said many people do not carry masks in their cars and say they will wear one when they reach their workplaces. But now, the government has clarified that even a person driving his own car without any passenger will need to keep a mask handy and will have to put it on to speak with an official. Otherwise, the person will be fined. The official also said that vendors often say it is difficult to communicate with customers with masks on. Many of them wear masks pulled down to their chins and without covering the mouth and nose, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-masks-3-offenders-fined-per-minute/articleshow/76680369.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 29, 2020||Rajkot||Recovered man gifts 100 PPE kits to hospital as gratitude||Rajkot: Arvind Sarviya (55) a Covid patient from Junagadh was referred to Rajkot Civil Hospital after he tested positive of coronavirus. After he recovered and was discharged from the hospital on June 24, Sarviya wanted to express his gratitude by donating 100 PPE kits to the civil hospital staff on Thursday. “I had brush with death and was almost losing hope. Thanks to this hospital and the efficient medical and para-medical team here, I have recovered in 20 days. I, therefore, wanted to thank the staff with the protective gear,” Sarviya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/recovered-man-gifts-100-ppe-kits-to-hospital-as-gratitude/articleshow/76679266.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Number-crunching through videos, one at a time||Mangaluru: When many private schools are insisting on virtual classes during the lockdown, Sneha School in Sullia, 88km from here, decided to use this otherwise idle time to help students improve their maths skills. Speaking about the video series ‘Brain Gym’, an experiment to improve number sense, school president Chandrashekhara Damle said it helped students stay connected with the subject. “On normal days, these techniques are taught in school for students of Class 1-4. We have not launched online classs as most of our students are from rural areas,” he said. The school has been sending video clips of 5-7 minutes to parents. “Simple calculations that expect students to apply their mind to get solutions. Some of the exercises include reciting numbers in reverse order, simple addition and subtraction, reciting multiplication tables in different forms and the like. Regular practise gives them a strong foundation in maths, and their progress will be reviewed once they return to the school,” Chandrashekara said. About five clips have been released so far, and the same would be uploaded to the school website too. The school has also documented its herbal medicinal plants that are found in the campus. Two videos on this were even submitted to the government. These videos introduce the viewers to plants and explain their benefits. Currently, 10 plants have been documented. “We hope to compile the details of at least 100 plants,” Chandrashekara added. The school lays special emphasis on environment protection. Last year, after getting 105 students to dig at least one percolation pit in their homes, they launched ‘Mane Manege Ingu Gundi Abhiyana’ (water recharge pit campaign) across Sullia taluk. The school has plans to take the campaign forward in a more organised way this year. However, the pandemic has put the campaign on hold, for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/number-crunching-through-videos-one-at-a-time/articleshow/76677316.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 29, 2020||Mysuru||Malavalli taluk’s ‘pond man’ earns praise from PM Modi||Mandya: Dasanadoddi is one of the many villages in Malavalli taluk in Mandya, and one that few beyond the district had even heard of till Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s latest edition of ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The man who turned the attention of the whole nation to this hamlet is Kamegowda, who has created 16 ponds in Dasanadoddi single-handed on a barren land. His singular achievement received praise from PM Modi in his speech on the broadcast. Kamegowda, an octogenarian, known as the ‘Pond Man’, said that he decided to dig all the ponds in order to ensure that his sheep and other livestock of the residents in Dasanadoddi and nearby villages had enough water. “My efforts have yielded desirable results. There is much more water here now, and it is also helping afforestation efforts. We do not know anything much apart from conserving nature,” said Kamegowda. Mandya district president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Shambunahalli Suresh hailed Kamegowda’s efforts, dubbing the latter an exceptional man. “We are lucky to have such people around us, and we must strive to emulate them and their deeds,” Suresh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/malavalli-taluks-pond-man-earns-praise-from-pm-modi/articleshow/76679192.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mysuru||Pvt hospitals to spare 50% beds for Covid patients||Mysuru: Amid a spike Covid cases, health authorities have decided to utilise private hospital infrastructure to treat the infected patients. District health officer Dr Venkatesh told TOI that a meeting will be convened with private healthcare providers to take stock of the situation and to inform them about the latest order. The health and family welfare department says it has become imperative to involve private hospitals, corporate hospitals and nursing homes to tackle the challenges posed by the virus. To overcome the infrastructure challenges, the department is invoking powers under the National Disaster Management Act directing all private healthcare providers except Ophthalmology hospitals and dental care hospitals to spare 50% beds to treat Covid patients referred by public health authorities. The hospitals can utilise remaining 50% beds for private patients or patients with insurance. Government has fixed treatment costs per day for referred patients and capped charges for patients admitted directly. Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust will act as the nodal agency to assess the facility in private healthcare centres, according to the health department. A member of Indian Medical Association said there are only a handful of big hospitals in Mysuru. “So far the issue has not come to our notice. Opinions of stakeholders is important in the matter,” the person added. BOX: 2nd Covid hospital in Mysuru As Covid-19 cases are increasing across the district, the state government has planned to set up another Covid hospital in the city, said MP Pratap Simha here on Saturday. He spoke after inspecting the construction works at Seth Mohandas Tulasidas Hospital accompanied by health and family welfare department officials on JLB Road in Lakshmipuram. He said construction of the 100-bed maternity hospital was sponsored by the Centre under National Health Mission at a cost of Rs 20 crore. The construction work has almost reached finishing stage and the hospital will be completed in one and half months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pvt-hospitals-to-spare-50-beds-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76679357.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Residents in Mangaluru kick up row over burial of Covid-19 patient||MANGALURU: In yet another case of the dead being denied a dignified farewell, residents refused to allow a 31-year-old Covid-19 fatality from Idya, Surathkal, to be interred at a burial ground in Bolar on Sunday. Tension prevailed when a large group arrived at the cemetery of a masjid in Bolar, where arrangements were made to bury the 31-year-old as per government protocol. Following protests, the masjid committee decided to ship the body to Surathkal, closer to the native place of the victim. An ambulance was arranged and the body left. However, officials then intervened and convinced people to allow the burial to go ahead in Bolar. C Madan Mohan, assistant commissioner, Mangaluru, told TOI, “Bolar residents finally agreed to burial.” The ambulance was called back and the last rites performed. Mohammed Ismail, Bolar Masjid secretary, said: “Since the cemetery in Surathkal was flooded due to rain, the administration sought our help. Our community leaders agreed to the burial, but residents objected fearing the disease would spread. But then the matter was resolved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/residents-in-mangaluru-kick-up-row-over-burial-of-covid-19-patient/articleshow/76678899.cms||Vinobha K T
June 29, 2020||Vadodara||Detailed probe sought into death of 36 flapshell turtles in Vadodara||VADODARA: The Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) has demanded a police complaint and detailed inquiry into the death of 36 flapshell turtles in the city. The turtles were found dead in Kamlanagar lake two days ago and the forest department has already begun inquiry into the matter. “Death of so many turtles is a serious matter. The lake was given on lease to a contractor for fishing by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). Why is the forest department not asking the civic body to act against the contractor?” questioned Raj Bhavsar of GSPCA, adding that fishermen use low grade explosives below the water surface to kill the fishes. “It is an illegal act and these blasts have led to the death of the turtles. Such acts should be immediately stopped in other lakes too. I will write to the police department and also seek criminal complaint against the culprits,” Bhavsar added. Hesaid that they have made many complaints to the police about fishermen using the technique of blasting low grade explosives in Mahi River, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/detailed-probe-sought-into-death-of-36-flapshell-turtles/articleshow/76677906.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Nonchalant attitude amidst surge in cases keeps dist admin on toes||Mangaluru: A near five-fold increase in Covid-19 positive cases in Dakshina Kannada since the beginning of this month has raised the hackles of the district administration. As against 127 cases on June 1, the district now has 663 cases and the administration is bracing for more cases with a steady stream of chartered flights and domestic travellers returning home amidst the raging economic crisis that the pandemic has wrought. The district administration on Saturday spoke on what is likely to hit a society that lowers its guard. “We are seeing people move about unmindful of a pandemic around,” said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh in a video-message circulated through the department of information and public relations. Justifying her observation is the progression of positive cases from 127 to 663 in the last 28-days. Barring June 2 when there were no positive cases reported, the district DK recorded the least number of positive cases (2) on June 3 and June 11 respectively and the highest ever 97 cases on June 28 since the first positive report of the pandemic in Karnataka on March 8. The cases have remained in single digits for 13 of these 28 days and above 10 on rest of the days. The district has received more than 3,500 international travellers since June 1 out of which 300 have tested positive. People coming from outside Karnataka too have been placed under quarantine. There is also a gradual rise in influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases that are being detected in fever clinics set up for the purpose and behaviour of people does not reflect this reality, DC rued. 54 FIRs against quarantine violaters With 54 FIRs lodged against people for violating home quarantine norms, DC said these are in the best interest of the individual and society. “The virus is known not to remain active beyond 14-days and hence the period of home quarantine,” DC said, adding vigil is being maintained on such people through quarantine watch app. Even people in 100-odd containment zones must follow the guideline issued by the health department officials, Sindhu said. Reminding people that the society is amid a major public health issue, she said they must venture out of their homes only if necessary. Even when one does venture out, they should wear masks compulsorily, observe social distancing and take care of personal hygiene. “If people fail to fall in line, the administration will be compelled to use more stringent provisions of law under both IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act,” DC warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nonchalant-attitude-amidst-surge-in-cases-keeps-dist-admin-on-toes/articleshow/76679669.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Not sharing result is violation of rights, say activists, doctors||BENGALURU: Doctors and health activists are up in arms over the government’s directive to labs, banning them from sharing results on Covid-19 swab samples with patients. Activists say it’s an infringement of a patient’s basic right. The government has warned all 75 labs not to inform patients about their test results, insisting it should be routed through the district administration concerned. A similar rule is in force in Maharashtra. “Who is more interested in the result than the patient?” said Dr Ramana Rao, Bengaluru-based cardiologist. “The government’s move is unwarranted. The patient and relatives should be informed first so that they can take precautions and contain the spread. If it is negative, let them feel relieved.” He said resident welfare associations and police should also be informed. Health department officials and BBMP said the order was sent out as patients themselves were knocking on hospital doors without the test report, seeking admission. They say they were informed by the labs of a positive result. “There is a need to counsel patients and explain the admission procedure. It if not, it only spreads panic,” a BBMP official said. However, citizens and doctors are unconvinced. “If patients know they are infected, at least they will act responsibly. What good does it do by not disclosing results to a patient?” a doctor asked. Another doctor labelled the move “utter nonsense”. “I feel the government is fudging numbers for some gain,” the doctor asked. Jayanagar MLA Soumya Reddy said the government must rethink the notification. “It’s not the patient’s fault that the government’s health system does not have adequate facilities,” she said. She said many patients call her seeking her intervention in getting hospital beds when BBMP delays picking them up. Srinivasa Alavilli, co-founder, Citizens for Bengaluru, said no one has the right to deny critical personal information to an individual, even more so when it is a question of life and death. “The notification is surprising and shocking. The state and BBMP have done a stellar job managing the crisis so far and we trust them to do the right thing as we go into critical phase of transmission in our city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/not-sharing-result-is-violation-of-patient-rights-say-activists-doctors/articleshow/76678850.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 29, 2020||Mysuru||Fears of community transmission grip Mysuru officials||Mysuru: In the wake of three more people in the district being confirmed infected with Covid-19, officials in the district administration are growing extremely concerned about the possibility of community transmission. The three people who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district had reportedly travelled across the city, visiting markets, groceries and riding the bus in the past week. Taking cognisance of the gravity of the situation, the authorities in the Mysuru district administration are mapping all the places that the trio has visited and will try to test those the trio came in contact with. Meanwhile, officials have asked members of the public to voluntarily approach clinics if they are experiencing flu-like symptoms. Of the three who have been confirmed infected in the district is a 26-year-old fruit vendor from Rammanahalli, who visited two clinics in his village and a hospital in Mysuru city before he was confirmed infected on June 19. He sold mangoes and bananas near the Kuvempunagar complex, and at Hootagalli intersection. On June 20, a resident of Nanjangud, who had travelled to Bengaluru on June 12 and had returned home the same day, tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He had travelled to and from the state capital by bus, and the authorities concerned are now in the process of tracking down all the passengers who had ridden on the two buses. The patient who was learnt to be infected on June 21 was from Dattagalli in south Mysuru. He reportedly visited KR Market, and a grocery store in the vicinity, in addition to taking an auto to a clinic where he went for a check-up. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that the authorities were testing as many people with influenza-like-illnesses as possible in addition to those from containment areas. “This will continue,” he added. The cluster case in Nanjangud remains fresh in the memory of the public of Mysuru. However, the district managed to successfully tackle the outbreak in the temple town, and this has ushered in hope of the district overcoming another crisis as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/fears-of-community-transmission-grip-mysuru-officials/articleshow/76679494.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘It’s time industrialists get used to the new normal’||Q&A — Suresh Rathi Nagpur: Suresh Rathi, who runs a polymer unit at MIDC’s Hingna estate, has taken over as president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) for the second term at a time when the factories too are hit by the pandemic. As business limps back to normalcy, Rathi tells TOI that strict compliance to rules and quick adaptation to new normal will lead to survival. Excerpts from the interview... What is your agenda for industries under the current scenario? Instead of survival of the fittest, the slogan these days is survival of the quickest. The units that fast adapt to changes will be able to go on. It’s time that industrialists change the perspective and get used to the new normal. Apart from webinars, the VIA is also stressing on virtual exhibitions. The products manufactured by the units have to be changed according to the needs of the situation. We are planning to hold a meet of leaders from different sectors of industries to explore the new opportunities for our region. What has been the impact of corona on your industry? How much do you depend on China? Our industry is facing a different issue rather. There is much concern about use of polymers or plastic products. However, it must be understood that this is the cheapest material available. Methods of better waste management should be found instead. There is hardly any dependence on China, but on the overall scene China is a challenge indeed. Recently, a factory had to be sealed after its workers tested Covid positive. Are industries not strictly following the SOPs to prevent infection? I think the industries are strictly following the norms. However, as an association VIA is giving a message to its members that if they want to avoid a shutdown then the norms have to be strictly followed. The government has allowed operations at a scaled down level after much persuasion. If further cases of infection are detected due to our negligence then there are all the chances that the authorities may enforce a shutdown again. The association is constantly working with the district administration in ensuring compliance of norms. We are open for surprise checks by the inspectors to see that the Covid prevention norms are being followed. What has been the impact of labour exodus on the units? The workers have gone but now I understand that their rest period is ending. Migrant workers may need money for subsistence for which they will have to come back for work. Of course, the exodus during the lockdown has affected the operations. When do you thing normalcy will be back. Currently, the industries are operating at 60% to 70% of their capacity. It depends on the demand. I think things will be back to pre-Covid level by March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/its-time-industrialists-get-used-to-the-new-normal/articleshow/76679746.cms||Shishir Arya
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cops above 50 told to work from home||BENGALURU: Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Sunday issued an order directing all his filed personnel aged above 50 with comorbid conditions to work remotely. This comes a week after he had instructed cops aged 55 years and above to work from home. Rao’s fresh instructions come in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases among police personnel in the city. As of June 21, 67 cops had tested positive in the city. The number has now shot up to at least 130. “At least eight fresh cases have been added between yesterday and today (Saturday and Sunday), including an assistant commissioner of police attached to traffic,” one official said. The new order reads: “In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, personnel aged more than 50 years with comorbid conditions must compulsorily work from home.” Last week, Rao had issued 13 directives, which included instructions that police should not allow anyone from outside the force to walk into the stations and that they must attend to complainants in the temporary tents only after conducting body temperature checks. He had said police should ensure no person in distress returns without getting assistance. The temporary arrangements should have sufficient chairs for both police and the public, but physical distancing must be mandatorily enforced. On Saturday, the Bengaluru police department lost its fourth personnel to the virus. The official announcement came on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-aged-50-or-more-with-comorbidity-told-to-work-from-home/articleshow/76678813.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mysuru||Tribals who perform puja to Lord Mahadeshwara will be relocated||Mysuru: Tribals belonging to Bedagampana community, which performs puja to Sri Male Mahadeshwara Swamy atop Male Mahadeswara Hills, will be relocated out of the wildlife sanctuary. Bedagampanas, along with Soliga tribals who live inside deep forests, have come forward to move out of the forest area. Currently, officials of MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary are chalking out a comprehensive plan to relocate over 225 families from Changadi village. The foresters are conferring with the tribals to ensure that the relocation of the village — the first-of-its-kind exercise in Chamarajanagar district — is carried out with their consent. While the tribals of Changadi, which is an isolated tribal hamlet in the region, accepted the resettlement and rehabilitation programme initiated by the government, the members of other hamlets — Thokkere, Doddane, Medugalane and Parasnatha — had adopted wait-and-watch policy. Forty-four families of Bedagampana tribes living in Thokkere and two in Medagalane, along with 26 Soliga families, have voluntarily come forward for relocation. The officials have held first round of discussion with them regarding the benefits from the government upon their relocation. Thokkere village Bedagampana tribe leader Eranna said they had decided to move out of the forest as their place lacks basic amenities and faces constant threat from wildlife, because of which cultivation has taken a hit. “We have to provide education to our children and medical treatment for elders. So we have decided to relocate under the government programme,” he said. The forest department has identified around 400acre land near Kothanuru for the rehabilitation of Changadi tribals. Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary DCF V Yedukondalu told TOI that the tribals have submitted a memorandum seeking the same. “Considering their request, we have started the process. We have identifying possible areas near Ramapura and Kowdalli regions which are close to MM Hills. They want to live near the hills amajority of those from the two villages are Bedagampas, the priests community of Male Mahadeshwara Swamy Temple. We are considering their cultural, social and economical aspects prior to relocation,” he said. Yedukondalu said that they live in small area, and in about 30-40 houses. “Besides them, people from two more villages have also offered to relocate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tribals-who-perform-puja-to-lord-mahadeshwara-will-be-relocated/articleshow/76679678.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||On physician’s advice, Shankersinh Vaghela admitted to Ahmedabad hospital||AHMEDABAD: Shankersinh Vaghela, former chief minister of Gujarat, was admitted to a private hospital in the city on Sunday after he tested positive for coronavirus a day earlier. Although he experienced no difficulty in breathing or other complications, Vaghela got himself admitted to hospital on advice of his physician. On Saturday, 79-year-old Vaghela said that he preferred to be isolated and treated at his home in Gandhinagar after his Covid-19 test result was positive. Vaghela is mentor of Praja Shakti Morcho, an outfit he launched after quitting the NCP earlier this month. PM Narendra Modi called Vaghela on Sunday morning and wished him a quick recovery. Prior to getting admitted, Vaghela, in a video statement released from outside the private hospital, said, “On the advice of my physician, I have arrived to get myself admitted. I have no complications and I am feeling absolutely fine. But since my doctor has advised me hospitalisation as a precautionary measure, I will go through it four to five days. There is nothing to worry. Thank you everyone for your wishes and concern about my health.” Parthesh Patel, spokesperson and media incharge of Vaghela, said that PM Narendra Modi spoke to Vaghela on Sunday morning and inquired about his health. “The PM called on Saturday night and again on Sunday morning. PM Modi inquired about Shankersinh’s health and wished him a speedy recovery,” Patel said. Meanwhile, Babaldas Patel, the working president of Praja Shakti Morcho, is also being treated in a private hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago. Babaldas, a close aide of Vaghela, quit the NCP along with the septuagenarian leader earlier this month. Other aides of Vaghela like his PA Bhaumik Thakkar and spokesperson Parthesh Patel said they will get themselves tested for Covid-19 if they develop any symptoms. After being unceremoniously removed as state NCP president, a disgruntled Shankersinh Vaghela quit the NCP on June 22. Prior to announcing his resignation from the NCP, Bapu had a constant stream of visitors from across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/on-physicians-advice-bapu-admitted-to-city-hospital/articleshow/76680380.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand mulls Char Dham Yatra for locals||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government and Char Dham Devasthanam Board are jointly working on drafting the standard operating procedure (SOP) to start the Char Dham Yatra for state residents from July 1. Confirming this, Devasthanam Board CEO Ravinath Raman told TOI that a report has been sought from the district administrations to chalk out the yatra plan while keeping the restrictions of the pandemic in mind. However, the priests associated with the temples are against the government’s decision of starting the yatra until the situation is normal. On June 8, the Devasthanam Board had announced to hold this year’s yatra till June 30, soon after the first phase of unlocking began in the state. The board had allowed the local traders and those who run hotels/restaurants near the Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines to visit the temples between June 8 and June 30. The decision was taken after local administration had a meeting with the priests of these shrines, who had for long been protesting against starting the yatra. “We have already sought a report from the district administrations of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi on the preparations made from their end to start the yatra for the state residents. We will announce a detailed SOP for the yatra, which is expected to start on July o1,” said board CEO Ravinath Raman. He added that the board will also keep the state’s travelling and social distancing protocols in mind before announcing the commencement of the yatra. Unhappy with the developments, Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of the Char Dham Mahapanchayat, an association representing the shrines’ priests, said that the government must have learnt a lesson from their previous trials. “According to the information shared with us by the priests, barely 293 people had visited Badrinath, another 57 visited Kedarnath while not a single devotee from Uttarkashi went to Gangotri or Yamunotri in the last 20 days,” said Sati. Gangotri shrine head priest Shiv Prakash told TOI that a few people even attempted to visit the temple, but he strictly asked them not to enter the shrine. “Two people, who wanted to visit Badrinath and were asked to go back from Devprayag, were later found Covid- 19 positive. Their infection came to light during the postmortem after their car fell into a gorge. They were asymptomatic. Cases are rising in all three districts of Char Dham temples. How will the government identify whether those travelling to the temples from within the state are infected or not? This will also put our priests and other locals at risk,” said Suresh Semwal, patron of the Char Dham Mahapanchyat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-mulls-char-dham-yatra-for-locals/articleshow/76678380.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand soldier’s pic in Russian army museum||PITHORAGARH: The photograph and citation of an Indian soldier, Hawaldar Gajendra Singh, a native of village Badalu in Pithoragarh district, has been included in the Russian armed forces museum’s gallery of gallant soldiers in Moscow. Gajendra Singh was awarded the ‘Order of the Red Star’, a Soviet military decoration, for his bravery in the Second World War in 1944. Apart from him, only one other Indian soldier, hailing from Tamil Nadu, has been honoured with the ‘Order of the Red Star.’ The Indian embassy in Moscow informed the family of the late soldier about the felicitation last week. A letter signed by DB Venkatesh Verma, the Indian ambassador to Russia, was sent to the family in which the ambassador, referring to the inclusion of Gajendra Singh's name in the Russian armed forces museum, termed it "a matter of great pride for India and a testament to the bonds of friendship between India and the Russian federation." Speaking to TOI, Bhagwan Singh, Gajendra Singh’s son, said that his father was recruited in the British Indian Army in 1936. “My father told us he was sent to Chakwal (Rawalpindi) which is now in Pakistan, for training after which he was posted in the Royal Indian Army Service Corps. Most of his service was in the North- West Frontier Province which is now Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa area.” Reminiscing further, Bhagwan Singh said, “ My father told us that when WWII broke out, he was posted at Basara in Iraq. As part of the Allied Forces, he was deputed to carry ration, arms and ammunition to Soviet soldiers through difficult terrain. One night in 1943 when he was on duty, he was attacked by enemy soldiers and badly wounded. Army doctors advised that he be sent back to India but my father insisted on staying and after recovering, joined his battalion again and continued to supply provisions to Soviet soldiers.” He added that “seeing his dedication towards duty, the Soviet army awarded him the ‘Order of the Red Star’ in July 1944.” In 1975 on the 30th anniversary of the Allied victory in the Second World War, Gajendra Singh was invited to Moscow to be a part of the victory day parade, recalls Bhagwan Singh. “An official from the Russian embassy in Delhi came to our village Badalu and met my father. The embassy made arrangements for my father to travel to Moscow and attend the victory parade there. It was a very proud moment for him,” Singh said. He added that this year is the 75th anniversary of the victory and the Russian embassy had once again approached his family to attend the victory day parade. “Because of my poor health and the Covid-19 scare, I had to decline although I would have loved to have gone there in memory of my father.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-soldiers-pic-in-russian-army-museum/articleshow/76678399.cms||Prem Punetha
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Bail for man who shared obscene clips||Madurai: Granting bail to a man who had shared obscene videos, the Madras high court directed him to pay Rs 30,000 to the dean of Pudukkottai government hospital for providing facilities to health workers involved in Covid-19 prevention works. The judge directed the petitioner to report before the police everyday at 10am for interrogation and also directed the petitioner not to abscond or tamper with evidence or witnesses during the investigation or trial. The case was registered at the Aranthangi all women police station in Pudukkottai district after a complaint was received from the DCP of crime against women and children wing in Chennai. The accused has been in judicial custody since June 13. The judge has ordered him to pay up by July 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-for-man-who-shared-obscene-clips/articleshow/76679753.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||West records 56% of Ahmedabad’s new cases||AHMEDABAD: The western part of Ahmedabad continues to be the city’s major site of Covid infections. Of the 197 new cases reported in Ahmedabad on Saturday, the western part accounted for 110 cases, which is 56% of the total new cases. The West Zone of the city, which includes Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Paldi and Vasna, has been recording the highest number of cases. Of the 197 cases, 62 were reported from this part of the city. The zone reported three of the 10 deaths on Saturday. Twenty-two new cases were reported from the North West Zone. The zone spans areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, and Gota. Twenty-four cases were reported from the South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej. The officials said that since the lockdown was relaxed, the western part of the city has been recording a spike in cases. In past one week, these areas account for on average 50% of the new cases. Till Sunday morning, the city had 2,921 active cases, of which 1,489 in the western part. Of 1,489, the West Zone has 643 active cases, the North West Zone, 424; and the South West Zone, 422. As for other zones, 202 are from the Central Zone, 437 from the North Zone, 345 from the East Zone, and 448 from the South Zone. Of the 10 deaths reported on Saturday, three each were reported from SVP Hospital and Civil Hospital, one from GCRI Hospital in Asarwa, and three from private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/west-records-56-of-citys-new-cases/articleshow/76680382.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||PG medical intake in Gujarat in July-end||AHMEDABAD: The second round of admissions for PG medical students in the state is likely to be held in July end now after 130 more students who got selected in the first round, recently withdrew their applications. As a result, there are about 600 vacant seats for which the next round of admission will be held. The second round of admission on PG seats for medical and dental courses for the all-India quota which was to be held in June, has been deferred for all states due to Covid-19 crisis. Sources said that the students who have participated for the all-India round have been asked to confirm their admission by the July end. The second round on the state’s quota will be possible only after Gujarat gets its share of seats from the Centre, said sources. The first round of admission for PG medial and dental courses took place during the lockdown period. While most processes took place online, students and their parents were directed to help centres arranged for guidance and other required process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pg-medical-intake-in-july-end/articleshow/76680381.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||AOC roads shut after 10 +ve cases, detour for 3.5 lakh||SECUNDERABAD: Local military authorities at the Army Ordnance Corps (AOC) centre has blocked all four civilian roads Allahabad Gate, Wellington Road, Gough Road and Safilguda Railway Junction leading to the AOC centre after 10 Covid-19 cases were be detected from the personnel lines. The roads were earlier being closed twice every day between 6.30 am to 8.30 am and 4.30 pm to 6.30 pm. However, from Sunday, they will be completely shut, causing nearly 3.5 lakh commuters to take a detour of at least three to six kilometres. Though it is mandatory to collect the data of the patients and the hospital they are admitted to, the army authorities are tight lipped about the Covid-19 cases. It is learnt that they had refused to share the credentials of the patients details with the state government. “After we came to know about the new cases at AOC centre, we approached the authorities. But they denied to share the information with us. We then sent a report to our officials that positive cases have been reported in the area but we don’t have details about them,” sources in medical and health department told TOI. “All the affected patients at personnel lines have been shifted to military hospitals in Trimulgherry and Golconda. We wanted to conduct a survey to trace the primary and secondary contacts but were bluntly told by the defence officials to stay away. They told us that they have enough medical teams to deal with the situation,” a state government official said. Meanwhile, the residential welfare associations of Malkajgiri, Safilguda, Sainikpuri, Neredmet and Yapral appealed to the defence authorities to release an official notification or display the dates and timings regarding the closure of civilian roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aoc-roads-shut-after-10-ve-cases-detour-for-3-5l/articleshow/76679762.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||5 Delhi tourists booked for violating lockdown rules in Rishikesh||Haridwar: Five tourists, including three women, who had come from Delhi to Muni-Ki-Reti have been booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Pandemic Act for violating government guidelines relating to Covid-19 lockdown. They were staying in a local hotel. On Sunday, they were found roaming at Lakshman Jhula junction. These tourists had not completed their mandatory quarantine period as per the state government guidelines for tourists coming from Red Zone areas of the country. The accused have been identified as — Sushil Singh, Sandip Kumar, Kavita, Muskan, and Meena. They are all residents of Sultanpur locality of New Delhi. RK Saklani, SHO Muni-Ki-Reti police station, told TOI, “We have registered a case against all of them and the hotel owner has also been booked under the same sections.” Meanwhile, a 28-year-old man, identified as Sonipat-resident Narendra Singh, drowned in the Ganga in Haridwar. The man had come from Haryana with his friends and had gone to take bath in the Ganga on Saturday night. Police are trying to fish out his body with the help of divers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-delhi-tourists-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules-in-rishikesh/articleshow/76678425.cms||MS Nawaz
June 29, 2020||Delhi||New SOP issued for better crime control in Delhi||NEW DELHI: To ensure crime control and enforcement of social distancing measures are simultaneously carried out in an effective manner in the time of the novel coronavirus-induced crisis, Delhi Police has come up with a new standard operating procedure (SOP) for micro-level planning. As per the new SOP, the DCPs will plan and deploy cops from all units, such as PCR, traffic police and police stations, based on the requirement in their respective areas. Police commissioner SN Shrivastava has appointed special commissioner (operations) Muktesh Chander as the nodal person who will be coordinating with all the district DCPs to implement the new SOP. “Now, the DCPs will gather real-time data on the number of policemen available at a police station, the traffic unit and the PCR. The decision will then be taken on deployment of the cops at containment zones and for crime control in the rest of the district,” explained a police officer. The area SHOs will be coordinating with the resident welfare associations and market welfare associations to spot areas that require more police presence either for crime control or to enforce social distancing measures. The decision was taken after it was found that a bulk of the police force available for police station duty had to be deployed in containment zones after which they were to be sent for at least a week of quarantine. Cops from crime control duties had to be put on containment zone duties to fill up the gap. Under the new SOP, the DCPs can even ask for forces from the reserve armed units for containment zone duties. “We expect that with the new SOP, both crime control and law and order deployments can be managed at a micro-level and faster decisions can be taken at the district headquarters instead of waiting for approval from the police headquarters,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-sop-issued-for-better-crime-control/articleshow/76699238.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||In a first in 7 years, water level in Naini lake rises over 6ft above normal during summer||NAINITAL: For the first time in seven years, the water level in the Naini lake – Nainital’s major tourist attraction and only source of drinking water for over 40,000 people – has soared over 6.5ft above zero level. Irrigation department officials told TOI that the last time the water level in the lake was this high was in 2013, the year of the Kedarnath tragedy. “The water level in the lake at present is around 6.6ft. In 2013, the water level had touched 6.9ft,” said HC Singh, executive engineer of Nainital irrigation division, the agency responsible for maintaining the lake. The rise in the water level is a major success as often during the months of May and June, the peak tourist season, the water level in the lake hovers around the zero mark while occasionally plunging into the negatives as well. The same happened in May 2017 when the water level dropped to -7ft. “The water level was so low then that you could see dry patches in the lake. Rains were scanty in 2017 and tourist numbers were also very high. It increased the pressure on the lake as it is the only source of water for the entire town,” said Ajay Singh Rawat, a local environmentalist. Singh attributed the rise in water levels to excess rains in May and June coupled with the Covid-induced lockdown and resultant minimal tourist activity. “The tourist footfall here is the highest in the months of April, May and June and that’s when the lockdown as well as travel restrictions came into force. This led to minimal tourist activity in peak summer thus decreasing the water demand. The decent amount of rainfall in both May and June added to the water level,” he said. Rawat added that though the water level in the lake has shown improvement over the past two years, it is necessary that the encroachment around its catchment area is cleared to maintain a decent water level. “Water rationing started in December 2017 when the water supply from the lake was decreased from 14 million litres per day (MLD) to 8 MLD. However, the government needs to make sure that the encroachment from the lake’s catchment area such as Sukhatal (which recharges 40% of the water) is cleared. Only then, a permanent solution will be achieved,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-1st-in-7-yrs-water-level-in-naini-lake-rises-over-6ft-above-normal-during-summer/articleshow/76678408.cms||Prashant Jha
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens contribute tree guards in memory of departed, love ones||Nagpur: In an initiative that the city is seeing for the first time, the depleting green cover is being protected in memory of the departed souls and loved ones. TOI recently reported that with the state government’s ambitious tree plantation programme taking a back seat, citizens have taken upon themselves to increase the reducing green cover of the city. After planting over 150 saplings of neem and kadamb at various locations, citizens were staring at a new problem of protecting them. Then came the idea to kick start a unique initiative ‘The Guardian of the Green’ under which people are contributing tree guards in memory of the loved ones. City-based NGO Happy 2 Care foundation has contributed a tree guard each in memory of the 20 martyrs of Galwan valley incident. Apart from this, tree guards have also been dedicated to actors Irrfan Khan and Sushant Singh Rajput. “This move would not only be a tribute to the departed souls but would also motivate citizens to come forward to plant and protect more and more trees,” said the green lovers. Giving an overwhelming response to the initiative, citizens are also contributing tree guards in the name of their children and grand children. In a small ceremony held on Sunday on the campus of Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT) off Amravati Road, family members came forward to affix the name plates on various tree guards. “Each tree now is a symbol of representation of their family members. These trees now have green guardians who would watch over these heritages which would help sustain future life on Earth. Similarly, the young children would forever remember that trees bearing their names are there for which they need to take care,” said Jaydeep Das, honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur. The upcoming plantation drives are being planned by Das and green activists Shrikant Deshpande and Sachin Kale. Another batch of 200 trees would be planted in the coming two weeks at various locations. The target is to plant 1,000 saplings across the city by the end of monsoon. The plantations are being carried out in a scientific manner by digging pits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-contribute-tree-guards-in-memory-of-departed-love-ones/articleshow/76679765.cms||Manka Behl
June 29, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses appeal for releasing seized lorry||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed an appeal moved by a man challenging the order of a single judge in a case where a lorry was seized by police for smuggling PDS rice at Madurai district. The appellant, M Ramar, filed an appeal before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court seeking to set aside the order of the single judge dated May 7 who dismissed his petition, which sought to return back his lorry which was seized by the Thiruparankundram police on April 23. Hearing the appeal, a division bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi observed that they do not find any merit in his appeal as under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, a separate procedure has been set out for confiscation of vehicles. Hence, the judges dismissed the appeal and granted liberty to the appellant to work out a remedy before the Madurai district revenue officer, the appropriate authority who shall consider the same and pass orders expeditiously. It is worth recalling that the single judge in the order dated May 7 had dismissed the petition filed by Ramar by observing that every grain of rice is important when there is a shortage of rice and essential commodities during the extraordinary situation of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-appeal-for-releasing-seized-lorry/articleshow/76679763.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||Souring India-Nepal relations hits local football ties between two countries||Dehradun: Simmering tension between India and Nepal — due to Nepal claiming areas like Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani in Uttarakhand as part of its own territory — has hit a number of local football tournaments held in border towns in both countries. Both India and Nepal share a relatively open border. While movement of people was not restricted too much earlier, the border has been sealed following the lockdown and many locals fear it will remain so for a long time in view of the prevailing political situation. All this has meant that local tournaments that used to host footballers from across the border are now no longer in a position to do so. One such tournament that has been affected is the All India Kali Kumaon Cup, which is held in Champawat district and sees participation of over 250 players out of which at least 40 are from Nepal. Neeraj Joshi, organiser of the tournament, told TOI, “Nepalese players are a big attraction in our tournament. It takes less than an hour for them to cross the border and reach Tanakpur. Its players are very good and therefore quite popular among our local spectators.” Pradeep Bora, also part of the organising committee of the tournament, said the intermingling of Indian and Nepalese footballers belonging to towns along the border has been on for the past few decades. “For us, it started in the 1970s when Nepalese traders from Mahendranagar used to come to Tanakpur to sell their wares. In the process, they started intermingling with the local community by playing football together,” said Bora. The participation of Nepalese players in tournaments — held in almost every other town in Uttarakhand along the Nepal border like Khatima, Tanakpur,Banbasa, Chakarpur and Lohaghat — has been a win-win situation for all concerned, say football enthusiasts. “The Nepalese raise the bar of the competition and bring a foreign team tag which helps draw spectators. It also helps our players as they get exposure to the playing style of the Nepalese and in the process get to improve their game,” said Amit Ghildiyal, organiser of a tournament at Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar. Ghildiyal though added that he won’t invite the Nepalese teams for the next few editions of the tournament due to the ongoing tensions between both the countries. Harry Mehra, who organises a popular local football tournament in Khatima, said, “From the 1970s to early 2000s, Nepalese teams used services of good footballers from Khatima in their local matches in Nepal. Due to the Nepalese currency being weaker than the Indian one, they didn’t pay them but instead gave household items made of bamboo or Moonj grass. Nepalese players used to get a bit of money and mandua flour for their services in our matches. Post-2003, such exchange of items stopped and since then, players are paid by cash,” said Mehra, adding that Indian teams while playing in Nepal typically get a fixed fee of Rs 3000 per match while the Nepalese teams that come over to Khatima usually get paid Rs 700 per match. Football legend Shyam Thapa told TOI that despite the current political turmoil between the two countries, India and Nepal's relation will always be healthy. “I coached the Nepal national team for four years and saw their football culture very closely. A lot of footballers used to go to Kumaon region, Siliguri and other areas. These players come to India especially during their off-season,” said Thapa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/souring-india-nepal-relations-hits-local-football-ties-between-two-countries/articleshow/76678403.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cases in A’bad district touch 800||Ahmedabad: With 13 fresh cases on Sunday evening in Ahmedabad district — outside the AMC limits — the total number of cases in the district touched the 800 mark. Most of these fresh cases were reported from Dholka and Viramgam towns. More than 1,000 tests are being conducted daily by the district health authorities to check disease transmission. The focus is on isolating patients early and providing medical care. Of the 13 cases recorded on Sunday, seven were from Dholka, two from Viramgam and one each from Bavla, Daskroi, Sanand, and Dhandhuka. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-in-abad-district-touch-800/articleshow/76680384.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Court dismisses CISF armourer’s reinstatement plea||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed the plea moved by a man who was awarded punishment of compulsory retirement from CISF for negligence in handling a repair in a rifle which caused loss of sight of another CISF personnel after a live round hit his right eye during training at Villupuram in 2008. Justice V Bhavani Subbaroyan observed that petitioner C Jayabalan had committed grave misconduct and the authorities have rightly awarded the punishment of compulsory retirement. Jayabalan was posted at the Neyveli Lignite Corporation in Cuddalore district and was on duty as head constable/armourer along with others during training at Khanjanur police firing range in Villupuram on July 20, 2008. When CISF jawan N Sahadevan was in a lying position for firing, a live round got stuck in the chamber of his rifle. Sahadevan called the armourer to do the needful. While trying to repair it, the petitioner placed the screwdriver at the base of the cocking handle and hit the screwdriver using a hammer twice slowly and then gave a forceful hit. Consequently, the cocking handle was released and the live round which was stuck in the chamber came out with force hitting the right eye of Sahadevan damaging its retina. As the negligence of the petitioner caused permanent damage / loss of vision to the eye of Sahadevan, the authorities issued a charge memo. Later, after an inquiry, they punished him by reducing his pay by three stages for two years. Though he appealed against it, it was unsuccessful. Meanwhile, the CISF, southern sector inspector general in Chennai suo motu reviewed the case and found that the penalty awarded and confirmed by the appellate authority was inadequate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-dismisses-cisf-armourers-reinstatement-plea/articleshow/76679760.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 29, 2020||Varanasi||Vindhyachal temple reopens after 100 days||Varanasi: Vindhyachal Temple of Mirzapur district reopened on Sunday after 100 days of closure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Priests performed ‘rajshree aarti’ at the temple on Sunday. The Vindhya Panda Samaj (VPS) had decided to close the Vindhyachal Temple as well as other temples in its triangle including Kalikhoh and Ashtabhuja from March 20 in view of the pa demic. Even after the state government allowed reopening of religious sites in the second week of unlock-1, VPS was not hasty to reopen the temple, and delayed the process owing to the detection of a Covid positive priest on June 10. Talking to TOI, the VPS president Pankaj Dwivedi said, “On June 24, our samaj had decided to reopen the temple from Sunday. In the past four days, all plans for crowd control, arrangements related to safety as per the guidelines of government were discussed and implemented. An Akhand Kirtan (mass religious recital) by selected priests was organised on Saturday afternoon, and it concluded on Sunday afternoon with the performance of rajshree aarti, which was attended by Mirzapur MLA Ratnakar Mishra and DM Sushil Patel.” “Devotees will stand in circles drawn to maintain social distancing and wait for their entry in the temple. Wearing masks and sanitising hands will be a must. Devotees will offer prayers from outside the sanctum sanctorum and proceed out of the temple without touching anything. Similar arrangements will be effective in other temples of Vindhya triangle,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vindhyachal-temple-reopens-after-100-days/articleshow/76679788.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn opens counselling centre for patients||Madurai: A counselling centre set up by Madurai Corporation to bring down the stress level in people who have tested Covid-19 positive was inaugurated jointly by revenue minister R B Udayakumar and cooperative minister Sellur K Raju on Sunday. The facility is meant to reach out to patients as soon as they test positive to clear their doubts, allay fears and provide them with accurate information on the disease. District Covid-19 monitoring officer Dr B Chandramohan said a large number of people get stressed after testing positive. There are seven trained counsellors, who would start making calls as soon as the list of positive cases is available for the day. They would explain what it means to be Covid positive and instil confidence in them by pointing out that a majority of people get cured without any complication. Udayakumar said the district administration has given special access to funds from the treasury by opening a separate bank account. Sellur Raju said 2,000 beds are available in medical camps set up at places like GRH, Thiagarajar College, Madurai Kamaraj University, Agriculture College and Thoppor infectious diseases hospital. Out of 1,000 lifesaving medicines received by the state government, 500 have been given to Madurai. District collector Dr T G Vinay and corporation commissioner S Visakan were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-opens-counselling-centre-for-patients/articleshow/76679773.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus patients in Hyderabad showing low oxygen saturation, breathlessness major symptom||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 patients turning up at the government testing centres across the city have oxygen saturation as low as 40%, officials have said. While the ideal oxygen level should be above 95 percent, majority of the patients coming with breathlessness have levels between 80 and 85 percent. According to experts, the lungs begin to get damaged as the body doesn’t get the required oxygen at such low levels. The damage is seen to increase progressively with lower levels of saturation and is indicative of a critical case at hand. Officials have observed that patients with severe dyspnea symptoms are mostly testing positive. “Most of the Covid-19 cases are present with breathlessness, as the patient’s lungs are already damaged. In such cases, oxygen saturation level seen on the pulse oximeter is very low. When air enters our lungs, the oxygen saturation is 100 percent but by the time it travels down the trachea and reaches the finger tips, a bit of the oxygen is waned off and will be above 95 percent,” said a senior official overlooking testing at government labs. “However, we are seeing some cases with as low as 40-50 percent saturation levels. Among patients, who are coming with breathlessness, 95 percent are testing positive,” the official added. Majority of the Covid-19 patients are found to have breathlessness as a symptom, while a few have cough, cold and fever too. Severe diarrhoea is also seen in a few cases. The state has also seen about 65 percent of the asymptomatic cases. “These people either have a positive contact or have travelled from an international destination or Maharashtra. Many of them are migrants or health workers,” said another microbiologist engaged in testing samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronavirus-patients-showing-low-oxygen-saturation-breathlessness-major-symptom/articleshow/76679784.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Survivors’ tips: Listen to music, shut out Covid updates at home||MADURAI: Covid-19 patients need compassion and confidence and what people can do in these difficult times is make things easier for them by demonstrating these qualities. A zoom meeting organised here on Sunday with some Covid-19 defeaters saw them narrate what they went through as well as advise that seeking early medical care is the key to early cure. Advocate M Gomathy from Chennai said she had first gone into denial mode on experiencing some symptoms, but later decided to do the tests on doctor’s advice after she got body pain and chills. But what shocked her was that she had passed on the infection to seven others by the time she was diagnosed, including her husband Murugesan, two sons, co-workers and their relatives. She had untold fears, and as an advocate, her first thought was to call up her senior and ask him to ensure that her assets were divided equally between her two sons, aged 22 and 18. ``He rubbished it and told me to take care of my health and concentrate on the medication,’’ she said. Fear of stigma and the reaction of her apartment-dwellers caused some concern. To her surprise, all of them rose to the occasion and offered to help in one way or another. ``Some of them came forward to cook our meals, while others did our shopping for groceries and medicines,’’ she said adding that this was a crucial step towards faster recovery. After her social media post on this went viral, she has been receiving numerous calls from infected people which she readily attend and offer advise to. Her husband Murugesan says a person who tests positive with mild symptoms could keep off global updates of the disease if isolated at home, and listen to good music and comedies. Allopathic medicines were taken by them initially and then homeopathy and ayurveda, said Gomathy. She says traditional medicines seemed to give her the best relief. ``The disease has shifted my priorities. Now I don’t want to go after money but help people as much as I can and be humane as I can,’’ she said. Another participant, Vennilla Sathyamoorthi, who is 12 days into the infection, is yet to undergo the final test to clear her. ``I did not have any symptoms, but suddenly I could not smell anything or taste good food. It was really strange, even a handful of camphor did not tingle my nasal buds,’’ she said. This created some panic, but when the tests results confirmed she had the infection, the fear had actually subsided, according to her. The corporation authorities had asked them to bring her 73-year-old mother who had tested positive to the government hospital, and referred her to another. But, later they convinced the authorities to take the tests at the same place, after which they were told to self-isolate at home with regular follow-ups from the authorities. “Corporation workers and doctors called up regularly to inquire about our health, and also our oxygen and pulse readings,” she said. In fact, her aged mother who battled the disease with confidence even penned a Tamil poem “asking the virus to leave after having united many families and giving us family time” that they had not experienced in many years. The session was organised on behalf of RISE, a Tamil entrepreneurship organisation, after some of its members tested positive for the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/survivors-tips-listen-to-music-shut-out-covid-updates-at-home/articleshow/76679780.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nagpur||Six arrested for gang-raping married woman||Wardha: Six persons were arrested on Sunday for allegedly gang-raping a 19-year-old married woman at a farmhouse near Selsura village on Wardha-Yavatmal Road. The main accused has been identified as Shekhar Chandankhede. He and his five colleagues have been booked under section 376 (D) of IPC. “The incident took place on Saturday evening when the woman from Sindi (Railway) was called to the farmhouse near Selsura’s agriculture institute under the pretext of job interview,” said SDPO Piyush Jagtap. The accused asked the woman’s husband to sit outside before calling her inside a room. They threatened the woman’s husband and tied him with a rope before taking turns to rape her, said police. The accused also allegedly threatened to kill the woman and her husband if they narrated the incident to anyone. The accused then fled the scene. The woman and her husband first reached Devli police station where they were asked to go to Sawangi. A team of Devli police reached the spot and inspected the farmhouse and found some objectionable items in the room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/six-arrested-for-gang-raping-married-woman/articleshow/76679779.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 29, 2020||Dehradun||Illegal drug factory found in Roorkee||Roorkee: A team of Drugs Control Department, on Sunday, raided an illegal drug factory in Roorkee. In the unit at Salempur, fake medicines of branded companies were being manufactured. The drug officials nabbed four persons from the spot and handed them over to the police. Police have registered a case against them. The accused were identified as — Yashvir Arya (kingpin), Salman, Gulab, and Haseen. Haridwar drug inspector MS Rana led the raid along with drug inspector Neeraj Kumar. The raid was made after officials received a tip off. “During the raid, the accused were developing and packing fake tablets of a reputed pharma company. We have recovered the raw and ready materials along with the packaging foils from the spot. Police have now registered a case under different sections of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act against the accused,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/illegal-drug-factory-found-in-roorkee/articleshow/76678427.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 29, 2020||Rajkot||Woman dies at RCH, kin blame hospital for negligence||RAJKOT: The kin of a woman who died at Rajkot Civil Hospital accepted her body on Sunday after the hospital authorities promised to take action against those responsible for the alleged negligence. The kin of the deceased, Hawa Motani (58), alleged that the hospital staff had shifted her to the dialysis ward instead of the intensive care unit (ICU). “Motani was rushed to the hospital after she suffered a cardiac arrest. Initially, she was kept at the emergency ward. At night, she was supposed to be shifted to the ICU. However, instead of the ICU, the hospital staff shifted Motani to the dialysis ward, where she died within a half an hour of admission,” said a source from the hospital. The family members of Motani refused to accept her body, saying they would not accept her body till the hospital authorities took action against the erring staff members responsible for Motani’s death. Dr Manish Mehta, civil surgeon, Rajkot Civil Hospital, gave an undertaking in writing that an inquiry would be ordered into the incident and action would be taken against those responsible. After this, Motani’s family members accepted her body and took it to the crematorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-dies-at-rch-kin-blame-hospital-for-negligence/articleshow/76679306.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Madurai residents keep off roads, but many still gather in residential areas||Madurai: All the roads, streets and junctions in Madurai city wore a deserted look as people stayed indoors on Sunday, as a complete lockdown was imposed on Madurai city to combat increasing covid-19 cases. With no relaxation given, all the shops and markets remain closed, except milk booths and medicals. A week-long lockdown is in place since Wednesday. People used to move around in the mornings for buying essentials on other days. Hardly any vehicles were found on the roads on Sunday morning. Policemen in junctions and main roads ensured unnecessary vehicles off the road. But, people preferred to stay indoors. Vehicles of essential services such as healthcare and government departments were seen on roads.  Many of the clinics were also closed from Saturday onwards, as the number of visitors has come down. People had purchased things required for Sunday well in advance. Meat shops on Saturday were busy as people showed keen interest in cooking non-veg items. Although people stayed away from wandering on main roads, they continue to gather at residential areas for a chat. Men and women gathered in groups to play and exchange gossips in the residential areas as usual. They are least bothered about the spread of the infection as they do not even wear masks, say residents. S Arumugam, a resident of Yagappa Nagar, said that people think that the virus will not affect them and gather in groups. They spend hours together, while their children play with other children on the street. It is high time for people to realise that they should stay indoors to stop the spread of the pandemic, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-residents-keep-off-roads-but-many-still-gather-in-residential-areas/articleshow/76679770.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Eight rescued from damaged building||Madurai: Eight people were rescued by the fire and rescue department after a portion of their building collapsed in Kamarajarpuram in the city in the wee hours of Sunday. The rescued were from different families living on the first floor of the two-storied house. The staircase of the building collapased around 3am, following which personnel from the Anupanadi fire and rescue station rushed to the spot and brought them down using ladders. None of them were injured. The Keerathurai police conducted an inquiry and have said that the house was constructed in the 1970s with 10 flats in it. The old building could have weakened due to the rain which lashed the city a couple of days back. All the tenants were vacated due to safety reasons, while the owner, Abdul Razaq, was questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eight-rescued-from-damaged-building/articleshow/76679789.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabbed to death by stepmother over land dispute in Bhavnagar district||RAJKOT: A 46-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by his stepmother over a land dispute in Katrodi village of Jesar taluka in Bhavnagar district on Saturday night. Police arrested Hira Nagar (60) for the crime. “Nagar is suspected to have stabbed her stepson Bhimji Nagar to death. Nagar has been booked on the complaint of Bhimji’s cousin Mansukh Nagar,” said J H Sisodiya, sub-inspector with Jesar police station. In his complaint, Mansukh said that while Bhimji wanted to sell their ancestral land, Nagar was against it. This led to frequent fights among them. “It appears that Nagar had stabbed Bhimji while the latter was asleep on the cot,” said Sisodiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabbed-to-death-by-step-mother-over-land-dispute/articleshow/76679315.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: RTO inspector killed in freak accident||RAJKOT: An inspector of regional transport office (RTO) was killed after truck crashed into five vehicles including three cars and two two-wheelers on the Rajkot-Bhavnagar Highway at Tramba village on the city’s outskirts on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Nilesh Kothari. “Kothari had stepped out of the car to buy snacks. When he was walking back, the truck rammed the car, leaving him with severe injuries on head and back. Kothari died on way to the hospital,” said H L Rathod, assistant commissioner of police, Rajkot east zone. The truck driver told police that he lost control over the vehicle due to brake failure. Kothari was the resident of Dhandhia village in Rajkot taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rto-inspector-killed-in-freak-accident/articleshow/76679328.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Patient tries to end life as kin send him out of home||Madurai: A 56-year-old man from Palanganatham in the city who tested positive for Covid-19 attempted suicide by jumping off the first floor of the building where he was kept in isolation on Sunday night. He was sent away from his house by his children after he developed Covid-19 symptoms and rescued by the district administration and shifted to Thiruparankundram camp. The incident took place at a quarantine centre in Thiruparankundram where a large number of positive cases and people under quarantine are admitted. The man was identified as P Danushkodi from Keela Street in Palanganatham. He suffered fractures in his legs and serious injuries in his hip. He was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital in an ambulance. Sources said that around 50 people threatened to leave the camp soon after the incident took place, citing poor care. They complained that food and beverages were not being provided to them on time, even potable drinking water. The patients were asked to fetch it from the ground floor, where a water tank is available. Senior officials from police department and district administration rushed to the spot and pacified agitated people. Following assurance that all basic amenities will be fulfilled, they went back to their rooms, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/patient-tries-to-end-life-as-kin-send-him-out-of-home/articleshow/76679781.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad witnesses third highest June rain in past 10 years||HYDERABAD: Heavy downpour on Saturday night was the city’s third highest June rain in 24 hours in the past 10 years. The rainfall recorded stood at 66.6 mm, which is only preceded by 87.4 mm on June 6, 2017 and 82.7 mm on June 19, 2010, according to data by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The all time record for the month stands at 122.7 mm recorded on June 26, 1914. According to figures by the Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS), Neredmet in Malkajgiri received the highest rainfall at 136.8 mm followed by LB Stadium in Nampally (126.3 mm), Trimulgherry (117 mm) and Safilguda (114.3 mm). Heavy rainfall in Malkajgiri resulted in inundation of many houses in Kakatiya Nagar, Goutham Nagar, Satya Ragavendra Nagar Colony and Vinayak Nagar. “We woke up to almost two feet rain water in our house. Heavy rainfall led to overflowing of Banda Cheruvu nala and it resulted in inundation of many houses,” said Satya Murthy of East Kakatiya Nagar. The rainfall, however, did not make any change in the maximum temperature which was recorded at 33 degree Celsius - three degree Celsius above normal. The minimum temperature was one degree Celsius below normal at 22 degree Celsius. Light rains continued even on Sunday with areas in the northern corridor receiving up to 10 mm of rainfall during the evening. Meteorologists said that this is just the beginning of the monsoon with the IMD, Hyderabad, and TSDPS issuing a thunderstorm and heavy rainfall warning across the state for the next three days. “Southwest monsoon has enveloped Telangana. Monsoon was weak for the past few days. But now, it’s active across Telangana following heavy rains that lashed most districts on Saturday,” said Naga Ratna, director in-charge, IMD, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-witnesses-third-highest-june-rain-in-past-10-years/articleshow/76679809.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Woman ends life after husband dies of Covid-19||Madurai: A woman committed suicide allegedly over grief after her husband died at the Covid-19 isolation ward in Government Rajaji Hospital a few days back, in Virudhunagar. Prabakaran, 54, a railway employee from Lakshmi Colony near the Virudhunagar railway station, had developed Covid-19 like symptoms and was admitted at the Government Rajaji Hospital a few days back. He died on Saturday morning. On Sunday, neighbours were worried as Rama Prabha, 48, did not respond and they broke in only to find Prabha hanging from the ceiling. Virudhunagar police have registered a case.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-ends-life-after-husband-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76679801.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Goa Inc expects business to improve only by September||PANAJI: As the world marked International Day for MSMEs on Saturday and 20 days into Unlock 1.0, business activity in Goa continues to struggle due to lack of demand, restricted cash flows and the uncertainty of the Covid-19 trajectory. This, industry representatives say, is keeping business sentiment in the state subdued. Since June 8, when the Narendra Modi government announced the staggered easing of restrictions after over two months of lockdown, the supply chain has improved but cash flow continues to remain a headache, industry stakeholders say. Two-thirds of the respondents in a survey conducted by the Confederation of India Industry (CII) reported capacity utilisation levels below 50%, while close to half of the companies said they had to resort to layoffs or salary cuts to survive the current situation. A major proportion of respondents expect capacity utilisation levels to improve to 50-75% by the end of the year, with a rider that this would depend on the pandemic and the discovery of a vaccine for Covid-19. “Overall, confidence is really low,” says Atrey Sawant, director of Mandovi Drydocks.  “Those who were thinking of expansions or investment have just vanished. Most people are waiting for September and the Covid numbers to go down. Only after that will confidence improve for further investment.” About two-thirds of those surveyed by CII said they expect revenues to fall by over 40% in the April-June 2020 quarter. Goa’s retail sector has seen a sharp drop in sales with less than 20% of turnover being recorded by malls and large retail stores. The same is seen at restaurants, hardware stores, alcohol shops and furniture stores. While automobile servicing has picked up to near pre-Covid levels, sales of two-wheelers and four-wheelers have plunged by 75%, industry insiders say. The CII survey found that 81% of industrial units continue to face strained cash flows even as fixed costs remain high. “Sales and other aspects are not coming to the levels we expected. Raw material rates have increased due to logistics and transportation disruptions,” president of Goa State Industries Association Damodar Kochkar, says. Agreeing with Kochkar, president of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) Manoj Caculo says MSMEs continue to struggle due to delayed payments and lack of credit. “Cash flow is very, very bad because MSME payments are still stuck. A lot of people who applied for working capital or funding say their applications are stuck or the banks are telling the customers that they are not eligible for the schemes announced by the Centre. Since the market is down, there is no cash flow,” Caculo said. GCCI has collated data on the number of industry loan applications rejected by banks in recent months along with the reasons for the rejection and has shared the information with the Centre through FICCI. Goa’s IT sector has fared a bit better with work-from-home arrangements ensuring that despite the lockdown, client obligations continued to be met. “Most countries have started their unlock period and for that reason, people are coming back to business. Business opportunities have started increasing so we should start seeing some growth in the coming times,” says Mangirish Salelkar, CEO and co-founder of Umang. With Covid-19 cases rising, industry watchers say any business recovery will depend on efforts to flatten the pandemic curve. “Hopefully by mid-September things should settle. At least another three months will go on like this,” Kochkar says. Chairman and managing director of Kineco Kaman Shekhar Sardesai, voiced similar sentiments. “Covid and the related lockdown have impacted output and deliveries in the short term. We are hope momentum will pick up and hit the pre-Covid levels by September,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-inc-expects-biz-to-improve-only-by-sept/articleshow/76679802.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘Monsoon conducive to virus spread; testing best way to curb it’||June has recorded 136% rise in Covid cases, while the number of tests has crossed the 6.42 lakh-mark. But where does UP stand vis-à-vis India? Lucknow-based public health scientists, Dr Vishwajeet Kumar & Aarti Kumar, who have worked at Johns Hopkins University, decode the situation and throw light on UP’s Covid status in exclusive interview to Shailvee Sharda Q: What is your assessment of the Covid-19 situation in UP vis-à-vis India? With 82 cases per million population against a national average of 344, we have amongst the lowest Covid infection rates in the country. However, we are too early on in the pandemic to draw inferences about comparative performance between states and districts. Q: Corona cases have risen significantly in June. What does it reflect on the impending peak? The rising cases are a sign of an impending surge, just like in Delhi. But we don’t expect a classic peak in UP. The cases will continue to rise steadily till the end of the year, after which we may see a plateauing – with every region following its own trajectory, before ultimately seeing a decline in cases. However, improved containment strategies can slow the spread. Q: Some districts appear to be better than others. What could be the reason? Higher reporting of cases could be due to import of cases from high prevalence regions, population density or poor containment and social distancing measures. But it could also be due to a proactive public health response like better surveillance and tracing, increased testing. We would deter any comparison between districts as it may incentivize counter-productive behaviours such as intentional under-reporting, which will look good in the short-term but is a recipe for failure in the long run. This is the time to focus on getting the strategy and process right and have a long-term view of success or failure. Q: What challenges lie ahead for UP? Delhi, with one of the most robust health systems in the country, has been overwhelmed so early in the pandemic. UP’s health system is much weaker, and a much lower number of active cases will quickly overwhelm our healthcare capacity. We need to have a realistic assessment of the number of cases that each district can provide reasonable quality care at a time. All effort needs to be made to contain the number of cases below this limit. Beyond this limit, we should expect case fatality to rise significantly, which needs to be prevented at any cost. Q: UP has ramped up testing in a big way in the past two months? But is that enough? How far are we from the best level? Remaining invisible is the most formidable and lethal strategy adopted by the virus. The only way to ‘uncover’ the virus and stop it in its tracks is through testing. UP’s test per million (TPM) is 2,760 which is half of that for India – 5,500. Countries like Germany, Singapore, New Zealand and South Korea where TPM has been 65,000; 1,17,000; 76,000, and 23,000, respectively, were able to check loss of lives. UP being the country’s most populous state must lead in TPM. Also, the target is not impossible if one combines the available options like RT PCR, TrueNat, Pool testing, rapid tests into an effective testing strategy to cover more persons. Q: UP started assessment of Covid-19 situation in vulnerable pockets. What is the takeaway message from facts like presence of active cases in places like slums and hospitals? This is a proactive and welcome approach. However, the sample size was too small to draw any scientifically valid inference. Based on newspaper reports, 10% of slums were found to have active infections, with non-uniform distribution. This is a matter of concern and highlights the need to improve our surveillance system. It also points to a need for a focused strategy for vulnerable areas and potential hotspots. Q: What impact will monsoon have on the pandemic? The stringent and prolonged lockdown slowed down but did not arrest the spread of the virus. Under Unlock 1.0, cases are on the rise though we see regional variations. It will spread faster in areas with higher density, higher social interaction and proximity to high prevalence regions. With decreasing temperature and humidity, climatic conditions – which are bound to – will also become more conducive to the spread of the virus. Q: Any suggestions for policy makers to strengthen UP’s strategy for Covid containment? By August, the global focus on Covid-19 is going to shift to India and, therefore, the focus on UP is inevitable. The government-led response needs to be expanded and made more inclusive to become citizen-led and citizen-centric. UP needs to have a clearly articulated strategy based on scientific evidence. Research and data needs to be brought central to decision-making by making it accessible to the world. Effective surveillance and test-trace-isolate is the key of containment and needs to be urgently expanded and made more effective. We need to have a behaviour change strategy for citizens to adopt recommended behaviours like universal use of masks and social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/monsoon-conducive-to-virus-spread-testing-best-way-to-curb-it/articleshow/76680397.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Shopping areas in Madurai now see clusters emerge||Madurai: As many as 1,304 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Madurai district during the past seven days, while the number between March 23 and June 20 was only 691. However, district health officials attribute the alarming rise in cases to the intensive screening and testing. “The lockdown has restricted all kinds of movements now. This is the right time to identify, isolate and treat Covid-19 cases. We had expected cases to go up, but we are sure to reduce them later,” said a senior health official. Among the cases reported during the past week, 42% are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases with no direct contact or travel history, 33% are contacts of Covid-19 patients and 14% are frontline workers. Health officials said that fever clinics set up across the district and door-to-door screening and testing has helped them identify ILI cases early. Frontline workers such as doctors from both government and private hospitals and policemen have tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, contact tracing has also become a challenging task with the rising number of cases. As cases go up, officials are unable to fully deduce all possible contacts of a case. “The number of contacts varies from case to case, depending on their background and profession, as some might have fewer than 10 contacts while some have more than 50. However, these days, we are finding Covid-19 patients to be more co-operative in providing the list of contacts as now more awareness is there among people,” added the senior official. On the other hand, many of the urban areas are also witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases in small clusters, especially in streets that used to be crowded for shopping when the lockdown was relaxed. In such cases, contact tracing remains an uphill task and is likely to be incomplete, said a city health official. Around 8% and 2% Covid-19 cases in the district are imported cases from other states and countries respectively. Ante-natal care cases and those undergoing emergency or elective surgeries make up for around 1% of Covid-19 cases in the district. At present, the total number of active cases in the district is 1,379, which is more than twice the number of discharged cases (591). Out of the 1,379 active cases, 1,304 cases were reported in the last week. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in Madurai is 25, including 17 during the past week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shopping-areas-in-madurai-now-see-clusters-emerge/articleshow/76679805.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 29, 2020||Nashik||No death on Nashik-Pune highway Sinnar stretch during lockdown||Nashik: The Sinnar stretch of the Nashik-Pune highway, which usually witnesses heavy traffic flow, did not report any fatalities during the lockdown. Senior officers of the highway police said that there were no fatalities on the Nashik-Pune highway stretch, which falls in their jurisdiction, and other interior roads close to the highway during March, April and May when the lockdown was in place. Police attributed the no-fatality period to the lesser number of vehicle plying on the highway and some interior roads. As compared to the three months when there were no fatalities, there were two deaths in January and one in February.In stark contrast to this, there was not much of a difference in the rate of fatalities before or after the lockdown on the Mumbai-Agra highway passing through Nashik district. In the area coming under the Pimpalgaon Traffic Aid Post (TAP), five people died in January on the Mumbai-Agra highway, one in February, five in March, three in April and another five in May. In the area falling under the Ghoti TAP on the Mumbai-Agra highway, one person died in January, four in February, one in March, one in April and one more in May. Malegaon TAP, which reported 28 deaths in January, witnessed four deaths in March, one in April and another four in May. The highway police said that compared to the Pune highway, the Mumbai-Agra highway had little more traffic and motorists sped their vehicles given that the roads were empty, which led to accidents and fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-death-on-nashik-pune-highway-sinnar-stretch-during-lockdown/articleshow/76678462.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 29, 2020||Nashik||Man loses Rs 10 lakh to online lottery, lodges fraud case in Nashik||NASHIK: The cybercrime police, investigating an online fraud case of Rs 10 lakh, found that the complainant had lost the money on online lottery and in order to cover up his act he had lodged a complaint with police. The police, however, did not take any action against the complainant for lodging a false complaint. Devraj Borse, senior police inspector of the cybercrime police station, said the complainant — Vicky Dhingan, a resident of Jai Bhavani Road — had registered the plaint on May 28. During the course of investigation, the police found that the money was spent on online lottery system by Vicky. “The complainant’s father is not averse with online banking system. Hence, all bank-related work was handled by Vicky,” Borse said. The family had migrated to Nashik a few years ago. Recently, Vicky’s father had sold their land in Uttar Pradesh and were supposed to use the money for purchasing a residential apartment in Nashik city. Vicky, who is unemployed, tried his luck in the online lottery system. The loss, which was initially limited to a few thousands, soon soared upto Rs 10 lakh. Thus to cover up his act, Vicky registered a complaint with the cybercrime police station. “Last week, Vicky’s father suffered a paralysis attack after he came to know about the act of his son. We are trying to find out how the online lottery system could be stopped,” Borse said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-loses-rs-10l-to-online-lottery-lodges-fraud-case/articleshow/76678481.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 29, 2020||Madurai||Patients urged to postpone elective surgeries to prevent Covid spread||Madurai: Doctors from both government and private hospitals have urged patients to postpone elective surgeries as much as possible, stressing that any surgery carries therisk of spreading Covid-19 infection. There have been at least eight cases of people testing Covid-19 positive in Madurai in the past few days, after undergoing emergency or elective surgeries. Following the relaxations announced by the government, elective surgeries had resumed at all hospitals in the past few weeks. However, with Covid-19 cases surging in the district, doctors are urging patients to avoid surgeries. “There is a risk of Covid-19 spread within inpatients as well. We are handling even emergency surgeries carefully as there is a risk of Covid-19 spread to both patients and healthcare workers.Everyone has to exercise caution,” said a senior surgeon at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). According to doctors, elective surgeries like some hernia, kidney stone removal or gall bladder stones and any other non-life-threatening condition could be postponed for a few weeks or months. Some private hospitals, however continue to carry out such surgeries post screening and testing. “Not all elective surgeries can be postponed for too long. Covid-19 testing helps reduce risk of spread. For emergency cases too, surgeries are carried out with PPEs assuming the patient is Covid-19 positive if the test results are awaited. However, hospitals are still hotbeds for Covid-19 infection ,” said a duty medical officer at a private hospital in Anna Nagar. Dr Alagavenkatesan, president, Indian medical association (IMA) Madurai, said that so far there are no clear-cut guidelines from the government regarding elective surgeries. “As per guidelines, there is no necessity for all those undergoing surgeries to test for Covid-19. However, healthcare workers are at risk even if one patient is not screened,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/patients-urged-to-postpone-elective-surgeries-to-prevent-covid-spread/articleshow/76679810.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 29, 2020||Mumbai||Maha govt imbibed Cong’s culture, supports the enemy, says Smriti||Mumbai: Union textiles minister Smriti Irani attacked the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, saying it has soaked in the Congress culture. Irani was speaking to BJP party workers in Mumbai and Konkan through a virtual rally to mark one year of the BJP’s second term in office. She said action was being initiated against anyone raising questions on social media about the way the pandemic was being handled. “This is the Congress culture to block criticism,” she said. The Palghar lynching of sadhus was also on account of the Congress being part of the state government and so was the scandal in the purchase of body bags, she said. Without naming Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, she said a man who has not worked a single day in his 50 years raises questions on the abilities of the Indian army — from whether missiles hit the target to raising doubts about the enemy’s defeat. “Rahul Gandhi speaks on behalf of the enemy. One cannot expect him to stand for the country,” she said. Criticising the Shiv Sena, she said it was unfortunate that those who had for years fought against the Congress, in their greed for power had joined them. “This treachery was discussed all over the country, yet the Prime Minister Modi disregarded it and said people are important. This government (MVA) is of a party (Congress) that stands with China, supports Pakistan,” said Irani. On the janata curfew, the lighting of diyas and banging of thalis, Irani said while the opposition criticised it, they do not realise that the spontaneous support it received from the people shows the constant communication that PM Modi has kept going with the people. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis crticised the Maharashtra government for its wrong strategy in handling the Covid crisis, especially reducing the number of people being tested for the virus. On cyclone Nisarga, he said it had caused extensive damage in the Konkan region, and electricity was yet to be restored in several parts. He said the purchase of cotton was yet to be completed by the state machinery though the Centre was providing the money. The same was the situation with the purchase of corn, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-govt-imbibed-congs-culture-supports-the-enemy-says-smriti/articleshow/76680401.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||Government OKs Rs 1,700 crore more for border roads||NEW DELHI: The government has approved an additional Rs 1,691 crore for highway works by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand for 2020-21. Of this, Rs 1,351.10 crore has been sanctioned to BRO for road works in Jammu & Kashmir, the road transport and highways ministry said in a communication to Border Roads Development Board director general Lt Gen Harpal Singh. A total of Rs 340 crore ceiling has been approved for Uttarakhand for national highways, according to the communication dated June 24. In addition, it has also given nod for additional sanction of Rs 71 crore for highway works by the state’s public works department in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Sikkim and Tamil Nadu. Besides that, it has also enhanced the total ceiling to Rs 1,955 crore for highways work for Nagaland under Tribal Sub-Plan from the existing Rs 1,081 crore. The communication said that the existing sanction for national highways work for state PWDs was Rs 2,269 crore, which has been raised to Rs 2,340 crore. In addition, Rs 1,691 crore ceiling was approved for BRO, taking the additional ceiling of Rs 4,081 crore for national highways in these areas. Earlier, National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL) enhanced the remuneration of its personnel working in tough terrains. NHIDCL is engaged in building, maintaining and upgrading national highways and strategic roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-oks-rs-1700-crore-more-for-border-roads/articleshow/76680731.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CDFD submits 34 genome sequences to global database||HYDERABAD: As many as 34 whole-genome sequences of SARS-COV-2 were submitted to the global database by city-based Centre for DNA and Fingerprinting and Diagnostics. CDFD's national genomics core has sequenced the virus isolated from 100 patients. Further analysis is on to detect the variations. Dr Debashis Mitra, the outgoing CDFD director, told TOI: “We have sequenced genome of coronavirus in 100 samples from different patients. We have uploaded 34 of them to global GISAID database. We are working on the rest and will upload later. Unless analysis is completed, we can't talk about the variations.” “All the samples are collected from Telangana. We are testing 100 samples a day on an average. But in the past few days, number of samples went up to 300 per day,” he added. The team of researchers, led by scientist Ashwin Dalal, is part of the department of biotechnology initiative DBT's PAN-India 1,000 Genome Consortium. CDFD researchers are doing Covid-19 tests for the samples sent by the Telangana health department. The genomic study on the ongoing outbreak of COVID-19 is being coordinated by National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), along with active participation from CDFD, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine, National Centre for Cell Science and Institute of Life Sciences. "The study is to sequence the SARS-CoV-2 genome from individuals testing positive for the infection. Efforts to sequence viral genomes from different parts of the country have been initiated under this programme," said CDFD.," National Genomics Core of CDFD is providing genomic solutions on SARS COV 2 genome sequencing from planning, sequencing to data analysis and data delivery. Since the outbreak of COVID19 GSIAID has got 55,000 submissions from across the world, including India. Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology is also involved in genome sequencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cdfd-submits-34-genome-sequences-to-global-database/articleshow/76679816.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 29, 2020||Madurai||9 die, 641 test +ve in south TN; 207 cases in central districts||Madurai/ Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state on Sunday witnessed another record spike of 641 new infections in last 24 hours taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 6,483. The death toll also climbed to 57 with nine new fatalities. Among them five were from Madurai district, while others were from Ramanathapuram, Dindigul and Tirunelveli. Meanwhile, 207 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the central region taking he tally to 2,570 on Sunday. Madurai saw a record single-day spike of 284 Covid-19 cases and five deaths, the second highest figures after Chennai, which reported 1,992 Covid-19 cases on Sunday in the state. The cases included 89 Influenza-like illness cases, 93 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 60 frontline workers, eight pregnant women, and 10 cases of those with travel history to other districts. Three cases were cross-notified to other districts. Two men aged 68 and 55 from Madurai, with a history of diabetes, died on June 26 at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). While the two patients spend a few days at the hospital, a 65-year-old man from Madurai died at GRH within an hour of admission on June 26. A 71-year-old man with diabetes and an 82-year-old man from Madurai also died at GRH on June 27. Two Covid-19 deaths were reported from Ramanathapuram, taking the district’s death toll to six. A 70-year-old man from Ramanathapuram with dyslipidemia (high cholesterol) died on June 27 at Sivagangai Medical College Hospital. The second death, which also occurred on June 27, was that of a 58-year-old man from Ramanathapuram with hypertension. On Sunday, Ramanathapuram saw 93 new Covid-19 cases including 10 imported cases, which took the total cases in the district to 742. The district currently has 537 active cases. Dindigul and Tirunelveli districts reported one death each on Sunday. A 34-year-old man with diabetes from Dindigul died on June 26 at GRH. Meanwhile, a 67-year-old woman from Tirunelveli, also with diabetes, died on June 26 at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital 10 hours after getting admitted to the hospital. Tirunelveli reported 22 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, while Dinidgul recorded only five new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/9-die-641-test-ve-in-south-tn-207-cases-in-central-districts/articleshow/76679813.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nashik||Salons in Nashik reopen with precautionary measures||Nashik: As the salons in Nashik resume operations from Sunday, the salon operators are providing selective services allowed by the government and following all the mandatory guidelines. Under the ‘Mission Begin Again’, the government has allowed selective services in which skin treatments have been strictly banned, and directed the operators to take all precautionary measures. “We have to be very careful and be aware that the negligence could lead to disaster..I have also attended the Skill India programme on safety and hygiene norms (Covid-19) and we have taken all precautions like sanitising the customers and the equipment we use,” said Tejas Hiray of Diamond Hair Dresser, Kamatwade. Prashant Jadhav, a barber, said that they have asked the customers to get an appointment before visiting the salon only in order to avoid any kind of rush. While many salon operators have provided PPE kits to their employees and customers, some cannot manage the safety gears due to the high expense that has to be incurred. Sanjoy Yeole, a salon operator, said a protective kit costs anything from Rs 300 to Rs 800 so they ensure that face shield and mask is worn and there is an extra layer of clothing for the barbers and the customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/salons-in-nashik-reopen-with-precautionary-measures/articleshow/76678519.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 and civic projects: GHMC has its task cut out||HYDERABAD: While GHMC officials were occupied until mid-June with the task of controlling the spread of Covid-19, they now seem to have shifted focus to the halted civic projects. Revenue generation activities, monsoon-related works, infrastructural development, road restoration and laying of new roads are also being given equal importance, according to officials.“Before June second week, officials from property tax wing were dedicatedly working to contain the spread of the virus. But for the last three days, we have been asked to check for property tax defaulters, visits houses to collect tax and identify unassessed properties too,” said a GHMC official. The sanitation and town planning wing has also been instructed to resume field visits. “Traders have been instructed to renew trade license before June 30. If they fail to do so, penalties will be imposed,” said a GHMC official. Entomology department is now gearing up to fight vector borne diseases. “Containing the spread of the virus is not our only job, it is part of our job. We are now giving equal weightage to fogging and anti-larval operations,” said an official. Online grievance redressal system is also being strengthened. “People can directly interact with HoDs and GHMC commissioner through video call from 4pm to 5pm,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-and-civic-projects-ghmc-has-its-task-cut-out/articleshow/76679820.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 29, 2020||Bareilly||BMC plans smart facelift for Allen Club vegetable market||BAREILLY: Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning to renovate the 2,000 sq metre vegetable market located in Allen Club in the Civil Lines area here. The project will be undertaken under the Smart City programme, officials said. The market comprises over 200 permanent shops and temporary stalls selling fruits and vegetables. Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand said, “We are planning to renovate the place with modern facilities. The project envisages providing facilities like parking lots and separate space for loading and unloading goods. Clean toilets, drinking water facilities and token system for entry for public will be made available. Permanent roofs will be provided to each vendor and floors will be repaired. Provisions for proper waste disposal and management wiil be made." A proposal to the effect is being prepared, said Anand. It will be presented at the next smart city board of directors meeting for approval. Thereafter, tenders will be floated, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-plans-smart-facelift-for-allen-club-vegetable-market/articleshow/76678506.cms||Maria Khan
June 29, 2020||Nashik||Only 36 tankers now supplying water to Nashik district villages||Nashik: The number of tankers supplying drinking waters to the villages in the Nashik district has dropped from 42 to 36 after the administration reviewed the situation following the onset of monsoon. In the past week, tankers in as many as four talukas have been stopped by the administration. The number of villages being catered by the water tankers too has also dropped from 139 to 113 after parts of the district received good rainfall. Tanker review is done on the basis of the rainfall received and if water is available at drinking water sources. “Since water sources in 23 villages got revived, tankers have been stopped for them,” the administration said. The talukas of Trimbakeshwar, Surgana, Malegaon and Deola received good rainfall. Currently, 16 government and 20 private tankers are providing drinking water to 70,894 people, down from 91,524 people on June 12. Yeola taluka has the highest number of tankers being deployed (19) to supply drinking water..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/only-36-tankers-now-supplying-water-to-nashik-district-villages/articleshow/76678523.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bareilly||UP Board: Girl who sat for Class X exams with oxygen kit scores 69%||BAREILLY: Safia Javed, who has been suffering from severe lung disease for the past five years, braved her poor health to appear in all her Class X exams of the UP Board with an oxygen cylinder. And her hard work paid off as the 16-year-old girl managed to secure 69% marks. She scored 82 marks in drawing, 77 in English and 68 in Social Science. "Her books and studies seemed to be the secret behind her improving health,” Safia's proud father told TOI in Bareilly on Sunday. Safia - the eldest among three siblings - has "weak lungs" and she requires regular oxygen support. She was also bedridden for several months. Safia's father Sarvar Javed, who works with a private firm in Noida, took leave from work to be with his daughter during her exams. “My daughter's medical condition started after a gallbladder surgery. She was diagnosed with tuberculosis. She underwent treatment at a private facility and showed signs of improvement but later we came to know that she was suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. Her lungs were often filled with water and she had to undergo preventive treatment. She is being treated at a district hospital and doctors have asked to keep her on regular oxygen support," Sarvar added. Her uncle Zabi Ahmad gave credit to Safia’s parents for constantly motivating her. "My parents supported me a lot and always showed trust in me,” Safia said, adding, “I am very happy that I could live up to my parents' expectations." Watch Braving severe lung disease, Class X girl scores 69% with oxygen kit in UP Board||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-board-girl-who-sat-for-class-x-exams-with-oxygen-kit-scores-69/articleshow/76678550.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid rage at police academy, director VK Singh shunted out||HYDERABAD: Over 180 people, both staff and cadets, tested positive for coronavirus at RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy in a week. Even as the Academy is fighting the pandemic, the government on Sunday transferred its director VK Singh and replaced him with Telangana State Level Police Recruitment Board chairman V V Srinivasa Rao. There has been a surge of Covid-19 cases at TSPA since June 22. As on Sunday, 85 staff and over 100 trainee cadets contracted the virus. On June 22, 15 TSPA staff had tested positive for Covid-19 when 100 samples were tested. During the subsequent week, 650 members of the staff, including 350 permanent employees, had undergone tests and till Sunday 85 of them turned out to be positive. Among those who tested positive were an IPS officer and three additional SPs. Initially, the 1,900 trainee cadets at the academy were not tested as they were not moving out of the campus frequently. However, as some of them started showing symptoms, their samples have been sent for testing. “Samples of about 200 trainee cadets who had some symptoms, were sent for testing. Among the 650 staff, 85 have tested positive. All the staff who tested positive are asymptomatic and most of them are either working from home or the isolation facility,” TSPA director VK Singh said. The cadets who have contracted Covid-19 have been lodged in a separate hostel at the academy. “The cadets are preparing for exams in July. They have been maintaining social distance at all common facilities like dining hall. We have stopped services of outsourcing staff at trainee cadet hostels after some of them tested positive. The cadets are managing their hostels now,” Singh said. The academy has also started an isolation facility on the campus for the staff who tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-rage-at-police-academy-director-vk-singh-shunted-out/articleshow/76679827.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 29, 2020||Nashik||15 ST trucks do business worth Rs 2.75L||Nashik: Th 15 trucks owned by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s (MSRTC) Nashik division have earned only Rs 2.75 lakh in the first 27 days of starting the transport wing. “The volume of the business is very low especially given the fact that this is a completely new wing. However, meetings are being lined up with the industrialists and traders to bring in more business. We are hoping to improve the system in the next two weeks,” an MSRTC official said. On June 1, transport minister Anil Parab had announced starting of transportation services by the MSRTC which would do so by converting its passenger buses into trucks. The Nashik Division was given the target of running 20 trucks and so far 15 buses have been converted into the trucks and the work of converting the remaining five are under the process. The official said that they sent differnt goods to Nandurbar, Dhule, Vasmath, Ambejogai, Baramati, Pune, Mumbai and other areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/15-st-trucks-do-business-worth-rs-2-75l/articleshow/76678567.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 29, 2020||India||Did China send MMA fighters to border before recent clashes?||BEIJING: China reinforced its troops near the Indian border with mountain climbers and martial arts fighters shortly before the border clash with India, according to the country’s state media. Five new militia divisions including former members of a Mount Everest Olympic torch relay team and fighters from a mixed martial arts club presented themselves for inspection at Lhasa on June 15, official military newspaper China National Defense News reported. State broadcaster CCTV showed footage of hundreds of new troops lining up in the Tibetan capital. Tibet commander Wang Haijiang said the Enbo Fight Club recruits would “greatly raise the organisation and mobilisation strength” of troops and their “rapid response and support ability,” CNDN reported, although he did not explicitly confirm their deployment was linked to ongoing border tensions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/did-china-send-mma-fighters-to-border-before-recent-clashes/articleshow/76680734.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Nashik||Up to 5% off if realty tax paid by Tuesday||Nashik: Property tax payers will get up to 5% concession, as against the 3% concession offered by the civic administration earlier, if they clear the tax dues by Tuesday. Those who pay the property tax online will get 1% more concession apart from the 5% already in the offing. Those who clear the property tax by July will get a 3% concession while those who pay the property tax by August 31 will get a concession upto 2%. Earlier, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had introduced concession in annual property tax if the payment was made between April and July. But now, the concession in property tax payment has been extended till August 31. Civic officials said, “We have already sent reminders to all the taxpayers to clear the tax dues at the earliest and avail the concession. Extending the concession benefit by another month will help us generate more revenue.” “Last year too, we had floated amnesty schemes twice for property tax defaulters and had collected dues amounting to Rs 50 crore,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/up-to-5-off-if-realty-tax-paid-by-tuesday/articleshow/76678590.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 29, 2020||Kochi||CBSE’s assessment scheme for nixed exams causes worry||KOCHI: Even as schools have welcomed the  Central Board of Secondary Education’s decision to cancel the remaining Class X and XII board examinations in the wake of the pandemic, students and parents have raised concerns about the assessment scheme for subjects whose exams were cancelled announced by the board. As per the scheme, in Kerala, where four out of the five exams were conducted, assessment is to be based on the average marks obtained in the best three out of four exams students appeared for. Many students are worried that the assessment scheme would affect their higher education plans, especially in the engineering and graduation streams. They say the subjects whose exams were cancelled, such as computer science (CS), informatics practices (IP), business studies, Malayalam, etc, are traditionally high-scoring (offering relatively easier opportunities for at least 95% marks). And if the average marks of the remaining three subjects, which are not so free scoring, are considered, the final tally could be much lower (even below 85%) than what they could have bagged if exams were conducted. Students are worried that this could affect their final percentage in Class XII and result in giving an upper hand to students following the state syllabus, who completed all exams, in entrance exams for which 50% weighting is given to Class XII results. Moreover, students will find it difficult to apply for courses and exams that have Class XII marks as a criterion. “Many parents, mostly whose children are eying a career in engineering, have approached us expressing concern. The board’s decision on assessment is the most viable one as in 99% of schools in Kerala only one exam is pending. Moreover, waiting for the pandemic to be in control to conduct the exam is least practical. But subjects like CS, IP and Malayalam, comparatively easier ones, are chosen by students to compensate for the loss of marks in other core subjects like chemistry, physics and mathematics. So there is a chance for many high-scoring students to get lower total marks than they expected. And they fear that it might add to the upper hand enjoyed by state-syllabus students’ who already have more liberal marking than CBSE,” said the principal of a school in Kochi. Meanwhile, teachers said that students who chose biotechnology, another subject whose exam was cancelled, might get higher marks than expected through the assessment scheme. “Biotechnology is opted for by students hoping to pursue a career in medicine but it is usually tougher than other subjects in the combination. So the average marks of the best three subjects could be higher than what a student could have bagged in the exam,” a teacher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbses-assessment-scheme-for-nixed-exams-causes-worry/articleshow/76681682.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
June 29, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh cane admin promotes new tech to raise sugarcane productivity||PILIBHIT: The principal secretary of UP sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, has instructed district cane officers across the state to promote application of six-fold technology in sugarcane cultivation, in order to increase productivity of sugarcane crop in the state. The exercise is to be practiced from the forthcoming autumn sowing season. Provisions have been made to provide cash subsidy to those farmers who want to embark upon this venture, to encourage them to grow demonstration nurseries of sugarcane using this technology. As per official records of the state sugarcane administration, sugarcane was cultivated over 27.94 lakh hectares in UP in the 2019-20 season. The state-wide average yield was 805 quintals per hectare. The new technology is expected to raise the yield considerably. Talking to TOI on the issue, Bhoosreddy said government of India had issued an advisory on this plan, which has been made an integral part of Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) for the year 2020-21. The plan was aimed at addressing issues of farmers closely concerned with the use of advanced scientific sowing methods to enhance productivity and make best possible use of land resource, he said. He added, “In order to achieve the target, the six-fold technology is being given prime precedence on ground. These include the adoption of trench and ring-pit methods of sowing sugarcane that have produced “outstanding” results; the integrated pest control management; integrated nutrient management to apply balanced quantity of inputs that ensure healthy crop; intercropping of pulses with sugarcane to improve fertility of land; ratoon management that assists in getting a good yield in the second year.” He further said instructions had also been issued to set up more and more single bud chip sugarcane nurseries as one of the crucial measures to enhance productivity under the ‘high quality sugarcane foundation seed and primary seed production and distribution programme’. The state government will provide financial assistance of Rs 9,000 per hectare to farmers for developing demonstration nurseries of the new sugarcane technology. To bridge the gap of advanced machinery for sowing, the cane department will make available to farmers new agricultural equipment such as sugarcane cutter and planter, power tiller, weeder, mulcher, sugarcane trash cutter, etc, said Bhoosreddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/state-cane-admin-promotes-new-tech-to-raise-sugarcane-productivity/articleshow/76678588.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bareilly||UP police constable, son killed in road accident||BAREILLY: A 40-year-old police constable and his nine-year-old son were killed in a road accident after the vehicle in which they were travelling rammed into a stationary truck on national highway 24 under Katghar police station limits in Moradabad early on Sunday. Ajay Kumar, the deceased policeman, was taking his family to Meerut after being transferred from Shahjahanpur, UP. His wife among four others also sustained serious injuries and were shifted to hospital. Police said that constable Kumar was deputed at the circle officer’s office of Powayan in Shahjahanpur and now he had been transferred to Hapur district. Kumar was a native of Lank village in Shamli district and he had built a house in Meerut. After having been transferred from Shahjahanpur to Hapur, he was now shifting with his family to his Meerut house. In fact, Kumar was on the way to Meerut in a truck loaded with all his household items when the vehicle collided with another stationary truck near Devapur village in Moradabad, the police said. His entire family, including his wife Anupama, three children - son Vishesh and two daughters Vatika and Pari – and his niece Simran, were also travelling on the same truck. Vishesh was killed on the spot while his other family members sustained injuries and were taken to hospital. The truck driver sustained serious injuries as well. SHO of Katghar, inspector Gajendra Singh, said that the bodies have been sent for postmortem and an FIR against the stationary truck driver was lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-police-constable-son-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/76678584.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Singh yet to be given a posting||Hyderabad: Even as TSPA director VK Singh was transferred out, he has not yet been given any posting. Singh had written to the Union home secretary on June 24, seeking permission for voluntary retirement on Mahatma Gandhi jayanti, October 2. He is set to superannuate in November. “I joined police with great hopes to change the police system, but I think I have failed . The government of Telangana has also not been much impressed with my services. My advise to better the services in the government did not cut much ice. Perhaps my opinion was not considered worth it. I have considered that I should not be burden of the government,” V K Singh mentioned, in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/singh-yet-to-be-given-a-posting/articleshow/76679839.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mumbai||Pawar’s Galwan Valley comment unclear: Thorat||Mumbai: A day after NCP president Sharad Pawar observed that the Galwan Valley incident should not be politicised on the ground that it is a matter of national security, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday said that there was lack of clarity in his (Pawar’s) statement. “It is still not completely clear what Sharad Pawar has said, by using just one of his comments, the media should not draw any conclusion and rush to give clean chit to the PM and raise questions on the stand taken by Rahul Gandhi. I am sure, Pawar is worried by Chinese incursion too,’’ Thorat said. Thorat made it clear that the Congress party is with the government on China, but that does not mean that questions should not be asked on issues of national interest. “The questions raised by Rahul Gandhi on border security is not politics, but a responsibility given by the people. We can’t compare the situation in 1962 and what is happening today. Not a single soldier lost his life on the India-China border in 45 years, while 20 of our soldiers were martyred at Galwan valley recently due to China’s aggression. Even then the PM says no one intruded on our territory. Using these statements of the PM, China is calling our martyrs as intruders,’’ Thorat said. Thorat pointed out that Rahul Gandhi has raised questions in the minds of general public and the concerns raised by him are regarding India’s integrity. “Even today, the PM did not say a single word regarding the Chinese aggression in his Maan Ki Baat. This is not the time to keep quiet,’’ Thorat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pawars-galwan-valley-comment-unclear-thorat/articleshow/76680415.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Father of kid who died in firework accident last year hangs himself||KOLKATA: A 44-year-old man, whose son had died eight months ago while bursting firecrackers, committed suicide at his Behala home on Sunday. Kajal Das, who turned a crusader against illegal firecrackers after his son’s death, was found hanging from a ceiling fan on Sunday at his home in Behala’s Silpara on Sunday. His only son Adi (5) lost his life eight months ago after a flowerpot burst near him. In his suicide note, Kajal claimed that his growing differences with his wife, who suffers from a kidney-related disorder, and the fact that he had lost his job during the lockdown had left him depressed. The suicide note also hinted that he suspected his wife of cheating on him, police said. Das worked at a shop in Behala market before the lockdown.  “We have no reason to suspect foul play,” said an officer. Kajal had drawn up a list of measures that he would undertake to ensure his son’s death did not go in vain. “I will move courts, if required, to ensure no illegal firecracker-manufacturing unit functions in and around Kolkata and no fly-by-night trader can stock them,” he had said. Police said they would speak to his family and the owner of the shop where Kajal worked. “We have begun inquest proceedings,” said DCP (southwest) Nilanjan Biswas. Earlier on Saturday, a 45-year-old woman of Southern Avenue allegedly jumped off a four-storey building. Police said prescriptions found near the deceased, Debdyuti Roy, suggested she was depressed. Her father works at a Salt Lake school. She used to live with her mother and sister, who were present in the house at the time of the incident around 11.10pm on Saturday. In another incident, a 12-year-old was found dead at her East Jadavpur home on Sunday. No suicide note has been found..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/father-of-kid-who-died-in-firework-accident-last-year-hangs-himself/articleshow/76679377.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 29, 2020||Nashik||NMC to give data on vacant beds||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to provide details about the vacant beds in civic and private hospitals online so that citizens get real-time information about the same. “The decision has been taken so that the citizens get the latest update about the beds available with the NMC hospitals as well as private hospitals in the city on a real time basis. Moreover, details about patients from various containment areas will also be made available on a real-time basis, said civic officials. The NMC is expected to start providing real-time information online in a day or two, added officials. “We will only provide the data which is useful for the public. We will start providing online information in this connection in a day or two,” officials said. At present, the NMC has 1,400 beds in its hospitals, including government ones. In addition, over 1,000 beds have been acquired in over 120 private hospitals in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-give-data-on-vacant-beds/articleshow/76678598.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 29, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 55, beaten to death by cousins with a cricket bat||BAREILLY: The fight over sharing of offerings at a shrine between the families of two caretakers took a bloody turn on Sunday when a man was beaten to death allegedly by the members of the other faction in Saidpur area of Budaun district. The incident took place on Saturday night. Police have registered an FIR against four persons and one of them was arrested on Sunday. The family members of Mohammed Shaqir and Anwar maintained the shrine of their ancestors in Saidpur village and used to share the offerings at the shrine. A few days ago, both the families had a tiff over the sharing of the offerings. On Saturday night, Anwar along with his aides Bachchan, Sartaj and Shahbaz barged into the house of Shaqir and attacked his family with a cricket bat and sticks. Shaqir sustained an injury on his head while his son Sonu received minor injuries on his hands. Both were taken to hospital where Shaqir died during treatment. Circle officer Raghvendra Singh said, “There was a fight between the family members of two relatives over sharing of offerings at the shrine. A 55-year-old man died after being hit by a cricket bat. We have booked four accused under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) on the complaint of son.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-55-beaten-to-death-by-cousins-with-a-cricket-bat/articleshow/76678594.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 29, 2020||Nashik||Four-year-old boy injured in leopard attack||Nashik: A four-year-old boy got injured in a leopard attack in Smangaon village, around eight km from Nashik Road, on Sunday evening. According to a forest department official, the leopard attacked the boy at around 7pm. “The big cat disappeared from the spot after the villagers, who were near the boy, started shouting. The boy was immediately rushed to the civil hospital and he has escaped with minor injuries on his neck,” the official said. Earlier, on June 16, a four-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Babhaleswar village which is just two-km away from Samangaon village on Nashik-Pune Road. “We have launched a search for the leopard and a cage is to be installed to trap the big cat,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/four-year-old-boy-injured-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/76678610.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 29, 2020||Nashik||75% deaths among those aged 50+||Nashik: The city has reported 92 Covid-19 related death so, out of which 75% of deaths (69) are above 50 years of age, while 23% of deaths (21) are from the age group of 31 years to 50 years. There are only two deaths in the age group of16 years to 30 years, no death in the age group below 15 years. Of the 92 deaths, 84 have been recorded in the last 27 days between June 1 and 27. Till May 31, the death rate in the city was 3.37% with eight deaths but at present, it has increased to 5.06%. Officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporations (NMC) said , “We are conducting a death analysis to take measures to prevent Covid related deaths. We are also taking the help of a group consisting of senior private doctors in the city.” The officials said, “65% of the total deaths are of patients with comorbidity conditions. Hence, we are focusing on such patients in the containment zones, slums and other core areas of the city. We are looking for patients with comorbidity conditions and sending their throat swab samples for detection” “We have conducted surveys of over 90,000 houses with a population over 4 lakh.,” said NMC officials. Till June 15, Nashik city had witnessed 738 Covid-19 cases with 39 deaths. But in the past 12 days between June 16 and 27, the city reported fresh 1,079 Covid-19 cases with 53 deaths. The city registered the first Covid case on April 6 and the first death on May 5. In the view of the increase in Covid-19 patients, the health department of the NMC had made arrangements for additional beds. “At present, we have 2,400 beds, including 1,400 beds in NMC and government hospitals, while the remaining 1,000 beds are in private hospitals in the city.” said the officials. “We have made plans to arrange 6,000 beds in the city including government and private hospitals,” added NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/75-deaths-among-those-aged-50/articleshow/76678619.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: KMDA starts plantation on Bypass to make up for post-Amphan loss||KOLKATA: To compensate for the loss of green cover due to the Cyclone Amphan, the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has started a plantation and greenery drive on a 7-km stretch of the road median divider below the metro alignment off EM Bypass from Ajaynagar to Trinamool Bhavan junction. Officials said around 5,000 trees will be planted along with developing grass carpet on the median dividers. “It was decided that greenery will be developed by planting trees and setting up grass carpet and garden on the road median divider of the Bypass stretch below the metro viaduct to compensate for the loss of green cover due to the cyclone. Work has already started,” said a KMDA official. The greenery will be fenced off with bamboo structures and an agency will be engaged to look after the trees and maintain the grass carpet, including watering them, according to the officials. The KMDA authorities are also working on developing vertical garden on at least 10 to 15 pillars of Maa flyover in the first phase as was planned earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-starts-plantation-on-bypass-to-make-up-for-post-amphan-loss/articleshow/76679383.cms||Suman Chakraborti
June 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana should declare emergency: A Revanth Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Sunday demanded that the state government should immediately declare health emergency in Telangana. In a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday, Revanth alleged that the ruling TRS was behind the conspiracy of Congress MPs not being given time by the members of the central team which is touring Telangana to take stock of the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-t-should-declare-emergency/articleshow/76679895.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kochi||Wuhan-returned student helps patients battle stress||ALAPPUZHA: On a rainy day in Alappuzha, he is busy at his home answering distress calls from strangers who are struggling to cope with the invisible threat of an unrelenting pandemic. The 23-year-old MBBS student of Wuhan University was the second case of coronavirus reported in the country and the first to recover from the disease. “I have just completed the sixth semester examination, which was conducted online. Now, it is vacation time. I have been getting several calls from people who tested positive for Covid-19. They call me to get mental support and to clear their doubts,” said the youth. He was admitted to hospital on January 30 on his arrival from China and tested positive for the disease on February 2. After about a two weeks’ battle with Covid-19, he was discharged on February 13. “If anyone who I know tests positive for the virus, I call them up to make them comfortable. I share my experience to provide psychological support to them. There are many who have called me up after getting my number. I try to give them confidence,” he says. He says he tells them that with will power and by remaining mentally strong, one can overcome the disease. “I get calls even from people who are abroad who ring me up after panicking over symptoms of common fever. I can feel their relief in their voice after they have a word with me,” he says. “Youngsters who test positive for Covid-19 are not much worried. But I tell them though they are okay, they should not become a means for spreading the virus to others,” he says. “We will overcome the virus. If we follow precautionary measures, we can reduce the infection rate. We are also following reverse quarantine. Children and elderly people are not going outside,” he says. “My sixth semester’s online class had begun on February 16 while the exams were held in June second week. We have not received any letter from our university with regards to re-joining. I think I can go back once international flights resume operations,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wuhan-returned-student-helps-patients-battle-stress/articleshow/76678612.cms||Sajimon P S
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||Pre-wedding rituals of archer Deepika begin in Ranchi||Ranchi: The pre-wedding rituals of archer couple — Deepika Kumari (26) and Atanu Das (28) — kicked off at Deepika’s ancestral house at Ratu Chatti here on Sunday. ‘Bansaropam’ and ‘Kalyani Puja’ were held on Sunday morning, followed by‘haldi rasam’ in the afternoon. Deepika will tie the knot with her archer beau from Kolkata, Atanu Das, at a banquet hall in the Morhabadi area of Ranchi on Tuesday. “The pandemic has taken the sheen out of my daughter’s wedding, but we are still no less excited with the event,” Deepika’s father Shiv Narayana Mahto said, adding that the biggest challenge was to draw up the guest list. As per the government norms issued in the wake of Covid-19, no more than 50 people are allowed at a wedding ceremony. As a safety measure, the family has installed two sanitizer dispensers at the entrance of their house. They also plan to distribute masks and other safety kits to the attendees at the marriage venue. Both Deepika and Atanu have qualified for next year’s Tokyo Olympics and are set to become only the second married couple from India to participate in the quadrennial games. In the 1972 Munich Olympics, Vece Paes and his wife Jennifer Paes became the first Indian couple to take part in the Olympics. Paes is a former hockey player while his wife represented India in basketball.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pre-wedding-rituals-of-archer-deepika-begin-in-ranchi/articleshow/76678910.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro admin digs trenches to stop buses from plying||Bokaro: Authorities on Sunday dug two wide trenches at entry and exit points of the district bus stand at Nayamore here to prevent movement of buses, which are clandestinely ferrying passengers to other states. In Jharkhand, plying of both inter- and intra-state passenger buses are prohibited till July 31. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar said the action was taken after getting complaints about some interstate buses plying without permission during the lockdown. Warning both officials who are lenient on the matter and the bus owners, the DC said, “Under no circumstances, the buses should come out on the roads. If any vehicle is caught, strict legal action will be taken. The entry and exit points of the bus terminal are now blocked by digging trenches so that no bus can come in or go from there.” He ordered all police station in-charges and magistrates concerned to seize all buses found plying, except for those which are operated by the state government and district administrations to help migrant workers. Kumar also said he has directed the district transport officer, Santosh Garg, to investigate the complaints. The complaints said some buses are ferrying passengers to Bihar and districts bordering neighbouring states. Soon after the DC’s directive, Garg along with DSP Satrudhan Rajak inspected the bus stand and found several drivers, handymen and conductors inside their vehicles. When the officials questioned them, the bus operators replied that they were only guarding the vehicles. But the two officers did not trust them and dug the trenches after hiring a JCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-admin-digs-trenches-to-stop-buses-from-plying/articleshow/76678945.cms||Divy Khare
June 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘JS-BJP will restore Kapu reservation’||Visakhapatnam: The Jana Sena-BJP alliance will restore reservations for the Kapu community if they come into power in Andhra Pradesh, said Jana Sena general secretaries T Siva Sankar Rao and Bolisetty Satyanarayana. They said that they will restore Kapu reservations without affecting existing reserved categories. Speaking to the media in Visakhapatnam on Sunday, the two Jana Sena functionaries said that successive governments, from Congress to TDP to the current YSRC have used the numerically dominant Kapu community as a vote bank. “Before elections, every party makes innumerable promises to the community, but in the end, Kapus are shown an empty hand. For the last 35 years, only two families are ruling the state except for a couple of years,” T Siva Sankar Rao said. “Amidst the then growing Kapu movement, former CM N Chandrababu Naidu had promised to create a separate corporation for the Kapu community and had announced a yearly allocation of Rs 1,000 crore. But the TDP government spent only Rs 1,547 crore in its five-year rule against the promised Rs 5,000 crore,” Bolisetty Satyanarayana said. The duo added that the ruling YSRC is following in the footsteps of Naidu. They said that despite spending a meagre Rs 354 crore on the Kapu community, YSRC leaders claim they have allocated Rs 4,770 crore by including all welfare schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/js-bjp-will-restore-kapu-reservation/articleshow/76678625.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 13th Covid 19 death, 22 fresh cases||Ranchi: The Covid-19 death toll in Jharkhand rose to 13 after a 67-year-old man from Sahibganj’s Rajmahal block, who was under treatment at the Medica Hospital here, tested positive hours after his death. A total of 22 fresh cases were also detected in the state on Sunday. Sahebganj deputy commissioner Varun Ranjan on Sunday said the man suffered brain haemorrhage on June 24 and was taken to a hospital in the neighbouring Malda district of West Bengal. “He was brought to Medica Hospital by his family members,” Ranjan told TOI. Medical Hospital management said the man, who was admitted in the hospital on June 25, died at 4 am on Saturday. “His swab sample test reports arrived on Sunday evening, following which the report was duly informed to the Ranchi civil surgeon’s office and the state integrated disease surveillance programme cell on Saturday evening,” a hospital official said. Meanwhile, the state department of health, medical education and family welfare said 22 fresh positive cases were detected on Sunday. The number of positive cases in Jharkhand has now risen to 2,342. Overall, returning migrants made up for 82.3% of all positive cases in the state till Sunday evening. Among the fresh cases, Garhwa and Giridih have four infections each. Hazaribag, Koderma, Lohardaga and Seraikela-Kharsawan detected two cases each while East Singhbhum recorded three new cases. Bokaro and Simdega detected one case each, the department’s bulletin said. Moreover, 69 positive patients were discharged from seven districts after their recovery. In Simdega, 31 patients were discharged followed by 15 in Giridih and seven in Godda. Jharkhand’s recovery rate, which stood at 75.84%, was higher than the national average of 58.56%. Likewise, the state’s mortality rate (0.5%) was better than the national average of 3.04%. The doubling rate in the state stands at 40.65%. Late on Saturday night, chief minister Hemant Soren posted a newspaper clipping on his Twitter account to state that Jharkhand stood in the 21st spot among all other states when it came to Covid-19 infection. Beginning his tweet with a tinge of politicking, Soren said, “In this struggle, a few tried to instigate us and tried to turn us against each other. But the struggle is still ongoing, so please maintain social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-13th-covid-19-death-22-fresh-cases/articleshow/76679108.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||Abducted businessman found murdered in Sahebganj||Dumka: Abductors of a businessman, Arun Kumar Sah, shot him dead a day after an unsuccessful attempt by police to rescue him and arrest the criminals on Saturday. Sah’s bullet-riddled body was found from a field in Chhota Barmasiya village under Borio police station in Sahebganj district on Sunday. On Saturday, a police team had conducted a raid without success in Dubuthan village under Barhet police station to rescue the businessman. An exchange of fire had ensued between the criminals and police in which an ASI sustained bullet injuries, while another cop was injured on his head. Sah was kidnapped on June 20 when he was on his way to Rajmahal from his home on Tank Road in Borio. He was believed to have been kidnapped for ransom. Sahibganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta said, “The gang involved in the crime has been identified and will be nabbed soon.” Dumka DIG Narendra Kumar Singh visited Sahebganj on Sunday after the body of the businessman was recovered. He said, “Unfortunately, the abductors resorted to the murder after facing police heat. Dog squads and forensic experts have been pressed into service to nab the miscreants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/abducted-businessman-found-murdered-in-sahebganj/articleshow/76678699.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Govt to make special arrangement for GCET in zones||PANAJI: Around 3,000 students have registered for the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) on July 4 and 5, and the directorate of technical education (DTE) had said that students who are residing in containment zones should inform the directorate by 5pm on June 29 so that necessary arrangements could be made to appear for the test. The GCET is held for admissions to engineering and pharmacy degree programme seats in Goa. Up to the 5pm deadline on Monday, no student had contacted the DTE to state that they are residing in a containment zone and have registered to appear for the GCET, officials said. Since the situation is dynamic and new areas are being declared as containment zones, the DTE helpline will continue to accept calls from students requesting special arrangements to appear for the GCET, officials said. Sources said that even if students inform the DTE of their status by July 2, the same will be discussed with the health secretary and appropriate arrangements would be made. Candidates from containment zones, if any, will have to contact 9422454791 or 9307340467. DTE officials said that arrangements for thermal screening, sanitisation and social distancing have been made at all exam centres. The GCET will begin with the physics paper at 10am on July 4, followed by the chemistry paper at 2pm on the same day. The test will end with the maths paper on July 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-make-spl-arrangement-for-gcet-in-zones/articleshow/76698211.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||DVC to regulate power supply in 7 dists from June 1||Ranchi: Amidst reports of reduction of power supplies to seven districts of Jharkhand by Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) with effect from July 1 over non-payment of power bills, Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd.(JBVNL) on Sunday said steps have been initiated for early release of funds to the power major. Earlier this year from February 28 to March 14, DVC had cut power supplies to the seven districts — Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Bokaro, Giridih and Chatra — by as much as 50% after JBVNL faulted on payment of monthly power bills. “Talks are on with DVC on pending power bills. Payments to DVC have been delayed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Since JBVNL has purchased power from DVC, payments will be made. Delays in payments since March this year are due to reasons beyond our control. Steps have been initiated for early release of pending payments to the power major,” Rishi Nandan, general manager (commercial), JBVNL, told TOI. Power sources revealed that while no formal notice has been issued regarding reduction of power supplies to Jharkhand, DVC officials have already communicated to that they will begin to regulate power supplies with effect from July 1, next week, if pending power bills are not cleared by JBVNL. Sources added that in March this year, Rs 400 crore was released to DVC, though further payments have been delayed due to the prevailing Covid-19 crisis. On March 14 this year, JBVNL had signed an MoU with DVC undertaking to pay Rs 200 crore to DVC on account of power bills every month. Regarding accumulated pending bills, JBVNL promised to take steps to clear the outstanding amounts. JBVNL had further pointed out that a petition has already been filed before Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) for waiving Rs 2,000 crore claimed by DVC as penalty for non-payment of monthly power bills. JBVNL had pressed that pending a final decision by APTEL, normalcy in power supplies be ensured by DVC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dvc-to-regulate-power-supply-in-7-dists-from-june-1/articleshow/76678732.cms||Tapas Biswas
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||Probe ‘corruption’ during Raghubar tenure: JMM||Ranchi: Attacking the claims of “Bedaag Sarkar” by former chief minister Raghubar Das, ruling JMM on Sunday demanded a detailed probe into the “scams” in the state health department in the last five years. JMM’s demand is based on the recent CAG report which said over Rs 23 crore was misappropriated in the purchase of equipment for the dental institute of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). Rims governing body general secretary and chief spokesperson of JMM Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “The BJP government under Raghubar Das claims of clean governance falls flat after the findings of CAG and it proves how has the former chief minister in collusion with the then health minister has looted public money. There was widespread corruption in the health department.” Bhattacharya said if the amount runs to the tune of Rs 23 crore in the purchase of three types of equipment, then “we can imagine how many millions they must have looted during the last five years across various departments under the protection of Das”. He further said the party will bring these corrupt practices of the former government to the notice of chief minister Hemant Soren to get the investigations done. “All sorts of corruption by the previous government will be brought to the Soren and an investigation will be carried out. Those involved will not be spared and legal action will be initiated against them,” Bhattacharya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/probe-corruption-during-raghubar-tenure-jmm/articleshow/76678886.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||To boost sales, liquor sellers in Jharkhand urge Hemant govt to waive special tax||Ranchi: Taking a leaf out of their Delhi counterparts to boost sales, liquor retailers of Jharkhand urged the state government to waive off the special tax levied during the lockdown to make the price of alcohol cheaper. The Hemant Soren government allowed the state’s nearly 1,400 retail liquor stores to resume operations a little over a month ago but added 10% special tax and 25% VAT on the MRP to boost its revenues. The government is now contemplating a rollback of the special tax. The Jharkhand State Retail Liquor Sellers Association (JSRLSA) rued that after the tax was added, their normal average sale target was short by 45% in their nearly 40 days of opening. JSRLSA president Subodh Jaiswal said, “The Delhi government had imposed a cess of 70% on each bottle of IMFL. But after the sales dipped, it rolled back the cess earlier this month. Jharkhand government must roll back the 10% special tax it had imposed in May. Without the tax, a bottle of IMFL will be cheaper by at least Rs 30 and help the cash-strapped consumers.” He added that liquor sales are also suffering due to the prolonged lockdown and closure of the hospitality sector. After two months of closure, the state excise and prohibitions department allowed the sale of liquor on May 20 and a bottle of IMFL is pricier by at least Rs 30. The sale resumption, however, did not generate the desired revenue as sales remained a lowly 35% in the first couple of weeks. As per JSRLSA, the sales were 45% less till June 20. State minister for excise and prohibitions, Jagarnath Mahto, said, “Sales are very low as consumers do not have money to spend. We are discussing the matter and a call will be taken very soon.” Retailers have also sought a waiver in the monthly license fee citing poor sales. The excise department, which earned a little over Rs 1,900 crore in FY 2019-20, has set a revenue target of Rs 2,200 crore this fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/to-boost-sales-liquor-sellers-in-jharkhand-urge-hemant-govt-to-waive-special-tax/articleshow/76678925.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Senior Covid frontline doctor falls to the virus||NEW DELHI: A senior anaesthesiologist and professor at the forefront of Covid treatment at Lok Nayak Hospital succumbed to the virus on Sunday, sending shockwaves among the city’s medical fraternity. Dr Asheem Gupta (56) was recovering, after being hospitalised two weeks ago, when he developed pulmonary embolism — an arterial blockage in the lungs — leading to his sudden death. Over 1,500 healthcare workers in Delhi hospitals have tested positive for Covid since March. Deceased doctor’s wife also tested +ve, recoveredThey include 84 healthcare workers at Lok Nayak, 62 at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital and more than 500 at AIIMS. Gupta tested positive on June 3, Dr Suresh Kumar, director of Lok Nayak Hospital, the city’s biggest Covid treatment facility, told TOI. “He was very enthusiastic and worked hard to save lives. We are shocked and in sorrow after his demise,” Kumar said. This is the second death of a healthcare worker on Covid duty at Lok Nayak hospital. Charan Singh, a 59-year-old staffer who was in-charge of anaesthesia store at Lok Nayak, died due to Covid-19 last month, sources said. Gupta is likely to have contracted the infection from the hospital. He was initially kept in a quarantine facility. On June 7, when his symptoms aggravated, he was admitted to the ICU of Lok Nayak Hospital. His family decided to shift him to Max Smart, Saket a day later where the anaesthesiologist was administered plasma therapy twice, in addition to standard treatment. “On Saturday, I had spoken to the doctors and they confirmed there were signs of improvement. But suddenly he developed pulmonary embolism, a blockage of an artery in the lungs, which led to his death,” Dr Vinay Aggarwal, one of Dr Gupta’s friends, said. “Gupta's wife, who is also a doctor, had tested positive, but has recovered,” Aggarwal, an executive member of the Delhi Medical Council, added. “Apart from being a senior anaesthetist and professor, Gupta was vibrant and full of energy for patients and students alike. We are shocked by this sudden loss,” Dr Parv Mittal, president of the Resident Doctors’ Association of Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), said. “Gupta was a very live personality, always ready to help everyone around him. Patientcare has always been his priority. A big loss to the institute. We lost a good human being. I am speechless,” Dr Dhananjaya Sabat, an orthopaedic surgeon at Lok Nayak Hospital, said. Dr Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council (DMC), said healthcare workers risk their lives to save people. “Gupta was a dear friend and Covid warrior. I am devastated to hear about his sudden demise.” Watch Delhi: Senior Covid frontline doctor falls to the virus, shockwaves among city’s medical fraternity||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-senior-covid-frontline-doctor-falls-to-the-virus/articleshow/76680722.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 29, 2020||India||PM Cares got donations from Chinese companies: Congress||NEW DELHI: Slamming home minister Amit Shah for his comments, Cong- ress on Sunday asked if being “anti-national” meant asking questions about national security or falsely denying intrusions by China like PM Modi, as it accused the ruling BJP of politicising a serious issue by targeting political rivals over imagined allegations. AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said BJP was asking Congress about Rs 20 lakh received by the RGF in 2005, while the Rs 10,000 crore the PM Cares Fund has raised so far includes massive donations from Chinese corporates that have links with the Chinese army and the deep state. He said this has happened right during the Chinese intrusions since the fund was created only recently. Questioning the claim made by Shah, Singhvi said Rahul Gandhi’s “Surender Modi” comment was meant to urge Modi to accept Chinese aggression. Congress said the PM had not even uttered China’s name in his speeches. “If the PM had given us leadership by just saying that China is an aggressor which has come to our side of the LAC, the whole country would stand by him and work under his leadership to throw out China. But what the PM did was speak the opposite, that there were no intrusions, and that was applauded by China. And you accuse Congress. This is a joke,” Singhvi said. AICC accused the ruling party of raising unrelated issues like funding of RGF to divert attention. Singhvi said the PM Cares Fund donors are Chinese companies like Xiaomi which is connected to PLA, besides Paytm, TikTok and Oppo. At the same time, he said no party in India has such a deep relationship with the Communist party of China as BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-cares-got-donations-from-chinese-companies-congress/articleshow/76680744.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
June 29, 2020||India||For grid safety, India to check equipment for malware: Govt||NEW DELHI: Tightening import norms, India will check all power equipment bought from China for malware and Trojan horses that can be potentially used to trigger electricity grid failures to cripple economic activity in the country, power minister R K Singh said. India has in the recent days taken steps to impose stringent quality control measures and higher tariffs on goods from China as it looks to boost domestic manufacturing to cut reliance on imports. Singh said his renewable energy ministry has proposed imposing customs duties on some solar power equipment starting August 1st as part of the country’s goal of becoming self-sufficient. “Power is a very sensitive and strategic sector for any country. Electricity runs all industries, communication systems and all databases including strategic ones and so we have to guard it against any sabotage by countries which are adversaries or possible adversaries,” he said. “We want to build a firewall.” More tariff barriers, rigorous testing of foreign equipment and prior permission requirements for imports from adversary countries are some of the focus areas of India’s proposed power sector overhaul, he said. The move comes in the backdrop of India contemplating an economic response against China since the June 15 border clashes. Singh said some countries who are adversaries or potential adversaries will be identified as “prior reference countries”, and prior government permission will be required before importing any equipment from there. These countries are mostly the ones which share borders with India, including China and Pakistan. “We have reports that malware and Trojan horse can be installed which can be activated remotely to bring down the power sector and the economy,” he said. “Whatever equipment is made in India, we will purchase it. And those that are not made in India, we will import but check thoroughly to rule out the presence of any malware or Trojan horse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-grid-safety-india-to-check-equipment-for-malware-govt/articleshow/76680757.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Security guard posted at cinema hall hangs self in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A security guard at Delite cinema in Daryaganj allegedly hanged himself in the switch room at the cinema hall. The deceased has been identified as Sanjay Kumar, who belonged to Ballia, police said. "No external injuries were found on the body, which has been shifted to LHMC hospital," said a police officer. The cops received a call at the police control room on Sunday afternoon informing them about the incident. The guard was found hanging from a rope inside the switch room. An inquest proceeding is under way, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/security-guard-posted-at-cinema-hall-hangs-self-in-delhi/articleshow/76680759.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Ward boy at hospital dies of Covid-19 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A ward boy at Hindu Rao Hospital died of Covid-19, an official said on Sunday. He was 53 and also suffered from diabetes and hypertension. The hospital, which is run by North Delhi Municipal Corporation, was declared a Covid-dedicated facility on June 14. However, it started operation on Saturday. The ward boy was on staggered duty and came to work till June 19. He was admitted to hospital on June 26 and his report came positive on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ward-boy-at-hospital-dies-of-covid-19-in-delhi/articleshow/76680760.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||Nepal row catches footballers offside||DEHRADUN: Simmering tension between India and Nepal — due to Nepal claiming areas like Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani in Uttarakhand as part of its own territory — has hit a number of local football tournaments held in border towns in both countries. India and Nepal share a relatively porous border. While movement of people was not restricted much earlier, the border has been sealed following the lockdown and many locals fear it will remain so for a long time in view of the prevailing political situation. All this has meant that local tournaments that used to host footballers from across the border are now no longer in a position to do so. One such tournament that has been affected is the All India Kali Kumaon Cup, which is held at Tanakpur in Champawat district and sees participation of over 250 players out of which at least 40 are from Nepal. Neeraj Joshi, organiser of the tournament, told TOI, “Nepalese players are a big attraction in our tournament. It takes less than an hour for them to cross the border and reach Tanakpur. They are very good and therefore quite popular among our local spectators.” Pradeep Bora, also part of the organising committee of the tournament, said the intermingling of Indian and Nepalese footballers belonging to towns along the border has been on for the past few decades. “For us, it started in the 1970s when Nepalese traders from Mahendranagar used to come to Tanakpur to sell their wares. In the process, they started intermingling with the local community by playing football together,” said Bora. The participation of Nepalese players in tournaments — held in almost every other town in Uttarakhand along the Nepal border like Khatima, Tanakpur,Banbasa, Chakarpur and Lohaghat — has been a win-win situation for all concerned, say football enthusiasts. “The Nepalese raise the bar of the competition and bring a foreign team tag which helps draw spectators. It also helps our players as they get exposure to the playing style of the Nepalese and in the process get to improve their game,” said Amit Ghildiyal, organiser of a tournament at Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar. Football legend Shyam Thapa told TOI that despite the current political turmoil between the two countries, India and Nepal’s relation will always be healthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-row-catches-footballers-offside/articleshow/76680765.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 29, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur tops in active Covid cases, cured patients in Rajasthan rise to 13,611||JAIPUR: Eight more Covid deaths were reported across the state on Sunday taking the casualty count to 399. The number of total infections reached 17,271 with 327 more positive cases.  While Jaipur reported its 157th death, Jhunjhunu witnessed just its second casualty. Ajmer reported its 17th Covid death, Alwar recorded its 6th fatality while two persons from another state also added to the toll. Two persons died in Bharatpur taking the district's toll to 34.  Districts which reported new cases are Bikaner (44), Alwar (40), Jodhpur (39), Jaipur (38), Jhunjhunu (23), Dholpur (18), Bharatpur (18), Sirohi (15), Ajmer (11), Barmer (11), Kota (10), Jalore (8), Pali (7), Banswara (5), Bhilwara (5), Rajsamand (5), Karauli (5), Udaipur (4), Sikar (3), Dausa (3), Hanumangarh (3), Chittorgarh (2), Dungarpur (2), Churu (2), Pratapgarh (1), Sawai Madhopur (1), Jaisalmer (1) and three from other states. Sixteen foreign returnees, who landed in Jaipur under Vande Bharat mission, have been found infected and have been kept in institutional quarantine.  Jaipur has the highest number of active cases at 625, followed by Jodhpur (364), Dholpur (353) and Bharatpur (316). As many as 244 Covid patients have been cured taking the tally of recovered patients to 13,611.  In Jaipur, 18 different places reported 38 cases. The areas are Jhotwara (4), Kunda in Amber (2), Vaishali Nagar (2), while one each case was reported from Bani Park, Bassi, Durgapura, Triveni Nagar, Jagatpura, Kho Nagoriyan, Kotputli, Mahesh Nagar, Murlipura, Shahpura, Shastri Nagar, Agrasen Nagar, Vidhyadhar Nagar and Paota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-tops-in-active-covid-cases-cured-patients-in-rajasthan-rise-to-13611/articleshow/76680786.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||Government border roads order to stock up LPG sends J&K into a tizzy||SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: The Jammu & Kashmir administration has asked state-run fuel retailers to stock up on cooking gas cylinders to keep supplies going for two months in the Kashmir Valley even if road connectivity is disrupted due to frequent landslides or flooding during the monsoon. The order triggered wild speculation and people began linking it to the deadly border stand-off with China in Ladakh and the large military deployment there. Food and consumer affairs director Bashir Ahmad said it was a routine order and there was nothing unusual about it. Senior executives from oil companies responsible for maintaining supplies in the Valley also emphatically said the order had no connection with the situation in Ladakh. Indeed, the order very clearly says the buffer stock is being created to avoid shortages when “frequent landslides” disrupt traffic on National Highway-1, the main road link to Jammu and the mainland. It asks oil companies to stock up bulk LPG at their bottling plants and cylinders in godowns of distributors. Ladakh, even after remaining cut off during the winter, is better off in terms of LPG supplies because of an IndianOil bottling plant built near Leh. Former CM Omar Abdullah said these orders were creating panic in Kashmir. “After all the lies and false assurances last year, even if/when the government explains these orders, hardly any of us will take the assurances at face value,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-border-roads-order-to-stock-up-lpg-sends-jk-into-a-tizzy/articleshow/76680788.cms||M Saleem Pandit
June 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Faridabad cases surge, growing faster than Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Having added more than 3,000 cases in a month, Faridabad’s share in the Haryana Covid-19 count is growing and chipping away at that of Gurugram. It has been adding more cases than Gurugram every day over the past week and its recovery rate, while going up, is not as high as that of Gurugram. At the beginning of the month, Faridabad had just 416 cases, making up 17.6% of Haryana’s 2,356 cases. By mid-June, that went up a notch — to 18.2% of Haryana’s 7,722 cases. But in just the past two weeks, it added 2,050 cases, its case share going to 21.8% by June 22 and 24.9% by Sunday. Its case growth rate had been uneven but shot up over the past week — from 7.3% in the first week, it dipped to 5.5% in the second, rose a little to 5.9% in the third and has surged to 7.79% now. It added 1,220 cases over the past week. Gurugram’s case share in the state, meanwhile, has been dipping — as of Sunday, at 37.3%, it is lower than it was on June 1 (38.3%). Over the next week, it had shot up to 44.6% and 45% by the next (June 15). It dipped till June 22 (40.9%) and further over the following week till Sunday. Its case growth rate has been dipping sharply — the growth rate tends to fall as the base figure of the number of cases rises. At the end of the first week of June, its case growth rate had been 8.3%. By the next week, it fell to 5.39%, then 3.2% over the next and stands at 2% now. Over the past week, Faridabad has consistently been adding more cases every day than Gurugram has. The state health bulletin stated that Faridabad had added 131 cases on Sunday to reach 3,456 cases of which 1,554 were active. Later in the evening, however, the district bulletin had put the number of active cases at 1,302 after 225 recoveries. The change did not reflect in the state bulletin at the time of filing this report. Gurugram added 88 cases on Sunday and has 5,158 cases now, of which 1,326 cases are active, very close to that of Faridabad. The Faridabad health department said the surge in Covid-19 cases was because more people were coming forward for testing — 2,230 samples were sent for testing over the past week alone. And with 50% of the samples being sent to private labs, the results are back faster. “People are being careful and are getting themselves tested even if mild symptoms appear, which is good. So we are getting more cases every day. Besides, with things opening up, people are moving around more,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy chief medical officer of Faridabad. The testing numbers bear that out — between March and May 31, Faridabad had tested 12,318 samples. In June alone, it has tested 10,248 so far. The recovery rate, while increasing by the week — from 38% in the first week of June to 29% in the second, 31% in the third and 43% in the fourth — is still lower than that of Gurugram. In fact, Gurugram had more recoveries (1,121) than new cases (642) on Sunday. Since June 1, Gurugram added 4,380 of its 5,154 Covid-19 cases reported so far. As of Sunday, 1,327 of Gurugram’s 5,154 cases are active. Since the second week of June, the recovery rate of Gurugram has been rising. In the first week, the recovery rate of Gurugram was a low 13.7%. The Covid-19 surge had just begun in Gurugram. By the end of the second week, that rose to 60.78% and to 71.1% by third week and it further rose to 72.7% in the fourth week of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/faridabad-has-25-of-states-cases-share-of-gurgaon-shrinks/articleshow/76679666.cms||Vishakha Chaman
June 29, 2020||Faridabad||Faridabad cases surge, growing faster than Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Having added more than 3,000 cases in a month, Faridabad’s share in the Haryana Covid-19 count is growing and chipping away at that of Gurugram. It has been adding more cases than Gurugram every day over the past week and its recovery rate, while going up, is not as high as that of Gurugram. At the beginning of the month, Faridabad had just 416 cases, making up 17.6% of Haryana’s 2,356 cases. By mid-June, that went up a notch — to 18.2% of Haryana’s 7,722 cases. But in just the past two weeks, it added 2,050 cases, its case share going to 21.8% by June 22 and 24.9% by Sunday. Its case growth rate had been uneven but shot up over the past week — from 7.3% in the first week, it dipped to 5.5% in the second, rose a little to 5.9% in the third and has surged to 7.79% now. It added 1,220 cases over the past week. Gurugram’s case share in the state, meanwhile, has been dipping — as of Sunday, at 37.3%, it is lower than it was on June 1 (38.3%). Over the next week, it had shot up to 44.6% and 45% by the next (June 15). It dipped till June 22 (40.9%) and further over the following week till Sunday. Its case growth rate has been dipping sharply — the growth rate tends to fall as the base figure of the number of cases rises. At the end of the first week of June, its case growth rate had been 8.3%. By the next week, it fell to 5.39%, then 3.2% over the next and stands at 2% now. Over the past week, Faridabad has consistently been adding more cases every day than Gurugram has. The state health bulletin stated that Faridabad had added 131 cases on Sunday to reach 3,456 cases of which 1,554 were active. Later in the evening, however, the district bulletin had put the number of active cases at 1,302 after 225 recoveries. The change did not reflect in the state bulletin at the time of filing this report. Gurugram added 88 cases on Sunday and has 5,158 cases now, of which 1,326 cases are active, very close to that of Faridabad. The Faridabad health department said the surge in Covid-19 cases was because more people were coming forward for testing — 2,230 samples were sent for testing over the past week alone. And with 50% of the samples being sent to private labs, the results are back faster. “People are being careful and are getting themselves tested even if mild symptoms appear, which is good. So we are getting more cases every day. Besides, with things opening up, people are moving around more,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy chief medical officer of Faridabad. The testing numbers bear that out — between March and May 31, Faridabad had tested 12,318 samples. In June alone, it has tested 10,248 so far. The recovery rate, while increasing by the week — from 38% in the first week of June to 29% in the second, 31% in the third and 43% in the fourth — is still lower than that of Gurugram. In fact, Gurugram had more recoveries (1,121) than new cases (642) on Sunday. Since June 1, Gurugram added 4,380 of its 5,154 Covid-19 cases reported so far. As of Sunday, 1,327 of Gurugram’s 5,154 cases are active. Since the second week of June, the recovery rate of Gurugram has been rising. In the first week, the recovery rate of Gurugram was a low 13.7%. The Covid-19 surge had just begun in Gurugram. By the end of the second week, that rose to 60.78% and to 71.1% by third week and it further rose to 72.7% in the fourth week of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/faridabad-has-25-of-states-cases-share-of-gurgaon-shrinks/articleshow/76680872.cms||Vishakha Chaman
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Rift between ministers hits Karnataka’s Covid-19 battle||BENGALURU: With the number of confirmed cases in Karnataka breaching the 13,000 mark on Sunday fuelled largely by a surge in Bengaluru numbers, the state administration’s response to the spread of the pandemic has come under the scanner with a fourth minister taking charge of Covid operations in three months. Revenue minister R Ashoka has been saddled with Covid matters after medical education minister K Sudhakar went into self-quarantine that is set to end on Monday. Before that, health minister B Sriramulu and deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan held the baton. This has become a cause of concern among bureaucrats since there’s a lack of coordination among departments. A bureaucrat involved in the pandemic control measures said, “The blame lies with the political leadership and frequent changes at the helm of affairs.” In contrast, Kerala and Andhra CMs have taken control of their state’s response to the pandemic in an effective manner, sources said. Ashoka thanks CM, inspects hospAshoka is not part of the Covid-19 ministerial task force that comprises Sriramulu, Sudhakar, Narayan and home minister Basavaraj Bommai. The differences between ministers aren’t a secret anymore. Sudhakar recently issued instructions to officers to take over public places, including Kanteerava Stadium, to set up Covid Care Centres with beds and meet the target of providing 10,000 beds for asymptomatic cases in Bengaluru. In the past week, some of the identified locations have been struck off the list. Ashoka, who was handed the responsibility of Covid-19 operations in Bengaluru last week, thanked the chief minister in a tweet and went around the city. He visited Victoria hospital on Saturday, something that didn’t go well with Sudhakar, who complained that some people “did not have the basic courtesy” to inform him of the visit. Later, Sudhakar said he would return to office on Tuesday after his quarantine ends on Monday, but Ashoka seems entrenched in his new responsibility. Worried that Covid-19 concerns have taken a back seat in this fight, Sriramulu said he would talk to Ashoka and Sudhakar at the task force meeting on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rift-between-ministers-hits-karnatakas-covid-19-battle/articleshow/76680791.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
June 29, 2020||World||‘China can’t treat SCS as its maritime empire’||WASHINGTON: The United States has welcomed the statement by members of the Asean countries that South China Sea disputes should be resolved in line with the international law, US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said on Saturday. “The United States welcomes Asean leaders’ insistence that South China Sea disputes be resolved in line with international law, including UNCLOS (United Nations Convention for the Law of the Sea). China cannot be allowed to treat the SCS as its maritime empire,” Pompeo tweeted. After the 36th Asean summit on Friday, a joint statement was issued by the members of the bloc expressing concerns over the current situation in the South China Sea. They laid emphasis on the “importance of non-militarisation and self-restraint in the conduct of activities that would complicate or escalate disputes and affect peace and stability, and avoid actions that may further complicate the situation.” Several islands and territories in the South China Sea are claimed by Beijing, but other countries including Indonesia, the Philippines and Brunei also have their territorial claim in the hotly contested region. Earlier, Pompeo tweeted on June 2 that the US has sent a letter to the UN secretary-general to protest China’s “unlawful South China Sea maritime claims”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/china-cant-treat-scs-as-its-maritime-empire/articleshow/76680798.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Goa increases contact tracing in Moti Dongor, 197 tested on Sunday||MARGAO: After a Moti Dongor resident was detected positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, four more residents of the area were found to be infected on Sunday. Three family members of the index case also tested positive. “Reports of the throat swab samples of 23 persons from the immediate neighbourhood (of the index case) returned negative. On Sunday, 197 swab samples were drawn and their testing is under way,” deputy director, health services, Dr Ira Almeida, said. Margao police have set up nakabandi in the area by placing barricades at road junctions to monitor movement of vehicles. The urban health centre, Margao, is closely monitoring the situation in view of the death of a 76-year-old woman from Fatorda. “We had already carried out extensive contact tracing in Fatorda earlier when this woman had tested positive. We are keeping a close watch now,” health officer, urban health centre, Margao, Dr Anju Kharangate, told TOI. Health officials have advised Fatorda residents not to lower their guard though they may have tested negative during the contact tracing. “Social distancing, wearing masks and personal hygiene is very important. A negative test is no guarantee that you are immune to contracting the virus,” Kharangate said. The contact tracing has pointed out links of the deceased Fatorda woman to Ambelim, which has seen a spike in covid cases after a priest tested positive last week, Dr Almeida said. Though the woman hadn’t visited Ambelim, sources said, she probably contracted the virus from one of her daughters who had attended the prayer service at Ambelim and later tested positive. “This is a classic case which explains why asymptomatic positive patients are kept in isolation. While younger people are most likely to recover from the infection without any treatment, their isolation helps in preventing the spread of the virus to vulnerable people like the elderly,” Dr Almeida said. Meanwhile, 11 more from South Goa tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-increases-contact-tracing-in-moti-dongor-197-tested-on-sunday/articleshow/76679625.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka sees 1,267 new Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru 783||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,267 Covid-19 cases, crossing the 1,000-mark for the first time. Bengaluru reported 783 of the cases, its highest in 24 hours. Sixteen deaths were reported and four of them were from the city. The state’s toll is 207. Karnataka has 13,190 positive cases and Bengaluru 3,314. Pregnant patient made to wait for hoursWhile there were 2,692 active cases in Bengaluru on Sunday, no official was ready to confirm where patients had been accommodated. “No patients are at home. Our endeavour is to shift them within 6-8 hours,” BBMP chief Anil Kumar said. Chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said: “Out of 2,992 beds available today in Bengaluru, 1451 beds are occupied and 1,541 beds are available. Shifting of patients is going on 24x7. Some patients have self-checked into private hospitals. We are updating this information.” A six months’ pregnant Covid-19 patient was made to wait for a bed for hours on Sunday evening in front of the Covid Care Centre at Haj Bhavan. “She was taken to Haj Bhavan from a quarantine centre, after testing positive. After coming her, she was told that there are no beds available. Why take a pregnant woman when there are no beds available?” her relatives lamented, as the woman’s wait lasted beyond 10 pm. Sarfaraz Khan, BBMP joint commissioner, health looking after Covid Care Centres, said he would look into the matter. “There are many who have come without registration. A patient turning out positive has to register with the government helpline before coming to the Covid care centres. We have several challenges as more than 50 patients have come. There were some patients who are negative but are still seeking beds,” said Khan. Haj Bhavan with a capacity of 400 beds and is almost occupied. Asked it the surge was an indication of community transmission, commissioner Anil Kumar said, “Yes, it is community spread to some extent.” “It can be termed as a large outbreak amenable to containment,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and member of state’s Covid-19 expert committee. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department said that the government’s focus is to treat and save lives. “I request citizens to cooperate by using masks, social distancing and reporting to fever clinics or calling Apthamitra in case they have Influenza like illness. Our discipline will help us in saving lives,” he said. Data provided by the government also lacked information on the mode of transmission, like whether the patient had travel history. “With the surge in the number of cases, contact tracing has become a challenge,” admitted an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-sees-1267-new-covid-19-cases-bengaluru-783/articleshow/76680818.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Salcete villages under lockdown||MARGAO: Assolna, Ambelim and Carmona villages in Salcete have currently gone in for voluntary lockdown for a varying number of days ranging from eight to 10 as a preventive measure against coronavirus. While shops and commercial establishments will remain voluntarily closed, stores dealing in essential goods will be remain open for a few hours in the morning. Cuncolim will be under voluntary lockdown from June 28 to July 5. Assolna is observing a 10-day lockdown since Saturday. Only shops dealing in essential commodities are open from 9am to 11am. Ambelim is under lockdown from June 27 to July 5. Shops selling essential goods are allowed to remain open from 7am to 11am. Carmona has also gone in for voluntary lockdown for a 10-day period. Essential goods stores are open from 7am to 12pm. In Curtorim many shops have gone in for voluntary lockdown. Curtorim MLA Alexio Reginaldo Lourenco was on Sunday seen moving around in a rickshaw urging villagers not to move out unnecessarily for a period of 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/salcete-villages-under-lockdown/articleshow/76679687.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||Migrants not quarantining, say Cuncolim locals||QUEPEM: The Cuncolim Municipal Council (CMC) has directed the management of the Cuncolim industrial estate to monitor migrant workers who are returning to Goa from different states and undergoing Covid swab tests and home quarantine. CMC chairperson Succorina Coutinho said that she had written to the field manager of the industrial estate for a meeting on June 26 to discuss the issue. “However, the meeting was cancelled since the field manager had to undergo home quarantine after he underwent a Covid-19 test,” she said. Coutinho told TOI that Cuncolim residents brought to the council’s notice that migrants who enter Goa are roaming freely without observing the seven-day home quarantine. “When they reach the border, they give the address of their factory which is inside the industrial estate, but they stay elsewhere without council’s and factory owners’ knowledge. The people of Cuncolim are scared that these migrant workers will spread the virus,” said Coutinho. Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias said he told the industrial estate’s manager that all migrants entering the state should be quarantined in their respective factories or the factory owners must arrange for their home quarantine. Coutinho said that she will call for a meeting on Monday with the field manager of the industrial estate and CMC councillors. “We will instruct them to strictly man the two main gates of the industrial estate and allow migrant labourers to enter only after they produce their identity,” she said. Meanwhile, two Covid positive cases have been reported in Cuncolim. The medical officer of the Balli health centre, Dr Mamata Kakodkar, said both cases are linked to those at Ambelim village. Kakodkar said that a lady from Comba, Paricotto, who was working at a home for the aged in Cuncolim had attended a prayer service at a chapel at Ambelim, where the priest tested positive for the virus, while another woman from Balli-Cuncolim had attended a wedding in Ambelim, where the bride had later tested positive. “The entire municipal area and Balli were sanitised on Friday,” the Cuncolim MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migrants-not-quarantining-say-cuncolim-locals/articleshow/76679701.cms||Johnny M
June 29, 2020||Goa||Govt’s SOP based on whims: GFP||Panaji: The GFP on Monday questioned the delay in implementing the SOP for returning Goans, which permits 14-day home quarantine. GFP said that the government was trying to make money out of big cruise firms while leaving other stranded Goans, who could not pay, to their fate. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that the government’s SOP for seafarers is based on “whims and fancies” and not uniform in any sense. “Why has the SOP agreed and announced by chief minister Pramod Sawant on June 10 still not been notified by the collectors?” he said. “For leeway to use it as per whims and fancies depending on pressure? Why is it not applied to those coming by air?” On June 10, Sawant had said that incoming passengers will have the option of either home quarantine or paid testing, but the option has not been made applicable to seafarers. On Monday, 474 seafarers arrived on the cruise vessel Norwegian Escape. They are being tested and results are expected on Tuesday after which they will be sent home for 14-day quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govts-sop-based-on-whims-gfp/articleshow/76698195.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi pays tribute to ‘visionary leader’||NEW DELHI: Congress’ Rahul Gandhi on Sunday paid tribute to former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao. In a Facebook post, Rahul Gandhi wrote, “My tribute to former Congress President and Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao Ji on his birth anniversary.” The Congress official handle said in a tweet: “We honour P V Narsimha Rao, a visionary leader who oversaw major economic transformations of the Indian economy. His contributions to the nation shall never be forgotten.” Narasimha Rao had been Prime Minister from 1991 to 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-pays-tribute-to-visionary-leader/articleshow/76680826.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Private hospitals in Bengaluru told to spare beds or face power, water cuts||BENGALURU: Bescom and BWSSB officials visited several private hospitals in Bengaluru on Sunday, allegedly asking them to agree to share 50% of their beds with the government. “They threatened us that water and power supply will be disconnected to the hospitals...” heads of the private hospitals told TOI. Bescom MD Rajesh Gowda said, “The teams visited private hospitals to check on beds available for Covid-19 patients. If private hospitals don’t fall in line, they will face action.” Official sources said the government will be forced to appoint an administrator in every private hospital to facilitate admission of Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/private-hospitals-in-bengaluru-told-to-spare-beds-or-face-power-water-cuts/articleshow/76680827.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 29, 2020||Goa||Mangor locals want to move out of zone||Vasco: Tense moments were witnessed at the Mangor Hill containment zone in Vasco after hundreds of residents from the Chota Mangor gathered at the barricades demanding that they be allowed to move out of the area or shift elsewhere after testing negative for Covid-19. They told police that they wanted a government official to come and listen to their grievances. They said they it has been almost a month since they were locked down and have exhausted their groceries and money. After the executive magistrate told them that the deputy collector would meet them on Monday, the crowd finally dispersed in about an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-locals-want-to-move-out-of-zone/articleshow/76679727.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 29, 2020||Goa||Five children of Fatorda deceased test positive||PANAJI: Five children of the 76-year-old who died of Covid-19 on Saturday also tested positive, three days after her. All five children of the Fatorda woman have been admitted to a Covid care centre. The directorate of health services has established an Ambelim link to the family testing positive. “One of the woman’s children went with her son to Ambelim to receive blessings, following which she gave it to others in the family. All the family members were not living in Fatorda. Some were in Curtorim, Chinchinim, etc,” deputy director health services Dr Ira Almeida said, adding, “The woman didn’t go out, but the virus was carried to her from elsewhere.” The woman, who had hypertension, was admitted to a private hospital on June 20. When she tested positive and was awaiting an ambulance, she decided to go home. “Doctors managed to convince her to get admitted at ESI hospital the same day. She was taken to the ICU and was there for more than a week before she passed away,” Almeida said. The third patient to have died to Covid within six days, she was on non-invasive ventilator (NIV). The first two to succumb to Covid on Monday were an 85-year-old male from Morlem, Sattari, and 58-year-old-male from Kharewada, Fatorda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-children-of-fatorda-deceased-test-positive/articleshow/76679730.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Goa||‘Kuwait flight not arranged by govt’||Panaji: Days after an IndiGo flight returned from Kuwait with 162 Goans, ostensibly as part of the Centre’s Vande Bharat Mission, criticism has surfaced online slamming the state government and the Centre for taking credit for the repatriation efforts. Two individuals Sebastian Noronha and Valencio Rodrigues, who played a major role along with 13 other individuals in gathering data on stranded Goans and arranging the flights, took to social media with the claim that the flight was not part of the Vande Bharat Mission. “For the last month my friend Prince Prasad in Kuwait, Valencio Rodrigues in Goa and I have been working day and night to put this flight together,” said Noronha. Noronha said that they took the help of Kuwait-based Kapico Travels and Tours and MLAs Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco and Rohan Khaunte. “The news has been spread that this was a Vande Bharat flight,” said Noronha. Goa Airport director Gagan Malik said that the error was due to a miscommunication by IndiGo, which said that the flight was part of the Vande Bharat mission. Malik posted a copy of the communication with IndiGo online. An airline official said that all international repatriation flights are being cleared by the Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of civil aviation and ministry of home affairs under Vande Bharat Mission. “Vande Bharat Mission is the repatriation operation undertaken by ministry of civil aviation. The routes and flights are cleared by MOCA. IndiGo requested for landing slots under Vande Bharat,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kuwait-flight-not-arranged-by-govt/articleshow/76679738.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||Russian army museum showcases bravery of soldier from Pithoragarh during WWII||PITHORAGARH: The photograph and citation of an Indian soldier, Hawaldar Gajendra Singh, a native of village Badalu in Pithoragarh district, has been included in the Russian army museum’s gallery of gallant soldiers in Moscow. Singh was awarded the ‘Order of the Red Star’, a Soviet military decoration, for his bravery in the Second World War in 1944. Apart from him, only one other Indian soldier, hailing from Tamil Nadu, has been honoured with the ‘Order of the Red Star.’ The Indian embassy in Moscow informed the family of the dead soldier about the felicitation last week. A letter signed by DB Venkatesh Verma, the Indian ambassador to Russia, was sent to the family in which the ambassador, referring to the inclusion of Singh’s name in the Russian armed forces museum, termed it “a matter of great pride for India and a testament to the bonds of friendship between India and the Russian federation.” Speaking to TOI, Bhagwan Singh, the soldier’s son, said that his father was recruited in the British Indian Army in 1936. “My father told us he was sent to Chakwal (Rawalpindi), which is now in Pakistan, for training after which he was posted in the Royal Indian Army Service Corps. Most of his service was in the North-West Frontier Province which is now Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa area.” Reminiscing further, Bhagwan Singh said, “ My father told us that when WWII broke out, he was posted at Basara in Iraq. As part of the Allied Forces, he was deputed to carry ration, arms and ammunition to Soviet soldiers through difficult terrain. One night in 1943 when he was on duty, he was attacked by enemy soldiers and badly wounded. Army doctors advised that he be sent back to India but my father insisted on staying. After his recovery, he joined his battalion again and continued to supply provisions to Soviet soldiers.” He added that “seeing his dedication towards duty, the Soviet army awarded him the ‘Order of the Red Star’ in July 1944.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/russian-army-museum-showcases-bravery-of-soldier-from-pithoragarh-during-wwii/articleshow/76680835.cms||Prem Punetha
June 29, 2020||Delhi||Restobars, clubs can sell beer stock expiring by July 15 to liquor shops, says Delhi government||Delhi government has allowed the city's restobars, hotels, and clubs to sell their stock of beer expiring by July 15 to liquor shops in a bid to minimise their financial losses, an official said on Sunday. There are around 950 hotels, clubs and restobars in the national capital that have an excise license but have not been allowed to open since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown was announced. Earlier this month, the government had allowed the owners of such establishments to sell to liquor shops their stock of beer expiring in June. "The department has now allowed restobars, hotels and clubs to sell their stock of beer expiring by July 15 to liquor shops in the city," the official said. The shelf life of beer in Delhi is around six months, the official said. "Hotel, clubs and restaurants licensees shall prepare an inventory of all beer stock, with barcode, which is to be transferred at licensed vend," the excise department said in an order. According to the process, the owners of restobars, clubs, and hotels will have to reach an agreement with the liquor vend owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restobars-clubs-can-sell-beer-stock-expiring-by-july-15-to-liquor-shops-says-delhi-government/articleshow/76680842.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mumbai||Won’t lift lockdown on July 1, but more easing on way: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray made it clear on Sunday that the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state would not be lifted after June 30, but more relaxations would be given to speed up the economy. Thackeray iterated that extending the relaxations did not mean that the Covid-19 crisis had ended. “We are walking on the edge; we have to walk slowly. Just because relaxations are being given people shouldn’t think that battle is over. It is not,” said the CM, who completed seven months in office on Sunday. Existing restrictions in containment zones in MMR, Thane and Pune will continue, a senior government official told TOI. Elsewhere, district collectors and municipal commissioners will be empowered to grant relaxations. Attendance in offices is likely to be increased further from the existing 10%, and frequency of suburban trains will be increased from 15-20 minutes to five minutes from Tuesday. The official also said that malls, gymnasiums, swimming pools would continue to remain closed; taxis would be permitted to operate only for specified emergencies. Maharashtra remains the worst Covid-hit state with a tally of almost 1.65 lakh cases, of which more than 75,000 are in Mumbai. Over 7,400 people have died in the state so far. State may augment road public transport in further relaxationsAppealing to citizens to refrain from crowding, the CM added: “If we find that people are venturing out without any reason or travelling unnecessarily, we will have no option but to go for the stricter imposition of the lockdown again in the areas with a rise in the cases…Should we go back to the strict lockdown? I want to ask the public. It will all depend on your discipline.” Thackeray also warned of a possible rise in Covid-19 cases in the next few days as Maharashtra is slowly restarting its economy, but assured that the government is adequately prepared to handle the surge. “There is also a change in our strategy; rather than waiting for the virus to attack us, we are going after the virus. The ‘chase the virus’ approach adopted by Mumbai will now be implemented across the state, ” the CM said. On May 31, a day after the Centre announced significant relaxations under ‘Unlock 1’, the Maharashtra government had extended the lockdown till June 30, but announced several relaxations and phase-wise resumption of services under its ‘Mission Begin Again’. A senior official said discussions are on on allowing more road public transport facilities and increasing the number of staffers in private offices. “We will not be announcing all relaxations in one go…We have to also keep in mind that monsoon has arrived and there could be a rise in rain-related diseases,” the official said. Thackeray thanked all religious trusts that have agreed to host low-key celebrations this year. “On July 1, it is Aashadi Ekadashi. This year, we have not allowed the Wari pilgrimage. But, I will be going to Pandharpur to pray to Vithoba to help us get us out of this pandemic safe and sound,” said the CM. He added that he has asked the Centre to give a three month extension to the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana, under which free ration is provided to citizens with saffron card and even those who do not possess a ration card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wont-lift-lockdown-on-july-1-but-more-easing-on-way-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/76680831.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Agencies struggle with surge; hospitalisation and reporting hit||BENGALURU: Two days after testing positive for Covid-19, a 39-year-old JP Nagar businessman was still waiting in his house on Sunday for the BBMP to pick him up and get him admitted to a hospital. His brother, meanwhile, has developed symptoms, while the family is wracked by anxiety. The businessman is not alone waiting to get hospitalised hours — and, sometimes, a couple of days — after turning positive. With the surge in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru throwing up logistical challenges, multiple agencies are struggling to coordinate their responses. The result: A delay in medical help reaching new positive cases as well as lag in reporting cases. The labs report test results to ICMR, which sounds out the surveillance unit of the district administration. In Bengaluru, BBMP is in charge of surveillance and has the responsibility of ferrying the patients to hospitals, after identifying the beds in co-ordination with the health department. ‘Involvement of multiple agencies causing delay in fresh cases getting reported’Asked about the delay in Covid-19 case reporting from BBMP, the officers said the involvement of multiple agencies like labs, ICMR, government and civic bodies is causing the delay. The JP Nagar resident admitted he had no clue if he has already been counted among Covid-19 patients and figures in the state’s as well as the BBMP data. He told TOI that he developed fever last week and, on his family doctor’s advice, got himself swabbed on Thursday at a private lab. The next evening, the lab informed him of the positive result. He said the BBMP, too, contacted him about his positive report and he sought their help to locate a private hospital to get admitted. On Sunday, he approached his area MLA Soumya Reddy seeking her intervention. Officials involved across agencies admitted to the involvement of multiple agencies causing the delay in the fresh cases getting counted and reaching the treatment stage. “The BBMP checks the ICMR portal only between 9am and 9 pm every day, whereas the ICMR updates it round the clock. There are possibilities of a lag. Henceforth, the labs will inform the civic agency and we will then contact the patients and take them to hospitals,” D Randeep, special commissioner, Covid-19, said. “There will be at least a day’s lag in BBMP is attending to cases. The spike in cases has created a delay at every stage. The sudden spike in BBMP data -- 596 on Saturday and 783 on Sunday -- is just a consequence of this accrued delay being addressed in one go,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-agencies-struggle-with-surge-hospitalisation-and-reporting-hit/articleshow/76680832.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 29, 2020||India||Nude pics, video chats, no kiss: SOPs for sex workers||* She cleans the tiny room in her brothel with soap water more than she is used to. Then, instead of chatting with her friends when she is free, this 32-year-old sex worker, like many others in Pune’s red-light area — Budhwar Peth — goes online to learn how to indulge in erotic talks, striptease and phone sex.* 25-year-old Laila Das in Kolkata’s Sonagachhi says clients make weird requests. Apart from asking for nude photos, some even want to see girls wearing “lal-paar saree” (white saree with a red-border). Pandering to them, she says, is getting her clients back again.* For the last two months, Lakshmi has hardly stepped out of her home in Chennai. But every night, after her children go to bed, the 35-year-old sex worker puts on makeup before wandering up to the terrace to make surreptitious calls to her clientele.Sex workers in cities across the country are back to work, and how. If masks are a must for them and their clients, many are taking to striptease and dancing to keep the business running. But what’s bringing in the moolah in the time of virus — and keeping them safe from Covid — is e-sex, as many sex workers take to their smartphones for sex chats and video sex. Many are even getting trained in this new “art.” Sex workers are trying new ways, even in cities that do not have a red light area. In Bengaluru, some social organisations are conducting classes for women to make better use of technology, mainly to accept payment through e-wallets.“Most of the sex workers in Tamil Nadu are ‘hidden’ as there is no designated red light area. Some women say that they find it inconvenient as they are in their own homes with their partners and children,” says Shyamala Nataraj, executive director, South Indian AIDS Action Programme. In Chennai, the more ‘privileged’ among them, who have access to mobile phones and internet, are turning to phone sex and virtual sexual encounters to keep regular clientele interested. “Many clients make WhatsApp video calls to sex workers. If they like her, they strike a bargain,” says Gajalakshmi, former peer educator. Money is transferred into the sex workers account, using GPay or any other digital platform. Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee works for welfare of sex workers in Kolkata’s Sonagachhi. Its founder Smarajit Jana says the lockdown has resulted in spike in virtual sex. “A big number has gone for phone and video. Some want to engage in question/answer sessions. Others ask for videos,” says Jana. In Bengaluru, a small section of sex workers has taken the technology route through Zoom, Telegram, WhatsApp and Skype and accepting payments via e-wallets. They say the internet now is the only hope of retaining their regulars and possibly finding new ones. Those who are back to the red light areas are living with masks, sanitisers, thermal guns and gloves as they get as physically close to clients as possible. DMSC in Kolkata is promoting “no-touch sex” with sex workers indulging in conversations, dancing or going for a striptease. (Names have been changed to protect identity.) (With inputs from Priyanka Dasgupta in Kolkata, Priya Menon in Chennai, Ardhra Nair in Pune & Petlee Peter in Bengaluru)Watch Nude pics, chats, e-payments: SOPs in the new era of sex work||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nude-pics-video-chats-no-kiss-sops-for-sex-workers/articleshow/76680846.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Delhi||CIC junks 141 RTI pleas by 1 applicant against Delhi lieutenant governor's office||NEW DELHI: The Central Information Commission has dismissed in one go 141 petitions filed by an RTI applicant against the Delhi lieutenant governor's office, calling it a misuse of the transparency law to inundate the office with pleas seeking information unrelated to it. Warning the applicant, information commissioner YK Sinha said in case such an avalanche of "frivolous, vexatious and wasteful" litigations is received by the commission, it will be compelled to dismiss such applications without hearing on the grounds of being repetitive and as such adjudication will serve no larger public interest. The applicant, Dinesh, had filed a number of pleas under the Right to Information (RTI) Act with the LG's office seeking details of properties, illegal constructions, allotment of houses, among other things, through separate petitions. Claiming that he had not received any information in response, he approached the CIC seeking directions to the LG office for issuance of the information sought by him.  The LG's office, represented by noted RTI activist Subhash Agrawal, said the applications have been replied to or transferred to the authorities concerned after intimating the applicant. Sinha said, "...it is noted that the appellant has consistently stated that he has not received any information from the PIO or the FAA and yet he incessantly kept filing all the RTI applications in the LG's office. Response(s) received from the respondent, however reveal a different story". Dismissing all 141 petitions in five separate orders, Sinha noted that though the queries raised by the appellant are claimed to be in the larger public interest, his modus operandi is to file a large number of pleas which are "irrelevant" and "unrelated".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cic-junks-141-rti-pleas-by-1-applicant-against-delhi-lieutenant-governors-office/articleshow/76680847.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Man arrested with Rs 50 lakh at bus station in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: A suspected hawala operator was arrested with Rs 50 lakh unaccounted cash at Dwaraka Bus Station, RTC Complex in Vizag on Sunday. City task force police, led by ACP Trinad Rao carried out a raid at the bus station on the basis of credible information and arrested the suspect. The accused has been identified as Narsimha Rao (58), a resident of Narsapuram in West Godavari district. Cops seized Rs 50,38,000 from the accused. ACP Trinad Rao said that the accused failed to produce any document to claim the amount. The accused has claimed that he works as a clerk with Jayadev Jewellers owned by a person named Praveen Kumar and had come to collect the amount from two people to handover to the owner. The ACP said that this is not the first time that the accused has collected cash from the city. “We suspect that Narasimha Rao is a hawala operator,” Trinad Rao said. CTF handed over the accused and the seized cash to Two Town police station. The police have registered a case against the accused under Sections 41 and 103 of the CrPC and have informed Income Tax department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-arrested-with-rs-50-lakh-at-bus-station/articleshow/76678527.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vijayawada||At Rs 55/kg, tomatoes become talk of Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Tomato prices in Vijayawada are shooting through the roof. A compulsory ingredient in many cuisines, tomatoes sold for Rs 45 a kilogram at Kaleswar Rao Market in the city on Sunday. Retailers are selling tomatoes for an even higher price— Rs 55 per kg. On June 10, tomatoes were selling for only Rs 15 a kg in the city. But since then, prices have been increasing sharply. Traders predict that the prices of good quality tomatoes will soon touch Rs 65 for a kg. Tomatoes are an essential vegetable in Telugu kitchens. People buy tomatoes in large quantities to cook at home. Local traders bring in tomatoes from Madanapalle in Chittoor district and parts of Karnataka to meet the demand. While tomatoes are pricey in summer, this year, they sold cheap. On April 10, tomatoes were selling for Rs 10 per kg. This was because of a good tomato yield this year. However, the sudden rains have had a detrimental effect on the crop leading to a sudden hike in prices. “We are unable to find good quality stock in Madanapalle. Sudden damage to crops has created a shortage in supply. Middlemen who store tomatoes in cold storages have increased the price. We are ready to pay up to Rs 45 per kg, but still can’t find good quality stock,” said K Ratna Reddy, a wholesale vegetable trader. Similarly, crop damage has had an impact on the price of green chillies too. Over the last five days, chilli prices have gone up to Rs 50 per kg. Reddy said that wholesale traders are trying to procure stocks from Telangana where it is cheaper. Meanwhile, shoppers are unhappy with the poor quality of tomatoes and chillies being sold at rythu bazaars in the city. “The quality of tomatoes is very poor. Traders are diverting the good stock to the retail market and common people are being forced to buy rotten stuff. Marketing authorities should procure more stocks from farmers and supply them at a subsidised price,” said K Nagarjuna, a techie out to buy vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/at-rs-55/kg-tomatoes-become-talk-of-town/articleshow/76678518.cms||Venu Lanka
June 29, 2020||India||SC holds special Sunday hearing in Rajasthan exam case||NEW DELHI: In a special hearing conducted on Sunday, the Supreme Court refused to interfere in Rajasthan government’s decision to hold remaining board exams for class X students scheduled from Monday and dismissed a plea seeking quashing of exams. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna assembled in the evening to grant an urgent hearing hours before the examination was to start but did not find merit in the petition filed by a mother of a student. The petitioner approached the SC after her plea was rejected by Rajasthan HC. Dismissing the plea, the bench said state government would take all necessary precautions as per the national guidelines and regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-holds-special-sunday-hearing-in-rajasthan-exam-case/articleshow/76680850.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Night curfew across Karnataka from Monday||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government’s decision to implement statewide night curfew to control the spread of Covid-19 will take effect from Monday. The order will be in force from 8pm to 5am, till August 2. Only essential services defined by the government will be allowed during the curfew hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/night-curfew-across-karnataka-from-monday/articleshow/76680851.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh government mulls new system to solve streetlight troubles||VIJAYAWADA: As the LED streetlight maintenance system remains far from perfect, the state government is contemplating the introduction of a new complaint monitoring system (CMS) by involving the panchayati raj and energy departments along with village volunteers to improve the street lighting system in the state. The country’s biggest street lighting project, being implemented by Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) in Andhra Pradesh, has failed to meet maintenance standards, say officials. The EESL is looking after the maintenance of LED streetlights but often failing to restore malfunctioning lights within the stipulated time period of 72 hours. According to energy department officials, the current average restoration time in seven to nine days against the three days as has been agreed upon. The state government is aiming to reduce restoration time to somewhere between 24 and 48 hours. The panchayati raj department has prepared a draft proposal in this regard. In a review meeting on Sunday, officials explained the draft proposal to panchayati raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. According to the proposal, 7,000 junior linemen will look after the repair and restoration of streetlights. While village volunteers will identify malfunctioning lights, junior linemen will carry out the repairs. The EESL will provide technical and skill training to junior linemen to take up the work and will also provide necessary spare parts. The new system is slated to lead to a four-fold increase in manpower. Therefore, the number of lights in a person’s charge will go down from 4,000 currently to 1,000. Inordinate delays take place as one technician has to look after 4,000 lights across up to 20 villages, officials said while adding that under the new system, this will come down to 1,000 lights per technician spread across four to five villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-mulls-new-system-to-solve-streetlight-troubles/articleshow/76683601.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Business||Startup-only sales outfit to go national on ‘phygital’ platform||KOLKATA: Amid the nationwide cry to ban the imports of Chinese products, a new ‘phygital’ e-commerce-cum-retail platform is coming up which will only let Indian startups to sell their products. No company with more than Rs 100crore revenue and having 10years' experience will be allowed to sell their products through this outfit. Mumbai-based SOCH Group has launched the first of its kind omni-channel sales platform ‘This or That’ (ToT) wherein a startup brand can showcase its products and reach out to their customers. “With the support of the ‘Startup India’ initiative by the Government of India, ToT offers an experience, in which physical shopping and digital technologies interact with each other,” said Rohit Pugalia, founder, SOCH Group. The group, which has so far been funding this platform via internal accruals, has planned to look for no further funding for the next two years. The SOCH founder aims to tap at least 70,000 companies by 2023 and a seven-fold growth in the next 10 years. On the current startup environment, Pugalia said that the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown couldn’t even stop the momentum of startup funding. “In fact, it has grown in the past three months,” he said. The number of startups in the country has grown seven-fold in the last decade. Pugalia believes that his new initiative has an edge over others as startups are bringing in new innovations and uniqueness which are somewhere missing among the products manufactured by bigger outfits. “ToT will help them reach out to a bigger client base without any big marketing and advertising spends.” ToT will launch with 250+ brands onboard ranging from industries like fashion & lifestyle, food & beverages, beauty & wellness, furnishing & décor, sports & nutrition. ToT is also bringing back the satisfaction of bargaining for its customer. “It also encourages them to order product samples for free and lets a customer try and compare products before they can purchase,” added Pugalia, who is an angel investor and has a series of investments in Indian startups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/soch-unveils-startup-only-sales-platform/articleshow/76679373.cms||Sovon Manna
June 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government mulls new system to solve streetlight troubles||VIJAYAWADA: As the LED streetlight maintenance system remains far from perfect, the state government is contemplating the introduction of a new complaint monitoring system (CMS) by involving the panchayati raj and energy departments along with village volunteers to improve the street lighting system in the state. The country’s biggest street lighting project, being implemented by Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) in Andhra Pradesh, has failed to meet maintenance standards, say officials. The EESL is looking after the maintenance of LED streetlights but often failing to restore malfunctioning lights within the stipulated time period of 72 hours. According to energy department officials, the current average restoration time in seven to nine days against the three days as has been agreed upon. The state government is aiming to reduce restoration time to somewhere between 24 and 48 hours. The panchayati raj department has prepared a draft proposal in this regard. In a review meeting on Sunday, officials explained the draft proposal to panchayati raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. According to the proposal, 7,000 junior linemen will look after the repair and restoration of streetlights. While village volunteers will identify malfunctioning lights, junior linemen will carry out the repairs. The EESL will provide technical and skill training to junior linemen to take up the work and will also provide necessary spare parts. The new system is slated to lead to a four-fold increase in manpower. Therefore, the number of lights in a person’s charge will go down from 4,000 currently to 1,000. Inordinate delays take place as one technician has to look after 4,000 lights across up to 20 villages, officials said while adding that under the new system, this will come down to 1,000 lights per technician spread across four to five villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-mulls-new-system-to-solve-streetlight-troubles/articleshow/76678580.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Vijayawada||PCB yet to take action against agro factory||Amaravati: The Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (AP PCB) is yet to take any action after its inspection at SPY agro factory at Nandyal in Kurnool district. The inspection was carried out a fortnight ago. Sources said the PCB taskforce which is studying the inspection report has come under pressure not to take action against the factory management due to its political links. The PCB carried out the inspection after TOI reported the situation in Nandyal town due to pollution. The PCB team had slapped a show-cause notice to the plant management on June 12 directing it to set things right within five days. The deadline ended on June 17. The PCB district-level team had sent its report to the AP PCB headquarters raising several serious concerns about conditions in the plant. “This is against chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s instructions. The CM had directed AP PCB not to spare anyone who violated safety conditions after the LG Polymers mishap,” said a YSRC MLA from Kurnool district. The district administration too has not responded to the complaints from local residents for several months. AP PCB member secretary Vivek Yadav did not respond to the queries sent by TOI regarding the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pcb-yet-to-take-action-against-agro-factory/articleshow/76678592.cms||Samdani MN
June 29, 2020||Vijayawada||30-year-old hacked to death in Guntur after fight over bore well||VIJAYAWADA: A dispute over a bore well led to the murder of a man at Ambapuram in Gurazala mandal in Guntur district. The incident took place late Saturday night when the deceased, identified as 30-year-old Domatoti Vikram, was returning home with three others from the Gurazala police station. According to a complaint lodged by Vikram’s family members, 22 persons of the rival party in the bore well dispute were involved in the pre-planned attack. The deceased’s family has also accused the police of being involved with the attack. Vikram was hacked to death by the murders while the three people accompanying him managed to escape with injuries. The complaint claims that Vikram and three others were called to the police station by inspector Durga Prasad after the two groups fighting over the bore well lodged complaints against each other. The deceased’s family alleged that the inspector had acted in a partisan manner and had asked Vikram and his associates to visit the police station every day for the last 15 days and made them wait at the station till 11pm. On Saturday, while the three were heading home on their bikes from the police station , members of the rival group allegedly attacked them with knives and axes near Ambapuram village. Vikram died on the spot. His hands and legs were hacked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/30-yr-old-hacked-to-death-after-fight-over-bore-well/articleshow/76678603.cms||---
June 29, 2020||India||For India, adversities are stepping stones to success: PM||NEW DELHI: Amid challenges facing the country, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday said India had always transformed adversities into stepping stones to success and mentioned how the Covid-19 situation acted as the trigger to unlock various sectors like mining, space and agriculture which would eventually lead country towards self-reliance. In his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Modi said inadequate attention was paid towards the defence sector immediately after independence and the country did not make the kind of efforts it should have made, taking advantage of its pre-independence experience. “Our country was ahead of many countries in the world in the defence sector before independence. There used to be a multitude of ordnance factories. Many countries that lagged behind us then are ahead of us now,” Modi said. Noting that the situation was, however, different now in the fields of defence and technology, he said, “India is relentlessly endeavouring to advance on those fronts and is taking strides towards self-reliance.” Referring to the coronavirus situation where India has moved out of the lockdown phase to the unlock phase, the PM said the country would have to focus deeply on two points — “defeating corona and strengthening the economy and bolstering it”. He said during this unlock phase, “many other things are getting unlocked, which had hitherto shackled the country for decades”. He cited the examples of the mining sector (where the auction process of 41 coal blocks for commercial mining was launched last week) and opening up of the space and agriculture sectors. “For years, our mining sector was in a state of lockdown. The decision to allow commercial auction has altered the scenario completely,” Modi said. “The agriculture sector too has now been unlocked. This grants freedom to farmers to sell their produce to anyone they wish to, anywhere and it has paved the way for enhanced loans,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-india-adversities-are-stepping-stones-to-success-pm/articleshow/76680856.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Araku MLA seeks action against encroachers||VISAKHAPATNAM: Araku Valley MLA, Chetti Palguna, asked officials to take action against non-tribals encroaching on tribal and government land. The MLA visited Yendapallivalasa on Sunday where he observed that nearly Rs 10 crore worth of government land has been encroached upon. Expressing displeasure over such encroachment, the MLA asked officials to identify the encroachers and issue notices so as to protect government land. Since Araku Valley emerged as a major tourist destination, some non-tribals are setting up commercial as well as residential establishments in the region, the MLA said. Palguna added that this land is protected and cannot be transferred to non-tribals under the 1/70 Act. The Araku MLA further demanded that the 1/70 Act be implemented strictly and cases be filed under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act against those violating laws to protect tribals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/araku-mla-seeks-action-against-encroachers/articleshow/76678614.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||ASI succumbs in Bengaluru, third Covid-19 cop death||BENGALURU: A 57-year-old assistant subinspector from Whitefield station succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday, becoming the third cop to die of the virus. The ASI was on field duty during the lockdown, but began working from home on June 10. The officer collapsed in his house and was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. Swab samples taken from the dead body turned positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/asi-succumbs-in-bengaluru-third-covid-19-cop-death/articleshow/76680859.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||11 of 347 flights in Vande 4.0 scheduled to land in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The civil aviation ministry has scheduled 11 repatriation flights to Kolkata for Indian citizens stranded abroad in the fourth phase of Vande Bharat flights, which is supposed to have 347 flights being operated between July 1 and 15. In the second and third phases of the mission, Kolkata had received 33 flights. Delhi (with 72 arrivals) and Kochi (52) make up a third of the flights in the fourth phase. Chennai has 25 arrivals, Mumbai 24, Hyderabad 20 and Bengaluru 14 in the latest phase. Kolkata has the least number of arrivals among metros. Of the 11 flights, eight are direct flights from Kuwait City to Kolkata operated by Kuwait Airways. The remaining three to be operated by Air India will fly in passengers from Chicago, Newark and London after a halt at either Delhi or Mumbai. Kolkata had not figured in the first phase of 84 Vande Bharat flights. Flights were allocated in the second phase after chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the state was being discriminated against despite being ready with infrastructure, including protocols for paid quarantine in various categories of hotels. The city was included in the second and third phases of the Vande Bharat mission, during which 1,131 flights were operated. Of those, Kolkata had received 45 flights till Sunday, ferrying in 5,000-plus passengers. Of those who have arrived in the city till date, around a dozen were found symptomatic and were sent to a state-run Covid hospital in New Town. Swab tests of most were negative. However, with no mandatory institutional quarantine required initially, there were concerns about asymptomatic carriers among passengers. Later, 14 days’ paid quarantine was made mandatory. On May 24, the mandatory paid quarantine period was scaled down to seven days. There have, however, been issues with labourers flying in from Gulf countries being allowed home quarantine on economic grounds. On Thursday night, a large group of medical students, several of them from Bihar, also refused paid quarantine after arriving from Kyrgyzstan. The issue was raised by the chief minister on Friday evening, when she called for stringent adherence to quarantine rules. Later in the evening, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha wrote to the civil aviation ministry on the need to ensure that arriving passengers booked hotels for the week-long quarantine prior to boarding the flights to prevent any problems on arrival, failing which the state would withdraw its no-objection on international flight arrivals. This isn’t the first time the CM has flagged the issue of foreign returnees. Prior to the lockdown, Banerjee had demanded flights — both international and domestic — be immediately suspended to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. In the initial days, those who had tested positive to Covid-19 had all contracted the virus abroad. International flights were finally suspended on March 22 and domestic flights three days later. The repatriation flights from abroad were allowed from May 7 while domestic flight operations resumed on May 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/11-of-347-flights-in-vande-4-0-scheduled-to-land-in-city/articleshow/76680461.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||To boost sales, liquor sellers in Jharkhand urge Hemant govt to waive special tax||Ranchi: Taking a leaf out of their Delhi counterparts to boost sales, liquor retailers of Jharkhand urged the state government to waive off the special tax levied during the lockdown to make the price of alcohol cheaper. The Hemant Soren government allowed the state’s nearly 1,400 retail liquor stores to resume operations a little over a month ago but added 10% special tax and 25% VAT on the MRP to boost its revenues. The government is now contemplating a rollback of the special tax. The Jharkhand State Retail Liquor Sellers Association (JSRLSA) rued that after the tax was added, their normal average sale target was short by 45% in their nearly 40 days of opening. JSRLSA president Subodh Jaiswal said, “The Delhi government had imposed a cess of 70% on each bottle of IMFL. But after the sales dipped, it rolled back the cess earlier this month. Jharkhand government must roll back the 10% special tax it had imposed in May. Without the tax, a bottle of IMFL will be cheaper by at least Rs 30 and help the cash-strapped consumers.” He added that liquor sales are also suffering due to the prolonged lockdown and closure of the hospitality sector. After two months of closure, the state excise and prohibitions department allowed the sale of liquor on May 20 and a bottle of IMFL is pricier by at least Rs 30. The sale resumption, however, did not generate the desired revenue as sales remained a lowly 35% in the first couple of weeks. As per JSRLSA, the sales were 45% less till June 20. State minister for excise and prohibitions, Jagarnath Mahto, said, “Sales are very low as consumers do not have money to spend. We are discussing the matter and a call will be taken very soon.” Retailers have also sought a waiver in the monthly license fee citing poor sales. The excise department, which earned a little over Rs 1,900 crore in FY 2019-20, has set a revenue target of Rs 2,200 crore this fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/to-boost-sales-liquor-sellers-in-jharkhand-urge-hemant-govt-to-waive-special-tax/articleshow/76678923.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal honours for CRPF jawan at final farewell||SABANG: CRPF jawan Shyamal Kumar Dey, killed in a terror attack at Anantnag in Kashmir, was on Sunday given the final farewell with state honours near his home at Singpur village in Sabang, West Midnapore. Dey, who had joined CRPF in 2015, was killed when terrorists opened indiscriminate fire at Anantnag’s Bijbehara on Friday. His remains were brought to his village on Saturday night and the last rites performed inside a barricaded zone at a ground nearby. Dey, an only child, was 27 and was due to get married. Kharagpur’s additional SP Kazi Samsuddin was among those who carried the body to the ground on Sunday morning. MP Dev Adhikari, Sabang MLA Manas Bhuniya and Bengal BJP vice-president Bharati Ghosh paid floral tributes. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who paid his last respects to the jawan, tweeted: “Wreath laid on my behalf as respect to CT@crpfindia Sh Shyamal Dey of vill-Singpur, West Midnapore, WB. Martyred carrying out National Highway duty in J&K.” Dev said: “He gave his life to protect the country. Any tribute is not enough to pay our respects to these soldiers.” Dey’s father Badal Dey said: “We are proud of our son. Mothers in India should be blessed with children like him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-honours-for-crpf-jawan-at-final-farewell/articleshow/76680424.cms||Sujay Khanra
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||RJD takes out cycle rally to protest fuel price hike||Ranchi: RJD workers took out a cycle rally in Ranchi and other parts of the state on Sunday to protest against the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel. The Lalu Prasad-led party also threatened to scale up its agitation if measures to control the prices were not implemented. Around a hundred RJD workers started the rally from Albert Ekka Chowk and cycled till Sujata Chowk, before returning to the starting point. The RJD supporters then pulled a tractor to the Raj Bhavan to demonstrate the plight of farmers owing to the rise in fuel prices. Several RJD leaders, including state youth-wing president Ranjan Kumar and senior vice-president Rajesh Yadav, took part in the demonstration. RJD state president Abhay Singh said that the hike in fuel prices, particularly that of diesel, has hit the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rjd-takes-out-cycle-rally-to-protest-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/76678903.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Agro-spirits firm files police complaint after distillery attack||KOLKATA: IFB Agro Industries, one of the leaders in India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country spirits in Bengal, has sought intervention of chief minister Mamata Banerjee following an alleged attack on one of its distilleries in South 24 Parganas. A group of hooligans allegedly attacked its distillery on June 25. In a filing to stock exchanges (BSE and NSE), the company that deals in marine products and spirits said that its distillery at Noorpur was attacked on June 25 around 7.40am by a group of more than 50 armed goons. “These unidentified hooligans, armed with various types of weapons, forcibly entered the factory, beat up the security guards and practically held our employees/workers on duty as hostages. They also damaged the CCTV cameras, computers, medical room etc. inside the factory,” the company said in the filing. It also added that the distillery was asked to shut down and all employees and workers were asked to vacate the factory at gun-point by 12 noon. “Necessary complaint was made to local police station but they seemed helpless. The distillery has been closed since then. We have sought help from the chief minister of West Bengal and also from finance, commerce and industry minister of the state of West Bengal,” it said in the filing. SP of Diamond Harbour police district, Bholanath Pandey, said that the company management had filed a complaint and on the basis of that, an inquiry has been started. The IC of Ramnagar PS is doing the investigation. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar urged the state home secretary to probe the matter, adding that he will seek an update from the Bengal government on this. According to the firm, it’s waiting for better environment before the plant can be re-opened. But, it has also added that its country spirit bottling unit at Dankuni was reopened by the order of excise commissioner, on the same day. Incidentally, IFB has bottling plants and distilleries in Burdwan, Hooghly, Kolkata, Murshidabad, north Bengal, Purulia and South 24 Parganas. It is also one of the producers of extra neutral alcohol in Bengal along with Globus Spirits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/agro-spirits-firm-files-police-complaint-after-distillery-attack/articleshow/76680422.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Nirmala Sitharaman hails Mamata Banerjee support on China standoff||KOLKATA: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday appreciated CM Mamata Banerjee’s support to the Centre on the India-China border standoff. “I would credit her for one thing; at least on the Sino-India border issue, she (Banerjee) stood by the Centre,” Sitharaman said. The Union minister, however, was critical of the Bengal’s government’s stand on Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan and Citizenship (Amendment) Act. “The ruling dispensation in Bengal doesn’t want any of the Centre’s welfare policies to be implemented,” Sitharaman said. On CAA, she said: “Mamata didi needs to come clean on why she is opposing the CAA, what’s wrong in granting citizenship to refugees.” In Trinamool’s rejoinder, party spokesperson Derek O’Brien said: “Brazen example of how a failed finance minister, instead of reviving the economy which is in the doldrums, and addressing the serious concerns of record unemployment, is making speeches on Citizenship Amendment Act and triple talaq in times of Covid-19 and Amphan, in a desperate attempt to revive the sinking BJP in Bengal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nirmala-hails-mamata-support-on-china-standoff/articleshow/76680462.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||50% Covid deaths asymptomatic in state||Ranchi: At least six of the 12 patients affected by Covid-19 were asymptomatic and died due to co-morbidity along with viral infection. The remaining six symptomatic patients who died while being treated had some form of respiratory illness and fell victim to Covid-19. Among the 12, Ranchi reported four deaths, Bokaro and Hazaribag two each followed by one each in Koderma, Giridih, Simdega and Gumla. Of the 12, three patients who died during treatment, had travel histories to Maharashtra and Gujarat and were less than 50 years of age. Out of the total deaths, three are females who were homemakers, while the rest were from differnt sections of society, including retired health workers, government servants, businessmen and labourers. On being asked about the classification of deaths due to Covid-19, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “Any patient who tests positive after admission and dies during treatment is considered as a Covid death. However, there have been a few exceptions in cases of road accidents wherein asymptomatic patients suffered massive injuries and died during treatment, but the samples tested positive after the deaths. In such cases, we do not tag them as Covid-19 deaths.” At least seven of 12 patients who passed away were above 60 years of age of which five were admitted to hospitals with co-morbidities such as chronic kidney diseases, type 2 diabetes, cancer, sepsis and metabolic encephalopathy. The three migrants, aged 39, 44 and 47, who died and had travel histories weren’t in the vulnerable age group. Two of the migrants were symptomatic and one who had symptoms was suffering from pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The youngest death was that of a 25-yea-old girl of Pithoria in Ranchi who was suffering from MDR tuberculosis and her situation deteriorated after she contracted Covid-19. Public health expert and associate professor of preventive and social medicine at Rims Dr Devesh Kumar said, “There is always an increased chance of death among Covid-19 patients with co-morbidities as the virus aggravates their diseases and reduces immunity. Apart from that, people with respiratory diseases are also at risk as the virus synergises their problem which leads to shortness of breath even if they have had accidental exposure to a positive patient.” On being asked about the state recording 50% of Covid deaths among asymptomatic patients, Kumar said, “Till today, more than 85% of our total patients are asymptomatic and there can be hundred reasons for death among them and it will be a topic of study after the pandemic is over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/50-covid-deaths-asymptomatic-in-state/articleshow/76678885.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||Amid fee-hike debate, Kolkata schools dock teachers’ pay||KOLKATA: Several schools in the city have started rolling back teachers’ salaries, with another institution choosing to let its director go. Most schools that have rolled back pay have started with the added salary component that teachers got after the Sixth Pay Commission was implemented this January. The action comes amid a running controversy over tuition fees. Parents’ groups have repeatedly pleaded with school managements, asking them not to hike tuition fees because of the lockdown-related economic stress; the Bengal government, too, has urged schools to refrain from hiking fees and forgo some fee components. Many of the schools that have gone for a partial rollback of salary have clarified that it is a temporary meas-ure necessitated by non-pa-yment of fees by a section of parents. A senior educationist, who was serving as a director in a new-age private school at Joka, was recently relieved of her job. She was told that the school was suffering from non-payment of fees by parents. According to sources, salaries of teachers at a new-age school on Prince Anwar Shah Road and another at Kasba have been slashed by 20%. A well-known private school in Ballygunge has also taken the same route. The school authorities said that they had implemented the Sixth Pay Commission hike in January, but had to roll it back because of the Covid situation. “We were happy to introduce the hike, and are equally pained now to roll it back. This is an extraordinary situation and we can only hope that teachers will co-operate,” said the principal of the school on Prince Anwar Shah Road. A senior administrator of the Kasba school said: “We hope the situation will improve and we will be able release the salary withheld in a staggered manner later.” Both agreed that things would automatically get better if parents started paying fees. Other schools have told teachers that unless parents started paying up school fees in full, they could expect pay cuts, at least up to 15%. In some schools, more than 50% parents have withheld payments, claimed sources. The parents have requested schools to charge only tuition fees and give waivers to other annual fees that are charged for infrastructure development, co-curricular activities, examinations, computers and libraries. Lack of revenue has forced some other schools to implement unprecedented steps. A school in New Town, which is part of a well-known franchise, has asked its teachers to start calling up parents and request them to pay up. In another school owned by this franchise in a neighbouring district, salaries are being paid in instalments. All teachers were paid 80% salary in May with a verbal “give-back” assurance. A school on Market Street and another one that runs four branches, three in the heart of the city and one in a district, has slashed teachers’ salaries by 50%, with verbal give-back assurances. “But there is nothing in writing. Even when the salary has been halved, there is no written circular about the reason given, just a verbal assurance that these are difficult times and the school needs our cooperation,” said a senior teacher. A few schools have indicated that they may have to relieve some teachers, who are in charge of co-curricular activities. “We have requested these teachers to come to campus every day, stay back till the evening and take online co-curricular classes from school to make their cases stronger with the management,” said a school principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amid-fee-hike-debate-kol-schools-dock-teachers-pay/articleshow/76680452.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||Employers lure migrants back to work with flight tickets||Chatra: The tables have turned on the employers who had disowned their migrant workers a few months ago when the lockdown began. During the heat of the pandemic, the workers were left to fend for themselves and many of them were forced to walk thousands of kilometres, often on an empty stomach, to reach home. But as the dust of the Covid-19 begins to settle with the country entering into the unlock phase, the employers inevitably have to get the workers back. Some of them in big cities like Mumbai and Bengaluru are now luring their workers with sops, including flight tickets. Bablu Kumar Singh and Dhananjay Kumar Singh of Kanhachatti block here said they have already received their flight tickets for Mumbai where they were working in a textile company before the lockdown. “Every day, we get calls from the owner, requesting us to return as soon as possible. There is no proper work in Chatra and we cannot earn much if we stay back here. We will leave for Mumbai soon,” Bablu said. Mahavir Dangi and Amrit Dangi, both residents of Rajpur panchayat in the block, said they have also received flight ticket offers from Shyam Plastics in Bengaluru, where they were working earlier. “The owner will fly us back to Bengaluru soon,” they said. Over 30,000 migrants have returned to Chatra during the lockdown but now many of them are getting calls from companies, which are facing acute manpower crunch, to rejoin work as soon as possible. Some manufacturing companies in Hyderabad, Surat and Delhi are also arranging buses to take back the workers. A labourer said, “From the past one month, I did not earn a single penny and I have to go back to Hyderabad.” The district administration has also started registration of the outbound migrants after a directive from chief minister Hemant Soren so that help can be provided to them in times of need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/employers-lure-migrants-back-to-work-with-flight-tickets/articleshow/76678914.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Ranchi||Bizmen shun Chinese products, apex trade body provides incentives||Jamshedpur: Three well-known businessmen here have recently cancelled their business deals with different Chinese firms in the wake of the violent physical clash between India and China on June 15 in Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers. The apex trade body of the Kolhan region, Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI), has decided to felicitate the trio, who shunned goods from the neighbouring country amid the nationwide backlash against consumption of Chinese products. Entrepreneur Bittu Rokee, who owns Suraj Automotive Pvt Ltd, had placed an order for furniture and lights with a Chinese company for his upcoming five-star hotel in Adityapur. But he cancelled the Rs 1-crore order following the Galwan clash. “I had ordered furniture and some decorative items for the areas around the pool, balconies, corridors and lobby of my new hotel. But when I read that the Chinese killed 20 soldiers of ours, I informed the company not to book the items for shipment as we have decided to cancel the order,” Bittu said. Similarly, Inder Agarwal, who owns a company that manufactures parts for automobiles, said that he had initially decided to buy a high-end moulding machine, worth Rs 1 crore, from China but now he will buy the same from a Korean company. “The company has decided to refrain from buying the Chinese machine and go for a Korean product, even though it’s more expensive,” Agarwal, who is also the president of Adityapur Small Industries Association, said. Popular jewellery store owner Bipin Adeshra said the moment he heard about the casualties in Ladakh, he decided to cancel the import of furnishing items from China. “For the renovation of our house in Circuit House and our shop (Chhaganlal Dayaljee Sons) in Bistupur market, we were in talks with three different Chinese firms for buying products worth Rs 70 lakh. But in the wake of the India-China clash which killed a soldier from our district (Ganesh Hansda), we decided to stop the talks mid-way,” added Adeshra, who is also the president of Jamshedpur Jewellers Association. The Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has said that it will felicitate traders and businessmen who cancel their business orders made to the Chinese companies. “For motivational purpose, we will felicitate the traders and entrepreneurs who cancel their business deals with China,” said SCCI functionary Bharat Vasani. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said it has written letters to the heads of Tata, Reliance and other big companies to go for Indian items and help local business units flourish. “In the aftermath of an increasing shift towards indigenous products, I would request the traders’ community in India not to indulge in making undue profit by ordering cheaper Chinese items,” said CAIT national secretary Suresh Sonthalia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bizmen-shun-chinese-products-apex-trade-body-provides-incentives/articleshow/76678933.cms||B Sridhar
June 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: BJP leader shot at in East Midnapore||TAMLUK: Tension erupted at Khejuri in East Midnapore on Sunday afternoon after a district BJP leader suffered a bullet injury. BJP workers said Pabitra Das was seriously wounded after a group of miscreants attacked party supporters, hurled bombs and opened fire. Das has been hospitalised. A strong police contingent was posted as BJP workers put up roadblocks in the area demanding immediate arrest of the criminals. BJP leaders alleged that some Trinamool Congress supporters were selling off trees uprooted during Cyclone Amphan without following any norms. The workers said they were attacked with arms when they protested against it. TMC refuted the claims and said the party had no link with the attackers and that it was an internal feud of BJP. BJP claimed several thousand trees had been uprooted in the area and Trinamool was minting money by selling them to private parties without any tender. TMC MP Sisir Adhikari said police would determine if there was any case of firing. He alleged that Das was a former CPM activist now with BJP, adding that the clash was among the local BJP and CPM to control the area. “Whether it was a gunshot injury or a firing from an air gun will be determined by police,” Adhikari said. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said: “There have been repeated instances of attacks on BJP activists in Khejuri. Sunday’s incident happened in front of the police, but there are no arrests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-leader-shot-at-in-east-midnapore/articleshow/76680421.cms||Suman Mondal
June 29, 2020||Mumbai||Plasma therapy off bounds for most patients despite nod for select use in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Access to the convalescent plasma therapy in the city continues to be largely restricted to VIP patients or those enrolled under a trial, despite the Union health ministry allowing its 'off-label' use for a specific category of patients on June 13.  Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), that is carrying out a pan-India trial on moderately-ill patients, said that the findings could take another six to eight weeks unless a definite outcome emerges prior to that.  TOI has learnt that as many as seven VIP patients have got access to plasma therapy in the city outside of a trial and many before the Centre's June 13 relaxation. Several doctors have been critical of the state and the health ministry's snail-paced approach in allowing wide-scale use of plasma despite emerging evidence from world over, the country and Maharashtra itself that the therapy is effective. Though plasma collection from recovered patients has itself presented as one of the biggest challenges, many treating physicians are upset that even the units gathered are not being made available to 'commoners'. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray made a case for plasma therapy on Sunday stating that nearly 90% of patients were getting cured with plasma therapy. He also urged that those who get cured should come forward and donate plasma to fight this coronavirus pandemic. On June 22, the state's public health department came out with a circular allowing the 'off-label use' (used for unapproved indication) of plasma therapy for moderate patients after the Centre's June 13 guideline that added plasma under 'investigational therapies'. "However, not much has changed since the notification as most hospitals are yet to start collecting plasma. Those with contacts are surely able to mobilise donors and get it," said a senior doctor, adding that least one private hospital in the city is actively using it but not for 'all patients'. Among public hospitals, Nair Hospital is giving plasma to its patients under the ICMR trial. Sources told TOI that Nair and Kasturba hospitals are among the few trial sites in the country to have shared their interim findings with the ICMR. An ICMR official confirmed that they are reviewing the interim findings. "We are hopeful to come out with the final results in another six to eight weeks. But if we are definite of its positive or negative effects before that, we will stop the trial as is the protocol," said the official. Currently, two major plasma trials are ongoing. The ICMR trial involving nearly 450 patients was the first to start and is studying its efficacy in treating moderately-ill patients, while a second trial by Maharashtra's medical education department will study its efficacy in critical patients. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force, said that it's a lifesaving therapy and more people should have access to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/plasma-therapy-off-bounds-for-most-patients-despite-nod-for-select-use-in-mumbai/articleshow/76680869.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: In first 6 months, more cyber fraud cases than last year||GURUGRAM: More cases related to cheating, cyber fraud and crime against children have been reported in the last six months as compared to the previous year, shows police data. The number of cases of other categories, however, decreased during this period. Police said the decline was mainly due to the lockdown that had been put in place in late March. While there was a 137.5% increase in the number of cases related to cheating and fraud — from 256 in 2019 to 608 this year, cases registered under the POCSO Act for crimes against children increased by 14.5%, from 62 last year to 71 this year. Cyber crime cases saw a big jump too — 80.4% — from 51 in the first half of 2019 to 92 this year so far. “Gurugramis the commercial capital of the state and many companies have their offices here. It makes the city a fertile ground for financial and property fraud,” said a senior police officer. The officer added that more people were spending time on mobile phones during the lockdown, and they often became targets for fraud. “We have been issuing advisories to make people aware about such crimes,” said the officer. The number of rape cases are down from 73 last year to 54 this year, shows the data. Suman Sharma, a social worker, said women and children were the most vulnerable during the lockdown. “Crime against women and children has increased across the globe during this pandemic as in many cases, they face harassment from known people – family members – inside the house,” said Sharma. Police commissioner Mohammad Akil said that overall, there had been a significant dip in crime and several criminals had been arrested during the lockdown. “Most of the crimes were solved within days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-first-6-months-more-cyber-fraud-cases-than-last-year/articleshow/76679344.cms||Bagish Jha
June 29, 2020||India||‘Spices that boost immunity linked to India’||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the entire world was focused on increasing immunity during the coronavirus pandemic and “these immunity enhancing ingredients are linked with our country”. Referring to a news report which said that demand for immunity boosting spices such as ginger and turmeric had increased not only in Asia but also in America, the Prime Minister said, “We should be able to communicate about their speciality in easy and simple language to the people of the world, that they can understand it easily and we can make our own contribution towards making a healthier planet.” The Prime Minister also talked about the country’s rich heritage of traditional indoor sports which got attention during the pandemic and said that it may give an opportunity to start-ups to mobilise resources pertaining to these popular games and tap local markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/spices-that-boost-immunity-linked-to-india/articleshow/76680887.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Online classes also allowed for pre-primary to Class 5 in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Close on the heels of the Karnataka HC asking it to allow online education for children up to Class 5, the primary and secondary education department has come up with a schedule for online classes from pre-primary to Class X until an expert panel constituted to look into the matter submits its report. According to the schedule, students of pre-primary section can have online class for 30 minutes once a day in a week, but this must be in presence of parents. For classes 1-5, there can be two live sessions in of 30-45 minutes duration on alternate days of the week. Classes 6-8 are permitted to have two live sessions of 30-45 minutes every day five days a week. Students of classes 9 and 10 can have 4 live sessions of 30-45 minutes five days of the week. It should also be noted that no extra fees will be charged for conducting classes online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/online-classes-also-allowed-for-pre-primary-to-class-5-in-karnataka/articleshow/76682450.cms||---
June 29, 2020||Mumbai||New Covid-19 cases in MMR make up 3,347 of Maharashtra’s 5,493 figure||MUMBAI: For the third consecutive day, the state reported over 5,000 positive cases in a single day on Sunday. It added 5,493 cases — a climbdown from Saturday’s record of 6,368 new patients — to take the total to 1,64,626. It added 156 deaths, taking the state toll to 7,429. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) registered a jump of 3,347 cases in 24 hours, of which more than 2,000 were from outside the city. Sources said the daily growth rate of cases in the MMR was 3% to 4%. A day after adding 2,000-plus cases to its tally, the city reported 1,287 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 75,539. The state currently has 70,607 patients under treatment and the city, 28,006. Sources said the state government had asked municipal corporations in the MMR to take a leaf out of the BMC book and replicate some of the successful strategies. “MMR corporations have been asked to augment their bed capacity by creating jumbo facilities like Mumbai. In addition, they have also been asked to move the senior citizens at high risk away from the hot spots and put them in quarantine facilities,” said an official, adding that the city’s strategies have also been praised by the central team that visited MMR. The MMR contact tracing ratio is often 1:2 or 1:3. So, only two or three high-risk contacts are traced for every positive case. The government has asked for an increase to 10 to 12 contacts. It also asked for people who live in dense localities to be moved into institutional quarantine. The city continued to report deaths in big numbers, which was attributed to data reconciliation. On Sunday, it added 87 deaths, but 64 of these were from previous days. In the state, too, 96 deaths added on Sunday were from previous days. Civic officials said 23 deaths were reported in 48 hours. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said hospitals had been given an ultimatum to report all undeclared deaths by June 29. “So death figures are likely to go up since the reconciliation is not over,” he said. Another civic official said that even positive cases could increase in the city as more people resume work. CM Uddhav Thackeray said that with easing of the lockdown and the rise in testing, cases were increasing. He said it was noticed that many senior doctors with years of experience were not working as they themselves were in the high-risk category due to their age and, sometimes, co-morbidities. He said the state was ready to provide anything that they need to work safely, but they should work as the state needs them today. State officials said 5,70,475 people were in home quarantine and 37,350 in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-covid-19-cases-in-mmr-make-up-3347-of-maharashtras-5493-figure/articleshow/76680898.cms||Sumitra Debroy
