June 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru police jittery as arrested accused test positive for Covid 19||MANGALURU: Ever since the coronavirus pandemic struck, the act of nabbing the accused has become dangerous for the police. Incidents of accused being tested Covid-19 positive are on the rise. In an incident reported from a police station on the outskirts of the city, the police arrested eight accused who were brought to the police station for formalities. They were booked under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder). As the investigation was under progress, and the accused were to be produced before the magistrate, they underwent medical check-up.  A senior officer told TOI, “It came as a huge shock that two of the accused were tested positive for Covid-19, due to which 10 of our men are affected. Sanitisation of the police station is complete and all police stations are being sanitised everyday," the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-police-jittery-as-arrested-accused-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76698428.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 30, 2020||India||Sex selection led to 460,000 girls ‘missing’ at birth in India annually between 2013-17: UN report||NEW DELHI: A New UN report highlights how “son preference” and gender-biased sex selection (GBSS) has resulted in an estimated 460,000 girls, ‘missing’ at birth in India each year between 2013-17. Globally it is estimated that the number of girls missing due to GBSS has more than doubled over the past 50 years to touch 142 million in 2020. The UNFPA’s State of the World Population Report 2020 focuses on the problem of child marriage, son preference and gender biased sex selection (GBSS), and female genital mutilation (FGM). “According to estimates of missing female births due to pre-natal GBSS, averaged over a five - year period (2013-17), annually, there were 1.2 million missing female births, at a global level due to GBSS. It is highlighted that two countries – China (50%) and India (40%), together account for about 90% of the estimated 1.2 million girls missing at birth,” it is explained in the report. “Together, the forces of son preference, access to technology and trends towards smaller family size have driven GBSS,” the report said. The report also cautions that the son preference and GBSS will as per some studies lead to a rise in “marriage squeeze” (where prospective grooms outnumber the bride) which is estimated will peak in India by 2055. The proportion of single men at the age of 50 could be as high as 10% by 2050 in India. Pointing that there is already an increase in the number of “involuntary single men” this “marriage squeeze” could result in more child marriages. Citing many data sources and studies, the global report said the prevalence of (GBSS) has been measured through a country’s data on “sex ratio at birth”. The “natural” or normal, sex ratio at birth in most parts of the world is between 105 and 106 male births for every 100 female births (or between 943 to 952 female births per 1,000 male births as per the measurement in India). Any deviation from this natural sex ratio at birth therefore reflects some degree of gender-biased sex selection. The UN report takes into account various data sources, studies on pre-natal and post - natal sex selection, infant mortality rates and SRS data up to 2017 to arrive at this analysis in case of India. Meanwhile, The UN report also warns that COVID-19 could potentially disrupt efforts to end some harmful practices such as child marriages, resulting in an additional 13 million child marriages between 2020 and 2030 globally. It is cited that India has seen a significant decline in child marriage over a decade from 47% in 2005-06 to 27% in 2015-16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sex-selection-led-to-460000-girls-missing-at-birth-in-india-annually-between-2013-17-un-report/articleshow/76698417.cms||Ambika Pandit
June 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Fishermen save youth from drowning||MANGALURU: Three local fishermen ventured into the rough sea to save a youth from drowning at Guddekopla beach near Surathkal on Sunday. Suman Sharat Kotian, who risked his life along with his younger brother Sujith Kotian and neighbour Yadav Sriyan, told TOI that a group of eight people, including three women, had come to the beach reportedly from Puttur. The sea was rough and locals had warned them not to venture into the sea. However, the youth were busy taking pictures in the water. They paid no heed to the warning of the locals and within minutes they saw one of the youth, who claimed to be a student, being dragged away by huge waves into the sea. The police and the fire fighting personnel were informed and they reached the spot. However, three local fishermen jumped into the sea to rescue the youth. “It was a challenging rescue operation. We swam for about 300 meters and with the help of a rope and tube, we managed to rescue the youth, who had climbed on to a dredger, from where he was screaming for help,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-fishermen-save-youth-from-drowning/articleshow/76698548.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 26 more Covid-19 patients declared cured||LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said on Monday 26 more Covid-19 patients had been declared cured in last 24 hours. Sharma said till now, the total number of patients discharged from hospital has reached 571. Besides, 18 more positive cases have been reported in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-26-more-covid-19-patients-declared-cured/articleshow/76698696.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Four new Covid-19 cases reported in Ambala, 17 discharged||AMBALA: Four new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ambala district on Monday while 17 patients got discharged after they tested negative for the infection. “With this, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases reached 318, out of which, 273 patients got discharged, three patients died, and 42 are active cases. So far, a total of 15,003 samples have been examined for Covid-19, out of which; 14,334 have tested negative, 351 reports are awaited and 318 have tested positive in Ambala district," civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-four-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-ambala-17-discharged/articleshow/76698853.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Sangrur reports 35 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1 death||PATIALA: A 55-year-old man of Dulma village in Malerkotla block of Sangrur district succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Monday taking the toll to 13 in the district. The district also reported 35 coronavirus positive cases. Similarly, 15 pereons in Patiala were tested positive whereas a 55-year-old patient admitted in government hospital in Sector 32 in Chandigarh succumbed to the virus infection. Meanwhile, the Sangrur district administrators has announced the lockdown in Malerkotla on Tuesday and Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-sangrur-reports-35-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death/articleshow/76698939.cms||Bharat Khanna
June 30, 2020||Business||Solar plan to make Leh self-reliant hanging fire over free power||NEW DELHI: At a time when the border standoff with China in Ladakh has sharpened focus on infrastructure development in border areas, a storage-based solar project proposed to make Leh, the union territory’s nerve centre, self-reliant in power has been hanging fire over the administration’s insistence on free power quota. People familiar with the matter said SECI, the Central agency implementing the National Solar Mission, had in March submitted the proposal to build a 50 mw (mega watt) solar power plant with 60 mw battery storage in March. The project is estimated to cost Rs 400 crore and guarantees at least 16 hours of green power at Rs 6 per unit, which is 25-30% cheaper than power supplied to Leh by NHPC or from diesel generators. Power from storage-based solar projects cost more as they over-ride the photo-voltaic projects’ dependence on the Sun. SECI had conducted a survey in the January-February period and identified a parcel of land at Phyang, 19 Kms from Leh. But things got stuck after the administration sought free power on the lines of inter-state hydel projects. SECI argued against free power since the project will supply only to Leh and not any other state. “The so-called free power will raise tariff as the cost will be added to the total outlay,” one official said. The project fits well into prime minister Narendra Modi’s vision, outlined during a review of the power ministry on May 28, of a carbon-neutral Ladakh. The project will also remove Leh’s dependence on long transmission lines across difficult terrains, which makes them vulnerable to damage from landslides or avalanches, for power form the Nimoo-Bazgo hydel project built on Indus at Alchi, 75 kms from Leh. Even the hydel output is vulnerable to the flow of Indus, which reduces to a trickle in winter as the river freezes over. Leh has a peak power demand of 50 mw and depends on supply from the Nimoo-Bazgo project and makes up any shortfall with diesel generators. Multiplicity of offers from Central utilities are also queering the pitch for the SECI project. NHPC recently offered to set up a solar power project without storage. This means power will flow only during the day. The matter has landed at the renewable energy ministry where efforts are on to reduce the tariff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/solar-plan-to-make-leh-self-reliant-hanging-fire-over-free-power/articleshow/76698628.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 30, 2020||India||Sharp Covid spike in south; 18,800+ new cases on Monday||NEW DELHI: New Covid-19 cases dipped for the second straight day on Monday but the absolute numbers remained high. At 18,870, fresh infections reported in the country during the day were the third highest to date, the previous two days having reported the highest counts. The day’s toll from the virus was 415. South India has seen a sharp rise in cases over the past few days. The five southern states, along with UT Puducherry, together accounted for 6,985 new cases on Monday, 37% of the day’s total. On Sunday, the number was 7,150, 36.2% of the total (19,741). By contrast, the share of the south in India’s daily Covid-19 count on the first two days of June was below 22%. Over the past three days, all five southern states and Puducherry have reported their highest single-day jump in cases, with Telangana and Karnataka registering over 1,000 cases on at least one of these days. On Monday, Tamil Nadu reported its highest single-day jump in infections with 3,949 cases. In Karnataka, 1,105 new infections were detected, the second-highest after Sunday’s count of 1,267. Similarly, Telangana reported its highest count of 1,087 new cases on Saturday, while cases jumped by 813 in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. India’s Covid-19 caseload stood at 5,67,423, as per data collated from state governments. The death toll was 16,882 while the number of recovered patients was over 3.35 lakh. Active cases had risen to over 2.15 lakh. Meanwhile, Maharashtra has recorded over a lakh cases in June so far. With an addition of 5,257 cases on Monday — the fourth consecutive day of adding 5,000-plus cases — the state tally touched 1,69,883. Of the total, 1,02,231 cases were added in June alone, and Mumbai’s share was 37,079, roughly 37%. Maharashtra reported 181 deaths on Monday, taking its toll to 7,610. Officials said 78 of the deaths occurred in the last 48 hours, while 103 were unreported ones from earlier. Mumbai contributed 92 of these deaths, which included 72 unreported deaths. The civic body’s death toll currently stands at 4,462. In Tamil Nadu, fresh Covid-19 infections were close to 4,000 for the second day on Monday, which saw 62 deaths pushing the toll to 1,141. Chennai on Monday recorded 2,167 cases. As the disease spread into the districts, the case doubling time dropped to 14 days for Tamil Nadu from 17 days on June 20, but a bigger worry was the rapidly dropping doubling time for deaths. In June, the state recorded 947 deaths, excluding the 200 deaths in Chennai yet to be added to the official toll. Statistics released by the state health department show that Covid 19 deaths in TN have been doubling in 10-11 days. “We are now beginning to see a spike in deaths in districts. If we don’t contain the disease, it could increase. The only effective way to do this is to increase diagnosis and initiate early treatment,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. In Gujarat, Ahmedabad recorded an alarming 145% jump in the number of dead cremated at 24 city crematoriums in May this year, as compared to the same month in 2019. The trend has continued in June as 3,380 cremations took place till June 18 this year as compared to 2,523 cremations in the entire month in 2019. The data, shared by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in reply to an Right to Information application, is an indication that loss of lives was much higher this year even if one factors in deaths due to Covid-19 and a maximum 12% rise in deaths expected by AMC year on year. Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Monday recorded 626 cases – 13 cases every 30 minutes – the highest for the state so far. The state's tally has now reached 32,023. It's the third consecutive day for the state to post the highest daily tally and 600-plus cases. It’s also the highest daily tally for Surat district that for the first time crossed the 200-cases mark. Delhi’s Covid-19 count crossed the 85,000 mark on Monday with 2,084 more persons testing positive for the disease. The death toll from the disease has touched 2,680, authorities said. Watch Sharp Covid-19 spike in southern parts of India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sharp-covid-spike-in-south-18800-new-cases-on-monday/articleshow/76699447.cms||---
June 30, 2020||India||Unlock 2.0: Pace of unlocking slows as new cases rise rapidly||NEW DELHI: In an indication that the Covid situation remains serious, the "unlocking" process has been paused with fresh guidelines stating that the lockdown shall continue to be strictly implemented in all containment zones till July 31 even as opening of schools & colleges, international passenger flights, Metro rail services, cinema halls, gymnasiums as well as social, political and religious congregations remain barred. The Unlock 2.0 guidelines issued by the home ministry on Monday under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 for the next one month have further relaxed the night curfew timings to between 10pm and 5am instead of 9pm to 5am earlier. "...Relaxations in night curfew have been given for seamless operation of industrial units in multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways, loading and unloading of cargo and movement of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes," the home ministry said in a press release. In an important change, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons & goods and no separate "permission/ approval/e-permit" will be required for such movement. In the previous guidelines, the MHA had allowed states to bar movement on the ground of an apprehension of a health situation. For example, UP authorities had restricted travel to and from Delhi. Also, the ministry stated that domestic flights and passenger train services, which have already been allowed in a limited manner, will see further expansion of operations "in a calibrated manner". The Unlock 2.0 guidelines — which the MHA said seek to open up more activities in areas outside containment zones — have lifted the restriction of five people at a time in all shops. Depending on their area, they can now have more people at a time. However, they will have to maintain adequate physical distance between the shoppers. The national directives on Covid-10 management continue to require mandatory wearing of face covers in public places, workplaces and during transport. Also, as per the new norms, the health ministry will monitor proper delineation of containment zones and implementation of containment measures. This was left to the states/UT administrations under Unlock 1.0 guidelines. The home ministry said dates for restarting all activities barred in non-containment areas till July 31 may be decided separately based on the assessment of the situation and necessary standard operating procedures may be issued for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of Covid-19. Directing that schools, colleges and educational and coaching institutions would not be reopened before July 31, the home ministry underlined that this decision was taken after extensive consultations with all the states and Union territories. Instead, online classes may be encouraged, it added. However, making an exception for training institutions of the central and state governments, the ministry has allowed them to function from July 15 as per SOPs to be issued by the department of personnel & training. The international travel of passengers other than that permitted by the home ministry and resumption of Metro rail services, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainments parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places have not been allowed till July 31 in non-containment areas. Importantly, social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will remain barred, even though opening of religious places and places of worship to the public as well as shopping malls, hotels and dine-in at restaurants and other hospitality services were allowed earlier on June 8. The lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones across the country till July 31. These zones must be carefully demarcated by the state/ UT governments as per guidelines issued by the health ministry. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed. The health ministry will monitor proper delineation of containment zones and implementation of containment measures. Vulnerable persons, i.e. those above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years, are advised to stay home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes. Stating that the use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged, the home ministry guidelines ask employers to get their employees to install it "on a best effort basis". The district magistrates will enforce the above measures. Also, states and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain activities outside containment zones or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. Watch Unlock 2.0: New cases rise rapidly, pace of unlocking slows||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unlock-2-0-pace-of-unlocking-slows-as-new-cases-rise-rapidly/articleshow/76699892.cms||Bharti Jain
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths: CCTV footage shows father-son not injured before arrest||TUTICORIN: CCTV footage released by traders in Sathankulam area here on Monday on the events that led to the arrest of P Jeyaraj (58) and J Beniks (31) in Tuticorin district on June 19 night — both died two days later in judicial custody — has exposed police lies that the father-son duo had fallen on the road, injuring themselves in the process, before they were arrested. Police have been maintaining that the injuries on their bodies were caused due to the fall and that the two were not tortured in police custody. The FIR also states that the father-son had rolled on the road, protesting against police. But none of that happened, going by the CCTV footage available with TOI. The 15-minute footage has been retrieved from King Electricals, located next to Beniks’s APJ Mobiles, a week after the incident took place. A close friend of Beniks said the events that led to the arrests had started on June 18 night when police asked shop owners to down shutters around 8pm. Jeyaraj was standing in front of his son’s shop along with a few others at that time. Someone informed police on June 19 morning that Jeyaraj had passed a rude comment when police announcement was made the previous night. Following this, around 7.30pm on June 19, a constable approached Jeyaraj — who was talking to a couple of people in front of Beniks’s shop. The constable walked away after a minute. About eight minutes later, the constable returned with another colleague and told Jeyaraj that the SI had summoned him to the police vehicle parked on the other side of the road. Jeyaraj walked up to the police vehicle along with the constables. The video shows Beniks later walking out of the shop and going up to the police vehicle and returning in less than a minute. “Police took Jeyaraj in the vehicle and asked Beniks to meet them at the police station,” said Beniks’s friend, who didn’t want to be named. Since all the shops in the locality were open at that time, the video is evidence that APJ Mobiles had not exceeded the stipulated time for closure of shops. However, the FIR gives a completely different picture. It says the father and the son were having a conversation with a few others when police arrived at the spot. When told, others left the place, but Jeyaraj and Beniks sat on the floor and rolled on the road, “causing internal injuries”. The FIR also says that the two abused policemen when they were asked to shut shop. This forced police to go back to the police station and register a case against them, the FIR states. “Three of us were there when police came and took Jeyaraj in the vehicle. We went to the police station with a few others. We heard cries of both Jeyaraj and Beniks for hours as police tortured them through the night. We will produce the video before the court to expose police lies,” said Beniks’s friend. Watch TN custodial killings: CCTV footage exposes cops' lies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-custodial-deaths-cctv-footage-shows-tn-father-son-not-injured-before-arrest/articleshow/76700060.cms||---
June 30, 2020||India||Concern in govt over reasons for NREGA boom||In five more days or so, Telangana will generate around 10.5 crore persondays of work under MGNREGA. Then, the state would have overhauled its performance for the entire 2019-20. After the scheme resumed on April 20 following the lockdown, the state has already touched 94% of persondays generated last year. Telangana touching the level of work of 365 days of 2019-20 in less than 75 days this year points to an extraordinary MGNREGA boom. The work demand and generation are marching at a breakneck pace in the wake of the corona pandemic and might break all records for distress labour employment. But while the performance is being held up as evidence of the job scheme successfully absorbing the rural demand for employment, there are serious concerns in the Union rural development ministry about some “disproportionate figures” and their “underlying, hidden reasons”. A senior official told TOI, “We will have to look at it closely. One reason for high work generation may be that post-lockdown, states and district administrations have focused only on MGNREGA and not on other avenues of employment to save their financial expenditure. Under MGNREGA, the budget mostly comes from the Centre.” According to sources, what is surprising is exceptionally high work in states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Chhattisgarh. “The share of returnee migrant workers in these states is low. So, high persondays here in such a short span appear disproportionate,” an official said. It suggests there may be a closer scrutiny of states once the dust settles. If there are alarm bells, the reasons lie in the ballooning figures of work. A TOI analysis of MGNREGA “progress report” found that besides Telangana, states like Chhattisgarh and Gujarat are touching a high mark – having generated 65% of persondays created last year. Andhra Pradesh is around 62% of 2019-20 and Uttar Pradesh is touching 49%. Another key MGNREGA catchment area of Odisha has generated 43% of persondays year-on-year. According to experts, the turnout for the rural job scheme implies that there is little employment available in the countryside after the lockdown and informal economy may nearly have collapsed. Yet at the same time agricultural economy was not much affected by the lockdown due to exemptions to farming operations and high procurements is evidence of this. Between April 20 and June 28, Bihar has achieved 44% of persondays generated in 2019-20 and Madhya Pradesh has nearly 43%. For a state badly hit by the pandemic right from the onset of the virus, Rajasthan has recovered well to provide 37% of person days of 2019-20. Haryana and Karnataka have roughly the same figure. Another slow starter because of high prevalence of coronavirus, Maharashtra has scored 33% of persondays from last year, almost the same as West Bengal. Jharkhand has a tally of 31.4%. However, work generation has remained low in the hill states: 8%-23% in the north-east, 23% in Uttarakhand and 20.5% in Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/concern-in-govt-over-reasons-for-nrega-boom/articleshow/76700315.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
June 30, 2020||Business||Key Covid-19 drugs to be hit by customs checks at ports||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Import consignments of crucial raw materials stuck at ports and airports will impact production of key Covid-19 drugs, Remdesivir and Favipiravir, as well as other life-saving medicines, leading to potential shortages across the country. Besides, shipments of even critical medical devices such as infrared thermometers and pulse oximeters are also affected. The delay in clearance of consignments of key chemicals used to produce advanced pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and formulations for lifesaving Covid-19 drugs, will impact the drugs’ production schedule, which is critical in the present scenario. Mylan, one of the six manufacturers of Remdesivir, a drug granted “emergency use” approval by US Food and Drug Administration for treatment of severely-ill Covid-19 patients, said the delay and hold up will impact the availability of drugs. This is even as the health ministry and Pharmexcil have sought early clearance of consignments. The industry body sought an urgent intervention from the government to resolve the “man-made disruption”, which started a fortnight back. Faced with an “acute disruption” it has sought instructions to customs authorities for immediate clearance of the supplies at ports and airports, particularly Nhava Sheva port (Maharashtra) and Delhi Airport. “We have been inundated with distress calls from a lot of our member companies that there has been an acute disruption in manufacturing of pharmaceutical products over the last three days,” Pharmexcil said in a letter to various government departments. The delays at ports and airports due to examination of all imports from China by customs authorities will impact costs for domestic manufacturers, a company official told TOI, as China has issued a directive to tighten credit. Also, several companies enter into annual contracts for their large volume purchases in the past. Due to political uncertainty, Chinese companies now prefer to sell products on a consignment basis which works out to be more expensive for the buyer. Critical raw material and bulk drugs are imported from China, with the country accounting for nearly 70% of API (active pharmaceutical imports), while in certain cases like antibiotics, the dependence is around 90%. “The delay in clearance of consignments for manufacturing APIs and formulations for life-saving drugs meant for COVID-19 treatment is going to impact the healthcare delivery in these challenging times,” a company manufacturing Covid-19 drugs said. “APIs import clearances are impacted and will be a concern if it continues for longer period,” Ashok Madan of Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA) said. Pharmexcil chairman Dinesh Dua said that there will be disruption in supply as there is near-total dependence on China for key raw materials used in making antibiotics, cardiovascular, respiratory and diabetes medicines. The congestion at ports particularly Nhava Sheva needs to be cleared quickly as rains will further lead to a huge pile up. Also, chemicals and pharma cargo will only be cleared after the perishables have been attended to. The “scrutiny’’ is being attributed to the ``intelligence’’ received around illegal imports of narcotics at Chennai port a few days back. Officials are seeking stricter compliance and more documentation from importers, which is not a normal routine procedure, a Chennai-based company said. Some cargo was cleared last week after a detailed investigation and scrutiny of documentation at Chennai, while the bigger containers of commodities and goods are still held up. Customs officials across the country are conducting a detailed examination and rechecking all shipments from China, even though there was no official intimation on the exercise. As against this, earlier only random testing was carried out of the containers. Watch Chinese raw materials held at ports to hit Covid-19 drug production||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/key-covid-19-drugs-to-be-hit-by-customs-checks-at-ports/articleshow/76700469.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 30, 2020||Business||Top ministers discuss ‘ban’ on Chinese 5G equipment||NEW DELHI: The government has begun consultations at the highest level to decide on the use of 5G technology, which is seen as a precursor to a possible bar on the use of equipment from Chinese companies, such as those sold by Huawei, when India rolls out the high-speed network. Top ministers discussed the issue at a meeting on Monday. The talks came along with the discussion to block 59 Chinese apps, which are facing allegations of snooping on millions of unsuspecting users and illegally transmitting the data to China. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverageWhile the details of the discussions were not immediately available, sources told TOI that the participation of Huawei and some of its Chinese rivals is at the heart of the deliberations. The auction of 5G spectrum has been postponed by at least a year in the wake of the Coronavirus pandemic, which was first discovered in Wuhan, as well as the weak financial position of some of the prospective bidders such as Vodafone Idea, which are battling for survival. Read AlsoChinese apps ban: TikTok says in process of complying with government orderTikTok on Tuesday said it is in the process of complying with the govt's order on blocking of the app, and asserted that it has not shared information of Indian users with any foreign govt, including that of China.The short video-sharing company said it has been invited to meet with concerned govtRead AlsoTikTok, UC Browser among 59 Chinese apps blocked as threat to sovereigntyThe government on Monday “blocked” as many as 59 Chinese Apps, including TikTok, UC Browser, WeChat, Shareit and CamScanner, for “engaging in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. The move against the “maliciousHuawei has already been banned by the Donald Trump administration, at least until next year, with American authorities also trying to convince other trade partners such as the UK and India to follow in its footsteps. The company has always been under a cloud with its founder linked to the PLA. Read AlsoGovt may license import of ACs, TVs to check shipmentsThe govt is looking to license the import of 10-12 items, including air conditioners and several of its components, and parts of television sets as it discourages the entry of foreign goods into the country, especially those from China. Work on licensing of products had started a few months ago,With tension rising at the border, the department of telecommunications has asked state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd to disallow Chinese participation in its 4G tender, while signaling to private players that equipment manufactured by companies from across the border was not welcome in India. In fact, the statement by Cellular Operators Association of India, which opposed curbs on Chinese telecom gear, has not gone down well with the telecom department. Read AlsoLadakh face-off: LAC satellite images show helipad expansion by ChinaFresh satellite images show that China has expanded its heliport located 21.3 km north east from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Pangong Tso area. The images show that no new heliport has been constructed. ​​​Latest satellite images show that China has revamped another old helibase and new||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/top-ministers-discuss-ban-on-chinese-5g-equipment/articleshow/76700506.cms||Sidhartha
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Protests get louder as GTU readies for July 2 exams||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has begun preparations for conducting theory exams from July 2 amid growing protests from students and political organizations demanding cancellation of the exams. On Monday, protesters burnt an effigy of GTU vice-chancellor Naveen Sheth. As many as fifteen members of National Students Union of India (NSUI) were detained for the protests held outside the VC’s residence, said sources.In a separate incident, members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Monday threw bangles at the varsity’s registrar to protest the selection of members in the admission committee. GTU officials clarified that they have allowed students to opt out of the exam. For such students, the university will hold exams after the Covid-19 crisis is over, they added. GTU has received registration applications from 54,500 students who want to take the pen-and-paper exams from July 2. The varsity has also given the option to students to opt for online descriptive type exams that are to be held from July 17. While most of the universities in Gujarat have deferred the examinations after facing student protests, the GTU examination council recently reiterated its stance to hold the theory exams in July as announced earlier. Currently, exam hall tickets are being issued online to students. The protests will continue in the coming days, said sources in NSUI. Although the exams are being conducted with the consent of students, many students are currently seen opposing it. The University Grants Commission (UGC) panel had recently recommended to the Union HRD ministry to scrap the final-year examination for all colleges and universities. A final decision in this regard is expected this week, sources added. Earlier, the UGC had recommended that the varsities cancel the intermediate exams, but the new proposal asks them to cancel the final-year or terminal semester examinations as well. This decision was taken after many educational institutions expressed their inability to conduct final-year exams in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/protests-get-louder-as-gtu-readies-for-july-2-exams/articleshow/76698607.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vadodara||Petroleum minister’s effigy burnt, eight detained||Vadodara: The Vadodara police detained eight Congress workers allegedly for burning effigy of petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday. Dozens of Congress workers led by city unit president Prashant Patel had gathered in the old city to protest against rising prices of fuel in the country. The protesters raised slogans against BJP government at the Centre and also mocked the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The BJP government has been continuously increasing fuel prices. The common man who is already reeling under pressure due to lockdown, is now forced to pay more for the fuel. This is unacceptable,” Patel said. “We demand that petrol and diesel should be brought under the GST so that the fuel prices decrease,” Patel added. VMC opposition leader Chandrakant Srivastava and senior Congress leader Chirag Zaveri too participated in the protests. After raising slogans, the protestors first hung the effigy of Pradhan and set it on fire following which the cops detained them.  Shinor police detained around 17 Congress party workers near Sadhli bus stand on Monday noon. Police said that the workers were planning to gather and stage protest against the government over rising fuel prices. All 17 workers were booked under the Disaster Management Act as none of them had maintained social distancing. “It was a vindictive act by the police as in no other district did the police book protesters under the Disaster Management Act. It is to silence our voices ahead of the assembly by-poll that will be held in Karjan,” said Sagar Brahmbhatt, president of Vadodara district Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/petroleum-ministers-effigy-burnt-eight-detained/articleshow/76699021.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man cheated after calling number on hacked page||Ahmedabad: Manohar Javle, a data entry operator living in Raipur area of the city lost Rs 43,000 to cyber thugs on June 22. He went to the cybercrime police station, and from there he was sent to file the FIR with Kagdapith police. He filed the FIR on Sunday. After a failed transaction at an ATM, Javle searched for the customer care number of the concerned bank on the internet and found a phone number which he dialled. He received a message with a link from the same number on his phone. After he clicked OK, he discovered a message in his phone informing his money had been refunded. “He then received a phone call from the number. The person on the other end told him to talk to his senior so that he could avoid such mistakes,” said a police official. The ‘senior bank official’ told Javle to download an application and in parts conned him into paying Rs 43,000 while insisting it was for his safety, and the money will be refunded. After paying the money, Javle was unable to reach the ‘customer care’ number again. Cybercrime officials said that cyber cheats hack genuine websites and replace helpline numbers with their numbers. “Often, when you search for a helpline, the first two or three numbers displayed are of fraudsters, who do search engine optimization to rank those pages higher,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-cheated-after-calling-number-on-hacked-page/articleshow/76698583.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Locust attack: Bihar government puts ten districts in ‘danger zone’||PATNA: State agriculture minister Prem Kumar on Monday issued an advisory for those living in towns with regard to preventive measures, besides grading all the 38 districts in three categories in the order of their vulnerability to locust attack. The agriculture department has put 10 districts in the ‘danger zone’ and another 10 in the vulnerable zone painted green on the map where people have to remain alert. The remaining 18 districts have been put in the pink zone, meaning that they would largely remain free of locust menace. The districts in the danger zone are Patna, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Kaimur, Jehanabad, Arwal, Aurangabad, Saran, East Champaran and West Champaran. The 10 other districts in green zone are Nalanda, Buxar, Gaya, Nawada, Siwan, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Sheohar and Vaishali. Prem said locusts were seen in groups but in small numbers in East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Bhojpur, Patna, Jehanabad, Nalanda and Nawada districts. The locusts entered Masaurhi in Patna district from Bhojpur via Bikram and Paliganj blocks, but then turned towards Nalanda and Nawada. Similarly, they were also sighted on the outskirts of Bagaha Nagar Parishad area in West Champaran, besides in Nautan and Piprasi blocks of the district. The strength of locust swarms was in the range of 10,000-15,000 in West Champaran, while the general strength of their groups sighted in various districts has been in the range of 5,000 to 60,000 in one group, the minister said, adding that overall around 2.5 lakh locust swarms were flying in the state. As to the advisory for people in the towns, as and when they sight locusts, they should gather around and stand in groups on rooftops and beat drums, nagara, tin cans, plates and even ring bells to create loud noise, Prem said. He also advised people to burn ‘gugool’ in their rooms and spray menthol oil in houses and on the railings, besides covering flower pots and kitchen garden with jute sacks to prevent locusts from seeing and perching on them. The minister said the farmers should apply the traditional methods to create noise to drive away the locusts, besides spraying pesticides on their crops, like paddy seedlings. He, however, said the locusts have not yet caused any damage to the crops in any district where they have been sighted due to alertness of the farmers, government officials and others concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/locust-attack-govt-puts-10-dists-in-danger-zone/articleshow/76696312.cms||Abhay Singh
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||Ballari reports nine Covid deaths||Ballari: Ballari reported the death of nine Covid-19 patients on Monday, the highest single-day count so far, sending alarm bells ringing in the district. Authorities are now stepping up measures to curb the spread of the virus and to ensure the safety of the elderly and those suffering from other diseases. The district has reported 22 deaths due to the disease. Deputy commissioner SS Nakul said of these victims, six — three from Andhra Pradesh (AP), two from Raichur and one from Koppal — had been referred to hospitals here. Besides, 85% of Covid-19 victims had co-morbidities such as renal failure, liver and heart diseases. Among the Covid casualties reported on Monday were a 43-year old man from Rangapura camp in Gangavthi (Koppal) who had complained of fever and breathlessness and was admitted on June 27. He suffered from chronic liver disease and portal hypertension and died of septic shock. Two of the victims from Hospet — men aged 56 and 66 — both suffered from pneumonia. A 52-year-old woman from Andhra Pradesh was admitted on June 27 with breathlessness and died a day later; she suffered from ischemic heart disease, hypertension and diabetes, authorities said. “As VIMS (Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences,) is equipped with all facilities to treat critical cases, some patients are being referred from Andhra and other neighbouring districts at the last minute in critical condition,” said Nakul. “We are trying our best to treat such critical cases efficiently. We have decided to intensify the health survey to identify those with symptoms of SARI and other ailments for early detection of the virus.” A meeting of doctors was also held to review measures taken to avoid deaths and to ensure there is coordination across the district. “We also plan to procure rapid antigen detection kits to expedite the process of testing the swab samples of suspected patients,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ballari-reports-nine-covid-deaths/articleshow/76697001.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 30, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Dengue needs no hospital care, says insurer, gets pulled up||VADODARA: A disease like dengue, which can even turn fatal for patients, needs no hospitalization and can be cured by outpatient department (OPD) treatment. At least this is what a public sector insurer and third-party administrator (TPA) want patients to believe. However, United India Insurance Company Ltd and MD India Healthcare TPA Pvt Ltd, earned the ire of consumer court in Vadodara for this brazen medical advice to reject the claim of a Navapura citizen whose teenage son was hospitalized for dengue. The insurer turned down the claim of Rs 13,783 put forward by Kirti Patel, whose son Manan, was admitted at BAPS Shastriji Maharaj Hospital in Atladara in November 2017. Manan was diagnosed with dengue and bicytopenia, severe deficiency of erythrocytes, leukocytes and platelets in the blood. He was discharged after three days of hospitalization. But the companies said that both diseases could be cured with OPD treatment and needed no hospitalization. After the company rejected the claim, Patel approached Vadodara District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum to get back the money spent on medical treatment as well as compensation for mental harassment. “During the hearing of the case too, the insurance company and TPA stuck to their contention that dengue and bicytopenia could be treated through OPD and there was no need for hospitalization. But Patel presented medical papers including the doctor’s opinion regarding the line of treatment to be given to cure dengue and bicytopenia,” said Jignesh Chauhan, Patel’s lawyer. The forum presided by DY Malik rejected the insurance company and TPA’s arguments and came down heavily on the companies for the brazen medical advice. The court directed them to reimburse the entire medical expense along with 8% interest and Rs 2,500 as compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dengue-needs-no-hosp-care-says-insurer-gets-pulled-up/articleshow/76699126.cms||Jay Pachchigar
June 30, 2020||Patna||Rise in fuel cost sends vegetable prices soaring in Patna||PATNA: Continuous rise in prices of petrol and diesel has made vegetables and fruits costlier by at least 10-15% in the city, thereby hitting household budgets of many. According to wholesalers and traders, fuel prices play a major role in fixing the prices of vegetables and fruits. Harendra Kumar Patel, manager of a vegetable and fruit wholesale unit at Ram Krishna Nagar, said the prices of essential food items have started increasing in the last two days mainly because of transportation charges. “There is a marginal rise in transportation cost in the last fortnight. As a result, prices of vegetable and fruits have started increasing. Retail prices would see more impact as far as vegetables and fruits are concerned,” Patel added. District agriculture officer Rakesh Ranjan, however, said the increase in prices of vegetables and fruits was 10% less than last year during the same period. “There is no crisis of essential commodities. The only problem is that the growers use diesel pumps in agricultural activities. Rise in fuel prices has impacted input cost,” he added. At the Phulwarisharif and Boring Canal Road vegetable markets, tomatoes were being sold at Rs 60 per kg, potato at Rs 28 per kg, lady finger at Rs 20 per kg, pointed gourd (parwal) at Rs 30 per kg and sponge gourd (nenua) at Rs 20 per kg on Monday. Naresh Singh, a vegetable seller at Bazaar Samiti, said, “There is not much rise in prices of potato and onion, but the prices of tomatoes have increased more than two- fold. The prices of vegetables might increase further,” he added. Monu Sah, another vegetable seller at Digha, said, “Though the supply of vegetables is normal, retail prices saw a jump due to increase in fuel prices.” Mohd Sakir, who sells fruits on Ashok Rajpath, said prices of apple soared to Rs 240 from Rs 200 per kg, while there was 10% rise in prices of different species of mangoes. “The prices of papaya, pomegranate and orange have increased by up to Rs10-18 per kg,” he said. D M Diwakar, an economist, said the rise in prices of petroleum products have influenced the prices of other commodities, including vegetables and fruits. “The rising fuel prices would have cascading effect on other commodities. The prices might increase further as it is the kharif season. Farmers in Bihar have started plantation and they need fuel for farming activities,” he said. Meanwhile, the residents, who are already facing troubles due to Covid-19 pandemic, said the rising vegetable and fruit prices have hit their household budgets. Ananya Singh, a resident of Boring Canal Road, said, “No matter how much cost cutting we do, the prices of all essential commodities will go up and impact the household budget. The prices of vegetables, fruits, cooking gas and oil have already increased. We now apprehend that prices of dairy products, meat and dry ration would also rise due to increase in fuel prices.” Vivek Kumar, a resident of Nala Road and teacher at a private school, said he did not receive salary for May and the month of June has also ended. “It will be very difficult for people like us to survive if the prices of essential commodities continue rising trend,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rise-in-fuel-cost-sends-veggie-prices-soaring-in-city/articleshow/76696417.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL demands HC proceedings be live streamed||Ahmedabad: A PIL on Monday urged the Gujarat high court to live stream court proceedings for litigants, the media and the public as court hearings take place virtually, due to Covid-19 situation.As the high court functions through video-conference, nobody except the participating lawyers can witness the hearing. A law student, Prithvirajsinh Zala, has sought open public access to virtual hearings of the HC and urged it to frame necessary rules for live streaming of proceedings. He sought directions to the HC registry to set up a live streaming mechanism for courtrooms. The petitioner contended that live streaming or open access of court proceedings is feasible through technology. Even physical hearings can be made more accessible, by setting up a live streaming mechanism. He cited the examples of supreme courts of various countries and high courts in different states that are live streaming proceedings because they have started hearing litigation through video conferencing due to the pandemic. He argued, “Trial held subject to public scrutiny and gaze naturally acts as a check against judicial caprice or vagaries, and serves as a powerful instrument for creating confidence of the public in the fairness, objectivity, and impartiality of the administration of justice.” The hearing on this PIL will take place on July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-demands-hc-proceedings-be-live-streamed/articleshow/76698627.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Business||19% of MSMEs eligible for govt guarantee in high-risk category||MUMBAI: An analysis of MSME borrowers by TransUnion Cibil shows that 19% of those eligible under the government’s Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) fall in the sub-prime or high-risk category. On the positive side, 81% of those that will receive these loans are considered to be structurally strong. The credit bureau has been assigning Cibil SME Rank (CMR) to small businesses based on its credit history data on a scale of 1-10. CMR 1 is the best possible rank for the least risky MSMEs and CMR 10 is the riskiest rank for MSMEs. The lower the CMR, the lesser the risk of bad loans associated with the MSME. According to TU Cibil analysis, 28% of the MSMEs have a CMR between 1 to 3 which makes them super-prime borrowers and the least likely to default. Bulk of the small businesses fall in the ‘prime’ category with a CMR rank between 4 to 6. The remaining 19% are the riskiest borrowers with a CMR of over 7. The government as part of its Atmanirbhar Bharat relief package announced a credit guarantee scheme for MSMEs that would facilitate Rs 3 lakh crore of credit infusion into the sector. The package is sizeable considering that the total amount lent out by banks to MSMEs in 2019 was only Rs 2.8 lakh crore. “In addition to the 100% credit guarantee, the fact that over 80% eligible MSMEs have a ranking of CMR 6 or better makes ECLGS guidelines inherently cater for risk containment. However, in the rapidly changing market conditions, the dynamics of MSME businesses are evolving every day and therefore it’s important to not only rely on original structural strength of MSME but to also regularly monitor borrower’s behaviour,” said TU Cibil MD and CEO Rajesh Kumar. Incidentally, the percentage of sub-prime borrowers is least (18%) in the ‘micro’ loans category, while the ‘medium’ category of industries has the highest level of sub-prime borrowers at 38%, and the ‘small’ category has 23%. According to RBI’s March data, micro and small industries accounted for 4.3% of all bank loans, while the medium size category had only 1.3% of bank loans. The total amount of loans outstanding to the MSME industry stood Rs 4.87 lakh crore at the end of May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/19-of-msmes-eligible-for-govt-guarantee-in-high-risk-category/articleshow/76699199.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC, cops intensify drive against those not wearing masks||Ahmedabad: With the number of Covid-19 cases in the city still rising, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and police on Monday joined hands to intensify their drive against those who do not wear masks, primarily in the West, North and the East Zones. Some 100 teams cracked down on those not wearing masks or were found to be spitting in public. City police chief Ashish Bhatia said this is not about collecting fines, but an effort to make wear people masks. “This is the most effective way one can fight Covid-19. Prevention is better than cure,” he said. “Police stations in the West Zone are Chandkheda, Sabarmati, Ranip, Vadaj, Gujarat University, Paldi and Vasna; in the East Zone are Nikol, Odhav, Ramol, Amraiwadi, Vatva GIDC and parts of Gomtipur and Rakhial; and in the North Zone are Sardarnagar, Airport, Naroda, Krishnanagar and Bapunagar,” said Bhatia. Senior officials said greater awareness about the need to wear masks was seen in the Central and South Zones. “They will be covered under the drive later,” an official said. Bhatia said each police station will form its own team and will depute two persons to each AMC team. Traffic police will form their own teams for the drive and personnel on the roads will also be part of the drive,” he added. Bhatia said that city police registered 24,226 cases against people not wearing masks or caught spitting on the road in the last ten days. “Such fines collected by traffic police totalled about Rs 20,00,000 and those by police stations Rs 28,45,200,” Bhatia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-cops-intensify-drive-against-those-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76698555.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
June 30, 2020||Patna||Locust menace in paddy season worries farmers||PATNA: The sowing of paddy seeds has been taking place briskly for the last one week in 23 of the 38 districts and each known for producing this crop around 2 lakh tonnes to 7 lakh tonnes annually. However, the farmers have been facing twin problems of locust attack and the high paddy seeds prices. The target for the paddy transplantation this year has been put at 33 lakh hectares, which would require 4.89 lakh quintals of paddy seeds. The market price of seeds is around Rs850 per 6kg packet. Last season, it was around Rs700. The entry of locusts in parts of eight western districts is also giving a harrowing time to the farmers, who are applying traditional methods like beating tins and drum to create loud noise to keep the locusts away the paddy seedlings. “We also spray pesticides, but noisy sound is a better option,” Chunne Khan from Nasiriganj in Rohtas district said. Farmers from Purnia and Katihar in eastern Bihar, as well as in Rohtas on the west said paddy sowing would be over in the next one week and the transplantation of seedlings would be over by July 25 in most cases. “This Kharif season rain has come in time and rainfall is also good. Water is available and we are preparing the land for transplanting paddy seedlings,” Kabul Khan from Dinara in Rohtas district said. “The big problem is the locusts. What can farmers do? They have to remain alert to protect their seedlings. One person always remains on guard in and around the chunks of land,” he added. On account of locusts, the condition of farmers in Rohtas district, called the ‘rice bowl’ of the state, is particularly acute. The farmers in the districts which do not share border with eastern UP or are locust-free appeared relatively better placed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/locust-menace-in-paddy-season-worries-farmers/articleshow/76696380.cms||Abhay Singh
June 30, 2020||Patna||Increase Covid tests up to 15,000 per day: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday asked the health department officials to make all necessary preparations in advance in view of the possibility of increase in Covid-19 cases in near future. Addressing a high-level meeting convened to review the steps being taken for effective control of Covid-19, Nitish asked the officials to ensure availability of sufficient oxygen cylinders, testing kits and safety equipment at all the hospitals where Covid-19 patients were being admitted in order to meet the challenges in coming days. The CM further called for increasing the number of tests per day to detect more Covid-19 cases. “Health department has informed me that the target of 10,000 tests per day has been achieved. Now, we should increase the number of tests to 15,000 per day,” Nitish told the officials. “In the case of pool-testing, follow the guidelines and collect samples of minimum possible people,” he said. Nitish also said his government was taking all necessary steps to check further spread of Covid-19 in the state. “The recovery rate in the state is 73%. People should not panic. Maintain patience and be alert towards the infectious disease,” Nitish urged the people. He asked the officials to arrange sufficient quantity of necessary medicines and other equipment for such hospitals in the wake of consistent increase in the number of coronavirus cases across the state. “It is our responsibility to provide health security to all people in the state,” the CM said. He further asked health department’s principal secretary Uday Singh Kumawat to complete the ongoing work to supply oxygen to the patients on bed through pipelines in different hospitals. “There is a need to increase the number of beds with necessary facilities in the isolation wards in all districts. The number of beds should also be increased in the hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 treatment. Isolation centres can be set up at all those government buildings which are yet to become functional,” Nitish said and asked the officials not to set up isolation wards at any school building. He further asked the health officials to take necessary steps also for the treatment of patients suffering from other diseases like AES, Japanese Encephalitis, kala-azar, dengue and malaria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/up-covid-tests-to-15000-every-day-nitish/articleshow/76696809.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Lockdown in Nepal adversely affects business of border districts||PATNA: Some noted traders of Jainagar in Madhubani district are eagerly waiting for the lockdown in Nepal to end. They have neither visited their business establishments there nor received payment from local shopkeepers as the India-Nepal border remained sealed as the lockdown enters 100th day on Monday. Shyam Prasad Murarka, Arun Jain, Girdhari Sarraf and Anil Barolia of Jainagar own wholesale shops in Dhanusha and Sirha districts of Nepal. But their shops are closed due to Covid-19 lockdown for over three months. Though restrictions have been eased on Indian side, people are not allowed to enter Nepal. “The Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF) jawans don’t allow any Indian national to cross the border,” said Durga Nandan Durgesh. The commandant of 48th battalion of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Shankar Singh, said people’s movement is still restricted in Nepal. “Once the lockdown is lifted in Nepal, the situation will become normal from both sides,” he said over the phone on Monday. The situation at Gaur Bazar in Sitamarhi district is no better. Ramesh Singh said, “Nepal has eased the lockdown, though the reopening is limited to basic facilities such as healthcare service, waste management, bank, fire services and others.” The Indian markets situated near the border are yet to see buyers from Nepal and vice versa. “Though the shops are open, there is no buyer in the market. About 80% of the buyers are from Nepal,” said a grocery shop owner, preferring anonymity. The residents, however, attributed the strained relationship between the two countries to the sorry state of affairs along the porous border. “The Indian citizens are not behaved properly by the Nepal forces. Prior to dispute over some territory, their behaviour was cordial,” said Pankaj Pandey of Bairgania in Sitamarhi. “Suraj Mahto, who used to sell garments on his bicycle, was stopped by the APF recently. His bicycle was seized and he was detained for a couple of hours. He was freed after the intervention of some elderly people. Suresh Bhagat, a betel leaf trader, was meted out similar treatment,” Pandey added. A number of Nepal citizens, who worked in shops and business establishments on Indian side, were facing the same hardship. “The prolonged lockdown has virtually pushed us to the brink of starvation,” said Sonelal Paswan, a resident of Inarwa area in Madhubani district. The violation of lockdown norms had claimed the life of an Indian national in Nepal police firing on June 12. “Efforts are on to ease the tension at the border,” a senior SSB official in Patna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-in-nepal-adversely-affects-business-of-border-districts/articleshow/76696956.cms||Ramashankar
June 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Youth collective aims to make graduates ready for industry||Mangaluru: Against the backdrop of mounting confusion on the way ahead for higher education amid the Covid-19 crisis, and growing uncertainty over examinations, ‘Akansha’, a collective of youngsters is keen on equipping undergraduate students with skills that will enhance their prospects when they enter the professional world. The aim is to train around 30 second-year degree students from three colleges in each district of Karnataka, who will be enrolled for a year-long programme at the end of which they are expected to have all the skills demanded by the industrial sector. The programme has been called ‘ImpACT 30’ and is slated to be launched in the second week of July in Udupi. Mentor and managing trustee of Akansha Shreesha Bhat said that the primary objective behind ‘ImpACT 30’ was to train youngsters as drivers of change. “We will conduct the programme on Zoom. We have around 120 volunteers who will be involved in this programme. Most of the activities that the participants will be a part of will revolve around developing their self-confidence, which will, in turn, help them realise their potential,” Bhat said. The activities will centre on academic, social and vocational training, and building connections with family, peers and the community. “The participants will also be introduced to celebrity guests credited with ushering in significant changes in their various fields. We will also have a hackathon on sustainable development goals,” said Bhat, adding that Akansha had been reaching out to underprivileged students since 2012. “We have been holding events to promote science at government schools in villages since 2014,” he said. Bhat, formerly a lecturer at Vivekananda Degree College in Puttur, started a youth forum there last year. The forum, he used to groom students through activity-based learning techniques. The success of programmes such as an online skill enhancement programme and a youth conference encouraged both Bhat and Akansha to launch ImpACT 30, which will be implemented with the assistance of local government officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youth-collective-aims-to-make-graduates-ready-for-industry/articleshow/76699887.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 30, 2020||Vadodara||53 deaths in Vadodara, many not accounted for||Vadodara: While reports of people who tested for Covid-19 dying trickle in every day from hospitals or from places where their last rites were performed or their neighbourhood, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMS) seems to be taking days to acknowledge them. After having declared 31 persons dead till May 5, deaths started vanishing from VMC’s health bulletins. The VMC had dropped a hint regarding what would follow in an ‘additional health bulletin’ on May 7 stating that it would now declare deaths only after death audits. The deaths declared in the medical bulletin also give skewed data that is not reliable. For instance, if he data is to be believed, lesser people died when the pandemic worsened. According to data in the medical bulletin 31 people died till May 5. When the pandemic worsened as the lockdowns were eased, the number seems to have gone down – at least in the health bulletins. After this, only 22 people seem to have died taking the number to 53. After the declaration, the VMC has been mentioning two to four people’s deaths periodically. While the frequency was once or, sometimes twice a week till early this month, this increased to 10 days and now two weeks.The officials may be arguing that death audits are leading to delay in declaration of deaths, but hospitals responsible for making the audit reports claim that, barring exceptions, there is no major delay in sending death audit reports. A GMERS Hospital, Gotri official said that it took about a week’s time to submit death audit reports. “We send the reports to VMC and the include it in the medical bulletin,” said the official. SSG Hospital sources too said that they had been sending death audits regularly.VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that there was no delay in declaring deaths. He said that deaths were declared as and when audit reports were available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/53-deaths-in-vadodara-many-not-accounted-for/articleshow/76698857.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Congress takes out cycle rally against hike in fuel prices||PATNA: Bihar Congress leaders and workers on Monday took out a cycle rally against the diesel and petrol prices hike. It was a part of the party’s nationwide protest and demand to roll back the prices. Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha, working presidents Kaukab Qadri and Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj, former MP Tariq Anwar, Anil Kumar Sharma and women wing president Amita Bhushan, along with party workers started the rally from Boring Road crossing to Dak Bungalow roundabout. Addressing the party workers, Jha said, “Even though crude oil price has reduced in the international market, the central and state governments were filling their lockers by increasing the prices of diesel and petrol.” Recalling the BJP protests when in the opposition, Tariq said, “In 2013, Sushma Swaraj had led a massive protest across the county when LPG cylinder was Rs400 and fuel was above Rs65. Today, an LPG cylinder costs Rs700 and petrol and diesel have crossed Rs85-mark, but the BJP is silent.” State Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore also took a jibe at BJP and said, “I will just request them to go through their own protest videos. They will be ashamed after that. In fact, I am waiting for a Baba (without taking the name of Baba Ramdev), who was so vocal against LPG and fuel price hike and wanted such a government at the Centre which could provide a gas cylinder for Rs300. But they all have vanished and are filling their own pockets.” The opposition parties across the country have been lashing out at the central government against the fuel price increase. Even a day before, RJD took out a cycle rally in Jharkhand. The party, which is the main opposition in Bihar, also protested in Patna on Thursday. RJD leaders Tej Pratap and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had hit the road on their cycles to protest against the hike in fuel price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-takes-out-cycle-rally-against-hike-in-fuel-prices/articleshow/76696450.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 30, 2020||Surat||Hong Kong diamantaires arrange special flight to bring back their kin stranded in Surat||Surat: It was a big day for Richa Khunt and her two kids. After remaining stranded for four months at her in-laws house in Surat’s Katargam, Richa flew to Hong Kong to be with her diamantaire husband, Bipin Khunt, in a private chartered flight from Mumbai. Richa is not an isolated case. About 326 people from 125 families, especially women and children of the diamantaires settled in Hong Kong, were repatriated in the private chartered Boeing-777 aircraft arranged by the diamantaires from Mumbai to Hong Kong on Monday. “I can’t express my emotions at this point of time. From last four months, myself and my kids were waiting for this big day to reach Hong Kong. We had come to stay at our in-laws house in Katargam in February, but could not return back to Hong Kong due to the lockdown and frequent cancellation of flights,” said Richa, who reached Mumbai international airport with her kids in the afternoon to board the chartered flight, which departed at 9pm. Vijay Sheth, a Hong Kong-based diamantaire told TOI, “A month ago, we took up the mission to bring our family members back to Hong Kong. It took a lot of efforts and man-hours to get special permission from the governments in Hong Kong and India for the private chartered flight to bring back 326 family members from Surat. Finally, we got the permission from both the governments and we booked a Boeing-777 from Mumbai to Hong Kong.” Sheth added, “Due to the lockdown in Hong Kong, the flight operations are still suspended and they are allowing flights in special cases. The Hong Kong government has arranged special quarantine facility for 14 days for all the 326 passengers coming from Surat and that they will be provided with food, medicines and other required medical care. ” Kiran Patel, who is employed in the Dharmanandan Diamonds’s Hong Kong office told TOI, “I have not seen my wife and kids since January 14. They had gone to Surat to spend holidays and were stuck due to the lockdown. All the diamantaires in Hong Kong took the decision to bring family members back in the chartered flight and it was successful.” Harsha Mangukiya, another stranded wife of a diamantaires in Surat told TOI, “I had come with my 12-year-old son and husband to spend holidays at our house in Surat in December. My husband went back to Hong Kong by end of February and we were stuck in Surat after the lockdown. Almost after six months, I will be going to Hong Kong to my house. I am so excited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hong-kong-diamantaires-arrange-special-flight-to-bring-back-their-kin-stranded-in-surat/articleshow/76698791.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||As fraudsters find new ways, Haryana says beware of rent payment apps||Chandigarh: Haryana Police has issued an advisory requesting citizens to verify credentials of rent payment apps before initiating any online payment process as cyber fraudsters may try to siphon off funds from bank accounts using these platforms. Advising the people to be aware of such scammers, Haryana director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said a new trend of cybercrime has come to the fore after online apps facilitated rent transfer using credit/debit cards. The rent payment apps like NoBroder Pay, CRED, RentPayment, which are in significant demand, allow tenants to pay rent directly to the landlord account using credit or debit card by charging convenience fees. “As rent is probably one of the biggest expenses borne by individuals on a monthly basis, the citizens must pay close attention to every detail of online payment to protect themselves from such scammers,” he added. Explaining the modus operandi, Yadava said first these fraudsters open an account with a rent payment app and register themselves as landlord with his or her own account number. Then they call the victim and trick him or her to provide card details. As soon as the fraudster gets the details, he initiates a rent payment process through the app which results in siphoning off funds from credit/debit card. Suggesting a series of precautionary measures, the DGP said people must verify credentials of the app as well as the landlord before initiating any online payment. If they notice any fraud, they should immediately contact the customer support of the rent payment app as such a transaction may be stopped if contacted within the permissible time of unauthorized withdrawal. The people should refrain from sharing their credit/debit card details to anyone over phone calls/WhatsApp or text messages. Installation of remote access software like any desk, quick support etc should also be avoided, he added. Taking cognizance of the growing menace of cybercrime, the DGP said the state police force is making all out efforts to curb cybercrime effectively. The state government had already started the process of upgrading the network of cybercrime police stations. The Haryana government has already accorded approval for setting up six new cybercrime police stations, one each at five police range headquarters (Rohtak range, Hisar range, Karnal range, Ambala range, south range Rewari) and one at Faridabad police commissionerate. e have issued an advisory requesting citizens to verify credentials of the rent payment apps before initiating any online payment process as cyber fraudsters may try to siphon off funds from bank accounts using these platforms. Advising the people to be aware of such scammers, the Director General of Police (DGP), Haryana, Manoj Yadava said that a new trend of cyber crime came to the fore after online apps facilitated rent transfer using credit/debit cards. The rent payment apps like NoBroder Pay, CRED, RentPayment, which are in significant demand, allow tenants to pay rent directly to the landlord account using credit or debit card by charging convenience fees. “As rent is probably one of the biggest expenses borne by individuals on a monthly basis, the citizens must pay close attention to every detail of online payment to protect themselves from such scammers, he added.” Explaining the modus operandi, Yadava informed that first; these fraudsters’ opened an account with a rent payment app and registered themselves as landlord with his or her own account number. Then they call the victim and trick him or her to provide card details. As soon as the fraudster gets the details, he initiates a rent payment process through the app which resulted in siphoning off funds from credit/debit card. Suggesting a series of precautionary measures, the DGP added that people must verify credentials of the app as well as the landlord before initiating any online payment. If notice any fraud, they immediately contact the customer support of the rent payment app as such a transaction may be stopped if contacted within the permissible time of unauthorized withdrawal. The people should refrain from sharing their credit/debit card details to anyone over phone calls/WhatsApp or text messages. Installation of remote access software like any desk, quick support etc. should also be avoided. Taking cognizance of the growing menace of cybercrime, the DGP informed that the state Police force is making all out efforts to curb cybercrime effectively. The state government had already started the process of upgrading the network of cybercrime police stations. The Haryana government has already accorded approval for setting up six new cybercrime police stations, one each at five police Range Headquarters (Rohtak Range, Hisar Range, Karnal Range, Ambala Range, South Range Rewari) and one at Police Commissionerate Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-fraudsters-find-new-ways-haryana-says-beware-of-rent-payment-apps/articleshow/76699405.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Fresh bid for bridge parallel to MG Setu||PATNA: Amid growing public demand for boycott of Chinese goods following the face-off in Ladakh region has started impacting government projects in India, as ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) has cancelled the bidding process for construction of a four-lane bridge parallel to Mahatma Gandhi Setu over river Ganga in Patna. Fresh bidding process has also been initiated for the same. While technical errors are being cited as the official reason for the cancellation of the initial bidding process, highly placed sources attribute it to Chinese partnership in five of the seven firms, which had qualified for the final bidding. “Altogether five Indian companies submitted the bids in joint venture with Chinese firms. This was broadly the reason for cancelling the first bidding process before it entered the financial bidding stage. However, this is not the official stand,” said a government official, wishing anonymity. When asked, state road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav told TOI: “The initial bidding process for the four-lane bridge was cancelled by MoRTH owing to some discrepancies in qualifying criteria set to submit bids. The bidding documents stipulated two qualification criteria — minimum five years’ experience in handling such projects as well minimum seven years’ experience. Consequently, firms having both types of experiences submitted bids, which led to discrepancies. Accordingly, the initial bidding process has been terminated and retender has been initiated on June 27.” The proposed bridge is a part of the special package for Bihar PM Narendra Modi had announced before the 2015 assembly elections in the state. Its total length from Zero Mile in Patna to Ramashish Chowk in Hajipur is 5.63km and the overall length comprising the approach roads on either side is 14.5km. The initial bidding process was initiated in August last year. A senior road construction department official said none of the projects in Bihar are being executed either solely by Chinese firms or in joint venture with them. “For instance, Kachchi Dargah-Bidupur six-lane bridge is being constructed by L & T with Korea-based Daewoo Engineering & Construction Company. Thus, the Indian companies have the option to make a joint venture with non-Chinese firms. The government, however, has no policy as such for not allowing Chinese firm in projects being executed following global bidding process,” he said. Western flank of MG Setu ready: State road construction department has claimed that the western flank of Mahatma Gandhi Setu is ready and it will be opened for vehicular movement within a week after consent from the Centre. The 38-year-old bridge is being rehabilitated by MoRTH by demolishing the old superstructure, except its pillars, and erecting triangular steel-girders with concrete slab — as in Rajendra Setu or Koilwar rail-cum-road bridge — on pillars. The western flank of the bridge is being rehabilitated since February 2017. This would be followed by the rehabilitation of its eastern flank in similar manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fresh-bid-for-bridge-parallel-to-mg-setu/articleshow/76696557.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Surat||Surat: TRB jawan caught taking bribe from veggie vendors||SURAT: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested a traffic brigade jawan who was taking bribes from vegetable vendors in Singanpore area in lieu of allowing them to do business by the roadside. Rakesh Yadav, 20, who is posted at the crossroad near Silver Stone Arcade, had demanded Rs 100 from each vegetable vendor. On Monday, he was caught red-handed taking Rs 4,000 from the complainant, who had collected the money from other vendors to pay him. Yadav had been demanding money from the vendors ever since relaxations were given the lockdown earlier this month. However, a vendor unwilling to pay the bribe approached the ACB. The complainant had collected Rs 100 each from 40 vendors and gave it to the accused. “There are many vendors who sell vegetables there and he was asking for money in lieu of sparing them harassment,” said an ACB officer. ACB investigation revealed that the jawan had collected Rs 1,500 from the vendors a few days ago and was demanding more money. Yadav has been working with the traffic brigade for the last two years. He is posted in region two of traffic police for the past one year and earlier he was assigned duty in Adajan area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/trb-jawan-caught-taking-bribe-from-veggie-vendors/articleshow/76698899.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Business||Nivea to review its products, marketing amid movement against racism||MUMBAI: The movement against racism has triggered careful perusal of portfolios at several personal care companies worldwide. German multinational company Beiersdorf, the maker of Nivea personal care products, has started a process of reviewing its global and regional portfolios to determine implications of changing perceptions for its product offering and marketing approach. The move by Nivea, which is marketed in more than 170 countries, comes in tandem with Johnson & Johnson (J&J) announcing its exit from the fairness creams market and Unilever and L’Oreal saying they will stop using words like “fairness” and “whitening”. “Nivea and its parent company Beiersdorf stand against racism and discrimination of any kind. We are actively listening to and learning from the current conversations, committed to contribute to positive change,” Nivea India MD Neil George said in an emailed response to a query raised by TOI as to whether Nivea was thinking on similar lines as Unilever. “Acknowledging the responsibility we have towards consumers worldwide, we have recently started a process of reviewing our global and regional product portfolios to determine implications of changing perceptions for our product offering and marketing approach. Inclusive diversity, acceptance and togetherness are crucial to Beiersdorf’s culture,” said George. Nivea India did not respond to further queries. Consumers are increasingly voicing their concerns against products and advertisements that may be discriminatory in nature. This has forced many companies to pull out a product or change the communication. In 2017, Beiersdorf had apologised and removed a deodorant advertisement “white is purity” from its social media pages after concerns were raised about the ad being discriminatory. Nivea has whitening products as part of its skincare as well as deodorant portfolio in India. The brand’s share in India’s skincare market has been inching up, said industry experts. According to Euromonitor International’s report on the beauty and personal care market, basic moisturisers have grown from approximately Rs 7,000 crore in 2017 to over Rs 8,000 crore in 2019. Skin-whitening forms nearly 80% of the market.Last week, following J&J’s move to exit the category, Unilever said it will stop using words like “fair/fairness”, “white/whitening” and “light/lightening” in its skincare products’ packs and communication. A day later, L’Oreal said the group acknowledges the legitimate concerns about the terms used to describe skin even-ing products, and has therefore decided to remove the words white/whitening, fair/fairness, light/lightening from all its skin even-ing products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nivea-to-review-its-products-marketing-amid-movement-against-racism/articleshow/76699097.cms||Namrata Singh
June 30, 2020||Patna||Linen kiosk installed at Patna Junction for passengers||PATNA: The Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) has launched the first-of-its-kind ‘linen kiosk’ service under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme of the railways to cater to the needs of passengers travelling by long distance trains. This service is likely to fulfil the needs of a large number of passengers who are still reluctant to travel by trains due to safety reasons as well as corona pandemic fear. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, who inaugurated the service at Patna Junction on Monday, said railways intends to install three more linen kiosks – one each at Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Danapur and Patliputra Junction – next week. “Under the scheme, railways has provided facilities like ‘use and throw’ nonwoven bed sheets, toilet sheet covers, masks, hand gloves and other Covid-19 related items in the kiosk. Passengers have options to make payments either through digital or manual mode to avail the facilities,” he said. Danapur senior divisional railway manager Adhar Raj said the scheme was launched keeping in view the fact that linen services are not available in special mail and express trains originating from different places of the division. “Passengers are thus supposed to bring their own linens to use them during journey. But in most cases, passengers hardly carry linens,” he said, adding the linen kiosks at Patna Junction will prove a boon for such passengers. Raj said while a nonwoven fabric bed sheet is available at Rs 50 each, mask and sanitizer will be provided free of cost to each passenger. Similarly, passengers will get nonwoven two bed sheets along with mask, hand gloves, toilet sheet and sanitizer in Rs 100 package kit, while one comforter will be given in Rs 150 package kit additionally, he said, adding passengers can carry comforter with themselves after completing their journey. Regular trains cancelled till August 12: The railways has extended cancellation of regular mail and express passenger trains till August 12 due to sudden increase in Covid-19 cases in the country. “Refunds will be sent directly into the bank accounts of those passengers who had booked their tickets online using the IRCTC site,” sources said, adding the ECR has cancelled 274 mail and express trains since March 23, thus incurring a loss of about Rs 9 crore per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/linen-kiosk-installed-at-patna-junction-for-passengers/articleshow/76696773.cms||Kumod Verma
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Trio booked for forging signature||BHUPALAPALLY: Three employees of the additional collector here have been booked for forging his signature. According to sub-inspector Rakesh, the signature of additional collector Raja Vikram Reddy were forged by his driver and two contract employeed on a diesel coupon. Upon noticing this, the officials lodged a complaint. It was revealed during enquiry that the trio used diesel coupon worth Rs 1.62 lakh by forging signature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trio-booked-for-forging-signature/articleshow/76699453.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 30, 2020||Patna||Tasty food in jail lures poor youths to petty crimes in Bihar||PATNA: Some youths in Kaimur district are committing petty crimes to get tasty food in jail! It was revealed on Saturday when one Guddu Musahar (25) was arrested on Saturday in connection with a theft in the house of Chandrashekhar Kumar at Thilaui under Karamchat police station in Kaimur district. Guddu told the police that many members of his gang belonged to poor families and were unable to make ends meet. Kaimur SP Dilnawaz Ahmad said on Sunday that seven members of the gang were nabbed for their involvement in a theft case lodged with Karamchat police station on June 23. Jewellery worth Rs5 lakh and Rs16,000 in cash were seized from their possession. The SP said the police officers investigating the case were taken aback when some members of the gang disclosed that they preferred to remain in jail for quality food served to them in prison. “Bahar to achcha aur pasand ka khana bhi nasib nahi hai (Quality food and of one’s choice is a daydream outside the jail),” the SP quoted some of the arrested thieves as saying. According to the jail authorities, chicken, paneer, kheer, halwa and ‘anda karhi’ are served to the jail inmates in the state. Moreover, dahi-chura, puri-sabji, sattu and chana-gud are also offered to them in breakfast. Needless to say snacks and tea are also on the menu for the prisoners. Beur model jail superintendent in Patna Jawahar Lal Prabhakar said, “We have a different menu for the seven days in a week. Before Covid-19 pandemic, the prisoners used to buy delicious and tasty food items from the food counter inside the jail.” Earlier, an investigating officer said the arrested thieves also wanted to remain in judicial custody to skip work and anger of their wives, who used to ask them to fetch firewood from the forest. The arrested thieves were identified as Viren Musahar, Buchi Musahar, Guddu Musahar, Vijay Musahar, Rakesh Musahar and Tampu Musahar. A jeweller identified as Dilip Kumar Soni was also arrested for buying stolen articles from the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tasty-food-in-jail-lures-poor-youths-to-petty-crimes/articleshow/76696570.cms||Ramashankar
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||Man booked under attempt to murder for bypassing Covid-19 travel norm||Pithoragarh: City police has booked a 28-year-old man who works and lives in a red zone area of Gautam Buddha Nagar for returning to his hometown Pithoragarh on June 25 using an e-pass that he got issued from an orange zone area of Ghaziabad. The accused Harshit Joshi has been booked under the attempt to murder charge for giving wrong information regarding his whereabouts. The matter came to light after a person informed the police that Joshi is suffering from high-grade fever, cough, and cold. “Upon investigation, it was found out that the accused got the e-pass issued from an orange zone so that he doesn't have to undergo the 14-day quarantine period that has been made mandatory for every person coming from a red zone area. By giving out wrong information, he has put the life of others at risk. Thus, we have booked him under sections 267, 307, 420, and 468 of the Indian Penal Code and section 51 (B) Disaster Management Act,” Preeti Priyadarshani, SP Pithoragarh. told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-booked-under-attempt-to-murder-for-bypassing-covid-19-travel-norm/articleshow/76697092.cms||Prem Punetha
June 30, 2020||Patna||All 9 candidates elected unopposed to council||PATNA: All nine candidates for the biennial election to fill up vacant seats of Bihar legislative council were declared elected unopposed on Monday, the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers. As soon as the time for withdrawal of candidature ended on Monday, the returning officer-cum-assembly secretary Bateshwar Nath Pandey handed over certificates to the only nine candidates who were in fray for similar number of vacancies. Those who were elected unopposed are Kumud Verma, Ghulam Ghous, Bhishma Sahani from JD(U); Md Farooq, Rambali Singh and Sunil Kumar Singh from RJD; Sanjay Prakash alias Mayukh and Samrat Choudhary from BJP and Samir Kumar Singh from Congress. Except Ghous, Choudhary and Mayukh, the rest six elected members will be entering the council for the first time. “This year, I will be entering the council for the fourth time. Earlier I was elected as a member of the Upper House for three consecutive terms in 1998, 2004 and 2010 as a member of the RJD. But I quit Lalu Prasad’s party in April 2014 and unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election as JD(U) candidate from Madhubani,” Ghous said. BJP’s Choudhary will be entering the council for the second time. “Earlier, I had become a member of the council in 2014 from the governor’s quota,” Choudhary said. Soon after getting their certificates, the newly-elected members of the ruling JD(U) and BJP paid a courtesy call to CM Nirtish Kumar at his official 1, Anne Marg residence here. The CM congratulated the NDA members and also obliged them with a group photograph. Legislative council now 55-member strong: With the election of nine new members from the Vidhan Sabha constituency on Monday, the effective strength of the 75-member legislative council will now be 55. The number of JD(U) members will now increase from 20 to 23. Similarly, the number of BJP members will increase from 17 to 19, RJD’s six from three and Congress’s three from two. The LJP and HAM-S have one member each in the council and other two members – Ritlal Rai and Ashok Kumar Agarwal – are independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-9-candidates-elected-unopposed-to-council/articleshow/76696508.cms||Madan Kumar
June 30, 2020||Mangaluru||14th Covid-19 fatality in Dakshina Kannada district||Mangaluru/Udupi: On a day, the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi recorded 50 fresh Covid-19 cases, with Udupi accounting for 18 of them, DK recorded its fourth fatality. The fourth victim and 14th overall in DK was a 49-year-old woman, suffering from related co-morbidities. She was admitted to the ICU in district Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital on Sunday and passed away early on Monday. Dakshina Kannada district deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said out of the 32 cases reported on Monday, one is an inter-state traveller, nine are cases with influenza like illness (ILI), six diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and contacts of how five others tested positive is being traced. Ten others found infected are primary contacts of eight previously infected patients and one is a secondary contact, she said. The fresh cases took the number of active cases in DK to 265 and total positive cases to 695. The health authorities as on date have tested 13,292 samples out of which 12,587 have turned up negative and 705 positive including 10 cases from other districts. The district health authorities also discharged four patients during the day taking total number of those discharged to 426. Reports of 148 samples are awaited, the deputy commissioner, said. In Udupi, the 18 fresh cases took the active cases to 139 and total positive cases to 1197, Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said. The health authorities have discharged 1,056 patients post treatment thus far, he said. The district presently has 801 people in home quarantine. The DC also released a list of dos and don'ts and activities permitted in containment and non-containment zones to keep a tab on the pandemic that is spreading fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/14th-covid-19-fatality-in-dakshina-kannada-district/articleshow/76697574.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 30, 2020||Surat||Now Li-Fi for Covid-19 patients, staff at SMIMER||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital has become the first in the country to use the latest Li-Fi (Light Fidelity) technology-based communication for the Covid-19 patients and the healthcare staff.The Ahmedabad based Li-Fi technology inventor, Nav Wireless Technology Pvt. Ltd, has set up Li-Fi technology-based communication at the multi-level parking premises at SMIMER hospital, which has been converted into the Covid-19 isolation wards. About 600 Li-Fi units will be set up at the multi-level parking Covid-19 facility for providing speedy and safer light-based communication for the Covid-19 patients and healthcare staff. Dr Vandana Desai, in-charge medical superintendent of SMIMER, told TOI: “SMIMER is the first hospital in the country to use Li-Fi technology, exclusively for the Covid-19 patients. Though the SMC has paid for this technology, it is going to be very cost-effective for us.”Dr Desai added, “We will be able to cut down drastically on the Wif-Fi and LAN costs. Through the 600 Li-Fi based technology, patients at isolation wards will be able to carry out video calling with doctors and family members without internet.”According to Dr Desai, the receptive sensors integrated with Li-Fi transceivers monitor the patient’s conditions such as SPO2, ECG, HR, NIBP etc. The collected data from the multipara monitors are then transmitted to the sink, and further these data gets processed with Li-Fi transceivers and sent to display unit in the form of graphs, charts or in required formats helpful for the doctors and paramedical staff in this crucial condition of Covid-19.Hardik Soni, the co-founder of Nav Wireless Technology Pvt. Ltd, said, “All the patients and medical staff for more than 1,000 beds isolation wards will be able to use a radiation-free communication network, connected to the hospital instruments such as ventilators data, etc. Furthermore, they will access the internet with a lighting speed compared to the existing Wi-Fi internet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/now-li-fi-for-covid-19-patients-staff-at-smimer/articleshow/76698847.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Rama Singh’s RJD entry put on hold||PATNA: RJD has put on hold the induction of former parliamentarian and Vaishali muscleman Ram Kishore Singh, alias Rama Singh, into the party. Party stalwart Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who has resigned as national vice-president, had expressed his discontent over the former Vaishali MP’s induction. However, his resignation has not been accepted by RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Rama was scheduled to join the RJD on Monday. He had met leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on June 22 and made an announcement about joining RJD on June 29. “It will be decided by our party president Lalu Prasad. As of now, we are worried about the health of Raghuvansh babu. He is our party’s senior leader and our guardian,” RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said when asked if the party has postponed or dropped the plan to induct Singh. An RJD functionary said the party was waiting for Raghuvansh to get discharged from AIIMS-Patna to decide on Singh’s entry. “Raghuvansh babu will listen to the party chief. Let him come out first and then the final decision will be taken,” the party leader said. However, Raghuvansh is dead against the Vaishali strongman’s entry. In fact, he is also not ok with Rama Singh’s wife joining the party, another option which RJD is exploring. RJD wants Rama into the party to consolidate Rajput vote bank ahead of the assembly election. Both Raghuvansh and Singh belong to the Rajput community and are from the same assembly constituency. In 2014, Rama contested from Vaishali on LJP ticket and defeated Raghuvansh. However, after his relationship got strained with LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, he got in touch with RJD. In the 2019 parliamentary election, he wanted to contest from Sheohar on an RJD ticket, but Syed Faisal Ali was given the chance. Raghuvansh was taken to the hospital on June 16 with symptoms of coronavirus infection and the next day he tested positive. However, his second report came negative on June 25, but he is being treated for pneumonia. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Sanjeev Kumar said, “Raghuvansh Ji is fine now and has no symptoms. Most probably he will be discharged on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rama-singhs-rjd-entry-put-on-hold/articleshow/76696529.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 30, 2020||Surat||CNG pump staffer robbed of Rs 5L cash||Surat: A CNG pump employee was robbed of Rs 5.27 lakh at knife point by four unidentified persons in Limbayat on Monday. The robbers arrived on motorcycles, waylaid Bharat Mistry and sped away after snatching his bag containing the cash. Mistry was going to deposit the cash collection of three days in in The Sutex Bank at Parvat village. When he reached near an open ground on Maharana Pratap Main Road, two persons on a bike came close and the one riding pillion tried to snatch the bag with cash when their vehicles were moving. Mistry had kept the bag between his two legs in the leg space of the moped due to which the robbers failed to snatch it. “The robbers went ahead after their unsuccessful attempt. Meanwhile, two others with their faces covered came on another bike and one of them pulled out a knife. He asked Mistry to hand over the bag. When Mistry refused, the robber tried to stab him. Mistry moved swiftly to save himself, when the other robber snatched his bag,” said an official from Limbayat police station. “We are checking the footages of the CCTVs installed near the crime spot. It seems the robbers had done a recce about his movements and were aware of his routine. The role of an insider also can’t be ruled out,” added the official. Mistry has been employed at the gas station for the past 11 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cng-pump-staffer-robbed-of-rs-5l-cash/articleshow/76698998.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vadodara||Road-side ‘chai walahs’ are back in business||Vadodara: Since the lockdown ended, Gujaratis have preferred to stay away from restaurants and roadside eateries as a precautionary measures. But there is one beverage that they began drinking the moment roadside stalls opened two weeks ago. The tea stalls that were closed during the lockdown are back in business. People have begun sipping on piping hot tea at their favourite jaunts, albeit in disposable cups.“For first couple of days, people didn’t turn up at my stall but soon the business picked up. Those used to having hot cup of tea visit my stall in mornings and evenings. But I ensure that my customers keep proper social distance and don’t gather in large numbers,” said tea vendor Kiran Mahida, who was one of the proposers when PM Narendra Modi filed his nomination as candidate for Vadodara seat in 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Mahida even offers a special decoction of ginger, mint, black pepper, tulsi and cinnamon to his customers for boosting immunity in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “We had a huge customer base before the lockdown which has now come down by half as many offices are still closed. But many of our customers have begun flocking my stall. They don’t eat any snacks but prefer to have tea,” said Chandresh Rajput, who runs a popular tea-stall near M S University in Sayajigunj. Jayesh Parmar, who runs a tea-stall near Sayajibaug, said that after the lockdown ended, he began selling tea from his home before opening his stall. “Our customers are staying away from roadside snacks but thankfully they always stop by for our special mint-laced cup of tea. We expect the business to go up once Sayajibaug opens up as most of my customers are morning walkers,” Parmar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/road-side-chai-walahs-are-back-in-business/articleshow/76698971.cms||Tushar Tere
June 30, 2020||Surat||Little respite from sultry weather in South Gujarat||Surat: There was some respite for people of Surat and other districts of South Gujarat from the sultry weather with light to moderate rainfall in several parts on Monday. The showers that began early in the morning, continued till afternoon in Surat city. Roads, especially in Udhna zone got flooded for some time. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), Udhna zone received the highest rainfall of 30 mm followed by Rander (19mm) and Athwa (17mm). In South Gujarat, Vapi taluka of Valsad and Choryasi taluka of Surat district, both recorded 20 mm rainfall each. Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a moderate rain forecast for the next two days for south Gujarat region. “Light to moderate rain likely at a few places in all the districts of South Gujarat region, Saurashtra and in Diu, Daman, Dadara Nagar Haveli,” stated IMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/little-respite-from-sultry-weather-in-south-gujarat/articleshow/76698825.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Sharp decline in AES cases, deaths this year in Bihar||PATNA: The acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) cases and death toll remained substantially low this year compared to the previous year, as per the data provided by Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) and Krishnadevi Deviprasad Kejriwal Maternity Hospital (KDKM). These are the two major hospitals in Muzaffarpur where children of north Bihar with AES (chamki bukhar) syndromes are mainly admitted for treatment. While 164 children died due to AES till June last year, including 142 at SKMCH and 22 at KDKM, only seven AES deaths have been reported from both the hospitals this year so far. Six children died at SKMCH and one death at KDKM. Senior paediatrician at KDKM, Dr Rajeev Kumar said, “This year only eight children have been admitted to our hospital and one of them died. Previous year 168 children were admitted.” Muzaffarpur DM Chandra Shekhar Singh said 485 children had been admitted to SKMCH till June last year and there had been only 49 admissions this year. “No fresh cases have been reported since June 22. Once the temperature starts falling, AES cases are also not reported,” said Singh. When asked about the reason behind fall in the number of deaths as well as cases this year, he replied, “Proper treatment and massive awareness. All the primary health centres (PHCs) have been equipped with necessary equipment and immediate treatment is given before referring any child to district hospital. Of total admissions to PHCs, eleven children recovered. Also, anganwadi and ASHAs conducted many awareness programmes. People have been told not to let their children sleep empty stomach or allow them play in the sun.” Singh said their ‘Adopt a village campaign’ was also a great success. All the officials had adopted one panchayat where they used to go once a week and create awareness. He said one vehicle in each village has been tagged. In case of any medical need, ASHAs or anganwadi workers call the driver and rush with the patient to the hospital. Recalling last year’s conditions, SKMCH superintendent Dr SK Shahi said not less than 200 children had come with AES in June month when maximum cases are reported. “But this time management is good. Also, people are immediately rushing for medical help,” he said. Senior paediatrician Dr Arun Shah also appreciated the massive awareness campaign by health workers. “They contacted every family in the endemic region and emphasized on nutrition, proper hydration and gave other necessary advice. A single cost-effective nutritional intervention can be most important independent determinant of AES,” he said. He said majority of government machinery was involved in election related work last year and not much was done for awareness, which had led to massive toll. He further said the weather condition has been quite good this year and monsoon also came on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sharp-decline-in-aes-cases-deaths-this-year/articleshow/76696425.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 30, 2020||Vadodara||Courts closed for pandemic, but lawyers mint moolah with lockdown suits||Vadodara: After its clients refused to accept its order worth crores of rupees of custom-made engineering goods citing delay in delivery, a city-based company was left exploring legal options as the goods are still lying in its facility and the client is refusing payment.This is not an isolated case where the three-month long lockdown has left companies in the lurch. But, interestingly it has kept lawyers practising civil and corporate law in the city with their hands full. While their institution is shut, the men in black have their doors wide open for clients hit hard by the pandemic-related economic slump and seeking legal recourse to coerce their clients clear pending bills.According to the lawyers, majority of the disputes relate to rent payments of commercial establishments. “Many people who have agreement for years and are aware that there is no business in near future want either payment deferred or are sending notices for cancellation of agreement,” said advocate Vijay Shirke. He said with the possibility of big fat weddings dim in the near future, people managing party plots are in a limbo and their security deposits are also at risk. “The lockdown and the pandemic had hit the food industry the hardest. While their businesses is almost nil, the demand for rent plagues them,” said another advocate Jaideep Verma. However, there are also some who have agreed to deferment and adjustments in rent payments. “I have had five to six clients where they amicably agreed to defer payment because the force majeure clause is not applicable in cases related to rent,” said advocate Avadhoot Sumant.Besides rent disputes, lawyers are also coming across cases of default of payments. “Due to lockdown, people’s earnings have been affected due to which they are not able to repay money that they had borrowed. Right now, we are just sending notices across for recoveries,” said advocate Sohil Godia. Verma also said that when the courts reopen, it will be drowned in a deluge of cases related to negotiable instruments.Shirke added that in some cases parties will have to amicably settle the issue by sitting across the table as civil cases can take years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/courts-closed-for-pandemic-but-lawyers-mint-moolah-with-lockdown-suits/articleshow/76698988.cms||Jay Pachchigar
June 30, 2020||Surat||South Gujarat in tight Covid grip||Surat: Covid-19 cases continued to spike in Surat city as well as other districts of south Gujarat on Monday.Surat city recorded the highest single-day cases on Monday with 185 testing positive. Five patients also succumbed to the virus of whom two were from Katargam zone and one each from Udhna, Limbayat and central zones.“Also, as many as 170 patients who fully recovered were discharged on Monday,” said an SMC official. Meanwhile, SMC has ordered closure of street food stalls in hotspots like Varachha (A), Varachha (B), Katargam and other cluster containment zones to stall the spread of the virus.Rural areas of Surat also reported 32 fresh cases, taking the total number to 525. A 57-year-old man from Ishanpur village of Olpad taluka also died, taking the death toll to 15. Kamrej taluka of Surat reported the highest numbers of cases with 15.Meanwhile, Navsari district recorded five new positive cases on Monday while a 50-year-old resident of Adarshnagar locality, Prahlad Patil, died. The number of cases in the union territory of Daman spiked to 89 with 10 more people found infected. The Daman authorities stated that out of the 10, three have travel history and others were in a government quarantine facility. At present, there are a total of 25 containment zones in Daman, which include 14 in Dabhel, five in Kachigam, two in Dunetha and four in Nani Daman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/south-gujarat-in-tight-covid-grip/articleshow/76698913.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Widespread rain, thunderstorms likely till July 2 in Bihar: IMD||PATNA: Light to moderate rainfall occurred across the state along with heavy rainfall at a few places for the fifth consecutive day on Monday and, according to weathermen, the monsoon showers will continue with largely the same intensity till July 2. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated in its evening bulletin on Monday that fairly widespread rainfall is excepted across Bihar over the next five days. The IMD also forecast isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall in Bihar. Besides, thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and gusty winds 30-40 Km per hour is likely at a few places in the state. The Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued a yellow warning for thunderstorm with lightning in all 38 districts and heavy rain likely at one or two places in many districts till July 2. The yellow warning stipulates the authorities to be watchful for extreme weather conditions. The daily weather bulletin issued by the Patna Meteorological Centre (PMC) on Monday stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places over north- east, north-central and south-east parts of Bihar over the last 24 hours. Similar intensity of showers were witnessed at many places over north- west and few places over south-west and south-central parts of Bihar. Very heavy rainfall also occurred at one or two places over north- central part of the state. Saulighat in Madhubani received the highest amount of rainfall at 135.5mm, followed by Rewaghat in Muzaffarpur (118.4mm), Vaishali (118.2mm), Tribeniganj in Supaul (115mm), Bhimnagar (100mm), and Khagaria, Parbatta, Sahebpur Kanal, Gogri, Kamtaul and Birpur- receiving 90mm each. Monsoon has been active over Bihar for the past four days and IMD has forecast fairly widespread to widespread showers over the next five days as well. The IMD attributed the expected showers to favourable position of monsoon trough line along with a cyclonic circulation of east Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood. Sanjay Kumar, a meteorologist at the PMC said the trough line is a very important factor in the occurrence of south-west monsoon rainfall. “The areas closer to the trough line— an elongated low pressure area— are likely to receive more rainfall,” he said, adding, moisture incursion from the cyclonic circulation over East UP will also support the showers. Meteorologists also claimed that Bihar received 51% more rainfall than the state’s average between June 1 and 29. “Most places in the state received fairly good showers this month,” said Sandeep Kumar, meteorologist at PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/widespread-rain-thunderstorms-likely-till-july-2-in-bihar-met/articleshow/76697677.cms||Archi Rani
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sex racket busted, Uzbekistan woman rescued||AHMEDABAD: The woman cell of the city police on Sunday evening raided House No. 40 in Shyamal Row House, Vibhag -2, in Satellite and busted a sex racket. Two persons — Asha Patel, 36, and Bharatkumar Makwana, 46 — were rounded up while one Usmanbhai, a resident of Delhi, and Asha Patel’s husband, Tushar Patel, have been made absconders in the case. The cops rescued a 26-year-old woman from Uzbekistan from their clutches. Assistant commissioner of police, women cell of city crime branch, Mini Joseph, said after getting information, the police sent a decoy customer to check whether a sex racket is being run in the bungalow. The ‘customer’ then signalled the cops to conduct a raid. “We first rounded up Asha Patel and through her got Bharatkumar to come to the bungalow. Her husband, however, did not come,” said a senior woman police official. Patel couple was staying in the bungalow on rent for the past two years and along with Makwana used to charge money for providing space and accommodation to Usmanbhai for running a sex racket. The trio used to take 50% of the amount paid by the customer. “They used to charge between Rs 7,000 and 14,000. We have recovered Rs 7,000 from Asha Patel which was given by a customer,” a police source said. Police said that the racketeers in Delhi call women from Uzbekistan to India on the tourist visa and then send them to different states to their touts to run sex rackets. “Usmanbhai is a part of a sex racket and we will soon send a team to Delhi to hunt for him,” said a senior woman police official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sex-racket-busted-uzbek-woman-rescued/articleshow/76698648.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||City’s pharmaceutical hub & OPD of Mahavir Cancer Sansthan shut||PATNA: The Mahavir Cancer Sansthan (MCS) at Phulwarisharif and Govind Mitra Road, the pharmaceutical hub of the city, will remain closed till July 5 and July 2, respectively, to allow complete sanitization. The MCS decision was taken on Monday with a view to check the Covid-19 spread among the patients already admitted there and the healthcare workers associated with the institution. MCS’s medical superintendent Dr LB Singh said the cancer patients, especially those in advanced age with weak immune system, are highly vulnerable to infection. “That’s why it was decided to close the OPD and not admit new patients during this period. The entire hospital premises, including the OPD, will be sanitized. However, those already admitted and undergoing treatment will be taken care of as usual,” he said. Similarly, the supplier of wholesale medicines under the aegis of Patna chemists and druggists association announced to shut all the shops on Govind Mitra Road for three days from Tuesday to July 2. The association’s president, Arjun Kumar Yadav, and secretary Rajesh Kumar Arya in a press statement said the entire area would be sanitized as there one of the medicine traders there had tested positive. They, however, said arrangements were being made to maintain supply of life-saving medicines to continue during that period. Meanwhile, the AIIMS-Patna reported the first case of its staff testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday. AIIMS-P director Dr P K Singh said a technician of the microbiology department tested positive for the virus. “All the follow-up procedures like testing of doctors and staff of the department, tracing contacts of the technician and sealing the department for a few days are being followed,” he said. As there was no direct reach of outsiders and patients to the microbiology department, other contacts of the affected technician were being traced, added Singh. On the other hand, the gynaecology department of Patna Medical College & Hospital (PMCH) will resume full-fledged functioning, including its emergency and surgery services, from Tuesday, said PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak. This department was sealed four days back following some of the lady doctors and staff testing positive for the virus. Karak said the clinical pathology department was also sealed for the same reason. It would start functioning from Wednesday, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/citys-pharmaceutical-hub-opd-of-mahavir-cancer-sansthan-shut/articleshow/76696401.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Business||‘Legends on Unacademy’ to be on Times Now, ET Now||MUMBAI: Unacademy, India’s largest learning platform, has taken its ‘Legends on Unacademy’ programme global with personalities such as Zuckerberg Media founder & CEO Randi Zuckerberg, Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee, and BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly conducting live classes on its platform. Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales and Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murthy will take live classes on the edu-tech platform on July 1 and July 18 respectively and many others will be speaking as well. The live classes, which began in March, will run right through July. Each session is interactive, allowing learners to ask questions and gain motivational insights from the journeys of the stalwarts. Times Network is the official telecast partner for select speakers of the programme. Viewers can watch the telecast on Times Now and ET Now if they have missed live sessions. Unacademy vice-president (marketing) Karan Shroff said, “Legends on Unacademy is a marquee programme that allows learners to imbibe knowledge from stalwarts belonging to different fields.” In March, live classes were conducted by cricket legends Brian Lara, Brett Lee and Jonty Rhodes, and in April and May by Shashi Tharoor, Kiran Bedi, Virat Kohli, Anushka Sharma, Sunil Gavaskar, Sourav Ganguly, ZEV Siegl, Mary Kom, and Randi Zuckerberg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/legends-on-unacademy-to-be-on-times-now-et-now/articleshow/76699502.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: I-T officer given 10-years rigorous imprisonment in graft case||DEHRADUN: An income tax officer on Monday was given 10 years of rigorous imprisonment by a special CBI court in Dehradun for accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from a Khatima-based businessman. Posted in Khatima as an income tax officer in 2013, Amrish Kumar Singh was found guilty under sections 7 and 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act by the court. The matter was heard by the bench of special CBI judge Sujata Singh. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the convicted official. According to prosecution lawyer Abhishek Arora, CBI registered a case against Amrish Kumar on the complaint of one Kashmir Singh, a resident of Khatima, in August 2015. “The complainant sold his hospital to one Rajesh Chabra in 2011. The scrutiny of the sale and purchase was initiated in 2013. Amrish Kumar Singh, the then income tax officer of Khatima issued a notice to complainant Kashmir Singh during the probe,” said Abhishek Arora, prosecution lawyer. When Kashmir Singh visited the income tax office, he was asked by Amrish Kumar Singh to pay a bribe of Rs 2 lakh for settling the scrutiny enquiry. The first installment of Rs 1 lakh was supposed to be paid in January 2015. However, instead of paying the bribe, the complainant approached CBI and filed a complaint in the matter. On January 13, 2015, a team of CBI sleuths caught Amrish Kumar Singh red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh. CBI filed the chargesheet in the matter on March 12, 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/i-t-officer-given-10-years-rigorous-imprisonment-in-graft-case/articleshow/76697079.cms||Gaurav Talwar
June 30, 2020||Business||Tata Steel hit by Rs 1,236 crore loss in Q4||MUMBAI: Tata Steel reported a loss of Rs 1,236 crore for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 when the coronavirus pandemic forced it to scale down operations in India, Europe and elsewhere and it took a large write-down. A year earlier, the country’s largest metal producer by revenue had reported a profit of Rs 2,353 crore. Revenue fell 20% to Rs 33,770 crore in the three months through March due to lower deliveries in India because of the lockdown and weak price realisations in Europe. Tata Steel is cutting costs covering capital expenditure and other programmes to improve cash flows. “We will be spending 50% less this fiscal than what we spent last financial year,” said Tata Steel CFO Koushik Chatterjee. In fiscal 2020, the company, whose flagship plant is in Jamshedpur, spent Rs 9,500 crore towards capex. Tata Steel MD T V Narendran said the company has been recalibrating its operations in line with the “evolving business environment”. Its India plants are running at 80% capacity in June when the government eased business restrictions as against 50% during the lockdown in April, while its European units are operating at 70%, Narendran said. Tata Steel had a net debt of Rs 1.04 lakh crore as on March 31 and the management does not expect the number to change much at the end of this fiscal. Narendran said Tata Steel has started to witness recovery in demand in rural markets and in certain sectors such as oil & gas, packaging and healthcare infrastructure in India. In Europe, it is waiting to see a pickup in demand. Ahead of the results announcement, shares of the company closed 0.8% lower at Rs 321 on the BSE. Tata Steel took an exceptional charge of Rs 3,406 crore in the quarter, including Rs 3,141 crore on impairment in its European and Canadian businesses. The European unit, which is the second-biggest contributor to the company’s revenues, reported an 18% decline in revenue to Rs 13,588 crore. The unit’s operating profit fell to Rs 65 crore from Rs 1,696 crore in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. For the full fiscal year, Tata Steel reported a 75% drop in profit to Rs 2,337 crore, while revenue fell 11% to Rs 1.39 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-steel-hit-by-rs-1236cr-loss-in-q4/articleshow/76699002.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Family informs RWA about Covid +ve result, message goes viral||Mangaluru: A message by a prominent family to the Residence Welfare Association about members of their family testing positive for coronavirus has gone viral. While the family, one of whom is also an RWA office bearer, shared the corona test result in good faith to ensure other residents are not caught unawares when the authorities came to seal down their flat, little did they expect to be flooded with calls and messages. One of the family members, a corona warrior experienced sore throat and slight fever on Friday followed by the spouse too developing slight fever, prompting them to go to the fever clinic at district Wenlock Hospital. Swab test reports confirmed their fear — the couple and another family member were confirmed positive and they got themselves admitted in a private hospital for treatment. At present the family members are largely asymptomatic. “Message to RWA office bearers was just to inform them so that they are not alarmed when the authorities came for follow up action,” a family member told TOI. “Being part of the RWA committee, I felt it my responsibility to let others in the committee know so that they could take appropriate precautionary steps,” the family member said adding it was also done in the best interest of other immediate family members in home quarantine. Due to the stigma attached to those infected by the novel coronavirus, officials of the state health department refer to infected patients only by their ‘P’ number in the health bulletin it releases daily. Sharing their experience in strict confidentiality, family urged all to respect their privacy and not speculate. “We are going through a lot as it is and understanding of well-wishers and friends at this point will help,” the family member said. Respecting the desire of this family for privacy, minister for medical education Dr Sudhakar K who tweeted when his family members tested positive, told TOI, “Being a public figure, I have a moral duty to tell people why I am staying away from my public duties. For others, though the health department has all details of the patients, it is kept confidential in larger public interest and voluntary disclosure is a choice individuals must make,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/family-informs-rwa-about-covid-ve-result-message-goes-viral/articleshow/76697897.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||High-speed winds took city by storm, uprooted tree damages 3 cars||Ludhiana: High speed winds took the city by storm on Sunday night, uprooting a tree, which fell on cars parked on the road side at Tagore area. By around 11pm on Sunday, lightening struck followed by high speed winds. The windy condition continued till Monday morning which woke up to an overcast sky. S K Bhatia, an area resident, said at around 7am on Monday, they saw a huge branch of a mango tree had fallen on three cars parked on the road on the opposite sides of the road, including his car. He added that luckily there was no loss to human lives, as the incident happened during night. Meanwhile, the high speed winds did cause problems to people, as unscheduled power cuts were witnessed in several areas of the city. Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Dugri area said after wind starting blowing, the agency cut off the power supply in his area at around 11pm. He added that till around 2.30am, they had no power and it was only around the morning that power supply was restored in their area. According to met department, trace amount of rainfall was witnessed in Ludhiana from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Monday. The maximum (day) temperature in city was recorded at 35.9 degrees Celsius, which is around normal. On Sunday, the day temperature was recorded at 39.8 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees more than normal. The minimum (night) temperature in city on Monday was recorded on lower side at 25.3 degrees, which is a degree less than normal and even 4.2 degrees less than a day before. On Monday, people were still grappling with heat and humidity despite the winds but the met department predicts weather disturbance in Ludhiana in next few days. A met department official at Chandigarh said weather forecast for next four days for the city is “Generally cloudy sky with possibility of development of thunder or lightning”. He added that both day and night temperatures are expected to rise during these days. The department website said the day temperature is expected to rise to 41 degrees Celsius till Wednesday whereas the night temperature might rise to 27 degrees Celsius till Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/high-speed-winds-took-city-by-storm-uprooted-tree-damages-3-cars/articleshow/76699394.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Husband vanishes, teen mom wants to live with in-laws||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered Dahod police to inquire about the social standing and financial capacity of a couple to determine its ability to take the responsibility for two extra persons. The court wants the report on Tuesday. In its June 26 order, the court had asked for this information because the couple is already shouldering the responsibility of six children, with the youngest being a three-month-old baby. Now, added responsibility looms in the form of their daughter-in-law and her baby, who is also three months old.The two are likely to become dependent on the couple because the couple’s eldest son, a minor, eloped with a girl last year, married her, and fathered a child. He is now absconding. An FIR under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been lodged against him.After the elopement, the girl’s parents filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court. A year later, she returned with an infant. Her parents told the HC last week that they would accept their daughter, but not her child. They further told the court that the child should be given to its father’s family. The girl, who has turned 18, told the HC that she would rather live with her husband’s parents. The high court called the boy’s parents and they expressed willingness to accept their daughter-in-law and the child. Meanwhile, Dahod authorities had housed the girl at a quarantine centre in Devgadh Baria town. On the HC’s order, the mother-child duo was subjected to Covid-19 tests and they were found negative. Since she is free to live where she wishes, she chose to live with her in-laws. The HC has posted a hearing on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/husband-vanishes-teen-mom-wants-to-live-with-in-laws/articleshow/76698594.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vadodara||Runaway patients add to Covid hospital’s woes||Vadodara: The tracing of a 29-year-old Covid-infected man, who fled the city and reached Ghaziabad, around 1,000 km away, has left teams at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri, scratching their heads.When a staffer called up on his cellphone, he even boasted about his escaping skills! The hospital has seen around four cases of Covid suspects and patients sneaking out from isolation wards, giving hard time to both administration and cops on duty. From applying indelible ink on hands of patients, to tying belts or providing uniforms to those testing positive, the hospital is mulling several steps. But it is yet to come across a full-proof plan. Even if they execute some of these plans, there is no way to ensure that no patient runs away from the spacious hospital premises as cops also don’t want to risk getting infected while chasing and catching such patients. “We have tried and discussed many ways but there are loopholes in all the measures. If we stamp the patients with indelible ink, the issue of social stigma arises. Also, patients can hide their hands in their pockets or cover it up,” said Dr Sheetal Mistry, administrative nodal officer of the hospital. “Similarly, belts tied on the wrist can be cut and clothes provided to positive patients can also be changed,” he said, adding that no one is going to run after such patients to catch hold of them. The hospital staff had some bizarre experiences with such ‘wandering’ patients earlier too. In April, a suspected Covid patient from Tandalja had left the isolation ward and returned to the hospital a few hours later. He claimed he had gone home to have food as he was hungry and all eateries outside the hospital were closed due to lockdown. An FIR was lodged against the man who fled to his hometown Ghaziabad and it turned out that he had not provided proper address too. “When he went missing, our staffer who called him, was shocked. The patient seemed to be boasting about his escaping skills and claimed that Gujarat police won’t be able to catch him,” said a hospital official.  “It is better that citizens themselves understand their responsibilities. There is no need to panic. A majority of patients are recovering and those with mild symptoms recover even without oxygen or ventilator support,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/runaway-patients-add-to-covid-hospitals-woes/articleshow/76698955.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 30, 2020||Vadodara||23-year-old innovates 4S, a full face shield||Vadodara: It’s a complete mask — from a face shield to ear pads — so that no sensory orifice is left open in the face, inviting unwanted pathogens inside the body.And the product even surpasses the benchmark N95 standards while being comfortable to wear. Meet 23-year-old Hetika Shah from Halol in Panchmahal district who has designed what she has named the ‘4S Shield’. “It was named so as it covers four body parts with sensory organs – the mouth, nose, ears and eyes. Pathogens can enter through these and the face shield covers all,” Shah told TOI. The N99 specification shield developed by Shah uses nanofiber fabric that she has developed herself. Eyeing to kickstart her business of chillers, she also dabbled with safety equipment like face covers and gloves that she designed for people working in waste energy to protect them from toxic fumes generated during the processing. But as fate would have it, the Covid-19 pandemic ensured that safety gears became her priority as she already had insight into material and methods to make them. Shah said that she also contacted experienced doctors treating Covid-19 patients for more insight. “The elastic of the mask as well as the safety goggles are on the ears. Doctors told me that their ears pained after wearing these for long hours. It worst for doctors who wore spectacles. Apart from the pain, glasses too got scratched due to the safety goggles,” said Shah. “I procure the raw material and provide it to the person who makes the N99 grade fabric for me,” said the young entrepreneur who has even started getting orders for such face shields with N95 specifications and even non-woven fabric. Presently she makes around 30,000 masks and face shields a day, including over 1,000 4S Shields. Apart form these, Shah also makes N99, N95 and three-ply non-woven fabric masks. All her products have necessary certifications. Her efforts have been supported by the Student Startup and Innovation Policy of the state government as well as the Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India. Box Difference in 4S from other masks The 4S shied has to be tied behind the head and does not have strings over the ears. The ears are completely covered with al small opening for cables of headphones. There is an opening in the fabric for eyes and it is sealed with a plastic sheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/23-year-old-innovates-4s-a-full-face-shield/articleshow/76698930.cms||Sachin Sharma
June 30, 2020||Patna||Three Maoists arrested in Aurangabad||PATNA: In a major setback to the Maoists operating in Bihar, a joint team of the CRPF, special task force and the district armed police arrested a hardcore activist Saryu Bhuyian and two other members of his family, including his wife, from Aurangabad on Sunday. Security forces swooped down at Munshi Bigha village under the Madanpur police station area, close to Gaya-Aurangabad border in Aurangabad district and arrested Saryu, his wife Phulwasia Devi and their son Arvind Bhuyian when they were about to leave for Kanaudi forest to supply food material to the Maoists. Aurangabad SDPO Anup Kumar said on Monday that Saryu and his family have been providing shelter and supplying food material to CPI-Maoists for the last one decade. “Saryu also took part in a few major operations carried out by the banned outfit,” he added. One country-made carbine, three live cartridges and a huge quantity of food material were seized from Saryu’s house. During interrogation, the arrested Red rebels revealed that armed guerrillas used to stock huge food material in their camps in deep forests before monsoon as their movement gets restricted on plains during the period. Saryu also revealed about the latest modus operandi of the Maoists and the kind of weapons the armed squad members of the outfit were provided for their operation. “The armed squad members are equipped with sophisticated weapons like Insas and carbine, while the second line of activists possessed rifles and country-made weapons,” a police officer quoted Saryu as saying. The Maoists’ have also changed their strategy to carry out attacks on the security forces in Red-infested districts. “Instead of direct confrontation, they now prefer to trap police personnel and ambush them. Landmines or IEDs are used to cause extensive damage to security forces,” Saryu reportedly told the interrogators. The second line of armed cadres were deployed to lend support to the killings by squad members on the front. “The main objective behind attack on security forces is to loot their weapons and cause physical harm to demoralise the enemy (read rival),” a senior official of the 153rd battalion of the CRPF said. At least 10 highly trained commandos of Cobra battalion were killed in an IED explosion in Sondaha forest close to Aurangabad-Gaya border in July 2016. The slain jawans belonged to 205 battalion of elite force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-maoists-arrested-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76696467.cms||Ramashankar
June 30, 2020||Patna||Fresh downpour adds to waterlogging woes in Patna||PATNA: Fresh downpour on Monday morning added to the waterlogging woes of the state capital residents, who have been struggling for the past two days. Residents alleged that the Patna Municipal Corporation has failed to tackle waterlogging effectively in the city as choked drains are the root of the problem. Besides, dug up roads and open chambers create more trouble. Some localities were under one-foot water, especially the low-lying areas such as New Patliputra Colony, Phulwarisharif, Bazaar Samiti and Thakurbari Road among others. Residents, who had to struggle through the waterlogged stretches on Monday, shuddered at the thought of the city receiving more rain in the next few days. “I am ashamed to say that I live in the capital of Bihar. It is just the beginning of monsoon and we are already struggling with water woes,” said Arshil Jamal, a resident of Millat Colony in Phulwarisharif, adding that there is no proper road and drainage network in this residential area. Akansha Ranjan, a resident of Patliputra Colony (ward number 22) said, “If the rain continues for 2-3 days, water would start entering the homes. The streets are inundated with one-foot water for last two days. Some people are saying that the manhole was blocked, the draining capacity of water is very low,” she said. But according to PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma, water has been drained out from all localities in the city. “The entire civic workforce and the combat cell of the civic body has been working 24X7 to make the city free from waterlogging. I have even visited some areas like Patliputra, Rajendra Nagar and Rajiv Nagar. The PMC is also responding to the calls made to the combat cell and drained out the water in less than two hours,” he said. He added, “We are using portable motor pumps at those areas where there is no drainage network while all the sump houses are working.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fresh-downpour-adds-to-waterlogging-woes-in-patna/articleshow/76697715.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Patna: People continue violating coronavirus preventive norms freely||PATNA: Economic activities may have resumed as part of the three-phase Unlock 1.0, which will come to an end on Tuesday, but people continue to flout the restrictions put in place to curb the spread of coronavirus. Although nearly 250 Covid-19 cases are being reported in Bihar every day, physical distancing norms are seldom followed. A large number of people can also be seen roaming on the streets without masks. Experts fear that people stepping out of their houses unnecessarily may lead to a further rise in the number of cases, which have already crossed the 9,000-mark. Senior vice president of the Indian Medical Association-Bihar chapter (IMA), Ajay Kumar, has urged the government to come up with strict rules and punish people for violating them. “The situation has become so serious that doctors are getting infected too. The frontline workers should be tested at least twice a month. Besides, government should introduce antibody testing in order to detect more cases,” he told this newspaper. Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president Ram Lal Khaitan also demanded “strict action against people roaming on the streets without masks”. He said, “Rebuilding the economy is okay, but playing with the lives of people is not fair. Now, a number of traders with shops on Govind Mitra Road and in Maurya Lok Complex are planning to shut their establishments due to the fear of contracting Covid-19.” Maurya Lok Shopkeeper Kalyan Samiti president Rajesh Kumar Dabloo claimed, “Unlock 1.0 hardly brought any difference because as we are still struggling. We cannot risk our lives and get nothing in return.” Eateries, hotels and salons are also struggling to return to normalcy. Vishal, hospitality manager of a restaurant in Rajvanshi Nagar, said most customers were scared of eating outside due to the fear of getting infected. The employee of a hotel, Brajesh Kumar, also pointed out that the number of visitors had gone down considerably. “We have very few visitors nowadays. Only some loyal customers come here for eating food,” he added. Even Patnaites claimed that many people were not following physical distancing norms or wearing marks. Kadamkuan resident said, “It is our responsibility to wear masks whenever we go out. We cannot expect to live a normal life during a pandemic.” Asked about the measures being taken to create awareness among the people for preventing the spread of Covid-19, Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi replied, “We have put up hoardings across the city to make people understand the importance of masks, sanitizers and social distancing.” He also urged people to “follow all the preventive norms for their own welfare”. Meanwhile, some schools are planning to reopen for students of senior classes after the consent of the administration and the parents. International School director Farhat Hasan said, “Classes, yoga sessions and karate — everything is being conducted online. However, attending classes physically is different as it has a greater impact on children. Hence, if the government allows us to reopen the school, we will hold classes for the students of classes IX to XII.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-continue-violating-corona-preventive-norms-freely/articleshow/76696923.cms||Archi Rani
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||50% staff of govt schools to report for work||Chandigarh: Confusion in government schools on Monday over the number of teachers to be allowed to report for work spurred the UT education department to let principals call 50% teaching and non-teaching staff till further orders. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, said, “The schools will be asked to call 50% of staff to schools. The matter was discussed but a decision was awaited.” The discussion had taken place last week. The orders said, “The department of school education, UT, has decided to allow principals/heads/in-charges of all government and government-aided schools to call teaching and non-teaching staff to the extent of 50% till further orders by following social distancing and hygiene safety.” On June 9, the department had first issued orders allowing school heads and principals to call 25% teaching and non-teaching staff for urgent administrative works from June 15. Sources said the department had discussed calling 50% of staff to schools from June 29 in a meeting held on July 23. Other points like conducting of online admissions for pre-nursery to Class IX and suggestions for holding compartment exams for Class IX students were sought. Teachers were told to maintain a daily record in a diary and make online videos and assignments for each week. “The department could any time ask the cluster head to provide videos and assignments for online teaching,” sources said. School heads of government schools were also asked to share details of vacancies. This because many teachers are expected to retire in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/50-staff-of-govt-schools-to-report-for-work/articleshow/76698264.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 30, 2020||Surat||100-bed ESIC hospital designated for Covid-19 patients||Bharuch: The number of Covid-19 cases has increased in Bharuch district since the last week, with the infection reaching the villages and industrial townships. In the last ten days, 97 new cases have been reported. The Employees State Insurance Corporation's (ESIC's) 100-bed hospital at GIDC residential area of Ankleshwar is now converted into a Covid-19 Special Hospital. Jayaben Modi hospital at Ankleshwar is already serving Covid-19 patients with good survival rates with a 100-bed capacity. Surprisingly, Bharuch city does not have any special Covid-19 hospitals. The number of cases reached 218, of which 13 patients died and 99 are under treatment at the Jayaben Modi Hospital. Eight more cases were reported on Monday. These are from Vagra, Jambusar, Bharuch and Ankleshwar. “It is a matter of great concern as cases are increasing in the district and thus to ensure proper treatment, the district collector has sent a proposal to convert existing ESIC hospital at Ankleshwar into special Covid-19 hospital which has a 100-bed capacity which has been approved by state health department on Monday. ESIC hospital has the facility of 20 Intensive Care Unit and two ventilators. Jambusar taluka recorded 75 cases in the last ten days due to its close business connection with Padra and Vadodara," said Dr Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Health officer, Bharuch. “More than 370 medical and paramedical staff are working in Bharuch district, of which 34 doctors are dedicated to Jambusar where no new case has been reported in the last two days,’’ added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/100-bed-esic-hospital-designated-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76698882.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Experts for revival of endangered foodgrain||PATNA: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal for being ‘vocal for local’ is catching people’s attention, there is hardly any effort to revive the production of ‘vanishing’ foodgrains and include them in one’s daily diet. Environmentalists and conservationists point out that several varieties of foodgrains collectively known as ‘coarse grains’ were once found in abundance in the state, but now they have either become extinct or are on the brink of extinction. “foodgrains like ‘kodo’, ‘marua’, ‘janer’ or ‘jowar’ and ‘kauni’ (millets) and ‘sama’ (a variety of rice) were used in a major part of rural Bihar until a few decades ago. Tiny in size and round in shape, these millets were more nutritious than rice and wheat in terms of proteins, minerals and vitamins,” Patna University (PU) biotechnology teacher Birendra Prasad told this newspaper. He added, “Almost five decades ago, people used to eat red and black rice which are not commonly seen in the market today. Some varieties of rice and potatoes grown in the state were also suitable for diabetics. However, with the growing use of high-yielding seeds, their production has stopped now.” Magadh University retired chemistry teacher Mahesh Chandra also claimed that millets were the major grains produced in the state approximately 60 years ago, but their production declined considerably after the advent of green revolution. “As the focus shifted from quality to quantity, these indigenous varieties were replaced by the high-yielding hybrid varieties. In 2019-2020, as much as 16.18 million tonnes of foodgrains were produced in the state, of which only a minor amount was millet. The production of rice has increased doubly and wheat production has tripled in the last three decades,” Chandra said. PU botany department head M P Trivedi pointed out, “Our elders knew what rice variety to eat if they had an ailment. For instance, ‘nawara’ red rice helped with diabetes, a rare black rice, ‘kalawati’, helped prevent cancer and vitamin B12 deficiencies. ‘Katarni’ rice was known for its aroma. Most of these cannot even be found now.” Besides foodgrains, Trivedi said, a number of plant species in the state had also become endangered. “Plants like ‘mahua’, ‘barhar’, ‘anatmool’, ‘haramda’, ‘guduch’, ‘kawanch’, ‘ashwagandha’ and ‘sumlu’ are endangered. Increasing population, rapid urbanization, and agricultural transformation are the major factors that have led to their unnatural death,” he added. Munger University vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma, however, asserted that a lot of efforts were being put today to increase the demand of millets in the state and the country. He said, “Many organizations are coming up in support of this cause by creating mass awareness about the nutritional benefits of these indigenous foodgrains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-for-revival-of-endangered-foodgrain/articleshow/76696489.cms||B K Mishra
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||PAU advises farmers to be prepared for fall armyworm attack||Ludhiana: The scientists at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, have issued advisory for managing fall armyworm in maize. Tracing the history of the insect, P K Chhuneja, head of entomology department said the fall armyworm insect is native to tropical and subtropical regions of the Americas and a noxious pest of the maize. “It was first seen in Africa in 2016 as accidental introduction into the continent and soon spread to 40 African countries within a year. In India, the pest was reported in May 2018 in Karnataka, and within a year, it had infested almost all the states of the country. In Punjab, it was first noticed in the farmers’ fields in August 2019, and by end September, the insect was found infesting late sown fodder maize in various districts. In the current kharif season, its infestation has been reported in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Ropar, Pathankot, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib districts,” he said. Chhuneja said the fall armyworm prefers to feed on 10-40 days old crop, therefore, at this time, farmers are advised to be highly vigilant for its attack in their fields, as the crop is currently at the most preferable stage for the pest. He further added that timely control at this critical stage will reduce the population build up that will minimise the possibility of subsequent damage at the flowering stage. “Correct identification, vigilant monitoring and immediate control measures are keys to curtail its damage,” cautioned the scientist, while clarifying that the larva can be identified from four spots in square pattern at tail end and white coloured inverted Y-shaped mark on the head. “The larvae vary among greenish brown, light brown or light grey in colours. The female lays eggs in groups of 100-150 eggs on lower or upper surface of the leaves. Young larvae feed by scraping the leaf surface making papery windows. Later on, the larvae prefer to damage the central whorl leaves feeding voraciously causing round to oblong holes with large amount of faecal matter. The damage starting in patches spreads rapidly in the entire field if not monitored carefully and managed timely,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pau-advises-farmers-to-be-prepared-for-fall-armyworm-attack/articleshow/76699420.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 30, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank looks to raise up to Rs 50,000 crore||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank is taking permission from its shareholders to raise up to Rs 50,000 crore by issuing various instruments, including unsecured perpetual debt instruments (also called AT-1), tier-2 capital bonds and long-term bonds (financing of infrastructure and affordable housing). The annual general meeting (AGM) of the country’s most valued private sector lender is scheduled to take place on July 18. All or any of these instruments could be issued on a private placement basis by the bank, it said. Recently, while putting the troubled Yes Bank into a restructuring process, the RBI had written off all its AT-1 bonds. The write-off of these bonds, which were always thought to be secure in nature when issued by banks, emerged to be an additional trouble for its holders including several NBFCs. The NBFC sector was already facing liquidity issues since September 2018, when the government-backed IL&FS defaulted on its loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-looks-to-raise-up-to-rs-50000cr/articleshow/76699173.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||FIR against JLNMCH lab technician||BHAGALPUR: A laboratory technician at Bhagalpur-based Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) allegedly damaged four out of five CBNAAT (cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test) machines for pathological test for Covid-19. According to sources, the laboratory technician presumed that if machines stop working he would be relieved from laboratory duty and will have the benefit of staying home. JLNMCH medical superintendent Dr RC Mandal said an FIR has been lodged against the laboratory technician under the National Disaster management Act (NDMA) 2005 and the Epidemic diseases Act (EDA) 1897. “Process for dismissal of the technician has also been initiated. The testing of Covid-19 has been affected with this criminal act of the technician,” he said.” He added: “We are trying to get the machines rectified soon in to restart Covid-19 tests. As of now, we will make use of the remaining machines.” The entire issue came to light after a thorough investigation was made by JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha, superintendent Dr Mandal, head of microbiology, Dr Amit Kumar and others with the help of CCTV camera footages and spot verification besides cross questioning of departmental staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fir-against-jlnmch-lab-technician/articleshow/76696518.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC employee tests Covid positive, judicial work restricted again||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Monday once again decided to reduce judicial functioning and restrict it to hearing of only extremely urgent matters after a staff member in its registry’s judicial department tested Covid-19 positive.The chief justice was informed about panic among staff members and he ordered the registrar (judicial) to see that each of the staff members, who even remotely may have come into contact with the Covid-19 positive person, undergoes quarantine for the minimum period, and a fresh set of employees should carry on with the work in the judicial department. The new HC circular said that since the current work cannot be catered to by the reduced team, only fresh matters of urgent nature like bail, furlough, habeas corpus and detention will be listed for hearing. The HC has temporarily suspended all its earlier circulars by which it had increased the number of case hearings a month after the lockdown was imposed. It said that the court will start taking up more cases of all categories after review, once the situation improves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-employee-tests-covid-positive-judicial-work-restricted-again/articleshow/76698635.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Chinese goods find few takers amid border row||PATNA: Like rest of the country, the border conflict between India and China has led to strong call for boycotting Chinese products in the city as well. Common people as well as some traders have started boycotting the Chinese goods to teach a lesson to the neighbouring country. Altogether 20 Indian soldiers, including five from Bihar, had sacrificed their lives in clashes with China’s PLA troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh on June 15. The electronic and electrical appliances shops on S P Verma Road, Exhibition Road, Bandar Bagicha, Fraser road and New Patliputra, which were already hit by Covid-19 pandemic, are not complaining despite suffering additional losses due to boycott of Chinese products. “We have started stocking products from other countries. Indian products are also in demand now. However, the prices of these products are higher than Chinese ones,” said Sanjiv Kumar, owner of an electronic shop at Hari Niwas Complex. Cellphone shops are also suffering losses as the number of customers has gone down considerably. Gunjan Kumar, employee of a cellphone shop, said the sales have come down substantially in the last one week. “Many people are boycotting Chinese products,” he added. Dinesh Kumar, sales executive at an electrical appliances shop on S P Verma Road, said China and Covid-19 factors have badly affected sales. Umesh Kumar, a resident of Jakanpura, said he has changed his China-made cellphone. “We should be patriotic and boycott Chinese products,” he added. Meanwhile, some business enterprises and construction firms said boycotting Chinese products entirely was easier said than done. Ram Lal Khetan, president of Bihar Industries Association, said the country was dependent on China for electronic goods, construction materials, lighting and electrical appliances, packaged food, vehicles, pharmaceutical ingredients and medicines. “Since there are no alternate options, the sellers and consumers will continue dealing with Chinese products,” he added. President of Bihar chapter of Builders’ Association of India, Sachin Chandra, said the Indo-China standoff has not affected construction enterprises much. “However, if the tension between the two countries escalates, it may affect the import of sanitary ware, ceramic tiles and steels used in building construction. Prices of building construction materials would also go up if the import is affected,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chinese-goods-find-few-takers-amid-border-row/articleshow/76696578.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Flights from NZ, Kuwait bring back stranded Indians||Mohali: In continuation to the Vande Bharat Mission of evacuating stranded Indians abroad, flights from New Zealand and Kuwait arrived at the Chandigarh international airport on Monday. An Air India flight from Auckland arrived via Delhi at 7.30 am, one hour late against the scheduled time, bringing 140 passengers. A flight from Kuwait operated by GoAir arrived at 6.30 pm, brining 184 passengers. This is the second flight from Auckland (New Zealand), the first arrived on June 17. Mohali civil surgeon Dry Manjit Singh said all passengers arriving from Auckland and Kuwait were asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts and their passports have also been taken into possession by the administration. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives and quarantined as per government guidelines. A total of eight flights under Vande Bharat evacuation mission have arrived at Chandigarh till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/flights-from-nz-kuwait-bring-back-stranded-indians/articleshow/76698309.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant workers living in slums struggle to make ends meet as Covid-19 puts them out of work||Dehradun: Residents of Bindal Basti, a slum cluster in the heart of Dehradun, are getting increasingly despondent as the coronavirus-induced crisis drags on. Majority of the residents of this slum settlement are daily wagers and Covid-19 outbreak has put them out of work. Many among them are migrant workers from Bihar. During a TOI spot visit to the Bindal Basti, Kishore Saini, a resident of the settlement, said, "I am a daily wager like most others here. Life was already challenging for us but this Covid-19 pandemic has broken our backs. I have been out of work for three months and I don’t know how long I can continue by borrowing money from others." The residents of the slum settlement informed that before the lockdown was implemented, they used to get work at least thrice a week but now finding work even once a week has also become challenging for them. The area has more than 150 families and majority of migrant workers there hail from Bihar. While some of them could not go back to Bihar due to financial issues, many among them claimed that they have nothing to go back to. Ramu Das, who also lives in Bindal Basti, said “ I came here from Samastipur (in Bihar) more than 30 years ago. I do not have any relatives there anymore. I am forced to run behind contractors to get my due money and even negotiate with them for earning my daily meal." 25-year-old Chandan, a native of Darbhanga (Bihar), has a similar story. "I run a fast food corner in Bindal Basti. My earnings dropped to zero during lockdown and after the norms were eased for businesses, I restarted my business but my sales have now dropped by 50%. I just hope that the government takes some steps to restore our livelihood." The crisis isn't just hurting livelihoods but also dreams of many youths living in the settlement. "I was born here in Bindal Basti. I loved listening to rap songs and wanted to become a professional rapper but now I have been asked by my father to start earning for the family," said 17-year-old Vikas. Locals of a slum settlement near Bindal Basti are also struggling to earn two square meals. This slum settlement is mostly inhabited by migrant workers from Gujarat. They said that they used to earn from the Sunday market held at the Parade Ground (later shifted near Jhanda Ji) before the lockdown but now they are forced to beg door-to-door in order to survive. Gunwant Ramji, a native of Gujarat, said “We used to earn for an entire week just from the Sunday market but now, we sit idle with no money. It is painful to see many of us going in search of food everyday. Some days, people give us food but the other days, we are sent away after humiliation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-workers-living-in-slums-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-as-covid-19-puts-them-out-of-work/articleshow/76697107.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Sirsa varsity dean objects to removal before tenure end||Sirsa: Chaudhary Devi Lal University (CDLU) dean (academic affairs) Professor Raj Kumar Siwach has been removed from the post before the completion of his two-year tenure by newly-appointed vice chancellor Prof R B Solanki. Prof Siwach had served for 10 months and 18 days only. Aggrieved by the “abruptly taken” decision, Prof Siwach, who has also served as the CLDU registrar, on Monday submitted a detailed representation to the VC against his removal. He teaches in the public administration department of CDLU. “There is no provision in the university act, statute, schedule and ordinances for doing so without any reason. Not only this, no legal notice was served,” Prof Siwach stated in his representation. A senior professor, Umed Singh, who is also member of the executive council (EC) of CDLU, also expressed resentment over the decision. Prof Singh could not attend the EC meeting in which the decision to remove Prof Siwach was taken and expressed his dissent in writing. Prof Siwach was appointed dean (academic affairs) on August 8, 2019, through a notification in terms of Clause 4 of the university statute for a stipulated period of two years, which was extendable by another year. The varsity administration removed him on June 26 and appointed Prof Deepti Dharmani in his place for two years. When contacted, VC Professor Solanki said even when Prof Siwach was appointed as the dean (academic affairs), his predecessor had not completed the two-year term. “His appointment was not even passed in the meeting of the EC. Apart from this, in the meeting held on June 20, the EC had authorized me to appoint dean (academic affairs) and other posts so I have acted accordingly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sirsa-varsity-dean-objects-to-removal-before-tenure-end/articleshow/76699451.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Gadvasu organises webinar on monetising by-products of livestock industry||Ludhiana: Department of Livestock Products Technology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences, University (Gadvasu), organised a webinar on ‘technological innovation and entrepreneurship in animal industry by-products’ under the aegis of ICAR (Indian Council of Agriculture Research)- Institutional Development Project of National Agricultural Higher Education Project. A Gadvasu spokesperson said there was overwhelming response for the event and approximately 800 participants registered, however only 100 were selected by the organising committee. Manish Kumar Chatli, head of the department, acted as organising secretary said the dairy and meat industry in India is shaping up as a potential venture. “Rapid growth and urbanisation has catalysed the growth of animal products industry to a new level. But every development has two faces. As we are striding towards a better future with the growth in processing of animal products, the waste arising from these activities are posing a serious concern. Various by-products such as whey during the manufacturing of paneer/channa/cheese, ghee residues, similarly during meat production skin, hide, bones, blood, feathers etc. These by-products are a source of revenue and employments generation, however its indiscriminate disposal leads to stress on environment and spread of diseases,” he said. Gadvasu said the participants represented 25 states and two union territories of India. It added that the representation was across India from Jammu and Kashmir to Kerala, Gujarat to Mizoram and included students, faculty and industry personnel. Vikas Pathak, DUVASU, Mathura and G S Meena, scientist, National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal presented their view on scope, potential, utilisation and value of the by-products of meat and milk industry, respectively. Harmaan Madon, managing director, Madon Applied Sciences, Pune, explained in details about the opportunities for the entrepreneurs in this area, and discussed requirements to become entrepreneur including zeal, passion, self-motivation as well as financial issues. Parkash Singh Brar, dean and principal investigator of the project, highlighted the importance of the issue and encouraged the students to become employer than employee. Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor applauded the efforts of scientists for highlighting such an important issue and stressed on the need based research and development of liaison with the industry. Siva Kumar and O P Malav acted as coordinator of the programme. Rajesh V Wagh presented the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gadvasu-organises-webinar-on-monetising-by-products-of-livestock-industry/articleshow/76699445.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nashik||Pvt hospitals treating Covid cases to have liaison officers||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Monday directed the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to ensure that every private hospital treating Covid patients in the city has liaison officers to coordinate between the patients and the hospital management. This comes after complaints about non-availability of beds and overcharging in private hospitals were received. Bhujbal said that these liaison officers will help patients and their families to complete the admission and discharge process. They will also coordinate between the patients and hospital management, said Bhujbal Bhujbal gave this directive during the inauguration of the mobile application and online dashboard about real-time information about the number of beds and patients in all the hospitals, which took place through video conferencing. The mobile app – ‘health prime Nashik’ has been developed with the help of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) Nashik, for all the Covid-related information. The information has been provided online on the NMC’s website ‘www.nmc.gov.in’ and ‘http://covidnashik.nmc.gov.in:8002/covid-19.html’. Mayor Satish Kulkarni, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game, CREDAI Nashik president Ravi Mahajan and other senior NMC officials were also present during the launch. Credai Nashik is also helping NMC in setting up a Covid care centre at Thakker’s Dome. Lauding the Credai Nashik’s initiatives, Bhujabal appealed to the other social organizations in the city to take an initiative to help the city in the current situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-hospitals-treating-covid-cases-to-have-liaison-officers/articleshow/76697103.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Pvt schools told to return fees for online classes up to Class II||Aurangabad: The zilla parishad (ZP), Aurangabad, has asked private schools to return the fees, if they have charged any, for conducting online classes upto Class II. Pointing to the directives of the state government that does not support virtual learning for pre-primary and further upto Class II, competent authorities have warned of derecognition of schools if they continued with paid virtual learning. In a latest communication issued for schools, education officer (primary) with Aurangabad ZP S P Jaiswal said that his office had received complaints of schools charging fees for online education upto Class II. “The government resolution dated June 15 of the school education department has clearly excluded virtual classes for Class II. Some parents have approached us with complaints against schools which have charged fees for online education and other expenses. Any school violating the order from the government will face stern action,” said Jaiswal.Notably, a large section of parents have expressed dissent against ban on virtual classes for students of standards upto Class II. Shubhada Kale, a parent, said many parents were ready to pay fees for their wards in standards upto Class II. “Online education has become the new normal amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Children cannot just sit at home and remain idle. Online classes conducted in the past have evoked good response from students. The education department is creating chaos by imposing its decision and not taking parents into confidence,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-schools-told-to-return-fees-for-online-classes-up-to-class-ii/articleshow/76696005.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Married man rapes minor girl||Ludhiana: The police have arrested 32-year-old man for allegedly raping his neighbour, a nine-year-old girl, on Sunday. At the time of the incident, the girl was present at home with her two younger siblings, while her parents had gone to work. The arrested accused is a married man and has two children. But he lives alone here as his family lives in Uttar Pradesh. Sub-inspector (SI) Balwinder Singh said when the mother of the nine-year-old girl returned from work in the evening, she found her elder daughter crying but refused to say anything. Her younger children, a son aged seven years old and a daughter aged five years old, told her that the accused had come to their house and had given them Rs 10 each and asked to go out and get something to eat. When the mother confronted elder daughter again, she told her what had occurred. The woman then called the police. The SI added that, on getting information the police immediately traced the accused, who was hiding at his friend’s house in Hambran road, and arrested him. The police have registered a case against him under Section of 376 (rape) of IPC and Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/married-man-rapes-minor-girl/articleshow/76699452.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Notice to Huda officials for denying info||Panchkula: The Haryana State Information Commission has issued a show-cause notice to Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) top officials for failing to provide information regarding allotment of space to Vita booths in Panchkula. S K Nayar, president, Citizen Welfare Association (CWA), who filed a Right to Information (RTI) application, said Huda estate officer allotted Vita booths in 2018. The VITA booths were opened at multiple places, including on the corners of the street in sectors, in markets, near parks to facilitate residents. Nayar, in his RTI filed on December 31, 2018, wanted to seek information on the space allotted to these booths but till July 2019 but did not get any answer. Later, Nayar appealed to the Chief State Information Commission, Haryana. The office they said issued show-cause notice to Huda officials, asking them to provide the information by April 13 but to no avail. Near alleged, “The information sought is delayed by over one-and-a-half year. The commission must provide it at the earliest.” Chief Information Commissioner has now ordered Huda officials to give the information by or before July 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/notice-to-huda-officials-for-denying-info/articleshow/76698368.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 30, 2020||Aurangabad||246 more patients test positive in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: As many as 246 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally of positive cases to 5,283 in the district. Ten patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 257. Authorities said that of the fresh cases reported on Monday, 143 alone were from Aurangabad while the remaining 103 cases were reported from the rural areas of the district. 154 men and 92 women tested positive for the contagion on Monday. Meanwhile, 113 patients were discharged on Monday, leaving the district with 2,357 active patients who are currently undergoing treatment at the state-run and other private hospitals. Authorities attributed the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases to increased testing. District collector Uday Choudhary said, “We are following trace, test and isolate, which is helping us in containing the spread of the contagion.” He said a large number of asymptomatic cases were the actual cause of concern, as such people presume themselves to be fit, but are silent carriers who end up infecting people coming in direct contact. “The first to get infected from the asymptomatic patients are immediate family members. Things come to the fore only after a person with low immunity or comorbidity shows symptoms,” said an official with task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/246-more-patients-test-positive-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76696037.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Inform cops about drug peddlers’||Panchkula: The Panchkula police have appealed local residents to report to them if they found any person selling drugs in their locality. On the occasion of the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, the police appealed residents of Panchkula to share information related to drugs in their locality. The police chief also instructed all the station house officers (SHOs) and the police post incharges to take inputs seriously and make sure the person or informer’s name does not come out in public for their safety. The police have asked residents to inform them on their control room number 0172-2582100 regarding any illlegal drug activity in their neighborhood. Commisisoner of police (CP) Saurabh Singh said drug abuse is a major problem, effecting the lives of children. Such activities need to be stopped and the police are already working in this regard. It will be a great support if residents come put to help the police. He said youngsters, who also know about drug dealers, can also inform the cops about the issue and their identity will not be disclosed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/inform-cops-about-drug-peddlers/articleshow/76698342.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 30, 2020||Nashik||123 new cases, 5 deaths in Nashik city||Nashik: On Monday, 123 new Covid-19 patients were identified in Nashik city. This takes the overall case-count in the city to 2,040. Moreover, five patients also succumbed to infection, taking the death toll to 104 so far. Till May 31, the city had only 214 patients and had recorded eight deaths. However, since the relaxation in lockdown orders, there has been a sudden spike. The movement of the people from Mumbai, Pune, Malegaon and other affected areas led to the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in the city, reasoned NMC officials. So far, 852 patients have been discharged after the recovery. Currently, the city has 1,084 active patients. The five deaths include two women from Panchavati (aged 45 and 54 years), a 63-year-old man from Hirawadi, a 57-year-old male man from Pinjar ghat and a 54-year-old male from the Upnagar area. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/123-new-cases-5-deaths-in-nashik-city/articleshow/76697166.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||NIM mountaineering team scales 4,823-metre-high unnamed & unscaled peak in Harsil||Uttarkashi: Amidst Covid-19 outbreak, a five-member mountaineering team of the renowned Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) has successfully scaled a 4,823-metre-high unnamed and unscaled peak, situated in the Harsil region of Uttarkashi district. The climb was made under the “Horn of Harsil” expedition, which was officially inaugurated by state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in November 2019 during the Harsil Apple Festival. Expedition team leader and NIM principal Colonel Amit Bisht said, “Horn of Harsil expedition, under which we were supposed to scale two unnamed and unscaled peaks situated in the Harsil region, was officially inaugurated by CM Rawat in November 2019. Unfortunately, due to bad weather and heavy snowfall, we were forced to postpone the expedition at that time.” He added, “We decided to re-start the expedition only after holding a discussion with the district administration. On June 21, a five-member team of mountaineers reached Harsil village. After crossing several base camps, team members began the final ascent on June 28 and successfully scaled the unnamed and unscaled peak, which is situated at an altitude of 4,823 metre above sea level. Team will attempt to scale another peak, 5,280 metre high, under the Horn of Harsil expedition within a few months.” Col Bisht hoped that this ascent will boost adventure tourism activities in the district which have not found many takers post the Covid-19 outbreak. Meanwhile, the trekking and mountaineering industry in Uttarkashi has also expressed its delight over the expedition. Jayendra Rana, president of Garhwal Himalaya Trekking and Mountaineering Association, told TOI, “Despite the relaxations announced under Unlock-1 in relation to tourism activities, tourists and tour operators were hesitant to conduct any activity in the wake of the coronavirus threat. However, we are hopeful that things will start looking up after NIM's successful expedition. Besides, trekking and mountaineering industry, it will also improve the economic condition of hoteliers, cab drivers, and other locals which have faced heavy economic losses due to the pandemic.” Sandeep Kumar, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) of Uttarkashi, told TOI, “There is no restriction for mountaineering and trekking activities in the district. The tourists and tour operators only have to follow the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nim-mountaineering-team-scales-4823-metre-high-unnamed-unscaled-peak-in-harsil/articleshow/76697125.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: TikTok sensation found dead in box bed||CHANDIGARH: A TikTok sensation from Sonipat who used to run a salon was found dead in a box bed in the outlet with strangulation marks on her neck by her business associate on Sunday afternoon. She was allegedly murdered by a youth whom she had spurned, but who continued to trouble her. Police arrested him on Monday morning. The beautician, Shivani, who was in her 20s, used to run the salon with her elder sister and the latter’s associate in TDI City of Kundli Area in Sonipat City. The associate, Neeraj, used to live in the salon. Shivani was popular on TikTok and boasted of nearly 1 lakh followers. Police have arrested Aarif Mohammad, a local youth in a case of murder, destruction of evidence and under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, registered at Kundli police station. “Aarif has confessed to the crime. He not only murdered Shivani but had been chatting with her family on social media platforms throughout the night of murder. He will have to undergo the Covid test before being produced in court,’’ said DSP Virender Singh, the supervising officer of the case. According to investigations, Shivani was allegedly murdered on Friday evening or night hours after her sister left for home. Neeraj was out of station that day. "Aarif used a dupatta to strangulate her to death and stuffed the body in the bed used by Neeraj. The latter was first to notice the foul odour pervading the salon when he entered the premises and found Shivani’s body on opening the bed,’’ the DSP added. The DSP said the victim’s family had told the police how Arif used to trouble her. Meanwhile, sources said the police are also exploring whether her murder was linked to her popularity on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sonipat-tiktok-sensation-found-dead-in-box-bed-youth-held/articleshow/76699459.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Trichy||Amma canteens to prepare kabasura kudineer in Trichy||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has started decentralised mass production of kabasura kudineer at the 11 Amma canteens across the city to cover more people and vulnerable areas in a shorter time. Self-help groups (SHG) managing the Amma canteens were trained on how to produce the health drink.Till now the siddha hospital of Trichy Corporation in Bhima Nagar was preparing kabasura kudineer for the entire city. As it was time-consuming for sanitary officials to collect it from the hospital and distribute it in vulnerable zones 12-13km away, the corporation started its production in all Amma canteens here. Each of the canteens will be provided 2kg of kabasura kudineer powder each day to prepare the drink for least 2,000 people per day. The four zones of the corporation were provided 25 steel containers each to carry the drink to vulnerable zones for door-to-door distribution. Since the number of cases keeps on increasing, plans are afoot to cover adjoining areas of containment zones. “Athimathuram was also provided at the canteens. Decentralised preparation will help the workers cover various parts in a shorter time,” said Dr V Rathinam, Siddha medical officer. The Amma canteen on Jaffer Shah street in Srirangam will cover containment zones in Big Bazaar street and Amma canteen on Allithurai road will cover Thillai Nagar containment zones. “Sanitary supervisors will be communicated soon after the drink is prepared and it will be door-delivered,” said corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/amma-canteens-to-prepare-kabasura-kudineer-in-trichy/articleshow/76699466.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Six juveniles rob vegetable vendor of Rs 5k, cellphone||Chennai: A gang of six suspected juveniles robbed a vegetable vendor at knifepoint near the dental college at Parry’s early on Sunday. CCTV camera footage of the incident, which has gone viral on social media, shows six youngsters on two bikes with handkerchiefs masking their faces intercepting a man on a tricycle near Muthusamy bridge. One of those riding pillion gets off and assaults the vendor. The others then crowd around waving knives. Vegetable vendor M Sankar, 51, a resident of Triplicane, is visibly shocked as the youths snatch his bag of cash (Rs 5,000) and mobile phone from him and ride away. Sankar, who was injured in the face, walked all the way to the Flower Bazaar police station and lodged a complaint. He told the police that he was on his way to Kothawalchavadi to buy vegetables, which he then sold on his tricycle in Triplicane and nearby areas. Police personnel have collected the CCTV camera footage and zeroed in on the bike registration numbers to trace the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/six-juveniles-rob-vegetable-vendor-of-rs-5k-cellphone/articleshow/76698387.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||MLA suggests war memorial in Kharar||Mohali: Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu has demanded a war memorial-cum-public park on 15 acres of defence land lying vacant in the heart of Kharar township (opposite church on Kharar-Mohali road). The MLA has written a letter to Lt Gen R P Singh, GOC-in-C, Western Command, on Monday. He stated that presently, this piece of land was not being put to any use and usually stray animals were seen roaming around the place. The MLA in his letter said that flag hoisting could be done on Army Day and other important days of national importance at the proposed war memorial. Names of all the martyrs belonging to Kharar sub-division could be inscribed on a plaque, he said. Sandhu visited the new toll plaza near Khanpur in Kharar constructed by NHAI on Kharar-Ludhiana highway. He said since a very large number of people from Kharar and nearby villages were either visiting Morinda or Chandigarh University, Gharuan, on a daily basis, people staying within 5 km radius of the barrier should be exempted from paying the toll. The toll fee was Rs 65 per visit – one way — and those traveling to Ludhiana and back on the road were paying as much as Rs 260 per trip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mla-suggests-war-memorial-in-kharar/articleshow/76698381.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Some schools suspend online classes for pre-primary students||Aurangabad: Despite a good response, some private schools has indefinitely suspended the virtual classes for the pre-primary section.While these classes had evoked encouraging feedback from children as well as parents, the schools have decided to terminate the initiative, allegedly over fee collection issues. Nilesh Dharashivkar, a parent of two pre-primary students, said the school sought the parents’ opinion on continuing online education. “The school had formed a WhatsApp group of parents. On Friday, the school sought our view on whether to continue the online classes or not. Even though almost all the parents said yes, the school, announced that no virtual classes will be held till further notice,” he said. The government has not allowed virtual learning during the lockdown for students of classes up to standard II. Schools could have faced legal issues while asking for fees, said the parents. “We were ready to pay the fees for the virtual classes. Without a proper engagement now, children tend to spend time watching TV or using mobile phones,” said Renuka Ratnaparkhe, another parent.When contacted, the schools in question refused to go on record. “We are governed by the school education department orders. The parent community should approach the government formally if they wish to have virtual classes for the pre-primary section,” said one school principal. S P Jaiswal, the education officer (primary) with Aurangabad Zilla Parishad, said it was a government policy decision to not hold virtual classes up to Class II.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/some-schools-suspend-online-classes-for-pre-primary-students/articleshow/76696055.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Can’t direct Telangana to give mid-day meal: HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday stated that it cannot suggest the state to provide mid-day meal to students when the schools are not functioning. A bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, said this while hearing a petition filed by Balala Hakkula Sangham, a child rights NGO. The court said that the petitioners should approach the state with any request in the matter. The petition had also sought for the HC to direct the state to supply gadgets to poor students, enabling them to attend online classes. The bench heard petitioner’s counsel C Damoar Reddy and told him to first approach the state with a representation. The petitioner’s counsel said that students from government and aided schools will lag behind in studies on account of their inability to avail online classes. He added that it is the duty of the state to support the students as Kerala and Karnataka governments have supplied laptops and TV sets to students belonging to below poverty line (BPL) families. The bench told the petitioner that the state should be first informed about such needs. “Such decisions fall within the realm of policy making which is an exclusive domain of the state. We cannot direct the state to frame particular policies,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cant-direct-t-to-give-mid-day-meal-hc/articleshow/76699468.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||HC dismisses MPPSC review plea on asst profs merit list||Bhopal/Jabalpur: A division bench of MP high court on Monday dismissed a review petition of the State Public Service Commission, challenging an earlier order of the court in which the merit list for recruitment on the post of assistant professors was declared invalid due to women candidates from OBC category being accommodated on the seats reserved for women candidates from the general category.The court had held that the seats reserved for different groups can’t be exchanged under horizontal reservation rule and therefore selecting women from OBC sections on seats reserved for general category women candidates was illegal.The MPPSC had filed a review petition against the order, which was dismissed on Monday by a division bench comprising Chief Justice A K Mittal and Justice V K Shukla.Lalima Vivayvargiya of Indore and 80 more petitioners had challenged the PSC merit list for the post of assistant professors on the ground that the women candidates from OBC category have been selected on the posts reserved for general category women candidates, which was in violation of horizontal reservation rule. They pointed out that on 91 posts reserved for women from general category, women OBC candidates have been selected on the basis of merit list The same bench in its order on May 29 had held that there was horizontal reservation rule in prevalence in the state. Candidates from reserved classes get more advantages other than reservation alone like relaxation in maximum age limit, therefore they can’t be selected against seats for the general category on the basis of the merit list. The court had declared the MPPSC’s merit list invalid and ordered the commission to make a fresh merit list observing the norms of horizontal reservation.Additional advocate general R K Verma appeared on behalf of the MPPSC in the case while advocate Suyash Mohan Guru appeared for the respondents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hc-dismisses-mppsc-review-plea-on-asst-profs-merit-list/articleshow/76697157.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Lawyer tests Covid +ve, dist court shut for 48 hrs||Lucknow: The Lucknow district court was shut for 48 hours from Monday afternoon after an advocate, an office-bearer of the Central Bar Association Lucknow, tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. The advocate was among the 17 people diagnosed with Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally of cases since March 11 to 1,040 in the city. Other cases included an employee of the UP112 police helpline from Alambagh and wife of BJP MLA from Sultanpur who tested positive on Saturday. “The advocate has tested positive for Covid-19 and the court premises has been closed for 48 hours for sanitisation as per safety protocol,” said Lucknow chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agarwal. The advocate is a resident of New Hyderabad colony. As per the Central Bar Association’s representation to the district judge, he was a regular in court premises. A female employee of the UP112 police helpline has also tested positive, taking the number of people associated with the call centre diagnosed with the disease to 10. A clerk in King George’s Medical University’s vice-chancellor’s office and his son also employed as a data entry operator in the university were also confirmed as Covid-19 cases. They live in Faizullahganj. A defence ministry staffer from Delhi running fever since 10 days returned to Lucknow by road and got himself tested directly at KGMU. He was confirmed Covid-19 positive. Other cases included a Patanala resident who visited KGMU for diabetes treatment, a 22-year-old from Rajajipuram who went to KGMU for a surgery and a six-year-old from Hind Nagar whose father had infection earlier. The CMO has recommended 23 areas in the city to be turned into containment zones while removing existing eight from the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lawyer-tests-covid-ve-dist-court-shut-for-48-hrs/articleshow/76699483.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Trichy||Covid testing lab to soon open at Perambalur GH||Trichy: Perambalur government hospital has received its own reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing kit to perform Covid-19 tests. As the trial runs were successful, the RT-PCR lab is likely to be functional within a week. Perambalur has been depending on RT-PCR labs either at the Ariyalur government hospital or MGM government hospital to conduct Covid-19 tests. As a result, only 100 samples were being tested in the district. The waiting time also varied between 48-72 hours. Once the lab begins operations, a minimum of 175 tests can be conducted daily. Two trial runs were conducted on Sunday and Monday, testing four and 20 samples respectively. “The calibrations were successful, the kit was standard. We will apply online with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) seeking approval to make the lab functional within this week,” a senior official in the health department said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-testing-lab-to-soon-open-at-perambalur-gh/articleshow/76699481.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, 2 kin test positive for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Telangana home minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and two other family members tested positive for Covid-19 and are undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital. Mahmood Ali is the first minister in the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led government to have contracted the virus. Health department sources said the minister’s son and grandson, in his early twenties, were all rushed to the same hospital in Jubilee Hills after swab samples results revealed both had tested positive for novel coronavirus. So far three legislators of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) have tested positive for the novel coronavirus and are undergoing treatment. While the home minister’s health is currently stable, he was rushed to the hospital late on Sunday night with symptoms of fever, breathlessness, cough, and cold. Last week, five of his gunman had tested positive, following which they were put on home quarantine. But the home minister, instead of quarantining himself at home, had attended a series of government programmes, including the state’s flagship haritha haram (tree plantation) programme with top police officials at the Goshamahal police stadium. Among other top cops, DGP Telangana M Mahender Reddy and city commissioner Anjani Kumar were present at the event. With the minister now testing positive, a massive exercise of contact tracing among the cops have begun. Three MLAs from Jangaon, Nizamabad Urban and Nizamabad had tested positive for the virus earlier||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hm-mahmood-2-kin-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76699935.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Covid patients, suspected cases shared room at isolation centre’||Ludhiana: Can you imagine both suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases living in the same room? Well, it is a reality in at least one of the quarantine centres in the city, going by what a professional, who had tested positive and stayed there, has to say.Recounting the experience, the man in his 30s said on June 15, he tested positive and was immediately shifted to Meritorious School institutional quarantine centre.“I was allotted a room where three other persons were already there. At night, I saw a group of 20-25 persons playing and running after each other, as if they were on a pleasure trip, with nobody to stop them. I also came to know that both confirmed cases and those awaiting their test results had been made to stay in the same room,” said the person.There were six toilets and six bathrooms for over 20 persons in a block, he said. The worst part was that both categories of patients were using the same washrooms. There were also no stickers to indicate the status of the person occupying a particular bed, he said.“The quality of food served was also not up to the mark. Although they would provide decent breakfast of two paranthas with curd and pickles, the rotis they served in lunch and dinner were below-average quality. If kept for a while, it would become difficult to chew the rotis,” said the professional, who is in home quarantine now.He also pointed out there were no books or TV facility for the patients, and they would end up playing with their phones to while away the time. He said the doctor would come around 11am and ask whether any patient had any problem and then give medicines.“It was a difficult time for me. I would suggest that authorities keep the suspected and positive patients separate and if that is not possible, they should at least have some stickers to indicate individual patient’s status,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-patients-suspected-cases-shared-room-at-isolation-centre/articleshow/76697161.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||Devasthanam Act goes against Article 25 and 26 of constitution: BJP MP||Nainital: BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy while addressing Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday said that the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act introduced by the state government violates the freedom of religion as well as rights of religious groups to manage their own affairs. Swamy has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against the Act which has brought control of the 51 temples of the Uttarakhand, including the Char Dham shrines, with the state government. Addressing the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe through video conferencing, Swamy concluded his argument saying that the state government has no business managing the affairs of any religious denomination and it is best if these affairs are left with the priests and devotees. “Our argument has been that the Act is unconstitutional since it violates the fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution under Article 25 and 26. It has also been submitted that the government shall have nothing to do with the management of religious affairs,” said Manisha Bhandari, the counsel appearing for petitioner. While the Swamy’s arguments are complete, the court on Tuesday will continue hearing arguments from his counsel as well as state and the Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK), a Dehradun based NGO which has filed an application in support of the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/devasthanam-act-goes-against-article-25-and-26-of-constitution-bjp-mp/articleshow/76697182.cms||Prashant Jha
June 30, 2020||Varanasi||Police hit Mukhtar-backed fish trade tycoon in Kashi||Varanasi: After Mau and Ghazipur, the jailed mafia don turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s wealth creators in Varanasi also came under the scanner of men in khaki with the arrest of his henchmen and fish trade tycoon Mohd Salim along with his two aides from bungalow-51 of Cantonment area on Monday. Salim, who had given guarantee for Mukhtar’s bail 20 years ago and also contested Assembly election 2012 on the ticket of the don’s former political party Qaumi Ekta Dal, was caught after the police detected a pond full of banned species of Mangur fishes in the bungalow. The police also found a huge stock of eggs kept without having any licence for this trade. Giving details of the action initiated against the fish trade tycoon, SSP Prabhakar Chawdhary said, “On the basis of inputs regarding large scale illegal trading of fishes, eggs and extorting money from fish traders of the district by Salim, a joint team of the officials of district administration, food and drugs administration, fishery department and police was formed. This team raided bungalow-51 in Cantonment area exposing his illegal activities.” During the raid, the police seized 6.50 quintals of Mangur fish worth Rs one lakh, 5.50 quintals of other banned species of fishes worth Rs 1.10 lakh, stock of eggs worth Rs 2.10 lakh, cash worth Rs 59,610, two vans for transportations of fish and egg, a SUV and two motorcycles. Following these recoveries Salim and his aides including Rajesh Kumar Vishwakarma and Anand Kumar were arrested Chawdhary said, “Facts surfaced in police investigation so far reveals that Salim was contributing in the wealth of Mukhtar by indulging in illegal trading of fish and eggs for past 20 years. Salim is not only supplying banned Mangur fish in Varanasi and adjoining markets of east UP with the help of his accomplices but was also extorting money from fish contractors and traders on trade of per kg fish. Without any registration for seeking licence he was also involved in trade of eggs.” Salim had taken bungalow-51 in Cantt area on lease, said Chawdhary adding that in this bungalow he had created a pond to store fishes of banned species including Mangur. In view of it a separate investigation on the lease documents of the bungalow has also been started, he said. Regarding Salim’s background, Chawdhary said that 20 years ago Salim had become guarantor for Mukhtar in a murder case, when he had applied for bail in court. Later, he contested 2012 Assembly poll on QED ticket and kept funding the accomplices of Mukhtar, said Chawdhary adding that Salim is also an accused in a case of murder attempt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/police-hit-mukhtar-backed-fish-trade-tycoon-in-kashi/articleshow/76698994.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmers wary of failed soybean seed panchanamas||Aurangabad: With the rising number of complaints about soybean seeds failing to germinate, panchanamas are being made at a few places in Marathwada. Farmers are, however, sceptical. They said the committees — comprising the agriculture officer, representatives of private seed companies, Mahabeej and the agriculture university — during their field visits, are focusing on technicalities of sowing instead of taking note of the sub-standard seeds that had failed to germinate. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna’s Pooja More said: “To shield the private seed companies, farmers are being told that their lands are not fertile and their sowing method is faulty. This is collusion.” Farmers have pointed out that the panchanama teams at several places said the seeds must be sown two inches below the surface. However, farmers in Maharashtra usually opt for the seed drilling method that sows seeds at a depth of about four inches. It is done to ensure that birds, ants, insects and rats do not eat the seeds. “When seeds sown like this have germinated for decades, how is it that suddenly the farmer have got it wrong?” asked sarpanch Nitin Bikkad of Farkabad village in Vashi of Osmanabad district. “By questioning the sowing method, the authorities are holding the farmers accountable. This is unacceptable,” said farmer activist Deepak Joshi. MLC Suresh Dhas said: “We have been raising the issue since May, but no one has paid heed to the demands. Criminal offences should be registered against the companies that have duped the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-wary-of-failed-soybean-seed-panchanamas/articleshow/76696064.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 30, 2020||Chennai||TNERC asks govt to release Rs 3,430cr subsidy||Chennai: Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has ordered the state government to release Rs 3,430 crore as advance out of the total subsidy due to Tangedco for 2020-21. The order, which says the money should be released immediately, was issued last week. Normally, the commission issues order for release of subsidy only after August. But it has advanced the exercise now, taking into consideration the discom’s financial crunch, which has worsened owing to the lockdown. The overall subsidy for the year is Rs 8,413 crore and the first instalment will work out to be close to 41%. The subsidy is to compensate for the free power supplied to farmers, weavers and domestic sector. This is an additional burden for the government, which is already facing lower revenue collection due to the lockdown. “A provisional subsidy of Rs 3,023.62 crore for farmers was sanctioned for Tangedco for 2018-19. But we submitted a revised subsidy claim of Rs 3,163.85 crore due to higher consumption of power by domestic consumers. The commission has approved the same and the balance subsidy of Rs 140.23 crore is to be provided while releasing the provisional subsidy for 2020-21,” said a senior Tangedco official. The order has also asked the government to release the subsidy for domestic sector to Tangedco on a monthly basis. The total subsidy under this category is around Rs 3,377 crore for 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tnerc-asks-govt-to-release-rs-3430cr-subsidy/articleshow/76698392.cms||B Sivakumar
June 30, 2020||Kanpur||38 more test +ve for Covid-19, 3 succumb||Kanpur: The district health department recorded 38 new Corona cases on Monday evening while three Covid patients succumbed to the disease. They, according to the health department. The Covid tally of the city has reached to 1,145 while the death toll has reached 50. Of those who died was a 30-year-old resident of Gwaltoli. He was suffering from septicemia, shock and chronic Diarrohea. The other was a 35-year-old man of Faithfulganj and the third deceased was a resident of Govind Nagar and he was suffering from Type 2 Diabetes, fever and respiratory ailment. Meanwhile, in highest number of Covid-19 patients recovered, 75 were discharged on Monday. Of these, 37 were discharged from Kanshi Ram Sayukt Hospital and 25 from Rama Ayush wing hospital. Total number of Covid patients recovered so far is 820 and 275 are under treatment. New cases were reported from the areas - Gwaltoli, Swaroop Nagar, Barra, Haripurwa, Udaiveer Chauki, Benajhabar, Darshanpurwa, KPM Hospital, Gandhi Nagar, Avas Vikas, Faithfulganj, Rail Bazar, Rajeev Vihar Naubasta, Shiwala, Ratanpur Colony, Y-Block Kidwai Nagar, Govind Nagar, Meerpur Cantt, Indira Nagar, Vishwa Bank Barra, Vishnupuri Colony Nawabganj. Health department collected 417 swab samples for tests. Some 179 teams of health department visited different areas - Moti Nagar, Faithfulganj, Gilish Bazar, Vishnupuri, Sisamau, Fazalganj, Saket Nagar, Ajeetganj, Gopalganj and educated people about precautions to be taken to ptrvent the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/38-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-3-succumb/articleshow/76699463.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Welcoming Jose faction: LDF in no undue haste||Thiruvananthapuram: A few days ago, when the dispute over the post of Kottayam district panchayat president was brewing in KC(M), chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan refused to comment on the issue saying that it pertained to a constituent of UDF. On Monday, after UDF suspended the KC(M) faction led by Jose K Mani, he said nothing is permanent in politics. When asked whether LDF would welcome Jose K Mani faction, CM didn’t give a clear reply. “Decisions will be taken based on evolving circumstances. Let them take a stand first,” he said, with a word of caution that there was no need to show unnecessary haste. The warming up of CPM towards Jose faction was clearer from the way Vijayan dealt with the question on the possibility of the suspended faction joining the BJP camp. “Don’t dub him (Jose K Mani) and his party as entities without a political stance,” he said. Though the ouster of Mani faction was a surprise to party cadres, the leadership is learnt to have foreseen such a move. It is reliably learnt that Jose K Mani and his confidants were in touch with senior CPM leaders, including state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, following the worsening of the situation in Kottayam. The public endorsement of PJ Joseph faction by senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy was the moment of realization for Jose K Mani. Though Jose K Mani faction had warmed up to LDF in the past, the stand of CPI, against them, was a deterrent. The CPI’s official position is against aligning with Jose K Mani faction and it cited the bar bribery allegations against party founder (late) K M Mani for its aversion. Sources close to recent developments told TOI that an immediate entry of the Mani faction into LDF won’t happen. “At first, they will detach from UDF and work as an independent party. When local body polls happen, it will enter into a tacit understanding with LDF in central Travancore districts. Jose K Mani is confident of winning seats in several panchayats and three district panchayats. By proving the worth of the party through polls, it can easily bargain for a berth in the front,” said a source. CPM also feels that with a proven mass base, convincing CPI about the need to accommodate Jose K Mani will be an easier task. BJP is also planning to woo the Mani faction. Winning the confidence of KC(M) was one challenge which BJP failed despite years of hard work. The new developments have prompted BJP to restart negotiations with the faction. A berth in the Union cabinet would be the offer for Jose K Mani; but the lack of support from other leaders and cadres may prompt him to tread cautiously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/welcoming-jose-faction-ldf-in-no-undue-haste/articleshow/76697172.cms||B Sreejan
June 30, 2020||Allahabad||AU sends answers to fact-finding committee||Prayagraj: The authorities of the Allahabad University have submitted the information, sought by the fact-finding committee constituted by the University Grant Commission (UGC) to probe allegation levelled against the former vice chancellor of Allahabad University Prof R L Hangloo. Number of representations had been submitted to MHRD and UGC against administrative, financial and academic anomalies committed by the former VC. Former VC had resigned on December 31, 2019 after which the visitor of AU, which is the president of the country, Ramnath kovind had formed a three member committee in January. The committee was headed by Prof Nageswara Rao, Vice Chancellor of Indira Gandhi Open University (IGNOU) and two other members included the VC of Central University of Gujarat Prof Ramashankar Dubey and VC of Indira Gandhi National Tribal University Amarkantak, Madhya Pradesh Prof Shriprakash Mani Tripathi. The committee had visited AU number of times in the month of January and February and met the persons who have complaint against Prof Hangloo. Some of the faculty members of AU had submitted a 700 page 40 files to the enquiry committee to support their allegations. Letter on the enquiry committee sought a reply on 40 points from the varsity administration and the same have been compiled by the AU administration and sent back to the enquiry committee. Commenting on the issue, the public relation officer (PRO) of AU, Shailendra Kumar Mishra said, “Although because of the lockdown, there was some delay in compiling the response on the reply sought by the enquiry committee but the same have now been compiled and sent back to them”. It is for the committee to decide whether to again visit AU for the probe or submit their reply to HRD on the basis of the probe that they have done so far, he added. = = =||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-sends-answers-to-fact-finding-committee/articleshow/76696752.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Allahabad||Pending Satna-Katni stretchelectrified amid Covid crisis||PRAYAGRAJ: In a major advancement, the 95km stretch between Katni and Satna, the last remaining un-electrified section on the Mumbai-Howrah (via Prayagraj) route connecting Western India with Eastern India, has been electrified. Though the Howrah-Prayagraj route was electrified in late 60s and Mumbai-Itarsi stretch in phases by 1993, the Itarsi-Jabalpur-Katni-Satna-Prayagraj section had remained un-electrified. Considering its importance, the Railway Board had sanctioned the electrification of Itarsi-Katni-Manikpur-Prayagraj in 2012-13 at a cost of Rs 866.12 crore. The electrification of Itarsi-Katni-Satna-Prayagraj section, including Satna-Rewa branch line, has been completed and commercial train operations on electric traction are on. The electrification of the Katni-Satna section would now enable seamless movement of electric locomotives from Mumbai to Howrah via Prayagraj. Till now, around 40 electric trains on the route had to cover Katni-Satna stretch with diesel locomotives, leading to delay and a loss of 45 minutes to one hour per train. The electrification was undertaken during ongoing Covid-19 crisis with workers taking all precautions. The section is now ready for passenger train operations following sanction from Commissioner of Railway Safety. Two traction sub-stations TSS 132/25 kV at Patwara and Bhadanpur have been commissioned along with six switching stations for feeding electrical supply in Katni-Satna section, informed Anup Mishra, senior PRO, Central Organisation of Railway Electrification (CORE), Prayagraj. Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) is also commissioned for remote operation through Traction Power controller at Jabalpur. The GPS mapping of the section has also done for reliable maintenance of overhead equipment. “This electrification will give seamless electric traction from Itarsi to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction and is very important as trains from south and west going towards east and north pass through this section. It will also cut journey time significantly as the time spent on changing diesel and electric locomotives will be saved,” said Mishra. The sanction from Commissioner of Railway Safety will enable passenger train operations on the section leading to saving of foreign exchange on diesel and will also reduce the carbon footprint of Indian Railways, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pending-satna-katni-stretchelectrified-amid-covid-crisis/articleshow/76696735.cms||Rajeev Mani
June 30, 2020||Nashik||Flights from Nashik hit post lockdown||Nashik: Despite the government lifting restrictions on travel that were in place during the lockdown and the air operators taking all the necessary precautions for the safety of travellers,the airlines plying from Nashik to Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune are hardly getting 10-20 passengers. There are hardly any takers for the Trujet flights plying to Ahmedabad from May 27 or the Air Alliance flights, which have started operations to Hyderabad, Pune and Ahmedabad from June 12. Sources from Alliance Air said the passenger load for flights plying to all the three routes had heavily reduced after the lockdown. “On an average, we are not getting more than 15-20 passengers for all the three routes. It is not viable to run the flights if we do not even have 10 passengers,” said sources. “Many people are hesitating to travel by air as it is mandatory to have e-passes, the procuring process of which is an elaborate process. Another issue is that chances of finding an accomodation are thin as hotels have still not opened. All these factors have led to a drop in the passenger load,” said the sources. Senior member of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (Nima) Manish Rawal said, “Many people are not flying because of the fear that they have to compulsorily be in quarantine for 14 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/flights-from-nashik-hit-post-lockdown/articleshow/76697179.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 30, 2020||Varanasi||Covid patient tweets photos ofdirty beds, toilets in govt hosp||Gorakhpur: A lawyer, who tested Covid-19 positive along with his mother and sister after his father got infected, tweeted pictures of dirty toilet and unclean beds in LNM Railway hospital, Gorakhpur on Monday afternoon and tagged CMO and the DM. Within few hours, he tweeted pictures of cleaning having started and thanked chief minister Yogi Adityanath. At 2.17pm, one Shreyansh Singh of Gorakhpur, tweeted four pictures of unhygienic conditions in toilet and dirty beds in the hospital. He tweeted, “My father is a police officer, he tested positive for Corona on 24th June. Consequently, I, my mother and my sister also tested positive.” Few hours later, he tweeted again, thanking CM Yogi and officials. “Cleaning process has started. Thank you for keeping my faith intact in the Yogi administration,” he wrote. When ACMO Reproductive Child Health Gorakhpur and LNM NE Railway hospital in-charge, Dr Nand Kumar was asked about the issue, he said, “It is possible that cleaning may of a certain toilet not have been done in the afternoon. If they had any issue, they could have informed us and we would have done the needful.” As many as 180 coronavirus infected patients were admitted in the hospital so far and 135 have been discharged after recovery. No one had any complaint, he added. “We are trying our best to provide best treatment and services to patients, but it is not possible for us to provide facilities of a five-star hotel in hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-patient-tweets-photos-ofdirty-beds-toilets-in-govt-hosp/articleshow/76699158.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||BMC spares common man, no new taxes in the budget||BHOPAL: Divisional commissioner, Bhopal, Kavindra Kiyawat, who is also the administrator of Bhopal Municipal Corporation, on Monday approved a Rs 2495.68 crore corporation budget for the year 2020-21, sparing the common man from any new taxes. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the revenue receipts have dropped by about Rs 400 crore and the corporation has not proposed any new project in the current fiscal. BMC has been under an administrator since the term of BMC council ended in March. Earlier, in March, former divisional commissioner had approved a provisional budget for three months for the civic body. The Rs 2495.68 crore annual budget presented by BMC commissioner KVS Choudary was approved by Kiyawat. “We have not imposed any new taxes or hiked taxes due to pandemic. Focus is on completion of the ongoing projects as expected revenue has dropped by about Rs 400 crore,” said Choudary after the administrative budget was presented. Nearly one-fourth of the total budget has been allocated for the urban poor. The budget stressed on measures to increase revenue and curb unnecessary expenses. A special campaign is expected to be launched to recover the outstanding dues. The budget focuses on completion of pending construction and other works while special emphasis has been laid on the development and upgrading of gardens and libraries. Keeping up efforts for health and hygiene during the pandemic, a provision of Rs 243 crore has been made in the budget. It would also incorporate repair, purchase of vehicles under Swachh Bharat Mission. A provision of Rs 39.74 crore has been made for the year 2020-21 for the maintenance and development of the gardens, under which an amount of Rs 15 crore has been earmarked specifically for the gardens/parks. Likewise, a provision of Rs 5 crore has been made for the operation, maintenance and upgrading of BMC-run libraries. A provision of Rs 304.07 crore has been made for the engineering works under various heads. It would include construction of storm water drains and other works. BMC administration has made completion of these works a top priority. A provision of Rs 170 crore has been made for the operation and maintenance of water supply. The lake conservation wing would also get an additional Rs 46 crore for the preservation and maintenance of water bodies in the City of Lakes. A substantial sum of Rs 94.62 crore has been allocated for improving street lights in the city. Various agencies have pointed out the measure would reduce crime and improve women’s safety. Budget document still not in public domain Surprisingly, the budget was approved even without the knowledge of many former corporators. “Budget is for the public. Getting the document in the public domain after it is proposed and approved is an essential part of democracy,” said former corporator and Congress leader, Girish Sharma. When asked about the non-availability of the document on BMC website or public domain, BMC officials said it would be made available soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmc-spares-common-man-no-new-taxes-in-the-budget/articleshow/76697174.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||No exams for UBSE students residing in containment zones, will be awarded marks in CBSE pattern||DEHRADUN: The state education minister Arvind Pandey held a meeting with the officials of the education department in Dehradun on Monday. The minister directed that no exams shall take place for students who were unable to give between June 22 and June 25 because of their residence being in the containment zones. The minister said that such students shall be marked on the basis of the alternate marking scheme, a method implied by the CBSE for its students who missed out on appearing for the board exams. Pandey also asked the officials to chalk out a plan for the proposed opening of the state-run English medium schools affiliated to the CBSE board. Apart from this, orders were given to take appropriate actions against those accused officials of the education department who have been found guilty in the department’s investigation report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-exams-for-ubse-students-residing-in-containment-zones-will-be-awarded-marks-in-cbse-pattern/articleshow/76697170.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 30, 2020||Trichy||Tomato prices up to Rs 60/kg in Trichy||Trichy: Price of tomatoes has skyrocketed from Rs 20 per kg to Rs 60 per kg in the past one week due to short supply. Traders in Trichy expect the price to go up further. Poor supply has led to steep price rise in Trichy. A kilogram of tomato was sold between Rs 30 to Rs 40 a week ago in the retail shops in Trichy. However, the retail price was increased to Rs 60 a kg. In the wholesale market, it was sold between Rs 35 and Rs 45 per kg. The retail price of tomato was ranging between Rs 10 and Rs 15 till a month ago and it was Rs 7 to Rs 9 in the wholesale Gandhi Market. In May tomato was sold for Rs 20. However, the price started to rise in the second week of June. “During lockdown, the prices of almost all the vegetables peaked. However, it started coming down after the intervention of the district administration, which has established a number of temporary vegetable markets in and around the city, said P Kanagaraj, a resident of Beemanagar in the city. “However, two days ago I bought tomato for Rs 40 per kg, and on Monday I was shocked to hear that the price is Rs 60. Except onion, prices of other vegetables are also steadily increasing,” he opined. Poor supply due to rain was the reason behind the price rise, wholesale traders said. “Normally, we unload around 20 to 30 trucks of tomato in Gandhi Market daily from Madanapalli in Andhra Pradesh, Theni and Oddanchathram. However, rain for the last few days has affected the regular supply leading to the price rise,” G P Mani, a wholesale vegetable trader from Gandhi Market, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tomato-prices-up-to-rs-60/kg-in-trichy/articleshow/76699493.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Bizman held for murder of pvt employee||Hyderabad: A 30-year-old businessman from Biryani Shah Tekri in Kalpathar was arrested for allegedly murdering a private company employee last week. According to police,Mumtaz Ali bludgeoned his neighbour Mohammed Abdul Rauf (30) to death after an argument on June 26. Ali fled the spot but police nabbed him near his house on Monday. He confessed to have committed the crime due to a personal grudge. “Abdul Rauf married the ex-wife of Mumtaz Ali’s brother. Mumtaz was against the marriage and he frequently used to create nuisance at Rauf’s house in an inebriated condition,” task force inspector S Raghavendra said. An argument broke out between them on Friday night and in a fit of rage, Mumtaz attacked Rauf on the head with a wrench. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-held-for-murder-of-pvt-employee/articleshow/76699495.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Centre to prepare DPR for Dona Paula-Vasco ropeway||Panaji: The Centre has tasked Indian Port Rail and Ropeway Corporation Limited (IPRCL) to evaluate the technical feasibility for a Rs 350 crore project to connect Vasco and Dona Paula through a ropeway. Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) has identified land on both sides for the ropeway, but due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, site visits for feasibility studies have been delayed, MPT chairman E Ramesh Kumar said. The ropeway, which will be built in collaboration with the state government, plans to reduce the commute distance between Vasco and the capital to 8km from the present 30 km.  IPRCL, a shipping ministry arm that oversees the construction of ropeways, said that the project is in the initial stages of preparing feasibility and viability. IPRCL’s core focus remains on speeding up port-rail connectivity projects. IPRCL is a joint venture company between 11 major ports holding 90% of equity capital and Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) under the Union ministry of railways holding 10% of equity capital. IPRCL has got the mandate to explore and design multimodal transit systems across India, including ropeways. Traditionally, ropeways have been used for tourism and recreational purposes, but with pressure increasing on the road network, ropeways or aerial cable cars are being seen as a mode of urban transport. Aside from Goa, IPRCL is also looking at ropeways at Elephanta Caves, Mumbai, Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, in Manipur; Bermpark-Bhawani island in Andhra Pradesh and Kochi. “The technical team has to see which land is suitable. We have identified certain spots on this side and that side that have to be technically evaluated,” said the MPT chairman. The ropeway is part of MPT’s infrastructure modernisation plan and would fit in with the development of the cruise terminal and other projects that MPT has on the anvil. Earlier this year, Union minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya had announced that the Centre was keen on a ropeway project to connect Dona Paula to MPT’s cruise berth. The 5km long ropeway will have aerial cable cars which will ferry tourists, daily commuters and thrill-seekers between the port town and Dona Paula. To make the service viable, authorities said that the pricing will have to be worked out in consultation with the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-to-prepare-dpr-for-dona-paula-vasco-ropeway/articleshow/76699993.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||‘No employment yet, but no plan to go back to Delhi’||Bhopal: Coronavirus pandemic has undeniably brought a slew of uncertain days for migrant labourers. But even after struggling to make ends meet, they are happy to be home and are in no mood to return to big cities. Jobless for the last 45 days, a 30-year- old migrant labourer, who had covered 600 kms from Delhi on a jugad rickshaw along with his three children, wife and nephew, says that he has no regrets that he had left Delhi, risking life to reach his village and living in a remote hamlet of Chhatarpur. Vrindavan Ahirwar, 30, took five days to travel from Delhi to Mawaiya village of Harpalpur tehsil of Chhatarpur on June 15. During this difficult journey, he had to replace cycle tubes twice and battle hunger, fatigue and vagaries of nature all the way. Forty-five days later, TOI tracked him down in his village and found the man sowing next crop on his three bigha land. “ I am a mason. There is no job here for me now and there was no job here earlier, too. But here I live in my own house along with my family. I am sowing groundnut. Let us see how the crop fares; it all depend on rainfall”, he said.  “Ever since I have returned, I did not get any employment or government help. Thankfully, we had stored some foodgrains last year, so we barter them with local grocers and somehow manage to survive,” he added. He looks calm, but the memories of lockdown still haunt him. “My decision was absolutely right. Lockdown’s announcement was unexpected; there was uncertainty over its tenure and everybody was running home. It was really frightening”, he confessed. “ With uncertainty around and no work there in Delhi, we decided to move on. Raaste mein mar jaate ya Dilli mein, socha ghar ke raaste mein hee marenge”, he said. (We could have died in Delhi or on the way, I thought I would rather die on way to our home.),” he said. When asked if he has any plans to go back to Delhi, now that Unlock process has started, Ahirwar said, “I have no plans to go back to Delhi or anywhere outside my village for now. At least till 2021, I will remain here.” During lockdown, he had recycled a garbage trolley, attached it with a bicycle to carry home his wife, children and nephew. He somehow managed to pull them along in the jugad-machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-employment-yet-but-no-plan-to-go-back-to-delhi/articleshow/76697198.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Cop tests negative two days after positive report||Ludhiana: Two days after a 49-year-old police inspector tested positive for Covid-19, his second report came out as negative on Monday. The initial report was of a rapid test which was received late on Saturday night. Due to the contrary reports, the inspector has been asked to home quarantine himself for five days. Thereafter, another test would be conducted. On Saturday, the SHO had accompanied the family of DCP, law and order, to DMCH for Covid-19 test. He gave his sample, too, for rapid test and RTPCR test, which was conducted in Patiala. The rapid test report came the same night, calling him a positive patient. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “As the rapid test report was positive, the SHO was asked to home quarantine himself. However, the confirmatory test report, which came from Patiala, was negative. The rapid test kit works on the basis of presence of antibodies. If antibodies are found, it infers the presence of virus. But the confirmatory report, for which his throat swab was taken, was negative. So, the antibodies found in his body must be for some other disease. However, to be sure, another test will be conducted after five days. He will remain in home quarantine till then.”The SHO said, “I am taking all precautions till my next sample is taken.” The police have prepared a list of contacts of the SHO to quarantine them. DCP’s daughters test positive CP Rakesh Agarwal said two daughters of the DCP, law and order, have also tested positive for Covid-19. All of them have been home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cop-tests-negative-two-days-after-positive-report/articleshow/76697201.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Some heritage properties, resorts in Rajasthan to reopen from July 1||JAIPUR: Heavily dependent on Gujarati tourists, the hospitality industry in Udaipur has decided not to restart the industry as of now. Similarly, the industry in Sawai Madhopur does not see any visitors after Ranthambore is closed for monsoon after June. But some heritage hotels and resorts in the state are ready to restart their operations from July 1. Although the state government has allowed the hospitality sector to restart on June 8, many preferred to not open as the demand was not there. Industry sources said they feel the time is now right to reposition themselves to take an early advantage. “We have got some bookings even though they are small. We want to start now and send the message that we are prepared to offer the best safety and hygiene environment. Being a resort, there are some advantages,” said Sunil Mehta, a resorts owner. Some heritage properties and resorts owners said that enquires are coming from places like Delhi and Gurgaon. And some have already booked in July. “We are expecting 5-7% bookings in July. By August end, occupancy should rise to 20%. But that would not be enough to meet the operating cost. Unless we have 30% occupancy, the operations would be loss making. But we need to start somewhere. That’s why we have decided to reopen from July,” said Rajendra Pachar, who has resorts in multiple locations in the state. But Pachar said they would not reopen in Udaipur as the market is dependent on tourists from Gujarat. “Since the industry can only think of domestic tourists right now, the obvious driver of the demand would have been Gujarat. But the coronavirus situation there is not conducive for people to travel. So, many in the industry in Udaipur have decided not to reopen,” added Pachar. But in places like Jodhpur, which is the gateway to Jaisalmer, some heritage properties are looking to reopen even though they are not certain about the demand. Avijit Singh Rohet from Jodhpur, who owns four properties, said “We will open one of the heritage hotels from July 15. Flights have started services to Jodhpur from Delhi and Mumbai. The frequency is currently low. But people looking to spend a few days can certainly come. Earlier, we mostly catered to foreign touristsr. Since there is no clarity as to when the foreign tourists will travel again, we have started marketing our property in cities like Delhi and Mumbai.” In other hotels which have reopened earlier, the number of visitors are minuscule. They are eager to start restaurants but the 9pm curfew has been a big handicap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-an-eye-on-ncr-demand-some-heritage-properties-resorts-to-reopen-from-july-1/articleshow/76699492.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||No online content for more than 2.5 lakh Rajasthan madrasa students||JAIPUR: Online classes for government schools began a long time ago with educational content being uploaded for students to utilise their time. The government has, however, completely neglected students studying in madrasas in the state. More than 2.5 lakh students are studying in 3,194 registered madrasas in Rajasthan. The Rajasthan Madrasa Board, established to monitor the activities in the madrasas, has not taken any step regarding online education. Syed Masud Akhtar, president of Rajasthan Madrasa Shiksha Sahyogi Sangh said that they have been raising this issue since lockdown but the government is not interested. “We have written to officials but no plan has been made for the students. Education in madrasas is similar to that in any government school, with one exception of Arabic being taught here. Most of the students have wasted their lockdown period and the government should chalk out a plan till the schools are closed,” said Akhtar. The state government has started WhatsApp groups in which teachers and parents are added where educational content is uploaded. Groups are made according to sections and content is uploaded on Shala Darpan. But this initiative is restricted to government schools in the state and madrasas are not a part of it. When TOI contact minority affairs department, officials said that nothing has been finalised regarding it. “We are planning to start online classes but final decision is yet to be made,” said a senior official. There are 2,867 primary madrasas and 327 secondary madrasas in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-online-content-for-madrasa-students/articleshow/76699484.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Breather for units making PPEs as export gets nod||Ludhiana: In a relief to the personal protective equipment (PPE) suit manufacturers, who were facing the risk of closing their units due to huge shortage of local orders and drop in rates, the government of India’s Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) on Monday allowed the export of their product. However, as of now, the DGFT has restricted the monthly export quota to 50 lakh PPE suits/medical coveralls, for which the interested firms will have to apply for an exports licence. An estimated 4.5 lakh to 5 lakh suits per day were being manufactured in India and the country went on to become its second largest manufacturer in the world in no time. The development is significant for Punjab’s industry, especially Ludhiana’s where more than 110 manufacturers have got approval from the Central government laboratories, like DRDO and SITRA, to manufacture PPE suits. In the past few weeks, the manufacturers were upset with the government for not allowing them to export PPEs as lakhs of suits were piling up in their units due to overproduction. A few days ago, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh too had shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking for a nod to allow the industry to export the PPE suits. Welcoming the move, Harish Dua, a member of Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), said, “We are thankful to minister of commerce Piyush Goyal and minister of textiles Smriti Irani for accepting our demand. Our chairman Dr A Sakthivel played a role in pursuing this matter, which concerned a large number of manufacturers who had huge unsold stock worth hundreds of crores. The newly started PPE industry of Punjab, especially Ludhiana’s, was on the verge of collapse without any sales. But now after opening of exports, we will have a global reach. Not only will we be able to sell our products, but will also get better rates than India.”According to Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, “Ever since the lockdown, this is the only good news that we have received. However, the decision has come a little late as already the manufacturers from our neighbouring countries have started exporting PPE suits in large quantities to big markets like Dubai and Europe. But we are still hopeful that we will be able to sell our unsold stock. A PPE suit, which in April could easily fetch Rs 635, is not even selling at 50% discount. This has happened because a large number of manufacturers entered the field. From Ludhiana alone, about 200 factories are making PPE suits, of which about 110 have the approval.”Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “CM Captain Amarinder Singh and industry minister Sunder Sham Arora both took up the matter with the Prime Minister, giving us a glimmer of hope. Now with exports being allowed, though with some riders, we will at least be able to find overseas buyers.” Export sheet Export of 50 lakh units of PPE suits/medical coveralls for Covid-19 allowed every month from IndiaExporters need to apply through DGFT’s ECOM system for export authorisation digitally Application filed from 1st to 3rd day of every month will be considered for the monthly quota Validity of export licence will be three months for the successful exporter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/breather-for-units-making-ppes-as-export-gets-nod/articleshow/76697189.cms||Mohit Behl
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Cop, 2 healthcare workers among dist’s 10 +ve cases||TNNLudhiana: Ten patients from the district tested positive for novel coronavirus in Ludhiana on Monday. They include a police constable and two healthcare personnel, including a private hospital nurse.The health department officials said of 1,005 samples sent for test to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Sunday, reports of 595 were negative and the rest were pending.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said 12 reports received from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) were positive. Of these, seven patients were from Ludhiana and one each from Barnala, Moga, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Jammu. The Ludhiana cases included a patient each from Civil Lines, Jamalpur, Pakhowal Road, Field Gunj, Tagore Nagar, Dugri and Basti Jodhewal.The officials said of the four positive reports received from SPS Hospital, a patient each belonged to Khud Mohalla, Pakhowal Road and Jagraon and another was from Sangrur district. Of two positive reports received from Mohandai Hospital, one patient was of Sangrur district. Thus, on Monday, 10 from Ludhiana and seven from outside the district tested positive.A woman staffer of Ludhiana Central Jail, too, has tested positive. She is from Malerkotla and her report came from Sangrur.With this, the Ludhiana case count now stands at 800. Besides, 194 from outside the district have tested positive here. On Monday, 693 samples were sent for test. To date, samples of 32,253 suspected patients have been taken. The district’s toll tally is 19. Besides, 23 patients from outside Ludhiana have succumbed to the virus here to date.The civil surgeon said 29 persons were discharged on Monday. Of them, 16 were admitted to Meritorious Covid Care Center, seven to MCH, Vardhman, three to Fortis hospital, one each to DMCH, SPS Hospital and GTB Hospital. With this, the number of cured patients stood at 571.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cop-2-healthcare-workers-among-dists-10-ve-cases/articleshow/76697210.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Daba ASI among 3 arrested for extortion||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police have arrested an assistant sub-inspector, a woman and their aide on the charge of extorting money from a realtor. The trio had threatened to implicate the businessman in a rape case.The accused have been identified as Daba ASI Dharminder Singh, Manjit Kaur, 30, of City Enclave, Dhandhra Road, and Sukhwinder Singh of Dhillon Nagar, Lohara.Sukhwinder is a cable operator, but he had introduced himself as a scribe to the 45-year-old realtor of Dehlon.The realtor said in his police complaint, “Days ago, Manjit, who presented herself as Gurpreet Kaur of Jawaddi Kalan, contacted me, saying she wanted to purchase a 100 square yard plot in Lohara. I showed her some plots, but she did not buy any. Thereafter, she kept calling me. One day, she told me that she was a divorcee and needed financial help. I helped her financially many a time. On June 24, I took her along to my friend’s office. There we consensually established physical relations. I had no clue that she had fitted a spy camera in her handbag and was recording everything.”The next day, the realtor received a call from ASI Dharminder Singh, who called him near a liquor vend in Daba. “When I reached there, the ASI, along with Sukhwinder, demanded Rs 50 lakh from me. They told me that they had a video in which I was recorded with a woman. They threatened to make it viral and arrest me on the charge of rape. The deal was later struck at Rs 7 lakh,” he added. On Sunday, the realtor handed over the cash to the accused and later filed a complaint with Daba police. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “The accused have been arrested. The camera, cellphone, car and Rs 7 lakh have been recovered from their possession.”“The woman and the cable operator are the main conspirators. They involved the ASI in the crime. We are checking if they have a criminal record and blackmailed others. The ASI has been suspended with immediate effect and a departmental inquiry marked against him,” the ADCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/daba-asi-among-3-arrested-for-extortion/articleshow/76697220.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||One tola gold & 1kg silver create price ratio record||Nagpur: At Rs49,350 a tola (per 10 grams), gold rates have already crossed the Rs50,000 barrier after adding the goods and services tax (GST). A kg of silver is at Rs49,500 without GST. As the yellow metal creates new highs, a record has been created in the gold-silver price ratio too. Silver is used in industrial processes also. As the economy remains subdued, its demand in industries remains low. Gold on the other hand is being seen as a safe asset, leading to global purchases which have disrupted the ratio, say sources. The per tola and one kg rates are considered to be the basic measure for the price of gold and silver respectively. Traditionally, the ratio has been at 50:1, which means one kg of gold can buy 50kg of silver. In 2019, it had reached 80:1 and on Monday, it touched 100:1. Now, one kg of gold is equal to the cost of 100 kgs of silver. On March 14, the ratio was at 120:1 for a brief period, but soon, the lockdown followed and traders were stopped. At that time, silver was Rs35,000 a kg and gold ruled at Rs42000 a tola. It was because gold rates had grown faster than that of silver, even exceeding that of the latter. The rates of both gold and silver are now neck and neck, though traditionally one kg of silver is priced nearly twice of one tola of gold. In 2011, silver had peaked when the ratio had slipped to 36:1 as the rates had grown faster than that of gold. After March, as silver rates have also increased by Rs15,000 a kg till June, much is expected from gold, say traders. “Silver also has an industrial demand and is also available as zinc and copper mining. On the other hand, gold has limited supply and is purchased for investment too. This is the reason why the rates of yellow metal are increasing globally as against silver,” said Pankaj Bakhai of M/s Anantrai Jewellers at Itwari. Bakhai, however, insisted that buying gold primarily for investment is not favourable for the economy. If ornaments are made then it also generates employment. Business at the retail level continues to remain lukewarm, he said. Nitin Khandelwal, former president of the Gold and Jewellery Council (GJC), said the industrial demand for silver has not picked up due to the pandemic. Globally, investment buying has been seen in silver as well as gold. Central banks have been mopping up gold. SDPR, a major exchange traded fund, has pushed the rates by purchasing a sizeable quantity of gold. The retail market at Nagpur remained dull. The jewellery shops at the Itwari market started from June 5, with shops on one side of the street remaining open on a given day. “Business has not picked up yet initially a number of customers came to dispose of their gold, may be it was due to the financial crisis that followed the lockdown. As much as 60% of those turning up came to sell at that time,” said Chetan Shah of M/s Amrut Jewellers at Itwari. Other traders in the street said business was dull, on both sales and purchase front. Khandelwal of GJC said households where weddings are slated have increased their jewellery buying. This is because other expenses like that on huge functions are not taking place due to the lockdown. The money saved on these counts is being spent on gold, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-tola-gold-1kg-silver-create-price-ratio-record/articleshow/76711893.cms||Shishir Arya
June 30, 2020||Allahabad||Four of a family test corona positive, case count shoots up to 269||Prayagraj: Four members of a family tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the city on Monday, taking Prayagraj district’s tally to 269. The members of the family were primary contacts of a Covid-19 patient, who owns a wholesale medicine shop. The four infected members included a 48-year-old man. His younger brother had also tested positive for the infection earlier. The other three patients from the family were his sister-in-law (aged about 44 years) and his two nieces aged about 18 and 16 years. They are residents of Colonelganj. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Four members of the family of a Covid-19 patient were diagnosed with the infection on Monday.” The patients would be admitted to Covid-19 Level One and Level Three Hospitals. “On Sunday night too, three members of a family — a man and his two daughters — tested positive for the virus. They too were infected after coming in contact with a novel coronavirus patient.” They are residents of Kalyani Devi area. While 194 Covid-19 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals so far, eight patients have succumbed to Covid-19 in Prayagraj till now. The district administration added Colonelganj and Kalyani Devi localities to the list of hotspots in the city. Meanwhile, around 250 wholesale medicine shops on Leader Road reopened on Monday, after being shut for four days as two local traders tested positive for the infection. The two traders are undergoing treatment at SRN Hospital. District authorities have asked owners of all wholesale medical shops in the area and at least two of their employees would have to go undergo a novel coronavirus test. “Seven traders have already been tested, with five of them testing negative for Covid-19. The reports of the other two are still awaited,” said regional secretary of UP Chemists & Druggists Federation Prem Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/four-of-a-family-test-corona-positive-case-count-shoots-up-to-269/articleshow/76696696.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi airport gets inline baggage screening system||Varanasi: The LBS International Airport of Varanasi on Monday got the latest technology of baggage screening in the aviation industry, which will not only save time of passengers but also ensure foolproof checking of baggage. With the formal inauguration of Inline Baggage Screening System (ILBS) by divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and airport director Akash Deep in the presence of officials of CISF, Airport Authority of India and all airlines this technology became operational at the airport. Regarding the new arrangements of baggage screening, the airport director said, “With the operationalization of ILBS, Varanasi airport has been enabled to serve the passengers in a more efficient way. Unlike previous arrangements now the passengers will directly move to the check-in counter without waiting for registered baggage screening. This will save time and efforts of passengers.” He said this is the latest technology of baggage screening in the aviation industry with more reliability, accuracy and efficiency. “Now, each baggage will be screened at multilevel in the new system as compared to earlier systems. This gives a 360 degree view of baggage which enhances accuracy of screening. Per hour screening of 1800 baggage, which was around 900 in the previous system, will be possible,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-airport-gets-inline-baggage-screening-system/articleshow/76699032.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Crime against women in Rajasthan sees over 100% jump in May||JAIPUR: Crime cases against women in Rajasthan has seen a surge of over 100% in May as compared to the beginning of the year when the average jump was around 25%. Crime against women which had seen a dip of 66% from March to April increased by 123% in May. The biggest jump was seen in domestic violence cases which have nearly doubled a month from 161 in April to 397 in May. Experts claimed that alcohol, lack of privacy and household chores were some of the main reasons for domestic quarrels. The total number of cases registered under various categories of crime against women in April were 879 which increased to 1,960 in May 2020. Although the number has shown a sudden increase, it still remains approximately half the number of cases registered in May 2019 which was 4,681. “When the lockdown started in March, cases under crime against women were approximately over 1,000 every month but it dipped in April since it was just the initial phase of lockdown. But as restrictions were being eased, more cases were being registered as women are coming forward with their complaints. We expect that June will register more cases than May,” said a senior police officer. As compared to May 2019, the same month this year has seen a decrease of 58%. Categories like dowry deaths and abetment to suicide due to dowry have also not seen any major increase in the percentage of cases from last year. However, the last two months appeared to be marking a change in the trend with categories like abduction of women, rape and others showing a leap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crime-against-women-sees-over-100-jump-in-may/articleshow/76699494.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur Covid toll surges to 45||Jodhpur: The death of four persons due to coronavirus on Monday has taken the toll in the district to 45. In June, the virus has claimed 26 lives so far. The health department claimed that most people who died had comorbidities. Deputy director (medical and health) Sunil Kumar Bist said most of those who died had pre-existing medical conditions (co-morbidity) and many of them were aged. He said aged people with comorbidities are more prone to risk after the unlock process began. Given this observation, it would not be surprising if the toll mounts further in the coming months.“Considering this, we have launched a mission “life-saving” with focus on co-morbid elderly persons as our priority now in these changed circumstances”, Bist said, adding that their screening and early diagnosis was the foremost objective now.In a survey, the department has identified 33,000 co-morbid elderly persons in the city of which 6,700 are above 70 years of age and are at high risk of contracting the virus.Bist said these persons are on our radar and every urban PHC has been directed to track these persons in their respective areas.Though, a few young deaths have also been reported, but according to information, they had been having some persistent illness of one or the other kind.On the other hand, medical experts have ruled out chances of any decline in deaths as well as positive cases in coming months terming the situation heading towards the stage of community spread speedily.Especially in the wake of monsoon, when cases of dengue and swine flu will be on the rise, these experts from the medical fraternity have been deliberating over the strategies and steps required to be taken to contain the Covid menace.Judicial officers in home quarantineJodhpur: As many as 224 judicial officers and staff of subordinate courts remained under home quarantine on Monday after two judicial officers tested positive on Sunday. After that, samples of the entire workforce, which apparently came into contact with positive officers, had been taken on Sunday.According to sources from the district and sessions court, all these officers and staff had been advised to remain in home quarantine until their reports were declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-covid-toll-surges-to-45/articleshow/76699496.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Rajkot||RMC worker manhandled in Bajrangwadi||Rajkot: A Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) worker from ward 2 was allegedly manhandled by people in Bajrangwadi area on Monday when he was discharging his duty by razing illegal speed breakers on roads. According to RMC, Chetan Chitroda was assigned task of removing illegal speed breakers by the authorities. Cement speed breakers were created by people of Bajarangwadi area on the roads. Chitroda and his team was doing their job when a mob gathered and allegedly manhandled him. He was pushed around by the mob, due to which Chitroda fainted and received several injuries. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said, “Chitroda has been admitted to hospital and is undergoing treatment. We will be filing FIR against the people who manhandled him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-worker-manhandled-in-bajrangwadi/articleshow/76699499.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Varanasi||World Bank funded Rs 100 crore project to uplift Sarnath facilities||VARANASI: Sarnath, one of the most sacred Buddhist sites of the country, will see the beginning of World Bank funded Rs 100 crore work under pro-poor tourism development project to ensure world-class facilities for the pilgrims and tourists and employment generation for the people living in its vicinity. “We are focusing on pilgrimage tourism sites that have high footfall of pilgrims and tourists but lack basic amenities and other world-class facilities. Thus, we will develop it with the fund of Rs 100 crores saved from the already completed or on-going World Bank-funded projects,” UP minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari told TOI on Monday. As Sarnath was found fit on these criteria, he said, the tourism department officials have been asked to explore the scope of work for developing world class facilities at this Buddhist site by ensuring that job opportunities are also generated for the people living in the vicinity of this Buddhist site by the proposed project. Providing details of the outcomes of a meeting convened here on June 27 to discuss the plan for WB-funded pro-poor tourism development project, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “In initial discussion development of pedestrian between Chaukhandi Stupa and Sarnath railway station and better connectivity for all 26 Buddhist temples and monasteries with world-class roads and basic amenities were proposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/wb-funded-rs-100-cr-project-to-uplift-sarnath-facilities/articleshow/76698936.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||52-yr-old health worker dies of Covid at Hamidia||Bhopal: A 52-year-old aganwadi health worker died due to Covid-19, here on Monday. It is the first known death of a health worker due to Covid-19 in Bhopal. The Covid warrior was posted in Subhash Nagar area and died in Hamidia hospital, government officials confirmed. Savitri Bai was admitted in Hamidia hospital in mid-June. A letter to the state government from the chief medical and health officer, for release of Rs 50 lakh insurance cover is expected to be sent on Tuesday. At the age of 52, Savitri did not deter to take responsibility. She started as an assistant aganwadi worker in 1988. As per guidelines, like others, her responsibility was also fixed amidst the coronavirus outbreak. She was entrusted with vaccination, providing for food and carry out surveys in the assigned area – 835 aganwadi kendra, Subash Nagar. “We would write to the state government that the insurance amount of Rs 50 lakh should be given to the family of the Covid-19 warrior,” said WCD, project officer, Brajesh Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/52-yr-old-health-worker-dies-of-covid-at-hamidia/articleshow/76697218.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 30, 2020||Kanpur||Infant with fever, swollen neck died as doctors refused to touch him: Parents||KANPUR: A video of a man clinging to the body of his one-year-old son in his arms, his wife sitting at a distance and both weeping bitterly, has emerged from the district hospital of Kannauj on Monday. Later, while talking to reporters, Prem Chand, the father of the boy Anuj accused doctors at the hospital of being indifferent to his son’s medical condition and even refusing to touch him, since he along with his wife Asha Devi visited the district hospital with fever and swollen neck on Sunday evening. “None of the doctors touched him. They kept us waiting for 45 minutes. Later, they asked us to take the child to Kanpur. We are poor people and don’t have money to travel to Kanpur. Finally, when people and media persons started querying us about the issue, my child was admitted, but he died,” said Prem Chand in a choked voice. He and his wife had taken their one-year-old son with fever and swollen neck from their Mishripur village to the district hospital on Sunday evening. Chief medical superintendent Dr UC Chaturvedi of the district hospital, however, denied any negligence. “The boy was given treatment at the Emergency. As the boy’s condition was serious, child specialist Dr Prem Yadav examined him and tried his best, but within a span of 30 minutes he died,” he said. “The couple brought the child to the hospital at 4.15 pm on Sunday. The child was admitted to the Emergency ward. Prima facie, it does not seem there was any negligence on the part of doctors, as the child specialist was roped in and he along with other doctors tried their best, but unfortunately the child died,” said district magistrate DM Rakesh Kumar Mishra while talking to media persons. “Premchand, admitted his son Anuj to the district hospital. Child was attended by specialist doctor, but the child, who was quite serious, died after half an hour of treatment. Allegations levelled by couple are baseless,” said CMO Dr Krishna Swaroop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/couple-grieve-with-dead-son-at-hospital-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76699444.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham Yatra allowed for U’khand residents from July 1, Devasthanam Board issues dos and don’ts||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Monday allowed state residents to undertake the Char Dham Yatra from July 1, with the Devasthanam Board issuing a detailed set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) which list the dos and don’ts to be followed by those making the pilgrimage. To undertake the yatra, state residents will have to get themselves registered online on the Devasthanam Board’s website and apply for an e-pass. The guidelines may be amended without any prior notice and entry of any pilgrim to a temple may also be refused depending on the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the SOP said. Talking to TOI, Devasthanam Board CEO Ravinath Raman said that the SOP was prepared based on the inputs given by administration of the respective districts where the Char Dham shrines are located. The yatra plan has also been chalked out keeping the restrictions of the pandemic in mind, he added. "Residents of Uttarakhand who have arrived in the state from some other state will have to undergo quarantine as per the prevailing protocol and only then can they participate in the yatra. People will not be allowed to stay in the hotels/lodges/rest houses near the temples for more than one night. Relaxation can be given by local administration only in the event of emergency situations," Raman said. He added, "People with flu like symptoms shouldn’t go on the yatra. All yatris will have to ensure proper social distancing norms inside the temple and use of hand sanitisers and mask is a must. No one will be allowed to bring any prasad or anything else from outside the temple. Touching of the idols or anything inside the temple premises will not be allowed as well.” As per the guidelines, the maximum number of people who can visit in one day at Badrinath is 1,200 while 800 people can visit Kedarnath in a day. For Gangotri, maximum limit of pilgrims per day has been set at 600 people while for Yamunotri, it’s 400. Meanwhile, the priests of Char Dham temples refused to obey the orders issued by the Devasthanam Board and continued with their protest. The priests alleged that they were “not accountable to follow any directions from the board as its existence had been challenged in the court and the matter is sub-judice.” They also added that priests will not co-operate in performing puja for the devotees . Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of the Devbhoomi Tirtha Purohit Haqhakukdhari Mahapanchayat, a body representing the priests, said, "The priests will neither give prasad, not will we put vermillion, chant mantras or tie sacred thread on the hands of visitors. The devotees will also not be helped in any kind of rituals, so why people would want to come to the temple when their visit will remain incomplete without proper puja?" "There are too many Covid cases in the hills. What if any infected person visits the temples? All the priests will have to go in quarantine. Is this what the government wants?" said Suresh Semwal, a priest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-yatra-allowed-for-ukhand-residents-from-july-1-devasthanam-board-issues-dos-and-donts/articleshow/76696100.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 20,000 screened in health survey, data being analysed||BHOPAL: Though the two-day health survey in 51 slums and densely-populated colonies of the city ended on Sunday, the process of analysis of information furnished in ‘Sarthak’ app about persons screened during the survey continues. Sampling is being conducted on the recommendation of expert teams taking a call on the issue. Ahead of Kill Corona campaign starting in the entire state on July 1, the district administration on June 27 & 28 carried out a health survey to identify suspected corona, dengue and malaria patients in 51 slums and densely-populated colonies. More than 4 lakh people were covered under the survey. “More than 20,000 persons were screened during the campaign but sampling of only 5,000 could be done till Sunday when the survey ended. Now, health status of remaining people, who were screened and whether they needed sampling is being decided by a team of expert doctors. Based on their opinion, sampling would continue”, said district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore. He further said that samples of how many more people were taken on Monday would also be known soon.The persons whose samples are being taken, have been advised to remain in home isolation till the report of the test is received. During the survey, people were also apprised about the 61 fever clinics operating in different parts of the district and were requested to go to the nearest clinic for examination if they develop symptoms of coronavirus. Pamphlets to spread public awareness on the issue were also distributed and flexes put up. He further said that the two-day exercise ahead of the “Kill Corona” campaign exposed the survey teams and district administration monitoring the whole operation to problems encountered during the survey and how to deal with them. “In the second phase, when we undertake the campaign in other parts of Bhopal city and rural areas of the district, we shall be more prepared," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/20000-screened-in-health-survey-data-being-analysed/articleshow/76697248.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Madras university gets a patent for finding anti-cancer compound in sapota leaves||PUDUCHERRY: The University of Madras has obtained a patent for discovering a new compound from the leaves of sapota (botanical name Manilkara zapota). The compound named Mazapotin has anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, antioxidant and anti-angiogenic properties. Former director of the Centre for Advanced Studies in Botany, University of Madras, N Raaman, along with his student C Sivaraj extracted the compound. The university filed a patent in 2012 through patent agent B Deepa. The Intellectual Property India, after due process and examination, granted the patent in June this year for discovering the compound. The university was granted patent for its extraction process, evolved by Raaman and Sivaraj, last year. “Mazapotin has anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, anti-oxidant, anti-angiogenic properties and is more powerful than Quercetin (a flavonoid used for the prevention and treatment of cancer). After studying its mechanism of action and clinical trials, the compound can be developed as a medicine to treat cancer patients who are diabetics,” said Raaman, who is also the director of Centre for Herbal Sciences at the university. Raaman claimed that Mazapotin prevents the binding of carcinogens to DNA and strengthens connective tissues, which may prevent cancer cells from spreading to other parts of the body. “Mazapotin has the ability to cause normal and controlled death of cancer cells,” said Raaman. He said 1-7 microgram per ml concentration of Mazapotin has antioxidant activity in the range of 35.29% to 98.34%, higher than the antioxidant activity of Quercetin. The new compound at 0.5mg per pellet has 57.25% of angiogenic inhibition activity. Similarly, a 25 microgram per ml concentration of Mazapotin can account for the death of 85.42% of MCF-7 (breast cancer cell line). A 5-35 microgram per ml concentration of Mazapotin has anti-diabetic activity in the range of 18.18% to 66.66%, Raaman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-univ-gets-a-patent-for-finding-anti-cancer-compound-in-sapota-leaves/articleshow/76698427.cms||Bosco Dominique
June 30, 2020||Trichy||Rly workers want e-pass exemption||Trichy: Railway workers from neighbouring districts reporting for duty in Trichy have appealed to allow them into the district without e-passes. The workers of Ponmalai railway workshop and the divisional railway manager’s office in Trichy, reporting to work from other districts, are intercepted daily by police demanding e-pass at the district borders. Hundreds of workers from neighbouring districts like Thanjavur, Pudukottai, and Ariyalur report to work at Ponmalai workshop and the divisional manager’s office. They said that they be allowed into Trichy district by producing an office identity card or a letter from their section heads. Special trains operating on the Thanjavur-Trichy route transport many workers from Thanjavur to Trichy but those from other neighbouring districts can’t avail such services. Those travelling by such trains are not asked to produce passes. Workers from neighbouring districts who travel to Trichy by road have demanded that that they too be let off without passes like those travelling by special trains. “Only workers from Thanjavur can travel to Trichy by the special trains. The rest of us commute to work on our two-wheelers. I come from Pudukkudi in Thanjavur district, located near the Trichy border. When I reach the border, police intercept me and ask for an e-pass. However, there is no such compulsion for those arriving by the special train,” a railway staff said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rly-workers-want-e-pass-exemption/articleshow/76699503.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Select restaurants may sell wine & beer||Thiruvananthapuram: The stage will soon be set for issuing licences to independent restaurants for selling beer and wine at 44 tourism destinations across the state. The taxes department has asked the tourism department for a list of destinations to be notified by the taxes department as tourism destinations, for granting FL-11 (beer and wine) licences. Once cleared, there will be 61 such notified centres in the state where independent restaurants can run beer and wine parlours too. There are provisions under foreign liquor rules by which a restaurant in a tourism area notified by the excise department can be issued FL-11 licence, provided such restaurants get classified as one-star or above by the state tourism department. According to rule 13(11) of the Foreign Liquor Rules, 1963, “FL-11 licence shall also be granted to the restaurants classified by department of tourism (of the state), restaurants approved by ministry of tourism (of the Centre), and hotels having one or two classification of the ministry of tourism in tourist centres approved by the government”. Presently, under this rule, the excise department provides licences for operating beer and wine parlours for independent restaurants in its 17 declared tourism zones. However, the existing notified areas does not serve the purpose, sources say. “The existing classification of tourism zones itself is illogical. Several places like Alappuzha, eligible to be tourism zones, have been left out of the purview of the tourism zone. Also, some restaurants serve liquor and beer covertly to customers, especially during peak seasons in such unnotified areas. It is actually loss of revenue for the government and can be plugged if more areas are included in it and licences are issued,” said a government official. The government had previously considered a proposal to allow premium restaurants in tourism zones to run a bar along with it. But this had not materialized. Presently, there are about 300 beer and wine parlours and 603 bar hotels in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/select-restaurants-may-sell-wine-beer/articleshow/76697233.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Remove illegal signage or face penalty: NDMC||NEW DELHI: Cracking down on signage boards and hoardings installed illegally or beyond the permissible size at Connaught Place and Khan Market, New Delhi Municipal Council has warned the traders to either take corrective actions or face penalty as per the Outdoor Advertisement policy. “All advertisements in the NDMC area are governed by the provisions of Delhi Outdoor Advertisement Policy (DOAP), 2017. In case of violation, any unauthorised advertisement will attract penalty for each day, the amount of which will be decided by the NDMC chairman. Accordingly, the competent authority has approved that penalties may be levied on devices (LDC, LEDs), flex signage installed outside shops without permission or beyond sanctioned size,” read the order issued by NDMC recently. For example, the fixed charge for variable message advertisement through devices, such as LED and LCD, on commercial properties up to 600 sq ft in size is Rs 1,600 per sqft up to 600 sqft. Beyond 600 sqft, it is charged at Rs 800 per sqft. Similarly, for building wraps on malls and cinema halls up to 600 sq feet in size, Rs 800 per sqft per month has been fixed. For illegal advertisements, charges will be doubled. The move has, however, left the traders irked. They have argued that shops are private properties and NDMC has no right to charge a fee for the advertisement boards. “They are doing nothing to improve the look of the market. In the time of the corona crisis, they should have come out with a decision to support our business, instead of sending such notices. Also, in the order, there is no mention of maximum permissible limit of signage, flexes or devices that can be installed on buildings,” said Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association. As per sources, an NDMC team had recently visited the markets to take measurements of signage boards and hoardings. “Not just NDMC, all civic agencies are taking action against the violators. The idea is to ensure there is no defacement happening in markets or commercial areas,” said an official. He further said that prior to the Commonwealth Games in 2010, NDMC had asked shopkeepers to install signage of uniform size. “Over a period of time, big commercial establishments have installed huge advertisement boards,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/remove-illegal-signage-or-face-penalty-ndmc/articleshow/76719500.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Parts of two major slums now containment zones||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 count rose to 724 on Monday with the detection of 53 new cases. Sakhali in northwest Goa emerged as a new hotspot of the infection, with the day seeing 16 new infections. The town, which is represented by chief minister Pramod Sawant, now has 24 active cases. The town’s count has steadily been rising over the past week. Monday’s cases were reported from Desai nagar, Bhandar waddo, housing board and Gaonthan. A health official said that over 160 persons in the town have been tested for Covid-19, and that testing will continue on Tuesday. A policeman, resident of the town, has also tested positive. Meanwhile, locals of Karapur village, around 1 km from the town, have opted to observe a voluntary lockdown from Monday to Saturday. Karapur-Sarvan sarpanch Sushma Sawant said that the decision was taken by locals and shopkeepers. While the panchayat didn’t have any say in the decision, it supported residents who conducted a Covid-19 awareness drive in the village. Margao, which has also witnessed a rise in cases, saw three more persons test positive on Monday. Since some cases over the past few days are from the densely-populated Moti Dongor, there were calls that the location be declared a containment zone. But even as cases piled up, there was some relief as hotspot areas like Baina, Curtorim, Zuarinagar and Morlem saw no new cases on Monday. Also, the day saw 46 patients cured and discharged, taking the total number of recovered cases to 524. In Sada and New Vaddem, only one and two cases respectively were reported. Canacona and Verna too reported a case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-2-major-slums-now-containment-zones/articleshow/76699500.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||In reply to govt, NIMS Hospital says, ‘No role in Coronil manufacture’||JAIPUR: In a reply to the notice served by the health department, NIMS Hospital has accepted that clinical trails of Ayurveda medicines had been conducted on Covid-19 patients but they had no role in the manufacture of ‘Coronil,’ a medicine which Patanjali had claimed cured coronavirus. NIMS also claimed that it has written to the health department informing about the clinical trials to the health department on June 2. The letter was issued to a senior health department official mentioning that a clinical trial entitled “Impact of India Traditional Ayurvedic treatment regime for Covid-19 registered with clinical trial registry of India (CTRI)…, is being carried out at NIMS University, Rajasthan, Jaipur. This is for your information and necessary guidance, please.” The health department refuted the claim of taking permission through this letter. “It was not written for seeking permission. No permission has been granted for clinical trails. The letter was written on June 2, but they started the clinical trail much before writing the letter on May 23 which lasted upto June 14,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. NIMS has sent the reply in 7 pages informing health department about the clinical trials. Health department had served notice to the health department after Patanjali had claimed that they had conducted clinical trials on Covid-19 patients in Jaipur’s NIMS Hospital and found a cure. After the Patanjali claim of Covid-19 cure, the health department had taken congizance of the media reports about ‘Coronil’ and issued notice to NIMS mentioning that permission for clinical trial was not taken from the state government. The health department gave three-day time to file a reply to the notice. “We have received the reply. They have stated in the reply that they do not have any role in Coronil manufacturing. We will send it to the health directorate for further course of action in the matter,” said Dr Sharma. In the reply, NIMS had mentioned the names of Ayurveda drugs and other details of clinical trials along with the result. NIMS had earlier mentioned that they had carried out the study as a pilot project based on representations and declaration of compliance of norms by Patanjali as set out by the authorities. The NIMS is not involved in manufacturing of any drug or tablet etc. by the name of Coronil or any other brand in any manner, and does not have any manufacturing or financial collaboration or gains from the use of the data by the end users including not having any involvement in the statutory compliances in relation thereto except relating to the study carried out by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-reply-to-govt-nims-hospital-says-no-role-in-coronil-manufacture/articleshow/76699504.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Schools to stay shut till July 31||BHOPAl: The school education department of the state has ordered all the government and private schools of the state to remain shut till July 31, for the safety of students. Earlier, the schools had been ordered to stay closed till June 30. According to the education department, till such time, the schools remain closed, they can continue with online classes for children, keeping in mind the time limit set by the department to prevent overburdening children. “All the private and government schools of the state will stay closed till July 31 to prevent the cases of coronavirus from spreading among students. Schools can follow the order passed by the school education department on 23/04/2020, while taking online classes to ensure continuity in learning without stressing students out,” deputy secretary, school education department, Pramod Singh said. Meanwhile, after the government’s orders to stop online classes for pre-primary and primary schools, parents of students in private schools have started ‘No School, No Fees’ campaign. In a memorandum to the collector, the parents alleged that some schools were building pressure on them to pay full fees of their wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/its-official-schools-to-stay-shut-till-july-31/articleshow/76697238.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC paves the way to raze secretariat||HYDERABAD: In a huge relief to the TRS government, the Telangana high court on Monday paved the way for raising a new secretariat complex. Dismissing a batch of petitions questioning state cabinet’s decision to demolish existing secretariat and raise a new one in its place, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy said the petitioners were not justified in terming cabinet decision as ‘arbitrary.’ HC also brushed aside contention of one of the advocates, Chikkudu Prabhakar, who argued that the present secretariat is a common secretariat for Telangana and AP and only the governor could take a decision. The bench faulted the contention that government could ill afford spent huge amounts on construction of a new secretariat at a time when the state exchequer is overburdened with debts. “Expenditure and its source are the concern of a state and not of its taxpayer,” the judges reasoned said, while agreeing with advocate general BS Prasad, who cited an order of the Gujarat high court delivered in a similar case. The bench made it clear that it cannot intervene in the policy decision of the state. “That too at a time when the decision has not been taken finally. We were asked to merely look at the process done so far leading to a possible final decision,” the judges said, declining to do so. The judges said the petitioners were not justified in claiming that the present buildings are adequate for the government. They said the contention whether the present buildings are adequate or inadequate is an issue that the court cannot go into. “The words ‘adequate’ or ‘inadequate’ are relative terms. What may be sufficient and adequate for one party, need not necessarily be sufficient and adequate for another party. Therefore, it is for the government to decide whether the present buildings are adequate or inadequate for its needs and requirements.” The petitioners — Congress leader S Jeevan Reddy and others — along with Professor PL Vishweshwar Rao of Telangana Jana Samithi and a few others contended in their pleas that the cabinet took a final decision on June 18, 2019, to demolish the present secretariat and raise a new one in its place. The juges ruled that though the state was sufficiently briefed about the need to demolish the present structure and raise a new secretariat — both by the technical committee and also by its own cabinet sub-committee — a final decision by cabinet on whether to go for a brand new secretariat or to modify the existing one has not yet been taken. “Obviously, the cabinet decision of June 18, 2019, cited by the petitioners was interim. Hence, they are not justified in terming the cabinet decision as arbitrary,” the judges said. Dismissing Prabhakar’s argument, the judges said: “This is a highly misplaced contention because AP had long ago vacated this place. Hence, the question of it (secretariat) remaining a common property or warranting the intervention of the governor would not even arise,” the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-paves-the-way-to-raze-secretariat/articleshow/76699967.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Locals deny cremation of elderly woman over Covid-19 fear in AP||VIJAYAWADA: In yet another incident of denial of funeral rites fearing spread of Covid-19, the relatives of an old woman were made to run from pillar to post to find place in a crematorium in Guntur district. Andhra Pradesh has thus far witnessed at least a dozen incidents where Covid-19 patients were denied burial or cremation, forcing the police to intervene. Mourning family members preparing to perform the last rites of a 65-year-old woman were in for a rude shock after they found the Smashana Vatika (crematorium) gates locked by locals at Naganna Kunta village of Sattenapalli mandal in Guntur district. The villagers demanded that the relatives produce a certificate proving she was Covid-19 free. According to Sattenapalli police, the woman had been suffering from age-related ailments long before the pandemic broke out. However, doctors conducted a test for Covid-19 a few days before her demise. After she was pronounced dead by doctors, her family members took her to the crematorium for last rites. The villagers locked the crematorium and prevented the body from taking inside. The relatives later kept the body at their residence for several hours till the police intervened. Family members said that they had complained to officials, who allowed the last rites to be conducted. Sources said that the woman’s test results eventually turned out to be negative. This isn’t the first time that locals denied funeral rites to people due to Covid-19 scare. On April 27, an owner of a prominent restaurant in Guntur city, was cremated rather than buried after he succumbed to Covid-19. The minorities commission had taken cognizance of the cremation. The district administration reportedly attempted to perform his final rites at Gujjanagundla burial grounds the same day but failed as locals protested. A day later, the body was taken to a crematorium in Gujjanagundla where it was cremated. In Chittoor and Kurnool districts too there were instances where locals opposed the burial of Covid-19 victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/locals-deny-cremation-of-elderly-woman-over-covid-19-fear-in-ap/articleshow/76699505.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||LU to get 3 gardens of medicinal plants on Van Mahotsava||LUCKNOW: A walk on the campus of Lucknow University will not only help students inhale clean air but also add to their knowledge of plants which boost immunity. Three green patches of medicinal plants and trees will be established on LU campus on the occasion of ‘Van Mahotsava’, which will be celebrated on July 1. The planning and creation of the three gardens—Navgrah Vatika, Panchvati Vatika and Aushadhiye Vatika—will be done jointly by the ministry of environment and forests and LU. Around 35 saplings will be planted in these three gardens. Panchvati Vatika will have five holy trees that have medicinal properties and ecological relevance. These are peepal, banyan, bel, amla and Ashok. “At the time of the pandemic, mother nature can help boost immunity by use of medicinal plants. These vatikas will not only help students know and learn about wonder plants but also purify air on the campus,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava. Peepal is known to be a rich oxygen-giving plant while bel is a boon for stomach-related issues. Amla is a rich source of vitamin C and Ashok has numerous medicinal values from addressing gynaecological problems to acting as a prevention for diarrhea. It is believed that Panchvati Vatika is good for overall well-being of mankind, said Srivastava. In ‘Navgrah Vatika’, which means garden of nine planets, nine plants will be planted in different directions for benefit of nine planets. Considering their medicinal value, banyan, shami, palash and others will be planted here. Lastly, in Aushadhiye Vatika, around 20 medicinal plants and aromatic plants will be planted that include Brahmi, madar, amla, sandal and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-get-3-gardens-of-medicinal-plants-on-van-mahotsava/articleshow/76699533.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Panchatatva park developed in city||Hyderabad: A large Panchatatva park with walking track based on the five elements of nature has been developed at Indira park. The Panchatatva walk way is a circular track developed using eight components to walk over.MA&UD minister has instructed for more such parks to be developed in GHMC and also in other corporations and municipalities. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panchatatva-park-developed-in-city/articleshow/76699536.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kanpur||Teen booked, taken into custody for raping 14-yr-old||Kanpur: A case was lodged against a 16-year-old boy for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl in Kakadeo police station area for around four months. A case against the boy was registered on Sunday after the girl’s family realised that she was pregnant. SHO of Kakadeo police station KK Dikshit told reporters, “The accused is the rape survivor’s neighbour and as per the girl he had been raping her since past four months in the absence of her family members at her home. When the girl complained of stomach ache, the family took her to the hospital where after her ultrasound test they found that she was pregnant.” Preliminary probe reveals that the minor was sexually assaulted on multiple occasions by her teenage neighbour when her parents were not at home, said the SHO adding, “The accused has been taken into custody and will be produced in the Juvenile Justice Board. Further investigations are underway in this regard.” Watch UP: Teen booked, taken into custody for raping 14-yr-old girl||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/teen-booked-taken-into-custody-for-raping-14-yr-old/articleshow/76699476.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Remote foray: Corona spurs internships from home||Ahmedabad: Shashank Joshi, a MICA student, was to join a corporate house in April for an internship, but Covid forced him to garner the experience digitally. “After talks with the institution and the corporate house’s bosses, I joined the company virtually,” Joshi said. “I learnt to manage critical communication with stakeholders. I was given opportunities to generate and execute ideas for the company to ride rough waves.” Like Joshi, hundreds of students of various colleges and universities in Ahmedabad are being exposed to the work from home (WFH) culture. For companies across the world, WFH is the only feasible option in this Covid-ravaged year. More than 200 MICA students (95% of the total) of the Postgraduate Diploma in Management — Communications batch have completed virtual internships this year. “It was a first for us as well as for the students,” said a MICA official. “Fortunately, most students finished their internships as scheduled and earned industry experience.” The official said that the companies the students worked with included L’Oréal, Google, Red Bus, Sony Pictures Networks, Swiggy, and HP. About 95% of the students of Institute of Management, Nirma University (IMNU), also underwent virtual internships. “A virtual internship model was proposed to the recruiters,” said M Mallikarjun, the director of the institute. “The recruiters agreed to offer virtual internships of eight weeks from April to June.” Mallikarjun went on to say: “Faculty members monitor progress through phone calls, video calls, and messaging.” At Cept University, undergraduate students are required to undergo internships with professionals in the 7th semester. “Keeping in mind the prevalent conditions, the university reviewed the internship requirement,” said Tridip Suhrud, the provost of the university. “Internships can now be completed in any of the last four semesters.” Suhrud went on to say: “Most students of the 7th semester have opted for regular semesters rather than internships.” He said studios and courses will be added to accommodate these students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/remote-foray-corona-spurs-internships-from-home/articleshow/76698469.cms||Parth Shastri
June 30, 2020||Goa||Goa tourism can’t restart in July, says minister Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo said it won’t be possible for tourism activities in the state to restart in July, as the Covid-19 situation would first have to improve in India’s major economic centres that send a bulk of domestic tourists to Goa. “If the Covid situation doesn’t improve, we can’t get tourists,” Lobo told TOI. He said most domestic tourists in July come from Delhi and Gurgaon. “Most flights come to Goa from Mumbai and Delhi. Even if the tourists are from elsewhere, their connecting flight to Goa is from Mumbai or Delhi,” he said. Mumbai and Delhi are among the worst-affected cities in the country. “If flights from those cities don’t start, and if people aren’t ready to get out because of Covid-19, we can’t expect business to start,” he said. Tourism is a major revenue earner for the Goa government. From 6.8 lakh domestic tourists in 1985 to over 70 lakh Indians marking their presence in the state in 2019, the arrival of domestic tourists has provided a more than satisfactory safety net for Goa’s tourism industry. He also said people are not in the mood to travel. “If younger people cannot travel, how will couples travel? I cannot expect the tourism industry to start until there is a proper solution, and the only solution I see is a vaccine, which will take time.” Lobo said that initially, he too, like many others, was optimistic about the restart of the hotel industry in July. Last week, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that the state government would take a decision within a week on whether or not to allow tourism to resume in the state. Sawant said that 230 hotels have registered with the tourism department signalling their readiness to restart operations. Meanwhile, Lobo, who also runs a hotel and represents the coastal belt of Calangute, said the state has started getting bookings for October from tourists from Russia and the UK. “There is Covid-19 there, too, but people want to be in safer places, and Goa is safe for foreigners. We’ve started getting bookings from there. I think they’ll come,” he said. In 2018, 9.3 lakh foreign tourists took to the sunny shores of Goa and Russian tourists formed a major chunk of the chartered tourist arrivals in the state. The minister also said even if restaurants along the coastal belt start functioning, there are no tourists currently. “Until and unless Indian tourists start coming in, restaurants cannot function. A few restaurants have started takeaways, but even at my restaurants, there is no business,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-tourism-cant-restart-in-july-lobo/articleshow/76699525.cms||Murari Shetye
June 30, 2020||Goa||Goa govt to again regulate pre-primary schools||PANAJI: The state government has decided to take up the task of regulating pre-primary schools in the state anew in light of provisions of the draft national education policy. The decision was taken on Monday at a meeting of education officials chaired by chief minister Pramod Sawant, who also holds the education portfolio. In 2010, the directorate of education (DoE) had taken up the exercise of identifying and regulating pre-primary schools in Goa for the first time. On last count, 509 pre-primary schools were registered with the directorate. “The state government on Monday decided to regulate pre-primary schools in Goa as per the Goa School Education Act and Rules,” Sawant said. Senior government officials said that the regulation of pre-primary schools is in line with the Centre’s draft education policy. Officials said it would now be mandatory for existing as well as new pre-primary schools to register with the DoE. The last time around, the effort had failed to arouse enthusiasm from pre-primary schools as the announcement was not followed up with adequate monitoring of those who opted not to register. The DoE could not provide any incentive for pre-primary schools to register with it. The state has also not provided pre-primary schools registering with it with a uniform and scientifically-developed syllabi, as was promised. In the past, the directorate has received complaints from parents of pre-primary school students being run in undesirable conditions, from dingy premises and apartments. Currently, pre-primary schools in the state have no fixed syllabi, fee structure or infrastructural norms that they need to mandatorily meet. Bardez, Tiswadi and Salcete talukas have the highest number of pre-primary schools as per DoE data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-again-regulate-pre-primary-schools/articleshow/76699567.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cong workers detained after fuel price protest||Gandhinagar: A number of Congress members, including GPCC president Amit Chavda, were detained by police in various cities and towns on Monday, as the Congress organized protests across the state, over the rising prices of petrol and diesel.Chavda and other leaders, along with scores of Congress workers, took part in a protest march in Ahmedabad, despite the Congress not getting permission for it. Many Congress workers clashed with police personnel, who attempted to prevent the march. Chavda said, “While the country is struggling against the coronavirus, job losses and economic troubles, the BJP, instead of providing relief the common man, is looting the people by increasing the prices of petrol and diesel. The exorbitant fuel prices are a direct burden on the people.” Chavda said that when the Congress was in power at the centre, fuel prices were kept in control despite high international prices of crude oil. “At present, oil prices in the world are at a low, but the government is steadily raising fuel prices. We attempted to voice the people’s issues, but the BJP used the police to beat up our workers,” Chavda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-workers-detained-after-fuel-price-protest/articleshow/76698498.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two die of Covid-19, their videos put Chest Hospital in dock||HYDERABAD: A major controversy erupted on Monday after two Covid-19 patients, admitted to the city’s government-run Chest Hospital, made videos about the poor treatment they were getting at the hospital and then died within hours. Both videos went viral on social media, sparking outrage. In the first video that appeared late on Sunday night, a 34-year-old man alleged that the hospital staff had discontinued his oxygen supply despite him pleading with them not to. “I am unable to breathe,” the man says in Telugu in the clip. “They have discontinued oxygen for the last three hours even though I pleaded with them. I am not able to breathe anymore daddy, it’s like my heart has stopped. Bye daddy, bye to all.” He died late on Sunday evening. In the second video, a 36-year-old man is sitting on the hospital bed and showing that there is no one in the ward. He keeps repeating breathlessly in Hindi, “There is no one here. I am the only one here, there is not a soul. How should I stay here, what if something happens?” He died of cardiac arrest early on Monday morning. His wife told reporters later that her husband was only having breathing trouble. “Doctors didn't give him proper treatment,” she alleged. “They were just giving him 5-15 injections in a day. We were told that he passed away at 5 am in the morning but we have not been handed over the dead body so far." The 34-year-old man’s family has demanded a thorough investigation into the death, but the state government and the hospital authorities maintain that oxygen supply was never stopped. The authorities also claimed that the man died of a heart attack and not because he did not get oxygen. The family said that they saw the video after returning from the funeral and want answers to why the oxygen supply was allegedly stopped. “What has happened to my son should not happen to anybody. It is heartbreaking to see him bid goodbye like this,” said the man’s father. State health minister Eatala Rajender said the patient had been refused treatment at several hospitals before being admitted to Chest Hospital. “Even though it was midnight, he was put on oxygen throughout the night. It is not true that oxygen was not provided,” he said. Chest Hospital superintendent Dr Mahaboob Khan said that the 34-year-old patient succumbed to heart failure and was confirmed Covid-19 positive only the next day. "At no point was the oxygen supply removed,” Khan said. “You can see the nasal tubes in the video. Patients with heart failure will find it difficult to breathe even with oxygen supply.” The second patient seemed to have more of a psychological impact, Khan added. “He can be seen saying that there is no one in the ward,” he said. “Today, we have four patients in the ward, but he was the only one yesterday. Generally, doctors and nurses will not be inside Covid-19 wards all the time. They will be stationed outside the ward.” He denied any lapses on part of the hospital staff. Watch Hyderabad: Two die of Coronavirus, Chest Hospital in dock after videos go viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-die-of-covid-their-videos-put-chest-hospital-in-dock/articleshow/76700008.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Cattle thieves held in Bhuvanagiri||Hyderabad: Four persons who were involved in theft of cattle from various place in the state were arrested by Bhuvanagiri police on Monday. They were caught while trying to transport sheep in a vehicle. There are multiple cases registered against the accused. The police also seized Rs 3.16 lakh cash from them. A case has been registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cattle-thieves-held-in-bhuvanagiri/articleshow/76699576.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Cong leader arrested for anti-CAA stir violence||Lucknow: UP Congress minority affairs cell chairman Shahnawaz Alam was arrested amid high drama by police.Alam, said to be close to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s camp, was picked up by cops in civvies from his Golf Link apartment on Monday night and taken to Hazratganj police station in connection with violence during anti-CAA protest at Parivartan Chowk on December 19, 2019.Deputy Commissioner of police, central, Dinesh Singh said following loss to public property during violence and arson on December 19, an FIR was registered under charges of attempt to murder, rioting and other relevant sections of IPC in which 34 persons were named.“During probe the name of Shahnawaz Alam also surfaced and he has been arrested on the basis of evidence gathered against him during investigation. Police probe is still underway,” said Singh.This police action was opposed by UPCC chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, who reached Hazratganj police station with scores of Congress workers, and raised slogans against police and government. They dispersed when police used mild force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-leader-arrested-for-anti-caa-stir-violence/articleshow/76699583.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||No prior appointment for Goa Medical College OPDs from tomorrow||PANAJI: The Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital will start its regular out-patient department (OPD) services from Wednesday. Patients will be able to make on-the-spot appointments to consult with doctors, the practice followed before the Covid-19 pandemic restricted the hospital’s services. GMC had curtailed its OPDs to only emergency cases when the first lockdown was announced in March. Then, around a month ago, the system changed, and patients could visit the hospital, but only with a prior appointment. The prior appointment will now stand cancelled. “We are ready to start full-fledged OPDs and adequate arrangements have been made to conduct them while following social distancing norms,” said GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar.  He also said that pandals have been erected so that patients can wait till their turn to see the doctor. “Patients can stand in queue and book their appointments.” Bandekar said GMC doesn’t want to inconvenience people anymore, and hence it has decided to restart regular OPD services. The dean also said that the previous system (of telephonic appointments) attracted complaints from patients that they weren’t able to secure appointments. “Many patients told us they were not able to get appointments since telephone lines remained continuously busy,” he said. Bandekar said that GMC’s OPDs usually see 1,300-1,500 patients a day, but that has now dropped by 50%. The hospital sees around 25-30% of its patients come from districts in Maharashtra and Karnataka that border Goa. Due to travel restrictions, the number of persons visiting GMC from neighbouring states has also dropped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-prior-appt-for-gmc-opds-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76699582.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||1k schools set to harvest rainwater||Gandhinagar: Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Monday called for rainwater harvesting in government schools and offices while dedicating 1,000 such completed projects through video conferencing.The chief minister spoke about the Sujalam Sufalam Jal Abhiyan — a water conservation scheme launched by the state government since the past three years through public cooperation. “Because of it, we have been able to increase water storage capacity by 40,628 lakh cubic feet in three years despite the challenge of Covid-19 pandemic this year,” the CM said.Rupani said that Gujarat has given the nation new hope through the Sujalam Sufalam Jal Abhiyan, reuse of water, 10 desalination plants to make seawater potable and purifying waste water in cities and metros.The Vadodara district administration has completed the rainwater harvesting project in school buildings in a span of only nine months, covering about 1,000 government primary and secondary schools in the district.Rupani also laid foundation stones of various schemes of Dabhoi through video conferencing and leased a book “Varsha Jalnidhi”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1k-schools-set-to-harvest-rainwater/articleshow/76698518.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Cooperative banks get govt approval to offer gold loans||Panaji: Cooperation minister Govind Gaude said on Monday that the state government has decided to allow cooperative societies to offer gold loans to their customers. He said that the government is planning to formulate a scheme to provide relief to borrowers with non-performing asset (NPA). Gaude held meeting with chairpersons, managing directors and general managers of cooperative societies to discuss various issues related to the sector. During the meeting, we discussed the reasons behind rising NPAs in cooperative banks and how we can overcome the situation, the minister told reporters. He said that the government had introduced a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for loanees, but it has not benefited many. “The government wants to amend the OTS scheme. During the meeting, there was a suggestion to extend the cut off date for the scheme to March 31, 2020, from 2015,” Gaude said. He said that some people are not being able to repay their unsecured loans. “We want settlement between the borrowers and cooperative societies. Next time we will deliberate on the suggestions that were made during today’s meeting,”he said. Another issue that was discussed was about the loans where the borrowers have died or are not in a position to repay due to job loss, Gaude said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cooperative-banks-get-govt-approval-to-offer-gold-loans/articleshow/76700043.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||Koderma man without travel history tests Covid positive||Koderma: A man from Domchanch became Koderma’s first person without any travel history to be diagnosed with Covid-19 on Sunday, sparking fears of community transmission of the virus in the district. The 45-year-old does not even any identified contact with a positive case, civil surgeon Dr Parvati Nag said, adding that it the case is a concern for the district administration. Sadar hospital deputy superintendent Dr R Kumar, who had treated this patient for diabetes at his private clinic, was been put under home quarantined on Monday. Kumar had advised him to go for a Covid swab test at the sadar hospital, where he tested positive on a TrueNat machine. Without commenting on whether it is a case of community transmission, Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap said the patient has been admitted to a Covid-19 hospital. “The district administration and the health department are trying to find his source of infection. A detailed investigation is underway and more than 25 of his primary contacts have been identified and put under institutional quarantine at Domchanch. The area where he lives has been sealed and sanitized.” Dr Sharad Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district said, “The patient was living with his maternal uncle and aunt and they will also be kept in isolation.” As of Monday afternoon, Koderma has recorded 174 corona cases, of which 36 are active, 138 and one person has died. Of the total cases, 171 are migrant workers who have returned home in the past two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/koderma-man-without-travel-history-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76698524.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: BJP begins preparations for upcoming polls, bypolls||GANDHINAGAR: After having secured wins for all its three nominees in the recently concluded Rajya Sabha election in the state, the BJP is now gearing up for the upcoming assembly by-elections and urban and rural local body polls. On Monday, top state BJP leaders including state party president Jitu Vaghani, chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel, national BJP general secretary V Satish, Union minister Parshottam Rupala, state BJP general secretary Bhikhu Dalsania and other core group members met at the party headquarters ‘Kamalam’ to discuss preparations for the approaching elections. Bharat Pandya, state BJP spokesperson, said, “Party leaders discussed the upcoming assembly by-elections and urban and rural local body elections in detail. Leaders Bhargav Bhatt and Shankar Chaudhary will co-ordinate all party plans for the assembly by-elections. One minister and one senior party leader have been appointed for every assembly seat for which by-elections will be held and they will oversee preparations for the polls,” Pandya said. Education minister Bhuendrasinh Chudasama and senior leader K C Patel will oversee preparations for the Abdasa assembly seat. Agriculture minister R C Faldu and Nitin Bharadwaj have been appointed for the Limdi seat. Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja and Shabdsharan Brahmbhatt will be in-charge of Karjan assembly seat. Tribal welfare minister Ganpatsinh Vasava and Purnesh Modi will oversee preparations for the Dang seat. For the Kaprada assembly seat, minister Ishwarsinh Patel and leader Bharatsinh Parmar will oversee preparations, while energy minister Saurabh Patel and leader I K Jadeja have been appointed in-charge for the Morbi assembly seat. Minister Kunvarji Bavaliya and party leader Gordhan Zadafia will be in-charge of Dadhada seat and minister Dharmendrasinh Jadeja and Dhansukh Bhanderi will oversee preparations for the Dhari assembly seat. These eight assembly seats became vacant after sitting Congress MLAs resigned. Five of them have so far joined the BJP and most of them are likely to be re-nominated by the BJP from the seats they relinquished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-begins-preparations-for-upcoming-polls-bypolls/articleshow/76698542.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||50% KGBV staff found absent in random checking||Lucknow: About 92% of teachers of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBV) in Kanpur Dehat skipped duty on June 25, a random checking of attendance conducted by the basic education department has revealed. Only 8% staff attended the duty in Kanpur Dehat on June 25. These schools had reopened on June 8. In fact, about 50% teachers and wardens were found absent in KGBVs in 38 UP districts on June 25. The checking was conducted two weeks after the basic education department made it compulsory for KGBV staff to upload data, including photographs of the infrastructure facilities in schools, on the Prerna portal. A total 565 KGBVs out of 746 had posted the attendance details of June 25 on the portal . The KGBV analytics showed a sharp gap in the attendance of staff during morning (in time) and evening (out time). While 4,555 staff members from 565 KGBVs reported their presence at 8am, only 128 staff members from 42 KGBVs were present on the campus around 2.30pm. UP has 746 KGBVs with total staff strength of 8,953. Besides Kanpur Dehat, KGBVs in Maharajganj and Chitrakoot had the least staff attendance — 9.5% and 16.3% respectively. Among the big towns, Lucknow (67.7%) and Gautam Budh Nagar (63.4%) reported highest absenteeism. Muzzafarnagar (81%) and Jalaun (79.5%) had the best staff presence during the random checking. Ghaziabad reported 45% staff presence, while Prayagraj and Varanasi had 56.8% and 57.4% attendance, respectively. The report also captured the data on infrastructural facilities available in KGBVs. Of the 746 KGBVs, only 453 have responded online. Full data came only from 16 districts, including Varanasi and Lucknow. Following the survey, state project director, Samagra Shiksha, Vijay Kiran Anand has instructed all basic shiksha adhikaris to release salary of staff whose data is available on the Prerna portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/50-kgbv-staff-found-absent-in-random-checking/articleshow/76699589.cms||Isha Jain
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||First in India: Telangana HC takes court to lawyers’ doors||HYDERABAD: In a first such initiative in the country, the Telangana high court has launched a mobile videoconference district court facility, taking technology to the doorstep of lawyers who have no computers or the internet facility at their homes, in Warangal on Monday. In this facility, a mobile van would go to a designated area and lawyers have to simply get into the van, equipped with videoconference system, and argue their case. This facility, introduced in Warangal for the first time in the country, was inaugurated by high court Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice P Naveen Rao on Monday through online mode. In Warangal, principal district judge K Jaya Kumar and district collector, who provided the van, were present when the facility was inaugurated. Known for its pioneering digital court initiative in the country, the Telangana high court had gone virtual and were holding courts through videoconferencing mode ever since the lockdown was announced three months ago. For lawyers not tech savvy, separate computer rooms were allotted at Judicial Academy in Secunderabad to argue their cases before the high court. In fact, the Telangana high court is the sole high court where all its judges have been holding videoconference courts. Online filling of cases was allowed and courts‘ functioning picked up pace. Now, district judiciary too is going digital. “If the experiment in Warangal is successful, then we will ask all district collectors to provide vans with computers to provide virtual argument space for lawyers at their doorstep if they are unable to equip themselves at their homes on their own,” high court registrar general A Venkateswar Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1st-in-india-t-hc-takes-court-to-lawyers-doors/articleshow/76700037.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital police rescue 15-yr-old from Ramnagar||NAINITAL: The Nainital police on Monday rescued a 15-year-old girl from Ramnagar after she accused her father of forcefully marrying her to an 18-year-old boy. Speaking to TOI, police said that the girl had called the police helpline on Monday alleging that her father was getting her married to a boy, who was not of legal marriageable age, even though she had refused several times. The police then reached her home, rescued the minor and sent her to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). "When we reached the spot, she said that her father is a drunkard who would beat her up almost every day and was forcing her to marry a boy even though she is just 15-years-old," said senior sub-inspector of Ramnagar police station, Jaiswal Singh Chauhan. Chauhan added that they have taken into custody the girl’s father as well as the groom and are investigating the matter. "Their statements are also being recorded. Meanwhile, we have invoked the provisions of Child Marriages Act, 2006, and have started investigating the matter," he said. The girl also told police that her father had been beating her for several years ever since her mother and elder brother died. "The girl says she dropped out of school around four years ago when her brother and mother died. Since then, her father, who works as a security guard at a godown, has been beating her and she has been working as a help in several homes. She had gone to her relatives in Badaun in Uttar Pradesh and had returned to Ramnagar just a week ago," Chauhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/15-yr-old-calls-up-police-helpline-alleges-she-was-being-forcibly-married-off-by-father-police-arrest-her-dad-18-yr-old-groom/articleshow/76696219.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Framed in Babri case, Ritambhara tells CBI court||LUCKNOW: Accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, Sadhvi Ritambhara on Monday deposed before the special CBI court in Lucknow. Responding to about 1,000 questions, she denied having conspired for demolition of the disputed structure. She categorically denied each and every evidence produced by the prosecuting agency CBI. Like other accused, she also stressed that she was framed in the case due to political reasons. Ritambhara had to appear before the special court conducting proceedings under section 313 of CrPC which enables the accused to plead innocence. She was the 18th of 32 accused to depose; 14 are still to be examined. Special judge SK Yadav is expeditiously conducting the proceedings to complete the trial by August 31 in compliance of the Supreme Court’s order. The statement of former deputy PM LK Advani was to be recorded on June 30 and that of senior BJP leader MM Joshi on July 1 through video conferencing. However, the judge said that video conferencing facility was not functional in court till now. Besides, the court was shut on Monday for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/framed-in-babri-case-ritambhara-tells-cbi-court/articleshow/76699599.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Entrepreneurship shot for Covid cure||Ahmedabad: The lockdown caused by Covid-19 has affected all businesses — and up-and-coming ventures and startups are no exception. Several ventures decided to take a break or divert attention to more feasible options to remain afloat in the face of uncertainty.“Thus, it was important for us to hand-hold startups at the right time,” said Rahul Bhagchandani, the CEO of GUSEC, the startup and incubation centre of Gujarat University. “We had to assure them that they have to just get some more time to decide on their current and future scenarios,” Bhagchandani said.He said that GUSEC has launched both continuity and breakthrough accelerators which are primarily aimed at supporting startups in the post-Covid era. “Several startups have come forward to seek help and get connected to experienced mentors and industry leaders,” he said. “We are also helping them secure funds through various initiatives of the state and central government schemes if applicable.”Anupam Jalote, the CEO of iCreate, said that they have expedited the payments to select ventures. “Cash crunch is real for several firms and we did our bit to keep them afloat by assessing their requirements and advancing payments,” he said.CIIE.CO at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) has waived the rentals of startups which have a physical presence on the campus. “We are helping them revisit their strategies to manage expenses and extend runways while connecting them with investors for bridge capital,” said Vipul Patel, partner (seed investing) at CIIE.CO. “We are supporting them with detailed scenario analysis and insights to identify which part of their business models will be relevant in the new normal.”Satya Ranjan Acharya, associate professor at Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) and director of EDII’s incubator Cradle, said that the crisis of Covid-19 is also an opportunity in disguise. “We have been connecting startups with mentors who can guide them in operational issues and also help devise ways to use existing plans and products for contemporary needs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/entrepreneurship-shot-for-covid-cure/articleshow/76698587.cms||Parth Shastri
June 30, 2020||Delhi||These deposits could save lives: Delhi’s first plasma bank in two days||NEW DELHI: Following reports of people scouting around for convalescent plasma for their friends and family members infected with the novel coronavirus, Delhi government has decided to help them by opening a plasma bank. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the plasma bank being created at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj would be functional in two days. Anyone having a prescription from a hospital would be able to get plasma from there. “This will probably be the first plasma bank in the country. Any active Covid patient admitted in a private or government hospital will be able to take plasma from this bank,” Kejriwal said, adding that all formalities for setting up the bank had been completed in the past 2-3 days. The CM said Lok Nayak Hospital gave plasma therapy to 35 patients in the last few days. While 34 patients survived at Lok Nayak, 46 out of 49 patients on whom trials were conducted recovered at another hospital. “I want to make it clear that plasma is not the ultimate cure for Covid-19 and not all lives can be saved by it. It is extremely difficult to save a patient who is in the last stage of infection and suffering from multi-organ failure and extreme comorbidities. However, it is helpful for patients with moderate symptoms,” said the CM. Kejriwal urged recovered corona patients to donate their plasma and save lives. He added that Delhi government would ensure full safety of donors. Recovered patients develop antibodies in their blood. If these antibodies are transfused into another infected patient, he can start recovering quickly. “Donation of plasma by recovered patients will establish a proper therapy system in the city. This is your chance to save lives. I request you with folded hands to come and donate plasma so that lives can be saved. This is like worshipping God in its truest sense,” the CM said. Currently, more than 52,000 people have recovered from the deadly viral infection. There were also a large number of people who were infected, but didn’t show symptoms. Such cases would only be known through antibody tests. Laying to rest the misconception among plasma donors that they might get infected again if they go to a Covid hospital, Kejriwal said, “You will not get infected again. We have made proper arrangements at ILBS, which is not a Covid-designated hospital. The government will also be paying for conveyance if and when the recovered patients yes to donating plasma. The whole procedure takes around 30-45 minutes.” Delhi government has decided to set up a helpline where potential plasma donors can call or send a WhatsApp message to show their interest. Health officials will also call recovered patients and convince them to donate plasma. Watch Delhi: 'Plasma bank' to be set up for treatment of Covid patients, announces Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/these-deposits-could-save-lives-citys-first-plasma-bank-in-2-days/articleshow/76699596.cms||Atul Mathur
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Wife’s murder accused out on bail kills 2 sisters||HYDERABAD: A man, who came out on bail recently after being jailed for murdering his wife a year ago, killed his two sisters on Monday evening and seriously injured two other family members over a property dispute. Chandrayangutta police in Hyderabad’s Old City said that Ahmed bin Salam Ismail, around 7 pm picked up a quarrel first with two of his three sisters. He first repeatedly attacked his two sisters, Raziya Begum, 35, and Zakira Begum, 45, with a dagger at their residence in Chandrayangutta, killing them on the spot. On a killing spree, Ahmed next went to his youngest sister Noor’s residence in Balapur, about 4 km away, and attacked her. When her husband Omer Hassan intervened, he too was stabbed with the sharp weapon. Presuming them to be dead, Ahmed left the spot, but luckily the couple survived and raised an alarm. They were both shifted to a local hospital and their condition is stated to be serious. Local police in Chandrayangutta and Balapur reached the scene of offence and preliminary investigations revealed that Ahmed had an old dispute with his sisters over the share in property. Ahmed last year, allegedly killed his wife Fatima and he was in jail for a long time, before coming out on bail. Police said the accused was at large and a manhunt had been lauched to track him down. A case was registered against Ahmed Bin under section 302 (murder) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wifes-murder-accused-out-on-bail-kills-2-sisters/articleshow/76700050.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||City’s air action plan lacks sources of pollution: Analysis||Nagpur: The city’s clean air action plan does not contain information on the sources of air pollution and also lacks a legal mandate for implementation. This was revealed in the latest independent analysis released on Tuesday by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) and Urban Emissions. Under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which is a statutory body of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), had identified over 100 polluted cities where the prescribed standards for ambient air quality are violated. The city’s plan, which has been approved by CPCB subject to some compliances, revealed that post 2006, citizens have been breathing toxic air, with the deadliest pollutant Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter (RSPM) surpassing the national permissible limit. According to the analysis, only 20% of the interventions mentioned in the city’s plan call for on-ground pollution control measures. “Over 80% of the actions mentioned in the plan involve overseeing, planning, proposing, preparing, investigating, identifying, ensuring, banning, initiating, launching, planning, restricting and promoting. Also, 38% of Nagpur’s action strategies are directed at the transport sector and 20% target industries,” the analysis stated. During the lockdown, the only real-time monitoring station in the city reported a 30% decline in PM2.5 concentrations. “However, to tackle air pollution in the city in the long-term, a single monitoring station for a city with over 2 million population is insufficient. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and the Nagpur Municipal Corporation must collectively prioritize the setting up of more monitoring stations and creating trackable indicators to oversee the progress of implementation of this plan,” said Tanushree Ganguly, a researcher at CEEW and a co-author of the study. The analysis also finds that the city’s plan lists 66 measures across 17 different agencies. While the MPCB is responsible for only 20% of all actions, the urban local bodies and state transport department share the burden of almost 60% of the actions. Moreover, 34% of actions fall under multiple agencies. Furthermore, the estimates suggest that 21% of the pollution in Nagpur could originate outside city limits. However, the plan does not include any measures to ensure regional coordination,” the analysis added. Stating that over 30% of the activities are shared across multiple agencies, Kurinji Selvaraj, a researcher at CEEW and co-author of the study, said, “Fragmentation of accountability is a key impediment. Hence, it is crucial to delineate specific tasks for each action point among participating agencies.” As per the study, only five non-attainment cities in the state — Amravati, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Chandrapur and Mumbai — of the 17 with approved action plans contain information of emission sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-air-action-plan-lacks-sources-of-pollution-analysis/articleshow/76699612.cms||Manka Behl
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||Submerged bridge in Vijayapura adds to SSLC students’ duress||Hubballi: The monsoon is not only ringing in a spike in the number of cold and flu cases being reported across Karnataka, it is also wreaking havoc with the transport arrangements of SSLC students, already under considerable duress. Heavy rain in Vijayapura district has resulted in a key bridge that connects Nalatwad and Talikot getting submerged thereby adding to the woes of more than 80 students from Chavanbhavi and other villages, who are now struggling to reach their examination venues. Heavy showers that lashed the district on Sunday night destroyed standing crops across vast tracts of land. Lakes and streams in Vijayapura are overflowing. In addition to the Nalatwad-Talikot bridge getting submerged, several other roads in Vijayapura are waterlogged, and scores of SSLC students were understandably stressed about being late for their exams considering the poor condition of the roads. Nagaraj Nelawasi, Jakkappa Biradar, Muttappa Madari were among the Chavanbhavi residents who confirmed to TOI about the bridge in Vijayapura being submerged. They said that the examination centre where the students from their village, and the surrounding areas were to write their test, was 7km away. However, the villagers rose to the occasion, and clutching them tightly, helped students wade through the overflowing stream that the bridge is built across. The villagers helped more than 30 students cross the stream in this manner, while the others took significantly longer routes to reach the venue. Owing to lack of sufficient buses, villagers decided to drop the students on their own vehicles. The villagers attributed the sharp level in the water level of the stream to the silt that has accumulated in it. Although relieved that the students in the village were able to reach the exam venue on time, they enjoined on the authorities concerned to make alternative arrangements to ensure they could reach the centres without palpitations. Deputy director of the department of public instruction, Vijayapura Prasanna Kumar said that, the block education officer for the area, along with other staff had visited Chavanbhavi and the other villages on learning of the problems that the students were facing. Kumar assured the villagers that arrangements would be made to ensure safe and quick transport of the students if the Nalatwad-Talikot bridge continued to remain under water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/submerged-bridge-in-vijayapura-adds-to-sslc-students-duress/articleshow/76699893.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||Feminist writer Geetha Nagabhushan no more||Kalaburagi: Kannada writer Geetha Nagbhushan, first woman writer to bag the Nadoja Award, passed away at a private hospital in Kalaburagi on Sunday night. She was 78. She died of cardiac arrest. Born in 1942 at Savalagi village, Geetha started her carreer as a lecturer at Nagareshwar Women’s PU College in Kalaburagi. She served as a professor and principal of the degree college for three decades. Her first novel ‘Tavare Hoovu’ was published in 1968 and her last work ‘Baduku’ in 2004. In all, she wrote 27 novels, 50 short stories and 12 plays. She bagged Kendra Sahitya Academy Award for the novel ‘Baduku.’ She also bagged Daana Chintamani Award, Attimabbe Award, Karnataka Sahitya Academy Award and Rajyothsava Award. Her work ‘Hasi Mamsa Mattu Haddugalu’ was made into a movie by name ‘Hennina Koogu’. A feminist writer, Geetha focussed on issues like harassment of women, gender discrimination and poverty. She chaired the 76th Kannada Sahitya Sammela held in Gadag. Geetha’s last rites were performed at Savalagi village on Monday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/feminist-writer-geetha-nagabhushan-no-more/articleshow/76699899.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||Spike in SARI, ILI patients testing positive for Covid-19 in North Karnataka has authorities worried||Belagavi: In the wake of four elderly people dying of Covid-19 in Bidar and Kalaburagi on Saturday, the authorities in the two North Karnataka districts are struggling to trace their contacts. Notwithstanding the state government’s assertion that there the pandemic has not reached community transmission yet, the rise in the number of patients with influenza like illnesses (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) in Belagavi, Gadag, Dharwad, Bidar and Kalaburagi districts in the past week has made the authorities an anxious lot. Consequently, the authorities are struggling to contain the transmission of the virus in their respective districts. Kalaburagi deputy commissioner Sharath B said that most of the residents who had returned from Maharashtra had gone to their hamlets or tandas. “It is possible that there were asymptomatic Covid-19 patients among them. Although a large number of asymptomatic patients were not tested, it does not mean that they were not positive for the novel coronavirus. We have decided to declare entire hamlets where positive cases have been reported as containment zones. We have also intensified testing in villages, which are home to those who have returned from the neighbouring state,” Sharath told TOI. Officials in Raichur and Gadag said that the spike in the number of people with SARI and ILI testing positive for the novel coronavirus despite having had no contact with previously infected patients hints at the infection having reached the stage of community transmission. Dr Maqsood Chanda, one of the doctors advising the district administration in Bidar, said that the death of the three elderly people in the district and indications of their not having had contact with previously infected patients compelled one to acknowledge the reality of community transmission. “Virulence of the virus is notably higher among those who have returned from Hyderabad and they are likely to transmit the novel coronavirus to more people compared to those who are asymptomatic. Increase in the movement of those who have come from Hyderabad is likely to worsen the situation,” said Dr Chanda. Director of National Institute of Traditional Medicine-Indian Council of Medical Research Debprasad Chattopadhyay said that the exponential spike in the number of infections offered irrefutable evidence of the virus being prevalent in the community. He said that the movement of asymptomatic patients, who constituted a bulk of the cases, was among the reasons for the spike, albeit by a small percentage. On the other hand, Dr BV Srinivas Kakkilaya said that institutional quarantine centres in North Karnataka had turned into clusters for transmission of the virus. “The virus is now amongst us in the community, and the authorities will have to prepare themselves to tackle it accordingly,” Dr Kakkilaya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/spike-in-sari-ili-patients-testing-positive-for-covid-19-in-north-karnataka-has-authorities-worried/articleshow/76697186.cms||Shreyas HS
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Govt to take call on univ exams on July 2: Dy CM||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government will take the final call on whether to hold university exams or not even as a four-member committee appointed by it is learnt to have “strongly” recommended against holding exams due to Covid-19 outbreak. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who also holds the education portfolio, said the final decision will be announced on July 2. After a meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday evening, Sharma said, “The central government will issue guidelines by July 1. The UP government will follow these and announce its decision on July 2.” However, sources said that the four-member committee headed by Meerut University vice-chancellor A K Taneja and comprising the vice-chancellors of three more state universities, has submitted its report recommending that exams should be cancelled as it is not possible to hold them amid the crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic. If the government accepts the committee’s recommendation, then about 48 lakh students would be promoted as per an accepted formula. Certain universities had started conducting exams before the nationwide lockdown was implemented on March 25 because of which all papers were postponed indefinitely. After Unlock 1.0, some universities issued fresh date sheets, but the move was strongly opposed both by students and teachers. The government then set up the four-member committee on Saturday to recommend whether it would be possible to conduct exams or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-take-call-on-univ-exams-on-july-2-dy-cm/articleshow/76699609.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Take over hospital and pay us rent, says owner||NEW DELHI: On May 24, when Delhi government ordered that all private hospitals with 50 or more beds would have to reserve 20% of their beds for Covid-19 patients, Dr Pankaj Solanki who runs a 50-bed hospital in Rohini called his staff and told them about it. “The laundry staff, ambulance driver, housekeeping staff and even the security agency employed by us refused to work in the Covid-19 section,” Dr Solanki, owner of Dharamveer Solanki multi-specialty hospital, told TOI. In the first two weeks of June, Dr Solanki added, he and his wife, who is also a doctor, interviewed around 200 to 300 people to join them. “Few good people joined us and we started a 10-bed Covid ICU from June 13. We had to make some changes in the infrastructure and buy equipment as well,” the 38-year-old doctor, a first generation entrepreneur, said. In the last 17 days, he added, only seven Covid-19 patients have come. “One of them is my own relative,” Dr Solanki said, adding that non-Covid patients, on the other hand, have stopped coming. “Before we started Covid services, our hospital used to have a daily footfall of 30-35 patients in the OPD and around 25 indoor admissions happened in a month’s time. The OPD footfall has now reduced to two to three patients daily, there have been only two non-Covid admissions and not a single surgery has been conducted over the past fortnight,” the doctor said. “I have to give salaries and pay bills but unfortunately there’s not enough money in hand. No savings left either,” he added. Dr Solanki spent his life’s savings, borrowed money from family and friends and took a hefty sum on loan from banks. He doesn’t know how to repay that under the current circumstances. “I will meet the state health authorities in a day or two and request them to take over my hospital and pay me some rent,” the doctor said. Dr Harish Gupta, who runs a hospital in East Delhi, said the smaller hospitals are finding it difficult to survive. “Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms are preferring home isolation. Those with moderate to severe symptoms rush to big private hospitals because they have better facilities and the rates are capped. Smaller facilities are lying vacant,” he said. Watch Delhi: Owners of smaller Covid-19 hospitals in trouble as patients keep away||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/take-over-hospital-and-pay-us-rent-says-owner/articleshow/76699624.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Encroached plot reclaimed by forest department||JAIPUR: In a massive drive, the forest department on Monday reclaimed its 350 bighas which was encroached by some influential people. The land was adjoined to the Nahargarh Biological Park situated on Jaipur-Delhi highway (NH-8). Acting on the high court’s directions, the forest department along with police deployment reached village Bid Papad around 8am to clear the encroachment. The team demolished a house, servant quarter, water tank and a garage, which were constructed on khasra number 11,12 and 46 falling under the Nahargarh Wildlife Sanctuary land . The drive continued till 12.30pm. The department also reclaimed 26 bighas and 106 bighas from the same village. According to officials, total land of 350 bighas was made encroachment free on Monday. “At separate places, the forest land was encroached by influential including a retired IPS officer. The officer has constructed a house and erected fencing for farming. Total 350 bighas was reclaimed. It was a peaceful drive and the teams did not face any protest . However, taking precautionary measures, police was deployed ,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/encroached-plot-reclaimed-by-forest-dept/articleshow/76699629.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Police oppose anticipatory bail plea by Zenito Cardozo||PANAJI: Goa police on Monday opposed the anticipatory bail application filed before the district court by history sheeter Zenito Cardozo of Santa Cruz. The court will likely hear the case on Tuesday. Even as police tried to find Cardozo at his house, he was not traceable. The case pertains to the recent shootout at the house of Imran Bepari at Santa Cruz. North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon said that Cardozo is wanted in an alleged conspiracy behind the attempt to murder. “We have opposed the granting of bail to Cardozo,” Prasoon said, adding that the force’s reply has been submitted to the court. He also declined to provide further details, claiming that any information released at this point “will go in favour of Cardozo”. The June 20 shootout in Santa Cruz seems to have had its roots in rival gang members’ affection for one woman. Police had said that two men from different gangs had their eye on the same woman, and regularly issued threats to each other before things went out of hand over the weekend. “During our investigation, we found that Cardozo has a role in the conspiracy,” Prasoon said. Cardozo was involved in several cases over the years like murder, attempt to murder, gang wars and extortion. In 2013, he was detained under the stringent National Security Act, before being granted bail by the high court of Bombay at Goa. In the wee hours of June 20, ten masked persons went to the house of Bepari, and the scuffle ended in the death of one Sonu Yadav, originally from Uttar Pradesh, who was shot in the chest. Prasoon said that 20 persons have so far been arrested in the case, and three juveniles have been sent to Apna Ghar. The Bepari faction, led by his brother, had earlier met the accused persons and had verbally sparred on the issue, an altercation that later spiralled into full-blown enmity. A senior police officer had said that prior to the attack, the groups traded barbs on video, sending these files over mobile apps. Interestingly, police had said that the accused aren’t from one specific group but belong to two-three different groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-oppose-anticipatory-bail-plea-by-zenito/articleshow/76700059.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Congress protests hike in fuel prices||Chandrapur: The city unit of Congress on Monday staged a sit-in agitation before the district collectorate to flay the rise of petrol and diesel prices in the country. “After many have lost their jobs and others have suffered heavy losses in business due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the union government is adding fuel to the fire by raising prices of petrol and diesel,” said MP Balu Dhanorkar. He slammed the government led by PM Narendra Modi for harassing people instead of solving their problems during these hard times. A delegation led by Dhanorkar met the district collector and forwarded a memorandum of demands addressed to President Ramnath Kovind. MLA Prathibha Dhanorkar, city president Ritesh Tiwari, district president Prakash Devtale, former MLA Devrao Bhandekar and others party workers took part in the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/congress-protests-hike-in-fuel-prices/articleshow/76698604.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Goon held for stabbing wife||Nagpur: Vicky Rokde, 35, a dreaded goon, who is also a railway employee, was arrested on Sunday for stabbing his wife Nayan, who narrowly escaped a more vicious attack. The incident took place at Ajni railway quarters. It’s learnt Vicky, earlier arrested under Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), attacked his wife after she stopped him from stepping outside on a holiday, and insisted he play with their son. She was also questioning him regarding a video call he had made on Wednesday, which left him enraged. Police said Nayan suspected Vicky was having an extramarital affair. The couple would frequently fight over the issue. Vicky, despite working as a peon, is close to some gangsters from South Nagpur. Police said Nayan was lucky to escape with some injuries on the head, even though Vicky chased after her with a knife. An offence of attempt to murder was registered against Vicky.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-held-for-stabbing-wife/articleshow/76699616.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Police crack Jaipur ATM robbery case, arrest 3||JAIPUR: With coordinated efforts, Jaipur police on Monday managed to crack the case of ATM robbery in which robbers decamped with nearly Rs 23.85 lakh from Mohana police station area in the city. Police arrested three persons, including a Kashmiri youth, in this connection while four other identified accused were at large. Police stated that everyone in the gang had a well-defined role and after the robbery the money was distributed and the robbers even deposited in the banks. Police have also recovered gas cutters, blow pipes, gas cylinders, ATM machine boxes, a car and a bike from the possession of the arrested accused Devendra alias Deva of Haryana, Ranjan Kumar, a resident of Gurugram and Abdul Waheed, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir. Additional commissioner (crime) Ashok Kumar Gupta said during interrogation of accused Abdul Waheed, it came to light that he used to work in a company and work for saffron supply while staying in Patrakar Colony of Mansarover. “As he had no work during the lockdown he planned to rob an ATM. He came in contact with one Devendra alias Deva who was recently bailed out in a 2017 case of robbery of 30kg gold and Rs 8 lakh from Manappuram Gold Loan office in Gurgaon,” Gupta added. “They deposited the money in banks and efforts are on to recover the money they have robbed,” he added. Police said that Deva knew some of the Meo gangs who are masters in cutting ATM machines within minutes. “They contacted some of the members of Meo gangs who cut the machine and only seek their remuneration,” he added. Soon after the incident, several teams were formed. “Firstly we caught Devendra from Kaithal in Haryana and the second team arrested Ranjan Kumar from Gurgaon and the third team arrested Abdul Waheed from Jaipur,” he added. Police believe that all the gang members had prior acquaintance with the Meo gangs. “We have arrested three of them and when the other four who were responsible for cutting the ATM machine are caught the picture would be clear,” Gupta added. Police said all the gang members visit various parts of the country and take house on rent on the pretext of working in a multi-national company. All of them had well defined roles from recce to executing the robbery and cutting the machine. The three arrested were in touch with Meo gang and had prior acquaintance. Police said further interrogation of the accused will fetch them some clues in other ATM robberies as it appears that they were in touch for a long time. Also the three accused came to Jaipur a month ago when there was some relaxation in the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-crack-city-atm-robbery-case-arrest-3/articleshow/76699618.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||261 heritage trees identified in state||The forest department has started compiling data on ‘heritage’ trees. So far, 261 trees have been identified by the department which fit the criteria of being a heritage tree. The department has invited proposals from people who have noticed such trees in their surroundings which qualify to be a ‘heritage’ tree. Among the criteria fixed for a ‘heritage’ tree are the age of the tree, it should be ancient, and more than 100 years old. “ Parijaat tree in Barabanki is an apt example on many grounds,” an official said. The tree should have been the mother of a particular specie. The mother tree of Dussehri mango in Kakori is one of it. The tree should have a connect with history. Those with spiritual significance could also be the ‘heritage’ trees. Also, trees that have emerged as landmarks in their areaswould also qualify.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/261-heritage-trees-identified-in-state/articleshow/76699630.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Drop in calls to NMC Covid-19 control room||Nagpur: From attending phone calls enquiring about coronavirus symptoms, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Covid-19 helpline is now getting complaints regarding people flouting home quarantine norms, venturing out without wearing masks etc. Since setting up of the helpline on March 12, the control room used to get 40 to 50 calls on an average daily, which rose to 100 on three numbers – 0712-2567021, 0712-2551866 and 18002333764. Now, the number of phone calls pertaining to coronavirus scare at the helpline has reduced drastically from approximately 80 calls a day to 10 to 12 now. The control room — being monitored by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe — has received over 6,000 phone calls till June 27, said control room in-charge and NMC’s medical officer (medicine) Dr Vijay Joshi. The control room also receives calls from Kamptee, Hingna, Wadi etc apart from the city. The staffers there note down the details of callers and pass on the information to the control room set up by the district collectorate. Even queries on NMC’s corona app (launched on March 27) for the benefit of symptomatic citizens with problems of cough, fever, and difficulty in breathing, too reduced to 518. Dr Joshi also highlighted some recent instances when the helpline offered immediate assistance to people in need and also ensured that people under home quarantine do not venture out. “With the easing of lockdown norms, many citizens who had been stuck in other cities and states have returned home. As per rules, they should stay at home for at least 14 days,” said Dr Joshi. As many were not following the rules, their neighbours alerted the NMC’s helpline numbers. It helped many a times, he said adding the helpline also received fake calls too. The helpline has also started receiving calls pertaining to people venturing out without face masks. In such alerts, people at the call centre passed the information to NMC’s nuisance detection squad. In another case, the control room received a call from a private hospital after staffers there suspected a patient having coronavirus symptoms. “We later guided them to shift the patient to either of the two government hospitals — GMCH or IGGMCH,” said Dr Joshi. Paramedical staff deployed in three shifts is also helping the NMC’s health (medical) staffers to trace contacts of positive patients and also sharing guidelines and alerts to callers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/drop-in-calls-to-nmc-covid-19-control-room/articleshow/76699634.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 30, 2020||Pune||Intense showers lash Shivajinagar, 50.3mm rainfall in about an hour||PUNE: Intense rain lashed Shivajinagar on Monday, showering 54.1mm — the highest 12-hour and 24-hour rainfall of this monsoon — at the location. Shivajinagar received 50.3mm rain in about an hour from 3.45pm to a little beyond 4.45pm on Monday. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy rain at a location is 64.5mm to 115.5mm in a 24-hour period. As Monday’s spell was spread over a short span of 45 minutes to an hour, it was an intense shower, said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune. Shivajinagar was the wettest spot on Monday among the cities recording rainfall daily in Maharashtra. It recorded 54.1mm rain till 8.30pm on Monday, as it received another 3.8mm between 5.30pm and 8.30pm. Places like Mahabaleshwar, Mumbai, Ratnagiri and Dahanu, among others, which usually record heavy rain during monsoon, got traces, very light to nil rain from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Monday. The rain intensity was strong in Shivajinagar as it was a combination of monsoon as well as convective showers because the city had witnessed intermittent sunshine during the day. Convective showers are characterised with sharp rain spells that are intense and bring a good volume of precipitation in a short period of time. Kashyapi told TOI, “An upper air cyclonic circulation over Marathwada has been bringing copious moisture over Madhya Maharashtra. This, in combination with the strong westerly winds coming from the Arabian Sea, resulted in Monday’s intense rain spell over Pune. The rainfall was also convective in nature as we saw cumulonimbus cloud development over all the three locations in Pune — Shivajinagar, Pashan and Lohegaon — on Monday.” He said, “Since the rainfall was also convective in nature, it was not uniform across Pune. When Shivajinagar received an intense spell, Pashan got 0.4mm rainfall and Lohegaon received light rain at 11.4mm from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Monday.” Development of cumulonimbus clouds results from high temperature (which has been 33°C-plus over Pune for the past couple of days) as well as high relative humidity, causing local instability and intense convective showers. Kashyapi said in the coming days after July 2, westerly winds were expected to get stronger, more moisture incursion was likely over Maharashtra and the isobaric lines over Arabian Sea could get more packed, resulting in convergence from the sea towards Konkan-Goa and eastern Madhya Maharashtra. “Thus, Konkan-Goa and parts of Madhya Maharashtra, including the district and the city, may get good rain after July 2. From Tuesday till that period, rainfall is expected to be moderate over Pune,” said Kashyapi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/intense-showers-lash-shivajinagar-50-3mm-rainfall-in-about-an-hour/articleshow/76698609.cms||Neha Madaan
June 30, 2020||Pune||Banker among two held for running prostitution racket||PUNE: An assistant manager with a nationalised bank, posted in a branch in rural Baramati, and an out-of-job software engineer landed in police custody on Sunday for allegedly running a prostitution racket through an escort service website. Police are also looking for their woman associate, who would bring girls to the duo for their clientele, comprising working professionals and small-time businessmen. The duo would locate isolated properties and hire them on rent for their customers, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh told TOI, “We have arrested assistant bank manager Ravikant Baleshwar Paswan (34), hailing from Muzaffarpur in Bihar and residing at Sus Road, and software engineer Deepak Jayprakash Sharma (36), a native of Jharsuguda in Odisha and currently residing at Balewadi, on Sunday.” A city court remanded the duo in police custody till July 4. The police said the duo’s arrest was a sequel to the Chatushrungi police’s raid on a row house in Baner on June 23 and the rescue of four women. The police then arrested Suresh Ranvir (35) of Baner and the row house owner, Naksen Gajghate (52), of Bavdhan. Their interrogation led the police to Paswan and Sharma. Deshmukh said, “Paswan and Sharma came together in November 2019 and started an interactive website for accepting bookings. We have seized 11 cellphones, four laptops and a tablet, besides an SUV.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/banker-among-two-held-for-running-prostitution-racket/articleshow/76698625.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Police patil hurt in firing in Khed village||Pune: A police patil from Bhamburwadi in Khed taluka, about 50km from the city, had a narrow escape when a person opened fire at him from a country-made pistol and the latter’s aides attacked him with stones around 4pm on Sunday. “The bullet brushed past the 38-year-old police patil, Sachin Walunj’s, left arm,” an officer from Khed police said, adding, “We suspect the firing was a result of a political rivalry. In 2016, one of the suspects was made to resign from the post of deputy sarpanch and he had borne a suspicion since then that Walunj was behind the move.” “Walunj has named the assailants. He also stated in his complaint that the suspects told him to ask his wife to resign from the post of sarpanch of the village,” the officer further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-patil-hurt-in-firing-in-khed-village/articleshow/76698618.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Facing manpower shortage in Covid-19 fight: Delhi government in high court||NEW DELHI: Opposing a contempt plea filed for its alleged failure in handling the Covid-19 situation, the AAP government has told Delhi high court it is facing manpower shortage after losing four doctors to Covid-19 along with infection of thousands of healthcare professionals. The government said it was “preposterous” to move a contempt petition against it over managing of bodies at such a time and urged a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan to dismiss the plea. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for Delhi government, contended that at a time when the government is hard-pressed to find manpower to manage the system, it was “unfortunate” and “preposterous” that a contempt petition had been moved. The plea sought contempt action against Delhi government and the medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital for allegedly not adhering to the undertaking given to the court on handling Covid bodies. The bodies are lying in same wards and corridors where patients are kept, the petition alleged. The government has given a undertaking that bodies won’t be found lying in hospital wards or corridors, it pointed out. Jain said the issue of body management was before the Supreme Court, which had taken it up suo motu and the next hearing would be on July 20. The high court bench said that since a similar matter was before the Supreme Court, “the present matters are adjourned to July 29”. It also said the apex court had issued guidelines and Delhi government was taking steps as per them. The bench also heard an issue taken up on its own about the lack of facilities to cremate Covid bodies. NGO Mokshda Paryavaran Evam Van Suraksha Samiti, offering green crematoriums, has also filed a PIL through advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal on the same issue. North Delhi Municipal Corporation said no body was piling up at any crematorium. The city can handle 367 Covid bodies daily, which is more than twice of the current average requirement, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/facing-manpower-shortage-in-covid-fight-govt-in-hc/articleshow/76699639.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||3 days after Covid death, NMC finally quarantines 10 from Boriyapura||Nagpur: Finally, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and police department succeeded in quarantining 10 people from Boriyapura at Dobi Nagar in Mominpura on Monday. The action happened three days after a deceased tested positive for Covid-19. TOI had reported on Monday that none, including family members of the deceased, were quarantined and tested even though three days had passed after the death. The 40-year-old woman was brought dead to IGGMCH on Thursday night and her samples tested positive on Friday. NMC was supposed to quarantine and test all family members and close contacts. It was not done, reportedly due to strong opposition from local residents backed by some influential people. Also, the NMC team is reportedly demoralized after a series of allegations in the general body meeting. Sources from NMC Gandhibagh zone told TOI, “The husband of the woman along with nine close contacts were quarantined. Also, the containment zone was barricaded. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe sent additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, who along with police personnel, assistant commissioner Ashok Patil and zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin spoke to the people and explained the importance of testing and requested cooperation in quarantine.” For the third consecutive day, the number of samples tested remained low. As per information available from District Information Office (DIO), 242 samples were tested on Monday, 263 on Sunday and 126 on Saturday. Earlier, daily testing number was around 400-660. Sources said NMC has started to quarantine very few contacts of positive persons over last 10 days, leading to fewer samples for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-days-after-covid-death-nmc-finally-quarantines-10-from-boriyapura/articleshow/76699643.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 30, 2020||Pune||2 hurt as vehicle in NCP chief’s convoy tips over||Pune: A police vehicle, a part of the convoy of the NCP chief, Sharad Pawar, tipped over at Khandala on Pune-Mumbai expressway around 10.30am on Monday. Two persons, including a police constable, suffered minor injuries in the accident. The convoy, escorted by a team of Pune police’s special protection unit (SPU), was heading towards Mumbai from Pune. Pawar and some of his family members were travelling in their SUV, while his personal assistant was in the jeep, police said. The Lonavla city police inspector, Manoj Yadav, said, “Constable Prakash Waghmode was driving the police vehicle. He lost control over the wheels while negotiating a turn in the ghat section between Lonavla tunnel and the Amrutanjan bridge. The vehicle flipped on its side. Waghmode suffered minor injuries.” Yadav said, “The NCP chief’s personal assistant suffered minor bruises and was given first-aid on the spot before the convoy left for Mumbai. An ambulance was rushed to the accident spot, but none of the other occupants of the vehicle had suffered serious injuries. Waghmode was taken to hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-hurt-as-vehicle-in-ncp-chiefs-convoy-tips-over/articleshow/76698613.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vadodara||Hotspots changing: Surat sees rise in Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: The pattern of the spread of Covid-19 has undergone a major shift in Gujarat, comparative figures for the past ten days show. Comparing the number of new cases from June 10 to 19 and 20 to 29, indicate that the share of Ahmedabad district has gone down from 64% to 42.2% whereas in deaths of Covid-19 patients, the district’s share went down from 75% to 65%. Surat’s share of cases on the other hand rose from 14.5% to 28.8%, and of deaths from 10.5% to 18.2%. Vadodara’s share remained the same, accounting for 8% of cases and it did not report any death in the past 10 days. Several other districts however have recorded an increase, with the share of new cases from other districts rising from 13.5% to 21.4% in the past 10 days. There was also a slight rise, from 13.2% to 16.8%, in their share of deaths. Except Gandhinagar, which recorded a 9.3% dip, and Aravalli, which recorded the same number of cases (38) in both time periods, all other districts reported increases. New cases in the past 24 hours included 236 from Ahmedabad, 206 from Surat, 50 from Vadodara and 20 from Patan. The deaths included nine from Ahmedabad, four from Surat, two from Surendranagar and one each from Banaskantha, Rajkot, Kheda and Amreli. In the past four days, this was the second time Ahmedabad recorded a single-digit death toll. Surat recorded the most discharges (187), followed by 171 in Ahmedabad, 26 in Vadodara and 10 in Anand. Gujarat carried out 4,433 tests in the 24 hours, taking the total of tests conducted to 3.67 lakh. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 2.39 lakh persons under quarantine out whom 2.36 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hotspots-changing-surat-sees-rise-in-cases/articleshow/76705519.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Surat||Hotspots changing: Surat sees rise in Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: The pattern of the spread of Covid-19 has undergone a major shift in Gujarat, comparative figures for the past ten days show. Comparing the number of new cases from June 10 to 19 and 20 to 29, indicate that the share of Ahmedabad district has gone down from 64% to 42.2% whereas in deaths of Covid-19 patients, the district’s share went down from 75% to 65%. Surat’s share of cases on the other hand rose from 14.5% to 28.8%, and of deaths from 10.5% to 18.2%. Vadodara’s share remained the same, accounting for 8% of cases and it did not report any death in the past 10 days. Several other districts however have recorded an increase, with the share of new cases from other districts rising from 13.5% to 21.4% in the past 10 days. There was also a slight rise, from 13.2% to 16.8%, in their share of deaths. Except Gandhinagar, which recorded a 9.3% dip, and Aravalli, which recorded the same number of cases (38) in both time periods, all other districts reported increases. New cases in the past 24 hours included 236 from Ahmedabad, 206 from Surat, 50 from Vadodara and 20 from Patan. The deaths included nine from Ahmedabad, four from Surat, two from Surendranagar and one each from Banaskantha, Rajkot, Kheda and Amreli. In the past four days, this was the second time Ahmedabad recorded a single-digit death toll. Surat recorded the most discharges (187), followed by 171 in Ahmedabad, 26 in Vadodara and 10 in Anand. Gujarat carried out 4,433 tests in the 24 hours, taking the total of tests conducted to 3.67 lakh. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 2.39 lakh persons under quarantine out whom 2.36 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hotspots-changing-surat-sees-rise-in-cases/articleshow/76705522.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP readies to sow a greener future with 25 crore saplings||LUCKNOW: The state has geared up for a unique plantation drive during the Covid times. Though the date of the plantation drive has not been finalised in all probability the mega exercise to plant 25 crore saplings would be undertaken on July 5. Preparations are in full swing and close to 4.5 crore saplings have already been transported to plantation sites. However, this time there would be no public gatherings and the plantation drive would be launched with full Covid norms. “Acting on Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's directives ‘do gaj ki doori, mask zaroori’ would be ensured during the exercise,” said mission director, plantation, Mukesh Kumar. To make the plantation drive a success, district-level committees, headed by DMs, have been constituted, he said and added that the “state is eyeing another record this time which is planting over 150 tree species at two to three sites in theLucknow division.” In all, 8.7lakh plantation sites and about 30 crore trees are ready and are being geo-tagged. Beneficiaries of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna will be given five saplings each. Beneficiaries of other Central schemes, including PMAY, Saubhagya, Ujjwala and SBM, will be given one 'sahjan’ sapling each. Besides, over 2.2 crore trees would be planted on the banks of Ganga, Yamuna, Gomti, Rapti, Ghaghra, Saryu, Sharda, Tamsa,Varuna, Betwa and other rivers. Maximum trees, more than 67 lakh, would be planted on the Ganga banks in 27 districts. Plantation would be done up to 10kms on both the banks of the river, covering an area of about 20,000 hectare. Prayagraj will get a maximum 51.7 lakh trees, followed by Jhansi where over 49.7 lakh trees will be planted. Over 38 lakh trees would be planted in Gorakhpur and over 26 lakh trees in Lucknow. The forest department has raised at least 44 crore saplings in 1,762 state nurseries. The state forest department has also finalised 57,904 microplans for 60,000 gram panchayats and 800 urban local bodies. Out of the total demand assessed by the department for different tree varieties demand for teak is 36% which is the highest. The other two timber varieties that are popular choices are eucalyptus (26%) and sheesham (20%). In addition to timber varieties, fruit bearing trees have received 15% demand and demand has also been raised for about 55 lakh ‘sahjan' trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-readies-to-sow-a-greener-future-with-25-crore-saplings/articleshow/76699641.cms||Neha Shukla
June 30, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19: In a first, self-swabbing case turns positive in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a first-of-its-kind procedure in the capital, a 23-year-old medical student who returned from Tajikistan tested positive following a self-swabbing procedure. His family had taken utmost precaution and shown responsibility to choose an outhouse for his room quarantine considering the cluster of families who lived together. His uncle Dr Mohammad Yusuf, a general medicine and critical care practitioner who underwent training in Covid critical care, ensured all protocols for swab collection were followed. He had designated the brother of the student as the caretaker as per room quarantine norms. They made use of a PPE kit they had in store, sampling kits purchased from RGCB to do swabbing. Nasal and throat swabs were taken by the medical student a day after his arrival, guided on the phone by his uncle, who is employed at a private hospital in the capital. “He was asymptomatic, but his chances of contracting infection were high. We wanted to ensure that he doesn’t go around and spread infection in case he was a silent carrier after his quarantine period. We were convinced as a family and Manacaud being a containment zone, we didn’t want to take any further risks,” said Yusuf. The swabs taken by the student were put in viral transport medium again in a triple layer package and icepack. The testing was done at RGCB and the result was positive on Saturday. A recent study by researchers at Stanford University School of Medicine showed that test samples collected by people – who swabbed their own nasal passages –yielded results for the COVID-19 virus that were as accurate as samples collected by a healthcare worker. Self-swabbing among people, who suspect they may have Covid-19, has many advantages; sample-collection kits could be widely distributed allowing more people to be tested and those using the kit wouldn’t have to travel to a testing site, negating the risk of transmission to others with whom they interact in transit. Self-collection will conserve supplies of personal protective equipment used by healthcare workers, the study noted. With non-availability of ambulances being a problem and local health centres unable to ensure testing for patients due to presence of slight symptoms, voluntary testing is catching up in private hospitals here. Many of them who do tests in the morning get their results around noon. TOI had recently reported how a couple in quarantine had to go for testing on a two wheeler and how two traffic cops who intercepted them during routine check had to be quarantined. District authorities are thinking of engaging private hospitals and authorised labs more effectively for Covid testing in a bid to reduce sample load and the delay in results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/in-a-first-self-swabbing-case-turns-positive-in-tpuram/articleshow/76697494.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hotspots changing: Surat sees rise in Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: The pattern of the spread of Covid-19 has undergone a major shift in Gujarat, comparative figures for the past ten days show. Comparing the number of new cases from June 10 to 19 and 20 to 29, indicate that the share of Ahmedabad district has gone down from 64% to 42.2% whereas in deaths of Covid-19 patients, the district’s share went down from 75% to 65%. Surat’s share of cases on the other hand rose from 14.5% to 28.8%, and of deaths from 10.5% to 18.2%. Vadodara’s share remained the same, accounting for 8% of cases and it did not report any death in the past 10 days. Several other districts however have recorded an increase, with the share of new cases from other districts rising from 13.5% to 21.4% in the past 10 days. There was also a slight rise, from 13.2% to 16.8%, in their share of deaths. Except Gandhinagar, which recorded a 9.3% dip, and Aravalli, which recorded the same number of cases (38) in both time periods, all other districts reported increases. New cases in the past 24 hours included 236 from Ahmedabad, 206 from Surat, 50 from Vadodara and 20 from Patan. The deaths included nine from Ahmedabad, four from Surat, two from Surendranagar and one each from Banaskantha, Rajkot, Kheda and Amreli. In the past four days, this was the second time Ahmedabad recorded a single-digit death toll. Surat recorded the most discharges (187), followed by 171 in Ahmedabad, 26 in Vadodara and 10 in Anand. Gujarat carried out 4,433 tests in the 24 hours, taking the total of tests conducted to 3.67 lakh. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 2.39 lakh persons under quarantine out whom 2.36 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hotspots-changing-surat-sees-rise-in-cases/articleshow/76698629.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||No international flights in West Bengal till July 15, CM Mamata Banerjee for curbs on long-distance trains||KOLKATA: No international flight will operate in Bengal till July 15. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee made the announcement at Nabanna on Monday, given the rising Covid-19 graph in the state. The chief secretary has requested the civil aviation ministry to regulate domestic flights too. The state reportedly does not want air services from five “Covid hotspots” in the country for some time. “We can have domestic flights once a week, barring those originating from the five hotspots. I am not naming them. They are the five Covid high-prevalence zones. We have to make special arrangements for passengers. We can’t do that round the clock, when there is no special arrangement from the civil aviation ministry,” the CM said. Banerjee is, however, not opposed to operating intra-state flights, such as the ones between Kolkata and Bagdogra or Kolkata and Andal. Banerjee has similar reservations about long-distance trains originating from the hotspots. “The chief secretary will talk to railways, urging them to suspend long-distance trains from the hotspots. We need the restriction for some time, when the state has extended the lockdown till July 31,” she said. Pointing to the rising Covid cases in Bengal, Banerjee said the graph started moving upward after thousands started coming to Bengal by trains and flights. In the city, to minimise everyday commute woes, Banerjee wants Kolkata Metro to resume services from July 1 with limited passengers. “I hope the city Metro will re-open from July 1. Metro officials are ready to offer services to those in essential services. Metro will allow smart card-users only for now. The chief secretary will take up the matter with the Railway Board chairman,” she said. Boosting the infrastructure to tackle the pandemic, the state is set to introduce 12 telemedicine lines to help patients seek advice from doctors if they have cough and fever. “We are ramping up the telemedicine infrastructure to help patients talk to doctors, without having to visiting hospitals. Our aim is to create dedicated telemedicine services for each district,” Banerjee said. The government is not only looking at ramping up infrastructure but also boosting patients’ morale. It started setting up Covid Warrior Clubs on Monday, comprising people who have recovered. “Some of them are ready to help out the government by adding confidence to Covid patients currently in hospitals. They will offer patients mental strength to fight the disease. We have set up a team with 40 such people from Kolkata, 10 from Murshidabad and 10 from Malda. Behrampore has a list of 60 recovered people. We are identifying such people in each district,” the CM said. Also, as a token of respect and recognition of the contribution of healthcare workers, Banerjee announced July 1— Doctors’ Day on the birth anniversary of former CM Bidhan Chandra Roy — a state holiday. “We have announced a state holiday on July 1 and want the Centre to announce it a national holiday,” Banerjee said. She tweeted: “Our health infra is fully prepared to tackle #COVID19... The government has decided to procure 3 crore masks, which shall be provided absolutely free of cost to school students, 100-day scheme beneficiaries, frontline healthcare workers, police, fire services staff, municipalities, civic volunteers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-intl-flights-in-state-till-july-15-cm-for-curbs-on-long-distance-trains/articleshow/76698633.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Residents of Sundar Nagar protest over water scarcity||Jaipur: Residents of Sundar Nagar, Jaisinghpura Khor, Jaipur protested at the Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) office on Monday over water scarcity in their area. The area is yet to be connected with Bisalpur pipeline and residents are demanding that its work should start soon to provide relief to the people in summer. Around 150 families are residing in the colony many of whom were present at the PHED office shouting slogans and holding earthen pots. Sunita Chaudhary, president of Samajik Karyakarta Manch, said, “We have been demanding a pipeline in the area for years, but the work hasn’t been started yet.” PHED officials in return assured the residents that work for the pipeline will soon start. Officials have put their seal on a notice stating that within 60 days pipeline work will start and until then, tankers will be supplied by the government in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-of-sundar-nagar-protest-over-water-scarcity/articleshow/76699637.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Pilot leads protest against Centre over fuel price hike||Jaipur: Rajasthan Congress president and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Monday led the protest against the Centre over the ‘unprecedented’ hike in petrol and diesel prices. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has also accused the Modi government of being ‘insensitive’ and said that it should stop fleecing the public. Though chief minister Ashok Gehlot did not take part in the public protest, he, in a series of tweets on hashtag #SpeakUpAgainstFuelHike, hit out at the Centre. “The rise in fuel prices in the nation is a proof of BJP’s totally insensitive governance. NDA is profiteering at a time when people are facing so many hardships. Govt should stop fleecing public.” In another tweet he said, “In last one month, petrol & diesel prices hv bn hiked almost every day. This kind of continuous price rise is a result of wrong policies. Petrol, diesel hike would increase inflation, transportation costs would go up, agriculture inputs would be costlier.” Addressing the protesters at the Youth Congress office at Bani Park, Pilot said, “Due to the coronavirus crisis, demand for fuel has fallen all over the world. Despite having full stock of fuel, the government has burdened the common people by increasing fuel prices continuously for last 20 days.” Such a steep hike has been ‘unprecedented’ in 70 years, he said. Diesel price on Monday scaled a new high after prices were hiked for the 22nd time in just over three weeks, taking the cumulative increase to Rs 11.14 per litre. Pilot said, “The poor and the middle class have been severely hit by the recent hikes. Such a situation has not been seen in any other country. All the countries are helping its people during the coronavirus crisis. The Centre has hammered the people when the country is facing economic slowdown. No government has hit its people so hard before.” He said petrol and diesel prices directly affect common people with its cascading effect on other commodities but the Centre has not formulated any policy to deal with the economic slowdown and they passed on the burden to the masses. “No government can ignore people’s voices. Hike in petrol and diesel prices will have to be reversed,” he demanded. Pilot and other Congress leaders submitted a memorandum to the President through district collector after the protest. Pilot also targeted Centre over ‘different’ statements given by the Prime Minister and the defence ministry on the border standoff with China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-leads-protest-against-centre-over-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/76699640.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||15-year-old raped by six men in Rajasthan's Tonk||JAIPUR: A 15-year-old girl was raped allegedly by six people in Tonk’s Malpura area on Saturday night. The accused apparently held her captive for the entire night and fled after threatening to kill her if she reported the matter. They are yet to be arrested. The survivor registered the complaint at Lamba Harisingh police station on Sunday night. Lamba Harisingh SHO Chitar Singh said, “The survivor claimed that two of the accused abducted her when she went out to relieve herself on Saturday night. They took her to an isolated spot where four more accused joined and they all took turns to rape her.” According to the officials, the accused are all adults and are from the same community as the survivor. “We are looking for the accused. FSL team also took evidence and senior officials have also met the complainant. The accused will be arrested soon,” added the SHO. The girl’s medical examination was done on Monday. “We do not know the reason why the survivor took a day to file the complaint. Apparently the accused are also from same village.” A case under relevant IPC sections has been registered. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-year-old-raped-by-six-men-in-tonk/articleshow/76699657.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||The life of the other: Hungry and helpless||NEW DELHI: Anita and nine of her friends visit the houses of newly married couples and new parents to earn their livelihood. Before the pandemic, people happily gave them the money they demanded considering them auspicious on such occasions. But in the new scenario, they are increasingly being turned away. Rani (all names have been changed on request) claimed to be depressed because she had no other source of money and nobody accepted her in her family. Like Anita and Rani, there are thousands of transgenders in the city who are feeling hapless in the era of the novel coronavirus. Earlier, they performed at weddings and celebrations, sought alms on the city streets, even engaged in commercial sex to feed themselves. Now they are struggling. “During the lockdown, there were occasions when we went to sleep hungry because we had no food and no money to buy food,” said Komal. “When the lockdown was announced, I had Rs 7,800 and a few food items in the house. As time passed, my daughter and I consumed everything, spent all our money and now we are trying to cope with the situation.” Komal said that driven by desperation, she gathered courage and went out to the road junctions as earlier to beg. But, she said, people rolled up their car windows as soon as they saw her approaching, fearing she might be infected. “People fear our curses, but these days their lives are more important than any belief in such things. So they rebuff me every time I knock on their windows. I wear a mask and gloves, but that is of no help with the people,” she said. Namrata worked at a beauty store in west Delhi, but after exhausting her savings, she was left with no option but to go back to her parents’ house in north Delhi, where her family members are contemptuous of her gender choice. “People say demeaning things about the way I live, and this leaves me so miserable. That is why I was living away from my family,” Namrata said. Her friend Surbhi, who dances at weddings and events, said that with marriages and celebrations out of people’s agenda now, she isn’t making any money. She worries that things will not get back to normal any time soon. “We know that people are apprehensive about us possibly carrying the virus and wouldn’t want us at their homes for our dhol-tamasha. In fact, we too don’t want to be blamed for spreading infection, so we are avoiding attending any events for the time being,” said Surbhi. “I couldn’t consider switching to commercial sex but even that isn’t happening. I just hope someone notices our plight. Our fears and worries are going unheard, unnoticed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-life-of-the-other-hungry-and-helpless/articleshow/76699649.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Now, online classes take Ramlila to global shores||LUCKNOW: In last two weeks, groups of teenagers from the United States, Canada, South America, Caribbean countries and Mauritius have been spending their mornings learning what sets apart Sita’s ‘shringar ras’ from Shurpanakha’s, and how Ravan’s laughter is different from that of Ram. These youngsters are also getting an insight into the hard work that goes into staging of Ramlila in north India. To popularize Ramlila across the globe, the Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan has started an online six-month certificate course, tapping largely foreign audience to teach them how Ramlila is performed in India and how makeup and voice modulation is done. The online course, financially supported by the ministry of culture, will be extended to other countries, including Australia and New Zealand, in coming days. Talking to TOI, director of the institute Prof YP Singh said the project was conceptualized during Covid-19 lockdown when online learning took the centre stage. “Two classes have already been held. We conduct classes at night in India so that students in western countries may attend it as it is morning time there. We have taken Ramlila abroad and have a network of people who either perform or organise Ramlilas. When we broached the idea to them, they readily agreed. We will try and bring at least five of these groups to India to perform at Deepotsav during Diwali,” Singh said. The classes are being conducted by theatre artist Manvendra Tripathi from Gorakhpur, who himself plays the role of Ram. Live sessions have modules on makeup, dialogue delivery, decor, costumes, stage decorations etc. The course will be conducted using video and audio guides, lectures and demonstrations. “The institute will also pose questions to experts which will help students get better understanding of the art form. They will learn about various genres of Ramlila in India while experts will specifically focus on the Vyasa style of performance,” Singh said, adding that those who take part in the Master Artist Certificate course will get opportunities to perform on various platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-online-classes-take-ramlila-to-global-shores/articleshow/76699656.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 30, 2020||Kozhikode||ULCCS to roll out upskilling programme||KOZHIKODE: Setting a model amid the churn in the labour market following Covid-19 situation, Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) – one of the largest workers’ cooperatives in Asia – is planning a major upskilling and reskilling programme for its employees. ULCCS, one of the largest players in construction and infrastructure sectors in state with a turnover of over Rs 1,100 crore – will enable interested employees to pursue continuous education for career advancement and technical and vocational education and training. ULCCS has been providing direct employment to over 13,000 workers. The new initiative comes in the backdrop of challenges and opportunities created by the shakeup in labour market, especially construction sector, by various factors including the need for increasing production efficiency by having a skilled workforce. “We know that there has been a change in the attitude of Kerala’s young generation towards work and they now recognize dignity of labour. We have many young employees who have scored over 80% marks in SSLC and higher secondary, but took up work as labourers due to exigencies at their homes. ULCCS will enable them make career progression through upskilling programmes which we will roll out soon,” said ULCCS chairman P Rameshan. He said that the society will soon enter into tie-ups with leading players like L&T for upskilling initiative which will also be open for existing employees, students who have passed out of technical institutions, NRK returnees etc. “The continuing education programme will enable our employees to attain career-level progression,” he said. Apart from the tie-up with L&T which is in the final stage, ULCCS will make use of its educational initiatives under UL Education including Indian Institute of Infrastructure and Construction (IIIC) run by it at Kollam and UL Skill Academy at Vadakara under DDUGKY project for implementing upskilling initiatives. Director of UL Education TP Sethumadhavan said that various educational programmes for ULCCS employees will be provided in a blended mode so that employees can carry their education forward without affecting work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ulccs-to-roll-out-upskilling-programme/articleshow/76697510.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Man hits wife for stopping visit to his mom||Pune: A man was booked on Sunday on the charge of brutally attacking his wife with a belt and a stick following a dispute over not allowing him and his son to visit his mother at Khopoli in Raigad district because of the rise in Covid-19 cases. The incident occurred at a housing society on BT Kawade Road in Ghorpadi between 12.30am and 3am. Assistant inspector Manish Patil from the Mundhwa police said, “The man had recently got a telephone call from his mother asking him to reach her residence because his sister had come to meet her after a long time.” His wife urged him to not travel due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “After the dispute between the couple became heated, the man attacked his wife with a belt and a stick,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-hits-wife-for-stopping-visit-to-his-mom/articleshow/76698636.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Bishop to discuss fee relief with principals||Kolkata: Principals of English medium unaided schools of the city and suburbs, run by the Kolkata Diocese of the Church of North India (CNI), have been called by Bishop Paritosh Canning for a meeting on Wednesday, which will discuss if some relief in annual fees can be given to parents. Among other issues to be discussed are, safety measures that are being implemented for online classes and ways schools can start planning for re-opening when the governments give their green signal. The CNI schools have not raised their fees this year after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s request. However, they had then said that it would not be possible to reduce annual fees because of the recurring expenses that most of the schools have to bear despite the fact that schools are shut at the moment and students are at home doing online classes. Among the principals who will be present are the two La Martiniere schools, St James, Pratt Memorial, the two St Thomas schools of Kidderpore, Union Chapel and St Paul’s. “We are in a bind. We have implemented the Sixth Pay Commission in our schools and in the La Martiniere schools we have implemented the seventh pay commission. It is difficult to give any fee relaxations but we are still going to meet and discuss individual fee structures and see if there are still some windows,” said Bishop Paritosh Canning, who will chair the meet. Each principal will have to come with his/her suggestions. The news about intruders often coming inside online classrooms will also be discussed. Principals have to tell the Bishop how tech-savvy and trained their teachers are in tackling class issues that are arising on and off. “Bishop’s House has started a computer centre on the ground floor. We would request principals to send in teachers who need to upgrade their online class skills,” Bishop Canning said. As far as school re-opening measures are concerned, principals will be told to give idea on whether sanitisation channels can be introduced at gates. Schools will be asked to think of two shifts with 50% kids of any section to start with. “We have more than 2,000 kids on campus on a working day but thankfully, our schools are large in size and social distancing will not be an issue. But we should start preparing as these steps cannot be taken in a hurry,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bishop-to-discuss-fee-relief-with-principals/articleshow/76698638.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Main accused in Shahpura crude oil theft arrested||JAIPUR: Jaipur rural police arrested the mastermind behind last year’s crude oil theft from the main IOCL pipeline in Shahpura area. The theft was discovered in September 2019, but by then the gang had already fled. Cops have now arrested the main accused as well as his partner from Delhi. The gang had dug a tunnel over the course of few months through which they used to steal the oil that was later sold in the national capital. The prime accused was identified as Rashid Razaq, 45, and his partner Pawan Kumar, 40. One of their other gang members had been already arrested previously. In September 2019, the pressure in the IOCL’s underground crude oil pipeline began to plummet steadily, leaving technicians on tenterhooks. This led to the engineers conducting an inspection that indicated that somewhere in Shahpura region a leakage was drawing up the oil. Police and engineers were stunned when they finally discovered a skilfully dug up tunnel underneath the bustling Jaipur-Delhi National HighwayShankar Dutt Sharma, SP, Jaipur Rural, said, “The team reached Rashid’s residence and he hid himself in washroom, but was finally arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/main-accused-in-shahpura-crude-oil-theft-arrested/articleshow/76699653.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
June 30, 2020||Pune||Three in net, 6 stolen bikes recovered||Pune: Three youths were arrested on Saturday and six stolen motorcycles worth Rs4.5 lakh were recovered from them. A police probe revealed that the trio from Kasarwadi used to steal motorcycles for joyrides. Acting on a tip-off, a crime branch team led by senior inspector Mohan Shinde took the trio into custody from Morwadi in Pimpri. Assistant inspector Ambarish Deshmukh said the trio had stolen these motorcycles from Pimpri, Bhosari and Bhosari MIDC in the past few days. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-in-net-6-stolen-bikes-recovered/articleshow/76698632.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Remote taluka in Gadchiroli working on school reopening plan||Nagpur: Following state government’s June 15 guidelines for school reopening, a remote taluka in naxalite-affected Gadchiroli district is aggressively exploring options to implement it. With no Covid-19 cases in the Bhamragarh taluka, officials here are holding detailed discussions with stakeholders on how to physically reopen schools. And with an average of just 25 students in the entire school, maintaining distance may not be a very big challenge. Gadchiroli district collector Deepak Singla issued an order which directed officials to ensure physical reopening of schools only after complying with the state government guidelines. These guidelines basically state that the area should not have had even a single case in the last 30 days, premises must be sanitized, and that the actual school reopening decision has to be taken by the school management committee (SMC) etc. The SMC comprises of parents and the school staff. Ashwini Sonawane, education official in charge of Bhamragarh taluka, said a final decision could be taken as early as next week. “As per the government’s order, we started organizing meetings of SMCs to understand what parents feel about the reopening. Our team is also visiting various villages in our area to talk with all parents and clarify their doubts about the Covid-19 situation. I think in another 10 days we will have a concrete plan,” said Sonawane. She added that there are no Covid-19 patients in her taluka. “Not even a single case has been detected here. In fact, all the cases in other parts of Gadchiroli are those who came from outside,” said Sonawane. As of now, studies at village level are being conducted in small groups by volunteers and teachers, but that is not part of the “formal schooling” plan. Local Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan (SSA) coordinator Changdeo Sorte said the pre-school opening tasks have already begun. “Schools have started book distribution to students, which ensures that their education can continue. Before joining school, students and teachers will have to produce medical certificates too,” said Sorte. In Bhamragarh, there are 92 zilla parishad schools with approximately 2500 students. The ZP schools here offer education up to till Std VII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/remote-taluka-in-gadchiroli-working-on-school-reopening-plan/articleshow/76699664.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||NIA finds photos of CRPF camp in ISI handler’s phone||Lucknow: The team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing into ISI modules in Uttar Pradesh has found the photographs of CRPF camp in Amethi in the mobile phone of ISI handler, Mohammad Rashid, who was arrested earlier this year. Another NIA team took Rashid to Amethi where he was grilled for over three hours. Some of the relatives of Rashid in Lucknow, Chandauli and Varanasi have also been questioned by NIA after it recovered incriminating documents. On January 19, Rashid was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh anti-terrorist squad (UP ATS) from Chandauli. The case was transferred to NIA in April this year. NIA took Rashid into custody and took him to different places including CRPF centre in Amethi. According to NIA officials, Rashid clicked a picture of the gate of CRPF centre and passed on to Pakistan-based ISI agents. The NIA has also found evidences that besides ISI, Rashid was also in touch with defence handlers based in Pakistan. Rashid had also been forwarding videos and photographs of Kashi Vishwanath temple, Gyanvapi mosque, Sankat Mochan temple, Cantt railway station, Dashashwamedh ghat, Malaviya bridge and Cantonment area in Varanasi to ISI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nia-finds-photos-of-crpf-camp-in-isi-handlers-phone/articleshow/76699671.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||DIG ‘aide’ remanded in 5-day ACB custody||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has taken Pramod Sharma — the middleman who was allegedly caught accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh — on remand of five days. In order to consolidate the case against him and to dig up the deep-rooted corruption in Bharatpur range, the sleuths are also planning to confront at least 18 policemen of the range with middleman Sharma, to whom he made calls. They are likely to question DIG, Bharatpur range who is now awaiting posting orders in the case. Sharma was caught by the ACB for allegedly accepting a bribe near a sweet shop in Lal Kothi, which he had demanded from the station house officer (SHO) of Udyog Nagar police station in Bharatpur, to facilitate him in having a good service record in police. “We have taken accused Sharma on a police remand of 5 days and it might increase further. So far, our investigating officer has spoken to at least 18 policemen of Bharatpur, Dholpur and Sawai Madhopur, districts to whom Sharma claimed to be closed friend of the then DIG, Bharatpur Range Laxman Gaur. Now, we are planning to invite these policemen and they might be confronted with Sharma,” said Saurabh Srivastav, additional director general, ACB. As a part of SOP, the ACB had got accused Sharma tested for Covid-19 and only after his reports came negative, was he taken on police remand. According to ACB sources, the policemen after noticing that DIG, Bharatpur range Laxman Gaur has already been sent to awaiting posting order, are freely getting their statements recorded before ACB. “If we need him, he might also be questioned in the case. Presently, what we can make out is that Sharma was using both his office landline and the phone installed at DIG’s bungalow at Bharatpur, to extort from the SHOs,” said a senior officer of ACB on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dig-aide-remanded-in-5-day-acb-custody/articleshow/76699661.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Trio bludgeon pal to death in Yerawada||Pune: A 27-year-old man was bludgeoned to death by his three friends at Laxminagar in Yerawada following an argument over some issue late on Sunday evening. A search is on for the three suspects, police said. Inspector Ajay Waghmare identified the deceased as Amir alias Fayyaz Kadar Shaikh (27), a resident of Ramwadi slums. “The suspects first assaulted Shaikh with a pipe. Then one of them picked up a stone and bludgeoned him to death,” he said. Waghmare said the four friends had not met and interacted with each other for a few days. On Sunday evening, they decided to meet at an isolated spot in the slum pocket. “During their meeting, they had an argument over an issue, following which the suspects bludgeoned him to death,” Waghmare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-bludgeon-pal-to-death-in-yerawada/articleshow/76698640.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lack of private buses adds to rain misery on Monday||KOLKATA: A majority of private buses stayed off the road on Monday. The transport department tried its best to press into action the maximum number of buses, but the gap was yawning. The long queues for buses, which had gradually reduced last week, came back on Monday morning and many had to wait for more than an hour to board a bus. This travel trauma, combined with intermittent rain, reinforced the Monday-morning blues. The transport department ran buses on the basis of real-time demand as suggested by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. WBTC kept in touch with traffic cops to get feedback to increase or decrease buses to a particular area. The department also brought in 200 buses from South Bengal and North Bengal Transport Corporation. However, withdrawal of private buses did have an impact. The sudden drop in the number of cabs, which also run on diesel, also proved disastrous for many. TimesViewAll sides must be flexible. A delayed resumption of normal transport is having a severe impact on the city's economy.Diesel price on Monday rose by 11 paise to reach Rs 75.62/litre. “I have been waiting to book an app cab for 40 minutes. When I got one, the cabby said he was 12km away and cancelled the trip,” said Anumita Singh, a legal consultant from Tollygunge Circular Road. Taking advantage of the situation, a section of auto operators demanded triple the regular fare. Complaints kept pouring in to cops and the transport department from Tollygunge, Jadavpur, Kasba, Behala, Park Circus, M G Road, Sovabazar, Ultadanga and Salt Lake. Intermittent showers added to the commuters’ problems at places like VIP Road, New Town, EM Bypass and Salt Lake. Certain pockets in the city were waterlogged as well. TOI found a teacher waiting near Kaikhali with a bag in one hand and shoes and an umbrella in the other. “Public transport has been hard to find these days and, to add to the chaos, the road in front of my house is waterlogged,” she said. The stretch between Haldirams and Chinar Park was the worst affected. There was waist-deep water and cars and shuttle buses got stranded after water entered the engines. A senior official of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said that due to excessive rain from Sunday afternoon, several pockets of Chinar Park, Kestopur, Salt Lake, Sector V and Dum Dum have been under water. “Our men are at work to pump out the water,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lack-of-pvt-buses-adds-to-rain-misery-on-monday/articleshow/76698673.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 30, 2020||Pune||Metro viaduct work on two priority stretches pending||PUNE: The Covid-19 lockdown has considerably slowed down work on the Metro rail project in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Work on the Metro viaduct on two priority stretches — Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to Dapodi and Vanaz to Civil Court — which was expected to be completed by now, is pending at five spots. The construction of four Metro stations — two on each stretch — is also unfinished, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) said. A MahaMetro official said, “The safety-related inspections of the Metro tracks, rakes and stations by the Railway Board, commissioner of Metro railway safety, and Research Designs and Standards Organization are also pending. These inspections cannot be carried out unless the necessary civil work is completed.” MahaMetro said work is progressing at just 20% of efficiency because of an acute labour shortage. Officials are reviewing the pending work and setting revised deadlines to make up for the lost time. “We are still to complete the viaduct work at three locations on the PCMC-Dapodi stretch and at two places in the Vanaz-Garware College section. In total, 79 spans still remain to be installed on both stretches,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-viaduct-work-on-2-priority-stretches-pending/articleshow/76698646.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Not seeking medical aid may explain spike in deaths||AHMEDABAD: What is the reason for the sudden spike of cremations in the city? The numbers have flummoxed civic officials. Cremations at Chamunda, Isanpur, Hatkeshwar, Saptarishi, Dudheshwar, Ellisbridge, Vadaj, Vasna, Thakkarnagar, Vejalpur and others of the 24 crematoriums in the city, stand out after they registered an inexplicable spike this year. TimesViewOne understands that the government machinery is involved in managing the pandemic, but a serious analysis of cremations and burials should be carried out to recognise spikes. It will us understand and recognise patterns and ensure that we are better prepared during outbreaks. Stigma, fear, and other social factors may be responsible for many not seeking for medical help. A policy needs to be put in place.Civic officials are yet to delve into the reasons for the increase in cremations in May and June. They hypothesize that many of these may be because people could not get medical treatment during the lockdown. For instance, the Chamunda crematorium registered 821 cremations this May against 283 last May. In just 18 days of June this year, the number was double the 242 cremations in all of last June. The scenario is similar at the Saptarishi, Ellisbridge, Dudheshwar, Vadaj, and Vasna, crematoriums. The figures for burials are not in yet. Mona Desai, president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) said, “The deaths are indicative of how many families fought shy of seeking medical help. Some may have tried self-medication for fear of going to the hospital. People with comorbid conditions were the worst to suffer and the stigma and fear attached to Covid-19, I believe, caused both panic and restraint.” She said a campaign to raise confidence is needed. “Death registrations are an important aspect. It may not be just Covid, but many other diseases for which people did not seek medical help,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/not-seeking-medical-aid-may-explain-spike-in-deaths/articleshow/76698687.cms||Paul John
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 40-feet whale carcass washed ashore at Mandarmani||By- Sumon MondalMANDARMANI: People at Mandarmani were in for a surprise on Monday when they found the carcass of a 40-ft whale on the beach. Locals informed the administration that will decide if it will be preserved or buried. While some say this is a Sei whale, others are saying it can be a Bryde’s whale too. The Sei whale (Balaenoptera borealis) is the third-largest rorqual (largest group of baleen whales) after blue and fin whales. Sei whales, that can grow up to 64ft, are mostly found in the North Pacific. Former officer-in-charge of Marine Aquarium and Regional Research Centre, Anil Mahapatra, said, “This species is rare.” Digha Marine Aquarium director Srinivasan Balakrishnan, though, said, “This is a female Bryde’s whale (Balaenoptera brydei). It’s 40 feet long and weighs 50 tonnes. After collecting DNA samples, we have buried it on beach. It’s a whale found in the Pacific Ocean. After some years, the skeleton will be exhumed and preserved in our aquarium.” “Indian waters have four confirmed species of baleen whales (cetaceans that have baleen plates and not teeth like dolphins do). They are Blue whales, Bryde’s whales, Omura’s whales and Humpback whales. It’s possible to identify the species given a number of features are available — total length; dorsal fin shape, size and location on body; jaw shape; ridges on the rostrum; shape of flippers and tail fluke; number of ventral pleats and end point of ventral pleats. In this case, sadly, we cannot see the top of the head (rostrum). If it has three ridges, it’s a Bryde’s whale. If not it could be Omura’s. Best way to do this now, as we can turn the body, is by DNA analysis. Jaw shape and flipper shape rule out Blue and Humpback whales,” said Dipani Sutaria, an ecologist studying marine cetaceans in India and member of Marine Mammal Research and Conservation Network of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/40-ft-whale-carcass-washed-ashore-at-mandarmani/articleshow/76698752.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur airport gets inline baggage screening||JAIPUR: Flyers using Jaipur airport don’t have to queue up near the X-ray machines to scan their baggage before check-in. On Monday, Jaipur airport got the inline baggage screening (ILBS) system which will decongest the check-in area and passengers can straightaway visit the check in counter. Airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara said this has multi-level computed tomography and will also enable authorities to detect explosives, if any. “This system will save time of passengers. They can directly visit the check-in counter and will get the baggage at the destination,” he added. “Also the ILBS system is integrated with the Airport Baggage Handling System in order to provide complete hold of processing and screening system. The cost of this system is around RS 18 crore in which our men will work in three shifts. This system can scan 1800 baggage per hour which would speed up the processing of passengers,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-airport-gets-inline-baggage-screening/articleshow/76699668.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kochi||Animated Keralite who made film posters beats Covid blues by dishing out parottas||KOZHIKODE: The hands that once gave life to animated characters and movie posters are now busy kneading flour to dish out porottas. This was not the life that K K Indrajith had envisioned, but one that was forced upon him when the coronavirus pandemic left the young man from Iritty, Kannur with a degree in 3D animation jobless. But refusing to be cowed down, Indrajith took to his father’s job of making the popular flatbread. He has worked on posters for around 20 movies, including Kalki, Kakshi Ammini Pillai and the yet-to-be-released Oru Halal Love Story and was a busy graphic designer with a firm in Kochi before the pandemic changed it all. “After my studies I started working at various places. I got a job in Chennai designing posters for movies. I could not continue there because of the climate and food. Later, I landed a job in Kochi,” Indrajith said. “I knew nothing about porotta-making. My father makes them in our house to order and delivers them to various places,” said Indrajith. He learned the art of porotta-making in no time and took over from his father. “During the lockdown I got some freelance work but that was not enough to sustain me and the family. So, I turned to this job.” Now, there is good demand for the ‘designer-made’ porottas in his hometown. Hotels that are experiencing staff shortage after guest workers left for their native places depend on Indrajith’s porottas. But the youth sees this only as a temporary phase in his life. “With many projects on hold there’s not enough work at the office. However, they do come to me when they land additional work, which I work on from home. I hope that this phase will be over soon and I can return to my creative passion,” Indrajith yearns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/animated-keralite-who-made-film-posters-beats-covid-blues-by-dishing-out-parottas/articleshow/76697536.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Youth arrestedunder POCSO||Pune: A 19-year-old youth was arrested on Sunday on the charge of repeatedly raping a minor girl over the last 20 days. The girl’s parents lodged an FIR with the police Pimpri on Sunday after catching the suspect committing the act on the terrace of their building late on Saturday night. The youth has been charged under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-arrestedunder-pocso/articleshow/76698690.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Dongrim-Neura locals begin community farming||Panaji: Inspired by the success of community farming project at St Estevam, villagers of Dongrim-Neura are slowly also turning to agriculture. From Sunday onwards, ploughing the lands took off in the dhamda khazan lands of the Dongrim village; lands which were lying uncultivated for the past 25 years. In Neura, seedlings of paddy crop, purchased from the directorate of agriculture are being transplanted by the farmers. Though the directorate of agriculture has its own scheme for community farming, the project has been taken up at Dongrim-Neura without availing of the scheme from the government. “Even though this is a completely self-initiated campaign by the farmers, we are open to providing any assistance that is required by the farmers,” agriculture director, Nevil Alfonso said. Nestor Rangel Ribeiro, a Santa Cruz-based farmer who is credited with pioneering community farming project in St Estevam guided the farmers through the dos and don’ts of community farming on Sunday, following which the tilling and transplanting activities in either village – Dongrim and Neura commenced. Power-tillers were used to plough the fallow lands at Dongrim. Fields belonging to two farmers have already been covered so far in this community farming initiative while the land of other farmers will be covered in the coming week. In the fields at Neura, some of the seedlings from the 200kgs of paddy seeds acquired from the agriculture department were sown. The zonal agriculture officers visited the site on Monday and gave the farmers their feedback and assured their assistance, sources said. Khazans at Neura are in a slightly better condition due to construction of bunds. However Dongrim, even though it is geographically connected to Neura has dhamda khazans, where the land has been submerged continuously for years in the village. Farmers said that there are vast tracts of khazan lands in the area that expand through the two villages of Dongrim-Neura. They said that there are over 50 farmers that have taken to agriculture in this region this year. “This water which was knee-deep was removed after consulting a team of agriculture officers, after which the tilling process began. The water which had come from sluice gates was released into the river. To protect them from flooding, the bunds will be repaired to ensure that there is no inundation,” farmers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dongrim-neura-locals-begin-community-farming/articleshow/76700083.cms||Nida Sayed
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Sweet spot: Maharashtra’s sugar production to rise by 50%||MUMBAI: Sugar production in Maharashtra is set to see a dramatic revival this year with an estimated 50% rise to around 92 lakh tonnes from 61 lakh tonnes in 2019-20, according to officials. The area under cane cultivation is also set to grow from 8.2 lakh hectares to 10.6 lakh hectares, a rise of 29%. “Last year, sugar production was impacted by the floods in Western Maharashtra and dry conditions in parts of Marathwada. This year, we expect good rains which are evenly spread,” said state sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao. Maharashtra is the second highest sugar producer in the country, after Uttar Pradesh. Although demand for sugar fell during the lockdown with hotels and malls closing, sowing operations were not impacted with agricultural operations exempted at an early stage. Not only is the area under cane cultivation set to rise, productivity is also expected to increase to 85 tonnes/hectare from 66 tonnes/hectare in 2019-20. The Indian Sugar Mill Association (ISMA) has estimated an 8% rise in sugar cultivation across the country. Sugar production nationally is set to rise to 305 lakh tonnes in the coming year from 272 lakh tonnes in 2019-20, a 12% increase. The rise is mainly likely to be led with the increase in cultivation in Maharashtra and Karnataka. ISMA has also said that while demand for sugar had fallen nationally during the lockdown period, it picked up again by the end of May. “The factory price for sugar, which had fallen to Rs 31-Rs 31.50 a kg during the lockdown due to the drop in domestic sales, has improved significantly to close to the levels seen before the lockdown was announced at Rs 32-Rs 33.50,” said ISMA’s statement on June 25. However, farmer groups say it is too early to be optimistic. “The bulk of cane is grown in the sugar bowl of Western Maharashtra which had a massive flood last year. We will have to see how the monsoon turns out this year,” said Raju Shetti from the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana. “It’s good that the state government had advanced the date for the start of the cane crushing season to October 15,” said B B Thombare of the Western India Sugar Mills Association. Usually the season begins a month later, by mid-November. “This will give the mills an additional month to crush the higher supply of cane,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sweet-spot-states-sugar-production-to-rise-by-50/articleshow/76698736.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
June 30, 2020||Pune||Astrologer falls for online lottery bait, loses Rs 4.15 lakh||PUNE: A 31-year-old astrologer and fortune-teller from Dahanukar Colony in Kothrud lost Rs4.15 lakh to fraudsters, believing she had won a Rs25 lakh lottery online. The woman transferred the money “towards various fees” between April 18 and May 12 to secure the money. On April 18, a man called the complainant, claiming to represent a Mumbai-headquartered public sector bank. “He told her that her phone number got selected in a TV game show’s online contest and that she won a Rs25 lakh lottery,” senior inspector Kalpana Jadhav of Alankar police told TOI. . The woman asked him a few questions and was satisfied with the answers. “The man promised to transfer the lottery sum to her account and and then asked her to transfer the money to two different bank accounts for GST, processing charges, registration tax, etc,” Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/astrologer-falls-for-online-lottery-bait-loses-rs-4-15l/articleshow/76698659.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kinfra sets new record in revenue: Min||T’puram: Kerala industrial infrastructure development corporation (Kinfra) has scripted a success story by earning a record revenue of Rs 44.40 crore, industries minister E P Jayarajan said. In the last four years, the corporation has provided 144 acres for various industries which created 6,948 jobs and brought an investment of Rs 680 crore, he said. Kinfra could make this achievement through providing land, transportation, power supply, water and telecommunication facilities for investor industries, he added. Kinfra had received investment promises of Rs 2,000 crore during Ascent investor meet held in Kochi. So far, 14 MoUs have been inked and land acquisitions in Kochi and Palakkad are continuing as part of Kochi-Coimbatore industrial corridor project. As many as one lakh jobs and investments worth Rs 10,000 crore are expected through the project, on its completion, the minister said. There are as many as 25 industrial parks and 800 units functioning in the state under Kinfra, including the first defence park in the public sector that has been completed at Ottapalam in Palakkad. The mega food park in Palakkad is nearing completion and the construction of the petrochemical park on 479 acres in Kochi will begin soon, the minister said adding that acquisition of 4,896 acres near Kannur international airport is under progress. The second phase of industrial park at Mattannur has been completed where an export enclave and international convention centre will be set up. The work on spices park in Muttom near Thodupuzha has begun. The standard design factory (SDF) for constructing the building and allotting the space to investors have receiving good response. In the last four years, 3.60 lakh square feet space has been allotted, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kinfra-sets-new-record-in-revenue-min/articleshow/76697560.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Experts choose awareness over another lockdown||CHENNAI: The state’s expert medical committee has recommended against intensifying the lockdown, citing epidemiological and economic reasons. During the two-and-a-half-hour meeting chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday, epidemiologists and experts in infectious diseases and public health suggested strengthening tracking, testing and isolating positive cases instead of keeping people indoors. Schools and colleges should remain closed, public transport should be limited, and large gatherings prohibited, they said. “Lockdown is like a blunt instrument which should be used carefully. It has helped slow the infection spread to some extent, but we cannot keep people indoors any longer,” National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur told reporters. In February, the same committee had recommended a lockdown as a measure to delay the peak of cases. That gave the state time to ramp up healthcare facilities such as labs, hospital beds and quarantine facilities. “That period is over. We can’t ignore livelihood of people,” she said. District administrations, however, can decide to increase restrictions based on the situation. For this, the committee has prescribed an analysis of various epidemiological indicators such as changes in the number of cases and deaths over two weeks, increase in positivity rate and doubling time, and increase in the number of contacts testing positive for the viral infection. The committee members said they made their recommendations after a brainstorming session with WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan on Sunday evening. “In the past few days, the infection rate in Chennai has slowed though testing has increased. Isolating positive people and quarantining contacts is the most effective way to contain the disease. We will see the effect of the intense lockdown in a week,” she said. Data shows Chennai accounted for 91% of the state’s positive cases in the first week of June, but the city’s share dropped to 69% this week. However, the incidence in other districts increased due to various reasons. “This is expected when you open up marketplaces and public transport. But it could have been contained with adequate social distancing and use of face masks,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. Between the first and fourth week of June, Madurai’s share in total cases went up from 0.5% to 4.6%. In Tiruvannamalai, it went up from 0.8% to 3.2% and in Vellore and Pudukottai it went to 2.7% from less than 0.2%. “The districts should also increase testing like Chennai. In addition, they should trace contacts,” he said. The committee has told the government that it would come up with a standard treatment pathway. “In the past few days, medical journals have put out how new antivirals, steroids and anticoagulants have improved treatment outcomes. We will be updating our treatment protocol,” said infectious diseases specialist Dr V Ramasubramanian. “There should be more awareness campaigns on social distancing, mask usage and handwashing,” Dr Kuganandam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/experts-choose-awareness-over-another-lockdown/articleshow/76698766.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Kalupur school waives fees for 3 months due to Covid-19 crisis||AHMEDABAD: The management of Suffah English School in Kalupur in the Walled City area has decided to waive fees for three months due to the hardships faced by parents due to the Covid-19 situation. Given the difficulties faced by poor and working class people due to the Covid-19 crisis and countrywide lockdown, they decided to waive the fees for June, July and August, Jamiat Ulema-e-Ahmedabad, the trustees of Suffah English School, said in a media statement. There are 600 students in this school and the waiver will likely cost the management Rs 10.80 lakh. Some students have also got fee exemptions for March, April and May. “Most parents of children enrolled in Suffah English School, are poor. Many have lost their jobs or are facing financial troubles,” said a source. A few schools in Ahmedabad recently announced fee waivers in the wake of Covid-19-induced lockdown. JP High School, also in the Walled City area, was among the first to announce to announce a fee cut. The school, established in 1973, had announced fee relief for students of Classes I to VIII for a seven-month period, from April to October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kalupur-school-waives-fees-for-3-months-due-to-covid-crisis/articleshow/76698845.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Restrictions to curb pandemic make shifting houses a headache||PUNE: Most people who wanted to shift residence have postponed plans and made arrangements with their landlords to stay till the pandemic-related crisis is over, but some have taken up the challenge head on. Various residents’ welfare associations have made stringent rules during the lockdown, which have further created problems for people shifting to new flats. Anita Chacko, a Wanowrie resident, said, “My landlord told me to vacate the flat for his son who has returned from abroad. And my contract for the flat was also over, so I had no choice but to start looking for new flats during the lockdown. I did my research online, but there’s only so much you can make out from the photographs. It is difficult to get permission to go and see the flats because most societies are not allowing visitors to come and check out the apartments. The newer projects, with low occupancy, relaxed their rules a bit and let us go and check out the flats.” Aisha Miranda, a Wagholi resident, said, “Business is really low for brokers now. They are not being as aggressive as before. Usually you are bombarded with calls from brokers from online property search websites. But this time, I only got two-three calls, and that, too, led to nowhere. Thankfully, another broker helped me find a house in an independent building nearby.” Movers and packers' business has also suffered during the pandemic. Shanila Dey, a resident of Magarpatta, said, “I had been calling up packers and movers and most of them did not answer the phone. I did get in touch with one of them who also offered sanitisation of my old house as well as the new one I was shifting to. I think this is an important new service that packers and movers need to offer.” With packers and movers charging a bomb, Jitendra Mali, a resident of Shastrinagar, decided to pack all his belongings and move them to his new apartment using his cousin’s car. “I shifted only a few minutes away from my old house. I told my broker to ask the landlord if I could get the keys to the new place five days in advance so I could slowly move all my stuff by myself,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restrictions-to-curb-pandemic-make-shifting-houses-a-headache/articleshow/76698714.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Dad carried me on my way to my first job interview||I would have missed my first job interview had my father not been with me on Monday. The incessant rain and lack of adequate public transport had already made me late when we came across the waterlogged stretch on VIP Road. My father carried me on his back for several metres, wading across the road to get to a dry spot so that my clothes would remain clean. I had my interview at an office in Axis Mall and was dressed for it. When we boarded a bus from my home at Basirhat, I was busy preparing for the potential questions I would be asked. But when we got down at Kaikhali, bigger worries confronted me. We found there were no private buses heading to New Town and as we waited for a state bus, I realized I was running late. After waiting for around 45 minutes, we started walking. On reaching Haldirams crossing, we found the entire stretch under waist-deep water. I was afraid of getting my clothes dirty before an interview. My father came to my rescue and carried me on his back for 10 minutes, till we reached a dry pavement. We finally got a bus and reached the office, more than two and half hours late. But the interviewers were accommodating and I got selected for training. Heading back home was a more taxing affair as it took us more than two hours to reach Chinar Park from Axis Mall. We then waded through the water before waiting for an hour for something to take us home. We finally got a mini truck heading towards Barasat and reached home around 10pm. If this is the condition of public transport in the city, I wonder how I will be able to travel to and from office from next month. (Biswas, a 20-year-old job aspirant, spoke to Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dad-carried-me-on-my-way-to-my-1st-job-interview/articleshow/76698781.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Coimbatore||65 people Covid-19 positive, 24 more to be tested today||Coimbatore: Sixty-five people were declared Covid-19 positive in the district on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 529.Another 24 people are expected to be declared positive on Tuesday, including two inmates of the central prison who had returned from Chennai on June 25, two employees of a textile equipment company at Vellakinaru Pirivu and three residents of RKV School Street at Kuniyamuthur.The two prisoners were part of a group of 23 prisoners in the central prison, who were sent to the Puzhal Central Jail in Chennai to take degree exams in March. They returned on June 25. They were kept in a separate block and tested for the virus. Authorities have discovered two more clusters Chinnammal Street in K K Pudur and RKV School Street in Kuniyamuthur where three people each have tested positive.According to the state health department, the district will have 1,000 cases by July 20. This has prompted the officials to decide that from Monday, all asymptomatic people who test positive for the virus will be kept in the care centres, so that hospital beds can be kept for patients, who require treatment. Those who opt for private hospitals can do so. The 19 men, who tested positive at Periyar Nagar on Sunday, became the first batch of positive people to be moved to a Covid-19 care centre instead of a hospital. They have been moved to the Uppilipalayam Corporation Hospital. Speaking to TOI on Monday, deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said that along with the corporation, they have decided to ramp up the bed capacity of the Covid-19 care centres. “We have four within the corporation limits and another four outside, including the Tamil Nadu Engineering College in Karumathampatti and Sasurie College. We currently have 4,065 beds and plan to increase it to 4,478. We will keep asymptomatic patients, who require vitamins and zinc there. They will be monitored by doctors and staff,” he said.The move comes after the state health department’s latest graph predicted that Coimbatore will cross 1,000 cases by July 20. “At this point, we will ensure that only those who really need treatment occupy hospital beds. We will add more beds to the care centres if required,” said Kumar. Coimbatore has been recording 30 to 40 cases a day, going up to 50 last week.s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/65-people-covid-19-positive-24-more-to-be-tested-today/articleshow/76698717.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Impostor ran extortion racket for 12 years, held||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UPSTF) on Monday arrested an impostor from Jharkhand who ran an extortion racket in several states. The STF said that the accused, Ranjan Kumar Mishra has been duping government officers, engineers and project managers in MP, UP, Delhi, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam and Kerala since 2008. He had also posed as the then chief minister of Jharkhand and extorted Rs 40 lakh from another political leader. An FIR was lodged in the case at Ranchi district. Mishra got on a spree of making extortion demands by posing as different officials and extorted as much as Rs 50 crore in a span of 12 years. He has over 50 cases of fraud registered against him. He also forced four Members of Legislative Assembly in Madhya Pradesh to shell out large amounts by posing self as the state’s governor. An FIR is lodged in Sagar district in the case. Police said that Mishra was also lodged in Tihar jail for duping a government contractor in Delhi to the tune of Rs 5 lakh in 2018. STF tracked Mishra after a case got registered for extorting Rs 10 lakh from a project manager of UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, Rajmani in January this year. The miscreant had also posed as a chief justice and demanded Rs 10 lakh from the director of Judicial Training and Research Institute (JTRI) in Lucknow. The police commissioner of Lucknow sought an STF probe in the case. UP inspector general of police, STF, Amitabh Yash said that Mishra was adept in negotiating with officials. Seven cases of fraud have been registered against him in UP alone. “While Mishra was lodged in jail in Patna in 2011, he called the then SDM Mankapur in Gonda posing self as divisional commissioner and demanded Rs 50,000. Likewise, he called SDM Bilsi in the same year for Rs 50,000 and SDM in Etawah for the same amount,” said the IG. The IG said that during probe it surfaced that Mishra had many aides in different states in whose accounts he used to get the money transferred. The STF is tracing his aides in other states and said that they had arrested two aides — Sunit Gautam and Ganesh Tiwari — on March 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/impostor-ran-extortion-racket-for-12-yrs-held/articleshow/76699683.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Jobless man kills wife over dowry dispute||Coimbatore: A 32-year-old man from Tirupur, who was unemployed for the last three months, was arrested for kiling his wife over a dowry dispute. The accused was identified as Abdul Samad from Sathya Nagar Extension on Kangeyam Road in Tirupur. The woman’s father said in their complaint that Abdul, the accused, demanded money as dowry from his wife to start a business. This would lead to arguments and he would often assault her.A Sultan Mohammed, 45, from Rakkiyapalayam in Tirupur, in his complaint said that he owned a hosiery company in Tirupur. His elder daughter Nisha Banu got married in 2013, but divorced her husband in 2015. The next year, she got married to Abdul, a native of Thiruvannamalai district. Abdul was working as a driver. The couple was living in a rented house at Sathya Nagar extension on Kangeyam road in Tirupur city. Nisha had an 18-month-old child from her previous marriage. Abdul did not go for work for the past few months and tortured his wife to ask her parents for dowry. “We often gave money to Abdul. Due to Covid-19, he did not have any work for the last three months. In June, he began to go for work as a supervisor in a hosiery company and used to return home once in a week. So our daughter was living with us. However, he often demanded money and would beat her,” said Sultan Mohammed.On Sunday, Sultan’s son Salavuddin dropped Nisha and her son at Abdul’s place in Sathya Nagar extension. Around 8 pm, Sultan tried to reach his daughter over phone but the calls went unanswered. He then rushed to his daughter’s house, where he found Abdul with blood stains on his clothes. Nisha was found dead in the bedroom of the house. Following his complaint, Tirupur south police arrested Abdul under IPC section 302 (murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jobless-man-kills-wife-over-dowry-dispute/articleshow/76698770.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||CJI did not ride high-end bike, flouted no rules, say officials||Nagpur: Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde’s pictures on a high-end bike in the city have attracted a lot of attention on social media. While many used titles like “Rock Star” and “Stylish and Suave” to describe the CJI, the others questioned him for not wearing a helmet, a face mask and also overlooking Covid distancing norms. Justice Bobde couldn’t be contacted, but officials from his office asserted that he did not flout any rules as being projected on social media. “The CJI was on a morning walk on the Raj Bhavan premises when his close family friend, who deals in bikes, informed him about the arrival of the latest model of the popular Harley Davidson (limited edition CVO 2020) in the city. The bike was brought to Raj Bhavan for a demonstration by a representative of the company. The CJI inspected the bike and appreciated it. He didn’t even ride the motorcycle. He just sat on it,” officials, who didn’t want to be named, told TOI. They added that the CJI was wearing a mask when he started out for his walk, but later, he removed it while inquiring about the bike. “There’s no question of wearing the helmet as the CJI wasn’t riding the bike. If one carefully sees the picture, the bike was stationary and on the side stand. The CJI was simply sitting on it. The company’s representative explained the functioning of the bike to the CJI. During video conferencing, no one wears a mask as it creates hurdles while speaking. Even in minister level conferences, many don’t wear masks while talking for the same reason,” they said. The CJI is in his hometown since the beginning of the summer vacation of the Supreme Court. He’s fond of bikes and cars. The Royal Enfield is his favourite. As a lawyer, he used to move around in luxury cars. According to his friends, the CJI also has a fascination for wildlife photography. On Sunday, social media was also abuzz with various theories as the bike in question is registered in the name of a BJP leader. However, officials from the CJI’s office said that the entire incident had nothing to do with any political party as the Harley representative had brought the vehicle only for the purpose of demonstration. “Instead of appreciating the privacy of an individual in his hometown, social media platforms and trolls have posted uncharitable comments without verifying facts. They have shown scant regard for the privacy of an individual who is holding a high constitutional position,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cji-did-not-ride-high-end-bike-flouted-no-rules-say-officials/articleshow/76699689.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Ease financing of self-redevpt projects in Mumbai: Activists to RBI||MUMBAI: With Reserve Bank of India (RBI) seeking to amend laws with regard to housing finance companies, activists are demanding that the central bank enable easing financing of self-redevelopment projects. “Mumbai has a large number of old and dilapidated buildings, both in the island city and suburbs. These need to be redeveloped urgently. Developers are in no position to take up these projects. The RBI must enable redevelopment by mandating that housing finance firms reserve at least 5-10% of their corpus as loans for self-redevelopment projects,” said Salil Rameshchandra, president, Federation of Grantees of Government Lands. He added that at present it is difficult for housing societies to raise loans for self redevelopment as they do not have much capital. “Land must be accepted as capital.” Suyog Seth, executive committee member of Pracitising Engineers, Architects and Town Planners Association, said RBI must nudge banks to lend for self-redevelopment and rental housing projects. At present, only Mumbai District Central Co-operative Bank provides loans for self-redevelopment. The RBI has invited suggestions/objections from the public by July 15 for defining the term “providing finance for housing” or “housing finance”. “In general parlance it can be treated as providing finance for residential housing purpose and should not ideally include finance for commercial real estate,” stated the RBI. It has now included 11 different entities that can be classified as providing finance to individuals, cooperative societies, public agencies like state housing boards, corporates, government agencies, for improving conditions in slum areas, extending credit directly to slum-dwellers on the guarantee of the government or indirectly through the state governments. Also, financing construction of educational, health, social, cultural or other institutions. The financing would be for purchasing/construction/reconstruction/renovation/repairs of residential units. Advocate Godfrey Pimenta said there are several stalled housing projects in the city and the RBI must include these for providing loans. “It must insist on an end use certificate and for a monthly report so that funds are not diverted or misused which is often the case today,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ease-financing-of-self-redevpt-projects-in-city-activists-to-rbi/articleshow/76698854.cms||Clara Lewis
June 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Temperature guns, pulse oximeters a must at housing society gates||PUNE: The district office of the cooperation department on Monday stated that housing societies could not stop people coming from outside the containment zones and also those offering a multitude of services. The department’s issued wide-ranging guidelines in an attempt to make the housing societies wake up to the fact that the economic need of the ecosystem was as important as the health of the residents staying there. “Housing societies cannot stop tenants or agents/brokers coming from outside containment zones,” the guideline made it clear. The TOI had reported how the entire secondary and rental market had collapsed after many societies took it upon themselves to prevent entry of people, sometimes even outside of the ambit of law. In a recent case, the police also filed a first information report (FIR) against the secretary of a society on the charge of insisting on medical certificate from a pregnant woman and her family and denying them entry. The guidelines added that it was incumbent that societies kept temperature guns, pulse oxymeter at the entry gates for checking people coming from outside and also provided hand sanitizers. “If anyone’s pulse oxygen reading level is less that 95, then she or he should immediately get themselves checked,” read a guideline in the four-page document. “It has come to our notice that some housing societies are forming rules that are contrary to the rules issued by the district administration,” read the document signed by Sangeeta Dongare, divisional deputy registrar, Pune district. It said that everyone in the housing societies must keep six feet distance between themselves while going and meeting people on the premises. The guidelines stated that the housing societies must not stop medical and paramedic staffers from accessing their homes in the societies. A guideline stated that domestic helps coming from outside containment zones must not be denied entry and should not be told to procure Covid-test certificates. “If a domestic help wants to provide services to a particular member, there should be no stopping that. The member must also give the domestic help a bag to keep their belongings, make them wash their hands and face and stress on usage of mask,” it added. Dorstep delivery of newspapers is allowed in housing societies with due care, and so is delivery of milk, vegetables and grocery. It also stated that societies must not discriminate against those coming from abroad or patients returning after taking treatment for the virus. The guidelines stated that the societies must not oppose if someone wisheed to quarantine themselves at home. “Cooperative societies must not put needless restrictions on people staying in the society,” the guideline clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-cant-deny-entry-to-people-from-non-containment-zones/articleshow/76698810.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 30, 2020||Coimbatore||MGR market traders seek new location||Coimbatore: Vegetable traders have urged the city corporation to provide an alternate location to resume their business at the earliest after the MGR wholesale market was shut down on Friday following three people testing positive for coronavirus.If the corporation fails to provide them a new location, the retail price of vegetables could shoot up, traders cautioned. Vegetables from several states including Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka are brought to the MGR market and sold to retailers at Anna market, TK market and Ramar Kovil market apart from selling it to neighbouring states. A trader from the market said most traders did not want to stock vegetables anymore after the MGR market was shut. The vegetables that reached the city after Friday were distributed to retailers either at their shops or by retail sale on the roads, he said. “As most retailers had purchased double the quantity of vegetables, there would not be any shortage for the vegetables in the city, at present. But demand for vegetables might occur if traders do not resume their business in a full-fledged manner for another week or so,” the trader said. The trader said they might have to ask their dealers to stop sending them vegetables if the corporation delays providing an alternate location as they cannot continue selling vegetables on the roadside. Upon providing a new location, the corporation will have to create toilets and water facilities for traders too, he said. G Irudayaraja, district president of confederation of traders’ association, said small traders and daily wage labourers, including load men, would be severely hit if a new market location is not finalised soon.Meanwhile, a corporation source said the civic body is planning to shift the traders to the old dump yard ground at Kavundampalayam, but only after testing all traders. Despite several attempts, corporation officials could not be reached for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mgr-market-traders-seek-new-location/articleshow/76698787.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kundara taluk hosp gears up for major upgradation||Thiruvananthapuram: Health minister K K Shailaja laid the foundation stone for the new block of Kundara taluk hospital through video conferencing on Monday. As part of the development of the hospital, a new block is being constructed utilising the KIIFB fund of Rs 34.14 crore. In addition to this, Rs 5.18 crore has been sanctioned for purchasing new equipment. Minister Shailaja said the hospital is gearing up for a major change. “Our aim is to upgrade the hospital to a 180-bed facility that has all modern amenities. We are aiming to complete the work on time and open the hospital at the earliest for the public,” she said. The KSEB’s civil engineering wing has been entrusted with the construction work of the hospital. The new eight-storey block will have high-end trauma care unit, separate speciality units for orthopaedics, general surgery, general medicine, ophthalmology and dental.  There will be five medical ICUs, five surgical ICUs and two most modern operation theatres. A blood storage unit, laboratory, x-ray and mammography facility are being planned. Fisheries minister and local MLA J Mercykutty Amma presided over the function. “Health is one sector about which each Keralite can be proud of. A strong four-layered public health care system that comprises hospitals at village-block, taluk, district and medical college level is the strong pillar of our health model,” said Mercykutty Amma, adding that the works at Kundara hospital will be completed soon with the wholehearted support of public. Representatives of grama panchayat, block panchayat and district panchayat also attended the foundation stone laying ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kundara-taluk-hosp-gears-up-for-major-upgradation/articleshow/76697583.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||JMC invites logo designs for new municipal corporations||JAIPUR: Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has decided to give new logos to both the newly created municipal corporations in the city. Entries for the design of logos of both the corporations — Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater and Heritage — have been invited from the public. For this, applications can be made through email at heritagecelljmc@gmail.com by July 2. The best design will be used as the official logo. Additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “It should be designed in Hindi and English. The entry for the logo design is free. It is necessary to have a brief description with each design as to how the design will reflect the soul of Jaipur.” He said that the logo should be the type that can be used on websites, mobile apps, social media such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Black & White documents, official stationery, magazine, etc. The design must not in any way violate the Indian Copyright Act, 1957 and intellectual property rights of any third party. Logos should be submitted in JPG, PDF and PNG formats only. The logo design must be coloured and in CYMK and RGB formats. The logo must be between 5cm by 5cm to 60cm by 60cm. For more information, visit www.jaipurmc.org. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-invites-logo-designs-for-new-municipal-corporations/articleshow/76699687.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Coronavirus death toll in district: 1 or 4?||Coimbatore: As per state’s bulletin on Covid-19 released on Monday, there are 528 positive cases, 339 active cases and one death in Coimbatore district since the outbreak of the pandemic in Tamil Nadu. However, there have been three more deaths in the past one month due to the coronavirus in the district which have been recorded by the district health authorities but not added in the state government’s bulletin till date.The 90-year-old man from Telugu Street who died of Covid-19 on last Sunday is the third death due to the virus in the region that has gone unrecorded by the health department. The district health authorities say they have been communicating every death to headquarters in Chennai, but they are equally clueless on why it’s not surfacing in the daily bulletin. The bulletin continues to show only one death in Coimbatore, and 0 in Tirupur, while it should read four in Coimbatore and one in Tirupur.The man from Telugu Street was admitted in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday with breathlessness and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), a primary symptom of Covid-19. From CHCM, it was decided to shift him to ESI Hospital after he tested positive for the virus. However, he was declared brought dead at ESI Hospital on the next day. The body was neither handed over to his family for perform final rites nor the death was recorded as due to Covid by the authorities. This is not the first case. A 77-year-old man from Velandipalayam and a 28-year-old man from RG Pudur died of Covid-19 on June 21 and June 14 respectively. However, authorities chose to record only the death of a 44-year-old cancer patient from Kavundampalayam, who died in Chennai in May first week, as Covid death. The Tirupur ambulance attender’s death has also not been included, despite him being under Covid-19 treatment in ESI Hospital for five days before his death due to breathing difficulties.The district health department says they have been sending data on people testing positive daily to headquarters. “We send details of every patient testing positive for the virus every day, and update them if any of them die also,” said deputy director, G Ramesh Kumar. “We also mention the causes of the deaths.”Infectious disease experts say covering up deaths could be dangerous during a pandemic. “You will never understand the proportions of an epidemic, if you under-report cases. You will not know how effective your control of the epidemic is,” said former city health officer, Chennai Corporation, P Kuganantham. “Also, the public should be kept informed of the dangers of getting infected. Only then will they understand the need to seek medical care as early as possible and follow prevention measures.” “Health and life insurance payouts too could be a problem. Ff the report says respiratory failure or cardiac arrest as cause of an old person’s death instead of Covid-19, insurance payouts can get denied, because heart problems are always a pre-existing condition,” said another health officer. Former director of public health Dr P Kulandaisamy said covering up deaths could also lead to health workers missing out crucial medical interventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coronavirus-death-toll-in-district-1-or-4/articleshow/76698824.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||New order dashes hopes of gym, restaurant owners||PUNE: The state government’s fresh notification on Monday came as a wet blanket for gym and restaurant owners as these establishments have not been permitted to open during Unlock 2 starting from July 1 to July 31. President of Pune Fitness Club Association, Nilesh Kale, said the association will oppose the notification and demand opening of gyms in Pune and across the state. “We have a plan to open. We will protest if necessary. We will appeal to gym owners and trainers across the country,” Kale said. The fitness industry has taken a massive hit, he said. It has affected gym owners, trainers and other staff. “We are also going to seek reduction in rent and power bills from the government. I pay Rs 30,000 per month for my gym which translates to Rs 1.2 lakh for four months that the gym was lying unused. We have not put on the lights, but we have been charged hefty electricity bills. I have been paying all my trainers and staff, but I do not know how to continue paying them without earning a single rupee. This is the situation for most gym owners,” he said. Another gym owner, who did not wish to be named, said, “Last week, a minister said we will be allowed to open gyms from June 28. Later, the minister changed his statement saying only the gyms in residential societies will be allowed to open. Yet, no guidelines have been received even for the use of society gyms and this misinformation is causing confusion.” After being ignored yet again on Monday in another state government notification on easing restrictions, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), announced the launch of a public campaign to highlight the looming collapse of restaurants in Maharashtra. Launched as #KhadyagruhaWachva (#SaveRestaurants), sources said the campaign will act as the voice of the industry, especially small and medium eateries. Suhas Awchat, chairman of the PR committee of HRAWI, said “More than one lakh estimated small and medium eateries serve the working class of Maharashtra. Our assessment is that at least 50% of restaurants in Maharashtra will be unable to reopen.” He said decision makers must show spunk and imagination. “The smallest of restaurants employ eight individuals, so on an average five lakh residents of Maharashtra are going to be jobless. Add this to the loss of indirect jobs and closure of vendor businesses, and we are staring at a disaster,” he added. A city-based source from the Multiplex Association of India told TOI, that they were not expecting things to ease till August. “Multiplexes will be the last to open. But who will take responsibility if the cases increase after we are allowed to open. We will just have to sit tight and brave the economic losses," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-order-dashes-hopes-of-gym-restaurant-owners/articleshow/76698838.cms||Neha Madaan
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||QR codes to track autos, file complaint with cops||Nagpur: The Nagpur traffic police have implemented Quick Response (QR) code option in city’s autorickshaws. DCP (traffic) Vikram Sali on Monday launched the QR code system and distributed QR stickers ‘Suraksha’ to three autorickshaw drivers. In November 2018, Nagpur city traffic police had approached the district planning and development committee for funds to implement QR code system in the city’s autorickshaws. “Around 10 autorickshaw drivers had participated in the pilot project,” said a senior police official. After seeing the result of the pilot project, the district collectorate cleared the traffic police proposal by sanctioning over Rs10 lakh, the official added. The amount received was spent in creating a data bank of 16,920 permit holder autorickshaws and for printing stickers. The DCP said commuters travelling in autorickshaws will now be able to get the details of the driver, along with an option to lodge a complaint via the QR code. Soon, it will also be pasted in app based taxis too, he said. The stickers will be pasted inside autorickshaws and a commuter with any Android or iPhone can scan the code to get the vehicle and drivers’ details, Sali told TOI. A real-time complaint can also be lodged with Nagpur traffic police using the code facility. “The QR code system will help commuters in a distress situation. It has been introduced especially to curb crime against women and ensure safety of citizens travelling in an autorickshaw,” he said. The facility will enable the passenger to share their real time location with their relatives and friends also through WhatsApp or SMS facility, he pointed out. It also includes a driver rating system, which will help the department keep a check on the drivers’ behaviour with passengers. The department has also convened a meeting with representatives of autorickshaw unions. “Soon, all autorickshaws will be covered under this project. We hope to serve citizens with better emergency response, women safety and crime prevention like robbery etc,” the DCP said. Representatives of autorickshaw unions welcomed the move, hoping it would curb unregistered autorickshaws and even private rickshaws to go off the road. Citizens, however, hope that along with this sticker the traffic police should ensure autorickshaws ply by meter only. HOW IT WORKS Scan QR Code using a QR scanner app Landing webpage allows you to rate rickshaw and share feedback You can share rickshaw details on WhatsApp with your family Passengers are encouraged to scan the QR code as they enter the rickshaw, so instant help can be summoned from the police if any problem arises||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/qr-codes-to-track-autos-file-complaint-with-cops/articleshow/76699697.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 inspection at industrial estate||Coimbatore: City corporation officials on Monday slapped a fine of Rs 1,000 on a nationalised bank in the Sidco Industrial Estate in Kurichi here for not following the Covid-19 precautionary measures.Assistant commissioner of south zone T R Ravi, who led an inspection team, said personal distancing was not followed in the bank and the register was not properly maintained. “There was a crowd at the bank’s entrance and personal distancing was not maintained inside. So, we levied a fine on them,” he said.The team also inspected industrial units on the campus. “While the units were following the precautionary measures, there were some lapses. Some had not placed sanitisers at the entrance, but inside. Some were checking temperature of people not before they enter, but after they came in,” Ravi said. “Though functioning with 50% workforce, personal distancing should be strictly followed.”It was the first inspection conducted in the industrial estate, a sanitary official said. They warned the erring units and informed them that they would be fined if the violations are repeated. President of the Coimbatore Sidco Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association (Cosiema) P Nallathambi said the association has informed their members to follow the Covid-19 precautions prescribed by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-inspection-at-industrial-estate/articleshow/76698809.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks ban on online classes for children younger than six||Ahmedabad: A public interest litigation on Monday sought directions from the Gujarat high court to state education authorities to prohibit online education or virtual classes for children in pre-school institutes – kindergartens and playgroups. Citing more than half a dozen examples of playgroups conducting online classes after the lockdown, the petitioner’s advocate Rahil Jain argued that the purpose of a playgroup or kindergarten is to ensure that the child is engaged in learning through various physical activities. It is meant for his/her socialization with other children of the same age group. Teaching at the pre-schooling stage does not have any academic purpose. Therefore, children below six years of age should not be made to sit for virtual classes. The PIL cited the examples of Karnataka and Maharashtra, where the governments concerned have decided not to make children up to Class V and II, respectively, sit before screens. It has also been contended that this is a fee collection exercise and organizations such as the World Health Organization and the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences do not prescribe such learning methods for toddlers and children below six, as it puts their health at risk. The high court decided to hear this issue with the suo motu PIL on issues caused by Covid-19 and the lockdown, on July 17. Last week, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala had requested the state government to work out with schools the modalities of online teaching. The HC asked the government to regulate the timings of online teaching. “The timings should be uniform. We are saying so because say for instance there are three children in the family and if the teaching is online, all three children in different standards may not be able to use the computer or laptop. A middle-class family may not be able to afford more than one laptop or computer or television. In such circumstances, the other children in the family may be deprived of the benefits of online teaching,” the court said. The HC suggested the government consider whether online teaching is advisable for very small children. It expressed concerns about the health of children and possible risk to their eyesight when made to view screens for long. “Experts are also of the view that children below five years of age should not be imparted online education,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-ban-on-online-classes-for-children-younger-than-six/articleshow/76698827.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Builders eye Sept date for return to pre-CoV normal||Kolkata: The pandemic is set to trigger a record decline in Kolkata’s housing inventory with bookings outstripping supply in the first half of this year, developers and realtors in the city said on Monday. In January-June 2020, the number of units sold is nearly three times the units that have been launched. According to developers' body Credai, inquiries, site visits and bookings have recovered to 60-70% of pre-Covid figures in June, up from 40-50% during the lockdown. “In April, sales was down 50%. In May, uptake increased to 60% and in June, 65%. The market should be back to pre-Covid level by September-October,” said Credai executive committee member Pawan Kr Agarwal. The lockdown that forced people to stay at home also made people realise the importance of the place they stay in and shortcomings that they had been ignoring in the past. “There is a psychological shift in perception of home,” said Credai advisory committee member Harshvardhan Neotia. With real estate prices in Kolkata unchanged since 2015, interest on home loans at an all-time low and the Centre announcing an extension of the PMAY scheme, Credai Bengal president Nandu Belani felt buyers would seize the opportunity. The choice though could get constricted later in the year with only a handful of new projects being launched. According to regulator WBHIRA data, while 47 projects with 5,433 units were launched in April-May 2019, 18 projects with only 413 units have been announced this April-May. “Launches will pick up after monsoon. But I don't expect more than 6,000 units to be launched this year," said Credai West Bengal president Sushil Mohta. Kolkata usually adds 15,000-16,000 units annually but launches have nosedived since 2019. According to real estate consultant Knight Frank, 53% reduction in launches led to a 15% declined by inventory. The latest Anarock report showed 3,170 units had been sold in the first half against launch of only 1,140 units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/builders-eye-sept-date-for-return-to-pre-cov-normal/articleshow/76698843.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Dev brings back 171 from Dubai||Kolkata: As many as 171 Bengalis who had been stranded in Dubai during the lockdown were brought home on a chartered Indigo flight on Monday, aided by a Bengali community body in the Gulf and facilitated by actor and Ghatal MP Dev. The MP helped in arranging all approvals on time, acting as a liaison among the centre, civil aviation department and the airline authorities. Many of the returnees are unemployed, senior citizens, tourists and included three pregnant women. This was the second repatriation flight assisted by Dev after he helped over 70 Indians, mostly Bengali medical students, return home from Moscow under Vande Bharat Mission on Sunday. Speaking to TOI, Dev said he was happy to stand beside the stranded people when they needed help the most. “I acted as a bridge and engaged in dialogue with foreign embassies and airlines while trying to bring back our people. I am in talks with the ministry to arrange for some more repatriation flights,” said Dev. Sudip Kumar Saha, an expat from Behala, was the brain behind the repatriation. Saha said Dev was willing to help the moment he approached the MP. “Before Dev, I had approached a few other influential persons in Bengal but no one came forward to help,” said Saha, a healthcare professional in Dubai for the last 20 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dev-brings-back-171-from-dubai/articleshow/76698840.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 30, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer: Security guard steals raw material from factory, held||AJMER: A rexine factory owner on the city’s outskirts, who reopened his unit after the lockdown, was in for a shock when he found that raw materials were missing from his premises. After investigation, police arrested the watchman and a junk dealer, who purchased the material stolen from the factory on Jaipur road. According to Gegal police, Om Prakash, the owner of the rexine factory lodged the complaint. Following which police arrested Daljeet Singh, 60, a resident of Tarantaran in Punjab for stealing the raw material and Akbar, 40, a resident of Lohakhan for purchasing the material. Police said during lockdown Daljeet felt no one will notice if he stole and sold the raw material and he planned the theft. Whenever Om Prakash called him, he would say everything was fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/security-guard-steals-raw-material-from-factory-held/articleshow/76699692.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ajmer||Last RBSE exam today, results likely by July 15||AJMER: About 8,000 medical teams conducted the screening of 11,86,000 students appearing for the RBSE (Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education) exams of class X on Monday. The last exam of RBSE class X and XII will be held on Tuesday and the number of students appearing will cross 12 lakh. After the last exam on Tuesday, the board is preparing to declare the result of class X and XII before July 15. According to the control room of RBSE, the board chairman DP Jalori inspected the examination centre of Jawahar School in Ajmer. The board claimed that there is no report of any cheating or copying or complaint of violating the Covid-19 guidelines. Every classroom was sanitised before the exam and thermal screening was conducted of every student. Special arrangements were made for social distancing. Even staff was not allowed to enter without screening. Officials claimed that board has prepared to declare all results before July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/last-rbse-exam-today-results-likely-by-july-15/articleshow/76699700.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Held KLF men say top UP ‘netas’ are on their hit list||Lucknow: Senior politicians of Uttar Pradesh are on the hit list of Khalistan Liberation Front (KLF). This was revealed by two members of the KLF to a team of Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UP ATS) in New Delhi on Monday.During interrogation, the KLF members, who were arrested by the special cell of the Delhi police on June 28, told the ATS team that they had set up a training camp in western Uttar Pradesh. They also admitted to have prepared a list of political leaders of UP who were on their cross hairs.The KLF members, identified as Gurtej Singh (41) and Lovepreet (21), told the ATS team that they were planning to execute targeted killings in northern states. The special cell officers said that both of them were close to Pak-based ISI handler Abdullah and Avtar Singh Pannu of Sikhs For Justice, a banned outfit. “Gurtej was assigned the job of engaging youths in west UP for carrying out subversive activities. He had indoctrinated Lovepreet along with five others,” said the officers.Additional director general of police, UP ATS, Dhruva Kant Thakur said that “some of the leaders of the state were on their list.”The KLF members told the ATS that they were engaging youths in western UP at the behest of ISI handlers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/held-klf-men-say-top-up-netas-are-on-their-hit-list/articleshow/76699704.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Galaxy Apartments residents stage protest||Ahmedabad: Residents of New Ashwamegh Bodakdev Cooperative Housing Society, also known as Galaxy Apartments, on Monday staged a protest by coming out of their homes, and sent emails to the municipal commissioner demanding that the society be removed from the micro-containment zones list. They said they are not being allowed to leave to premises even to get milk or other essentials. The society chairman, Ashok Gwalani, and several residents sent emails to municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. Gwalani said that they told municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar that there was only a single case, in the ‘D’ block of the complex, and not a single active case in the other five blocks. The society has a total of 1,174 flats. “There is only one case in ‘D’ block, which has been sealed by the AMC. Residents are not even allowed to go out for essentials like milk, medicines or vegetables. Even doctors and those involved in essentials services are been not allowed to go out for work,” he said. He also said that the AMC had also failed to properly support them in procuring vegetables and milk. Gwalani said that the D-Block, which has 40 flats, was sealed completely due to just one case. As at other complexes, the AMC should have sealed the floor concerned rather than the entire block. The society according, to Gwalani was being contained because of the four active cases in G Block, which he said was not part of New Ashwamegh Bodakdev Cooperative Housing Society. According to Gwalani, G Block is registered as Aalay Coop Housing Society Limited (Nebula) and is a separate society. “Officials of the health department have wrongly taken Block G to be part our society and combined the cases there with those in Block D of our society and the figure thus crossed 14 active cases, which according to us is not correct.” Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar, said, “As part of our policy, a vegetable vendor and a milk man are allowed to go till the gate. “We have stopped providing assistance. People are allowed to go out if they have any medical emergency.” Officials said the AMC earlier supplied vegetables, milk and even food packets in micro-containment zones but is not doing so any more. He said that where entire families are quarantined, they are being helped by neighbours or the society management, who take care of their needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/galaxy-apartments-residents-stage-protest/articleshow/76698848.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Coimbatore||With 14 new cases, Nilgiris virus tally shoots up||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiris district recorded 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the district tally to 84. The hill district has been recording positive cases of coronavirus for the past 14 days after an official of a private manufacturing company in Yellanhalli near Ooty tested positive. The area surrounding Yellanhalli has now become a cluster for the virus, and is witnessing strict containment measures.Of the 14 new cases, twelve are primary and secondary contacts of the official from the manufacturing company. While two cases are residents of Ooty, six are from Ketti. Coonoor and Aruvankadu recorded two cases each. The other two cases are a 14-year-old girl from Namakkal and a 49-year-old man from Chennai who recently visited Ooty. These two cases will be cross-notified to their respective districts, said a health official.While 32 cases have been discharged so far, the Nilgiris district currently accounts for 52 active cases. Officials said 26 patients are being treated at ESI hospital in Coimbatore, while the remaining are admitted at Ooty government hospital.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/with-14-new-cases-nilgiris-virus-tally-shoots-up/articleshow/76698831.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Inter-district travel will continue to require e-passes: Maharashtra home minister||PUNE: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday that people setting out on inter-district travel will continue to require e-passes that are being issued by the police. The minister’s statement comes on the day the state announced the extension of the Covid-19 lockdown until July 31. He said curbs are being applied to discourage unnecessary movement within the state. “The e-passes will be issued using the same regulations to restrict unnecessary travel,” Deshmukh said. He added that authorities will be stationed at all major checkpoints to inspect the permits. Citizens can apply for the e-passes at covid19.mhpolice.in or www.punepolice.in. While the state government has announced some relaxations, the high number of Covid-19 cases in the state, especially in Mumbai, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Amravati, has called for certain restrictions to stay, officials said. Deshmukh also said he would investigate complaints from people who had alleged that some district authorities were not accepting emergency travel requests from Pune and Mumbai. TOI had earlier reported that officials in nearly six districts were delaying clearances to motorists from these cities. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said applications for e-passes have to cleared by the receiving districts before permissions can be granted. One senior official told TOI that travel requests from mainly Pune and Mumbai were being rejected by the districts. Pune city police told TOI they are focusing on issuing permits for emergency cases. “We have 1,623 pending requests. We are giving priority to families reporting deaths and medical emergencies. For such cases, we try to issue permits within an hour. So far, we have been able to process 16,130 emergency requests within an hour,” said Pune police DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh, who is in-charge of issuing these passes. Singh said requests are denied only if documents are not in order or if the reason to travel is not deemed an emergency. According to data provided by the police, 53% of travel requests were sanctioned within an hour. A Citizen Pulse survey carried out by authorities here — which asked 22,791 citizens for their experiences during the lockdown — only 3% indicated issues with epasses. “It is all about priority. Deaths of an immediate relative, medical emergencies, pregnancies or dialysis qualify as reasons that call for epasses to be processed within an hour,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inter-district-travel-will-continue-to-require-e-passes-state-home-minister/articleshow/76698851.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Selective restrictions cause dissent among city traders||Thiruvananthapuram: The traders at Chalai and Palayam, where only 50% of shops would remain open on a given day, are raising concerns over their areas of livelihood being ‘labelled’ as breeding grounds for infection. Selective restriction imposed in these two markets by authorities, following detection of Covid-positive cases with unidentified sources of infection in the capital, has caused dissent among the merchant community. “When the decision was first announced we anticipated a crowd on those days when shopping would be allowed. Now, we are dealing with a situation where there is hardly any crowd. Even when the government lifted Sunday lockdown, Chalai remained shut because nobody comes to buy goods here anymore. People have been made to think that markets alone spread infection. We are worried that even if the restrictions are lifted, people won’t come back to Chalai or Palayam,” said Manoj SS, general secretary, Kerala vyapari vyavasaayi ekopana samithi. The traders said that they would have gladly accepted a complete lockdown but the present move of authorities to target Chalai and Palayam could be detrimental to their livelihood and even the famed market culture of the city. “We have noticed that many of our regular customers prefer shopping in local areas although they have to pay a higher price. We are being stigmatized. Those people who tested positive have frequented banks and even government offices. We don’t see authorities shutting down those places,” said Manoj. Chandran, a vegetable vendor at Palayam said that the biggest challenge is regulating stock. “As we sell perishable goods, we have no other way but to sell it off. The stock would keep coming whether shops are open or not. So what are we supposed to do with the stock especially when it is perishable. We are not against containment or restrictions but selective restriction affects us badly,” said Chandran. The merchants said that their request for introducing time slots of item-based sales was also turned down by the authorities. The corporation authorities are also concerned over an exhausted work force being asked to monitor crowding in shops when it ought to be the responsibility of police. The health wing has been overworked for months due to their activities related to maintenance of Covid-care homes, monitoring persons under home quarantine and running community kitchens. Meanwhile, the city corporation has shut down a super market in the city which flouted the alternate-day functioning system being imposed in the city. On Monday, corporation officials led by mayor K Sreekumar held surprise inspection at Kumarichantha to check that traders and customers adhered to the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/selective-restrictions-cause-dissent-among-city-traders/articleshow/76697641.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Labourers from Jaisalmer submit memorandum to PM||JAISALMER: Labourers at many MGNREGA sites in Jaisalmer district on Monday submitted a memorandum of five demands to Prime Minister through gram panchayat, sub-division level and district collector. Labourers at Gomat Panchayat ki Nadi in Jaisalmer submitted memorandum to Pokhran tehsildar. MGNREGA Sangharsh Morcha Suchna evum Rozgar Adhikar Abhiyan Rajasthan, Urmool Trust Bikaner, Mahila Mahasangh Pokhran and Dalit Abhiyan Adhikar, Pokhran had submitted the memorandum in which it was written that due to recent lockdown the economic situation of labourers has deteriorated. They had to face lots of problems. The demand for work in MGNREGA has increased, thus labourers have demanded to increase the working days and wages. Instead of 100 days per year, they said it should be increased to 200 days per year and wages too should be Rs 600 per day. As the wages are insufficient to lead a decent life, many villagers are forced to go to other states for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-from-jaisalmer-submit-memorandum-to-pm/articleshow/76699703.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Madurai||Magistrate abused at Sathankulam station; HC summons cops for contempt||Madurai: In an unprecedented order, amounting to expression of no-confidence on Tuticorin district police, Madras high court asked the district revenue officials to be at Sathankulam police station to preserve ‘clue materials’ relating to the custodial torture, and the subsequent death, of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks.Incensed by the non-cooperation of police officials, besides the verbal abuses hurled on a judicial magistrate when he visited Sathankulam police station for inquiry, a division bench also initiated suo motu contempt of court proceedings against an additional superintendent of police D Kumar, DSP C Prathapan and and constable Maharajan. All the three have been summoned to appear ‘in person’ before a division bench on Tuesday.As for the Tamil Nadu government’s stand that it had decided to hand over the twin custodial death to the CBI, the bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi said the government’s policy decision would not need the court’s nod.It all began when Kovilpatti judicial magistrate, deputed by the high court, sent a report to the registrar (judicial) complaining that police officials were doing everything in their command to prevent the magistrate from proceeding with the inquiry. In the presence of Kumar and Prathapan, policemen were videographing magisterial proceedings, refusing to provide documents and Maharajan used abusive phrases in Tamil to say judiciary could do nothing in the case.Directing the three to be present at 10.30am on Tuesday, the judges further said that unless the state government intervenes immediately to transfer the Tuticorin additional superintendent of police, deputy superintendent of police and police personnel from Sathankulam police station, it would be difficult to conduct a free and fair investigation and inquiry.The judges said additional advocate-general K Chellapandian may also appear in person before the court and zonal deputy inspector-general and Tuticorin superintendent of police Arun Balagopalan should also accompany the AAG.Earlier, after Chellapandian informed the court of the government intention to entrust the probe with the CBI, judges appreciated the deference shown to the court, but added, “we make it clear that to transfer or not to transfer the case to the CBI is the policy decision of the government.”Narrating the procedural formalities involved in such a transfer and noting that it may consume a ‘reasonable time’, the judges directed the registry to take a copy of preliminary post-mortem certificates, certify them and keep them in safe custody and send the original certificates in a sealed cover to the Tuticorin chief judicial magistrate (CJM) who shall hand over the same to the CBI investigating officer.Noting that doctors are awaiting chemical analysis, histopathological and microbiological examination reports to give a final opinion, the judges asked the director of Tamil Nadu Forensic Sciences Laboratory at Chennai to give top priority to the examination of the materials sent by the doctors, so that they can give their final opinion at the earliest. The judges directed that on receipt of the final opinion, the dean of Tirunelveli medical college shall send the same to the Tuticorin chief judicial magistrate, who shall hand it over to CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/magistrate-abused-at-sathankulam-station-hc-summons-cops-for-contempt/articleshow/76698861.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 30, 2020||Udaipur||Record wheat procurement at MSP this year despite lockdown in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Despite the lockdown, the food department has procured 21.61 lakh metric tonne of wheat in just 73 days, setting a new record of highest ever procurement. So far, wheat worth Rs 4,160 crore has been purchased, benefiting about 2.12 lakh farmers in the state. Food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena said that the average procurement of wheat per day last year was 13,187 metric tonne, whereas this year, 29,605 metric tonne of wheat was purchased daily, which was two-and-a-half times more than that in last year. He said 456 purchasing centres were set up in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic to maintain social distancing at purchasing centres from April 16. The minister informed that the department has provided relief to farmers by purchasing more wheat in Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar, Kota, Bundi, Baran, Jhalawar, Chittorgarh, Bharatpur, Banswara and Sawai Madhopur districts. He said that due to the unseasonal rains in the state, the norms of wheat quality (luster of wheat) were relaxed by the Centre, due to which farmers in Kota, Baran, Jhalawar, Sawai Madhopur, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh, Udaipur, Bhilwara and Pratapgarh districts benefited directly. Secretary, food department, Siddharth Mahajan said despite the difficult circumstances and limited resources such as problems of trucks and labourers during the pandemic, the highest record procurement of wheat was made at the minimum support price. He said during the lockdown, relief was provided to the eligible persons by general allocation, additional allocation under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Yojana, by lifting the allocated wheat to the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/record-wheat-procurement-at-msp-this-year-despite-lockdown/articleshow/76708024.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Two-and-a-half centuries ago, ‘night curfew’ in Pune spanned 87 years||PUNE: Curbs on after-dark movement in the city that began on March 22 have gone on for nearly a 100 days. Stretched as it has been, the restriction is still nowhere near the longest period of ‘night curfew’ imposed in the city lasting 87 years from 1765 to 1852. Cut to August 1791. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-and-a-half-centuries-ago-night-curfew-in-pune-spanned-87-years/articleshow/76698874.cms||Abhijit Atre
June 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Record wheat procurement at MSP this year despite lockdown in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Despite the lockdown, the food department has procured 21.61 lakh metric tonne of wheat in just 73 days, setting a new record of highest ever procurement. So far, wheat worth Rs 4,160 crore has been purchased, benefiting about 2.12 lakh farmers in the state. Food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena said that the average procurement of wheat per day last year was 13,187 metric tonne, whereas this year, 29,605 metric tonne of wheat was purchased daily, which was two-and-a-half times more than that in last year. He said 456 purchasing centres were set up in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic to maintain social distancing at purchasing centres from April 16. The minister informed that the department has provided relief to farmers by purchasing more wheat in Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar, Kota, Bundi, Baran, Jhalawar, Chittorgarh, Bharatpur, Banswara and Sawai Madhopur districts. He said that due to the unseasonal rains in the state, the norms of wheat quality (luster of wheat) were relaxed by the Centre, due to which farmers in Kota, Baran, Jhalawar, Sawai Madhopur, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh, Udaipur, Bhilwara and Pratapgarh districts benefited directly. Secretary, food department, Siddharth Mahajan said despite the difficult circumstances and limited resources such as problems of trucks and labourers during the pandemic, the highest record procurement of wheat was made at the minimum support price. He said during the lockdown, relief was provided to the eligible persons by general allocation, additional allocation under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Yojana, by lifting the allocated wheat to the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/record-wheat-procurement-at-msp-this-year-despite-lockdown/articleshow/76708020.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Coffee House eyes adda with infusion and social distancing||KOLKATA: Coffee House, the favourite hangout for the city’s young and intellectual, is set to join Kolkata’s restaurants by resuming services with restrictions from July 2, provided the decks are cleared at a meeting the previous day. But the iconic College Street place for adda, famous for its foul cutlet and black coffee (infusion), might miss the buzz with just half of the seats being allowed to be occupied. Patrons must wear masks, sanitize their hands and stay at least six feet from the next table. According to Coffee Workers’ Cooperative Society, which runs Coffee House, Kolkata Police has agreed to issue an NOC to reopen its College Street unit from Thursday. But it will be preceded by a meeting of the society on July 1 when the date will be finalized. “We had a talk at local police station. A senior officer agreed to issue an NOC by July 1,” a society source said. Like other restaurants, which reopened on June 8, Coffee House will have to follow social distancing and sanitization norms that will reduce seating capacity. “Tables have to be six feet apart. Not more than two to three persons will be allowed at a table. Glass plates may be replaced. Sanitizing is a major issue and only those wearing masks will be allowed inside. But co-operative society members have to decide on all rules and work on an opening date,” said society secretary Tapas Pahari. Patrons could be requested “not to linger inside too long”. Not too many old timers could remember when Coffee House had to ever implement this rule. The North division police, whom Coffee House officials met recently, said they would go by government directives. “The area still has a few micro-containment zones. They will come back to us after their meeting on July 1 with their proposals. We will keep everyone in the loop before operations are allowed to resume,” said an officer. It was the first time Coffee House stayed shut since 1994, when it did not open for 28 days. “Getting to sit there with coffee will help me drive away the blues,” said Somnath Mukherjee, a Presidency graduate. “If it stays shut any longer, I will feel truly quarantined,” said Saswati Mukherjee, a CU student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coffee-house-eyes-adda-with-infusion-and-social-distancing/articleshow/76698867.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||4 new Covid-19 cases in capital||T’puram: Four Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday. These include a 41-year-old resident of Tuticorin, a 38-year-old resident of Nagapattanam, a 33-year-old resident of Thirunelveli and a 60-year-old resident of Nagaroor. The Tamil Nadu natives had arrived from foreign countries on June 26 and their test results following antibody testing were positive. Confirmatory tests were done through RT-PCR, which also turned positive. As many as 1,252 people were brought under disease surveillance in the district on Monday. A total of 320 people completed observation period without showing symptoms on Monday. A s many as 25,912 people are under room quarantine and 1,866 people are under institutional quarantine in the district. A total of 191 persons are under observation in hospitals. As many as 246 samples were sent for testing and 554 samples were tested negative on Monday. A total of 87 people arrived in the district via Inchivila checkpost till Monday evening. Majority people arrived from Tamil Nadu. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/4-new-covid-19-cases-in-capital/articleshow/76697653.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||West records 45% of city’s new cases||Ahmedabad: The western part of Ahmedabad reported 91 fresh cases on Sunday. They accounted for 45% of the 198 cases registered in the city. However, the western part showed a 10% decline in cases as compared to Saturday. On Saturday, the western part had reported 110 cases of the city’s total of 197. On Sunday, the West Zone recorded the second highest number of cases (39) after the East Zone. The West Zone includes the wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna. The zone reported four of the 13 deaths recorded on Sunday evening. The East Zone recorded 46 cases. The zone comprises wards such as Viratnagar, Nikol, Gomtipur, Odhav, Vastral, and Amraiwadi. Moreover, 20 cases and one death were reported from the North West Zone. The zone spans areas such as Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, and Gota. Thirty-two cases and two deaths were reported from the South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej. Overall, of the active cases, the western part of the city accounts for 51% of the total in Ahmedabad. Till Monday morning, the city had a total of 2,936 active cases of which 1,492 are from the western part. Of these 1,492 cases, the West Zone recorded 645; the North West Zone, 412; and the South West Zone, 435. As for other zones, 191 are from the Central Zone, 438 from the North Zone, 376 from the East Zone, and 439 from the South Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/west-records-45-of-citys-new-cases/articleshow/76698860.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Record wheat procurement at MSP this year despite lockdown in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Despite the lockdown, the food department has procured 21.61 lakh metric tonne of wheat in just 73 days, setting a new record of highest ever procurement. So far, wheat worth Rs 4,160 crore has been purchased, benefiting about 2.12 lakh farmers in the state. Food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena said that the average procurement of wheat per day last year was 13,187 metric tonne, whereas this year, 29,605 metric tonne of wheat was purchased daily, which was two-and-a-half times more than that in last year. He said 456 purchasing centres were set up in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic to maintain social distancing at purchasing centres from April 16. The minister informed that the department has provided relief to farmers by purchasing more wheat in Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar, Kota, Bundi, Baran, Jhalawar, Chittorgarh, Bharatpur, Banswara and Sawai Madhopur districts. He said that due to the unseasonal rains in the state, the norms of wheat quality (luster of wheat) were relaxed by the Centre, due to which farmers in Kota, Baran, Jhalawar, Sawai Madhopur, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh, Udaipur, Bhilwara and Pratapgarh districts benefited directly. Secretary, food department, Siddharth Mahajan said despite the difficult circumstances and limited resources such as problems of trucks and labourers during the pandemic, the highest record procurement of wheat was made at the minimum support price. He said during the lockdown, relief was provided to the eligible persons by general allocation, additional allocation under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Yojana, by lifting the allocated wheat to the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-wheat-procurement-at-msp-this-year-despite-lockdown/articleshow/76699708.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Trade at Jamalpur APMC halted again||AHMEDABAD: The city may witness a temporary shortage of vegetables as trading at the Jamalpur APMC has again been suspended. On Saturday morning, APMC authorities told traders that the Jamalpur market will not operate till July 15. APMC officials and secretary Dipak Patel said police had refused to allow operation of the market as it caused overcrowding in the heart of the city. Currently, trading at the yard has been halted till Tuesday, when the authorities will meet traders to chalk out alternatives. Prior to this, vegetable markets in Jamalpur and Kalupur, Naroda fruit market and a dozen smaller vegetable markets in the city had been closed on April 9, to curb overcrowding and the spread of Covid-19. The abrupt decision startled many traders who say they had already ordered vegetables and the supply vehicles have left for Ahmedabad. On Saturday night, trading had to be conducted on the main road outside the Jamalpur APMC yard. A vegetable wholesaler said, “On June 26, we were told to begin trading at Jamalpur and that each trader would be allowed at the yard once every three days.” Another trader said the original plan was to allow sets of 53 traders to work in rotation, with each set getting a day to themselves. The traders had agreed to the arrangement, but those orders were withdrawn citing the risk of overcrowding. The trader said the APMC should have ensured all required permissions had been obtained before telling them on June 26 that trading would resume. An official said Jetalpur may be used as an alternative site, so citizens face less hardships. This will be decided on Tuesday. “Till then, there may be a shortage of vegetables in the city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trade-at-jamalpur-apmc-halted-again/articleshow/76698858.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Congress wants white paper on Goa’s economic status||Margao: The Congress legislature party (CLP) on Monday demanded a white paper on the financial condition of the state and how the government intends to combat the Covid pandemic in view of the economic crisis faced by the state. The CLP members also resolved to corner the government in the forthcoming budget session of the assembly over the “failure” of the government on various aspects of the Covid pandemic, though they felt two weeks was too short a time for a budget session to discuss all issues. Addressing reporters after CLP meeting held in Margao, leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat said, “The weaker section of the society has suffered the most owing to the covid situation. I had asked that the government to work out a Rs 100 crore relief package for such needy segments. The central government has announced a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package, and the chief minister is learnt to have asked for Rs 200 crore package for the state. We need to know what has happened to the proposal. That is why we want the government to publish a white paper on the financial condition of the state.” Kamat said that Congress would forcefully raise the issues concerning failures of the government over various aspects of Covid management – Covid strategy, seafarers’ repatriation policy, labour welfare scheme, etc. Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro hit out at the government for the fuel price hike. “The government is responsible for one crisis after another. First came the economic meltdown because of demonetisation, then the unemployment crisis, the industrial crisis, crisis regarding banks, the border crisis, the corona crisis, and now the government has created another crisis – increase of petroleum prices,” Faleiro said. Stating that the fuel price rise was affecting the common man, he said, “Instead of giving them a package, you are increasing the fuel prices. What is the logic?” Advising the government to be prudent while utilising the state’s limited finances at its disposal, Faleiro assured the government of working together to arrive at solutions. “I don’t expect the government to be a magician, but it needs to be prudent by utilising funds for the maximum benefit of the people,” he said. Faleiro also made a strong pitch for opening of bars along with restaurants. Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco and Ponda MLA Ravi Naik were also present for the CLP meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-wants-white-paper-on-goas-economic-status/articleshow/76700109.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Auto driver lands in jail for sword video||Nagpur: An auto-rickshaw driver’s dream to become an overnight social media sensation with a sword-wielding video crashed after cops put him behind bars. Sameer Khan, 20, draped in a fancy attire, had uploaded the clip a few days ago. His video did not go down well with the city police. Following a tip-off, the team from tehsil police comprising senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar, inspector (crime) Dilip Sagar, sub-inspector Swapnil Wagh, asst sub-inspector Sanjay Dubey, police naik constable Anil Chaturvedi, Sachin Tapre and others zeroed in on Khan at Bhankheda. Khan was in possession of the sword for the last two years. “We have seized the sword. No criminal record of Khan was found,” said Bhandarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/auto-driver-lands-in-jail-for-sword-video/articleshow/76699707.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: NREGA workers demand Rs 600 daily, 200 days of work||JAIPUR: MGNREGA workers protested at 200 different places across the state demanding Rs 600 as their daily wage, increasing 100 days of work to 200, daily tool allowance of Rs 20, starting employment guarantee scheme in urban areas and to carry out activities/projects selected only by the gram sabha and wards. The workers submitted memoranda in this regard to the collectors, SDMs and other district/block-level officers in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The workers protested in 21 districts, 53 blocks and more than 200 work sites. Currently, the workers earn Rs 220 per day. The tool allowance has been introduced in some states including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. “We are not able to feed our families properly in this situation plagued by Covid crisis and inflation. Moreover, step-motherly treatment is being meted to us by the government when the government employees earn so much. The Centre should increase our wages to Rs 600 per day,” said worker Manju Meghwal, a resident of Rampuria village of Nareli gram panchayat in Bhilwara district. Another worker from Pali district, Kamlabai, said, “I am going to complete my quota of 100 days of work soon. What will I do after that because there is no possibility of getting another job due to this pandemic. The government must increase the number of days of work to 200.” Javed Khan and Mangilal Salvi, residents of Udaipur, demanded that the employment guarantee scheme should be also be started in the urban areas. “Earlier, we could get construction or any other type of work in the cities, but all the activities have come to a standstill now. If we do not get employment, we will die of hunger. The government should introduce Urban Employment Guarantee Act for the poor living in the urban areas,” they said. MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan said, “The Centre should bring in some policy changes in the employment guarantee scheme. The current wage is rate is pretty low. It should be increased to at least Rs 300 and the number of days of work should also be increased to 200.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-workers-demand-rs-600-daily-200-days-of-work/articleshow/76699712.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Madurai||Couple held for conducting son’s marriage with minor||Madurai: The Thirumangalam all women police have arrested the parents of a 24-year-old man for conducting his marriage with a 17-year-old minor girl. They also booked the groom, P Vijay on charges of sexual assault under the Pocso Act. The accused have been identified as V Pounraj, 55, and P Pachaiammal, 45, from Maravankulam. They were also booked under Pocso Act for abetting the crime and under sections of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. According to police sources, the man fell in love with the girl last year. As the girl’s family opposed, she eloped with him a few days back and got married with the help of Pounraj and Pachaiammal. On Sunday, the girl’s parents visited Pounraj’s house and questioned them. But, they threatened with dire consequences. Following this, the girl’s mother filed a complaint. The girl was rescued and taken to a government hospital for a medical test. She was later sent along with her parents. Police are yet to arrest Vijay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/couple-held-for-conducting-sons-marriage-with-minor/articleshow/76698877.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Restaurateurs seek timing extension||Ahmedabad: The majority of the restaurateurs are reeling from revenue shortfall as their businesses are forced to shut at 7pm, ever since Unlock 1.0 was implemented. Hoping for some respite, representatives of Hotels & Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat met CM Vijay Rupani on Monday, seeking timing relaxations for restaurants from July 1. “We have sought that restaurants be allowed to operate both dine-in and takeaway services till 11pm at least, so that businesses can resume normalcy. The chief minister has considered our request positively and we hope that an appropriate decision is taken,” said Narendra Somani, president, HRA – Gujarat. Sources said that while dine-in timings may be curtailed, takeaways may be allowed till 11pm. HRA had also sent a letter to the chief minister last week, seeking relaxations in timings, citing losses in business. “The situation of restaurants and hotels is so bad that up to 70% restaurants in India are staring at a shutdown in the coming 30-45 days. The situation of hotels in Gujarat is equally critical. Even though hotels and restaurants have been allowed to operate from June 8, hardly a few hotels are operating and that too at a very low occupancy. The situation of restaurants is equally bad, which can operate only upto 7pm,” stated the representation. Hoteliers had also sought waiver in electricity duty and property tax for a year last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restaurateurs-seek-timing-extension/articleshow/76698876.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid tally crosses 23,000 with 685 cases||LUCKNOW: The coronavirus tally of Uttar Pradesh crossed the 23,000-mark on Monday. As many as 685 new cases took the total number of patients to 23,078. In all, 698 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 15,506. “The recovery rate of Uttar Pradesh is increasing steadily. It reached 68.8% on Monday from 64.13% a week ago,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. He added that the state has 6,659 active cases. “It means that 30% of total cases in the state are active,” he said. Prasad further stated that the state was able to achieve two milestones on Monday. “While the total number of Covid-19 tests in 24 hours reached 22,378 the overall tests crossed the seven lakh mark to reach 7,07,849,” he added. Secretary to chief minister Alok Kumar stated: “Of the total tests 21,440 were conducted through RTPCR. We have set a minimum testing target for all districts. We are aiming to achieve the target of 25,000 tests within next few days.” Health officials stated that as many as 12 Covid-19 deaths were reported in 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 672. According to a Covid bulletin, two deaths were reported in Kanpur Nagar, while one each was reported in Meerut, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Hapur, Mathura, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Etawah and Lalitpur. Of the fresh cases, Ghaziabad saw a maximum of 70 cases followed by Gautam Budh Nagar where 53 new entries were made. Double digit entries were made by Varanasi (45), Kanpur Nagar (38), Lucknow (24), Jhansi (22), Chandauli (19), Agra (18), Jaunpur (17), Aligarh (17), Gorakhpur (17), Shamli (16), Sant Kabir Nagar (14), Etawah (14), Meerut (13), Farrukhabad (13), Mau (12), Moradabad (12), Hardoi (12), Pilibhit (11) and Ayodhya (10). Prasad stated that surveillance activities continued in hotspots and among migrants. “Asha workers have been able to track over 19 lakh migrant workers of whom 231 have been found positive. Health teams are also moving in targeted areas, including hotspots,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-tally-crosses-23k-with-685-cases/articleshow/76699720.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Docs sing blues away, blur boundaries||Kolkata: Leading doctors from the city, UK and Bangladesh played online antakshari, taking out a little time from their relentless fight against the pandemic. Sunday was the grand web finale of the six-week long musical competition, at the end of which all the 55 contestants had emerged as winners. “In the end we all won, simply because it gave us an excellent opportunity to unwind. Over the last two months, I have been looking forward to the Sundays and the finale was a grand event. I was awestruck by the high standard of the singers and the warmth of everyone who participated in it,” said consultant gynaecologist Queene Aditya, who finished ‘first runners-up’ in the ‘Global Virtual Fantakshari’ held on Sunday evening (Indian time). The UK-based Essex Indians, spearheaded by doctors Arpita Roy and Anirban Mandal, hosted the ‘Fantakshari’. One of the finalists, Arnab Gupta, director and surgical oncologist, Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre and Research Institute (SGCCRI), was all praises for the effort by the members of Essex Indians. “Amid the pandemic, they gave us our much-needed break. I feel privileged to be a part of the event organized by a foundation that has been supporting the children’s section of our hospital.” Essex Indians has been hosting fund-raising programmes to aid charitable hospitals in India. Amitabha Chanda of Dhaka said, “The event ‘Fantakshari’ was totally a different venture to boost the morale of medics in these trying times.” Though it was fun all the way, the rules of the game were stringent and the Hindi films songs that everyone loved belting out had to be error-free, in lyrics and presentation. Twelve participants from across the continents had been invited to join each preliminary episode. After five gruelling episodes, 12 qualified for the finals that started sharp at 3.30pm GMT and 8pm IST. Four contestants who had been selected from the three rounds of semi-finals were Ratna Parikh, Queen Aditya, Shalini Agrawal and Rupalee and Suresh Mandke, joint winners of Round 3. Apart from the usual antakshari rounds, there was a word section, where one had to sing the “mukhra” (first few lines) of a song having the term ‘jaadu’ (meaning magic). Then came the short video clip of the prelude to a song. The contestants were supposed to identify the score and sing with precise lyrics. After this, the round where an “antara” (climax of a song) was played and the “mukhra” needed to be identified and again, sung correctly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/docs-sing-blues-away-blur-boundaries/articleshow/76698889.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||20 nests of almost-extinct Finn’s weaver spotted in Terai forests||Dehradun: After Uttar Pradesh recently sighted the rare bird, Uttarakhand forest officials have confirmed that they have spotted around two dozen nests of the near-extinct yellow-black Finn’s weaver (Ploceus megarhynchus) in Terai Central forest division. The discovery is being hailed as the “most rare and significant sighting”, as it led right to the birds’ nesting site. According to experts, the bird was first spotted in Uttarakhand in the 1950s by noted ornithologist Dr Salim Ali. Just around 1,000 of these tiny birds are left globally, of which around 500 are believed to reside in Assam’s Kaziranga and Uttarakhand. A recent sighting was reported from Uttar Pradesh as well. Endemic to the Indian subcontinent and tagged as “vulnerable” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the population of the bird is steadily declining. The tiny bird prefers agricultural fields or the Terai region, but with undue pressure on its haunts, its visibility reduced significantly over time. Wildlife watchers say that the bird was last spotted in Uttarakhand in 1976 and its re-sighting has kindled a ray of hope among all field staffers, who are now working on shielding them from the outer world. Divisional forest officer of Terai Central Forest Division, Dr Abhilasha Singh said, “It is a big deal that our staff spotted around two dozen nests (of the Finn’s weaver) as well as the birds in Terai Central forest division. To ensure that these (birds) are not disturbed by any external elements, we are not too keen on disclosing their location. The bird is trying to establish itself again in its native place and we plan to let it settle down quietly.” “The tiny bird’s existence is very important for maintaining balance in the eco-system, as is its habitat. We are trying our best to preserve it. It is found only in parts of the Indian subcontinent and Shuklaphanta region in Nepal,” said chief conservator of forests, Western Circle, Parag Madhukar Dhakate. The credit of spotting the bird goes to Rajesh Panwar, an avid bird watcher. Dhakate said, “It was Panwar who first spotted the bird last week. After that, our staff ensured that its rich colonies were not disturbed by anyone, as its existence is under threat.” Panwar, who managed to spot the bird along with wife Sheela on June 21, said he had clicked the bird at the same spot in October 2014. He said, “I am thrilled to have been able to click the Finn’s weaver after searching for them for years in reed beds. It’s quite difficult to capture these birds during breeding season.” According to ornithologists, the Finn’s weaver breeds from May to September and unlike other weaver birds, lines the inside of its nests. Also known as Finn’s Baya, the bird builds nests on tree tops and in reeds. Uttarakhand has a rich avian diversity of 710 species, six of which are listed as critically endangered, three as endangered, 19 as vulnerable and 28 as near-threatened in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/20-nests-of-almost-extinct-finns-weaver-spotted-in-terai-forests/articleshow/76696513.cms||Shivani Azad
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: People throng stores and ATMs speculating another lockdown||HYDERABAD: Speculation over a total lockdown amid increasing number of Covid-19 cases, led to residents thronging supermarkets across Hyderabad, on Monday, to stock up on essential commodities. Long queues were seen outside departmental stores and local kirana shops, with the rush increasing post 2pm. Inside, people were seen piling their trolleys with packets of rice, wheat, flour, oil, bread among other daily essentials with many stores sporting empty shelves by late evening. Scenes outside ATMs, salons and wine stores was much the same, though the Telangana government is yet to issue any official circular regarding the shutdown. “If there is a complete shutdown, I want to be prepared. I don’t want to rush at the last minute to stock up on necessary things,” said Bala Koteshwar at Ratnadeep supermaket on the Hi-Tec City Road. He was seen buying groceries and other essentials that would last his family at least a fortnight. TimesViewCitizens rushing to supermarkets to stock up on essentials breaching social distancing norm will only deepen the Covid-19 crisis further and overwhelm the already strained healthcare system. People should not resort to panic buying basing their fears on rumour mills and in case of another lockdown, as earlier, governments will take necessary steps to keep supply chains of essentials goingAt supermarkets in the Jubilee Hills-Banjara Hills belt, supermarkets struggled to manage crowds even as cars were seen parked for as far as one km or more — on either side of the stores. “By the time I could find a spot to park my car, I noticed that queue outside Q Mart had reached the footpath outside the building. I realised it would take me at least an hour to only get inside the supermarket. So, I decided to turn around and go to another one in Khairatabad. Sadly, the queue was equally long there,” said Arpita Dey who eventually went home without shopping. Not surprisingly then, by 6 pm locals stores were reporting a shortage of some items. “During the morning hours, sales were moderate. Suddenly in the evening a lot of people started coming. Rice, oil, curd, pulses are some of the things that we sold in bulk. We are now down to our last few packets,” said the owner of a kirana shop in Somajiguda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-throng-stores-atms-speculating-another-lockdown/articleshow/76698873.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 30, 2020||Pune||Pimpri camp market opens for business after a week||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri camp market, which was closed for the last week, was allowed to resume functioning on P1/P2-basis by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) from Monday. The market had been shut because of lack of discipline and non-compliance of social distancing norms by customers and traders. Smita Zagade, the PCMC assistant commissioner, told TOI, “We have allowed the traders to resume business as per the guidelines of the civic body. Anti-encroachment teams and police squads have been deployed to patrol the market areas. Citizens and traders have to understand that exercising safety precautions can reduce the number of Covid-19 cases.” She said she had taken action against 10 traders before the market had shut. The P1/P2 violation was rampant among traders. “The closure of market can hurt small-time vendors, who depend on the day’s business and for the sake of the trading community everyone should act responsibly,” she said, adding that keeping the market shut every time there was non-compliance would not be practical for traders or citizens. According to the PCMC’s health department report as many as 187 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,909.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-camp-market-opens-for-business-after-a-week/articleshow/76698894.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro waits for Centre’s nod before resuming operations||KOLKATA: Metro Railway is awaiting instructions from the ministry of railways, ministry of home affairs and the Union ministry of health and family welfare before taking any step towards resumption of limited services in the north-south network. At a high-level meeting held with senior government officials at Nabanna on Monday, the Metro authorities made it clear that maintaining social distance inside stations and in trains will be a major challenge. Additionally, if services resume, they will have to be limited due to manpower constraints and maintenance issues. On Friday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that the Metro can resume services from July 1 with certain restrictions. Monday’s meeting was convened to work out details. Metro officials informed the state that the last circular from the Railway Board has made it clear that no regular trains will be running till August 12. Under these circumstances, fresh instructions will be required from the ministry to resume even limited Metro services. The officials also said if and when operations resume, passengers in the initial days should only be those involved in emergency services. While the home secretary, transport secretary and Kolkata Police commissioner were present at Monday’s meeting, the Metro was represented by its additional general manager, principal chief operations manager and chief security commissioner. “Once we receive instructions from the Railway Board to resume limited services, another meeting will be convened with state officials to work out final details. During this meeting, the schedule and frequency of trains will be discussed. Details regarding how many passengers will be allowed inside a train shall also be discussed. There will be security related issues when movement of people is restricted and necessary steps will have to be taken. Thermal scanning of passengers will also have to be carried out. Only after an SOP evolves will services resume,” Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said. The state’s efforts to cajole private bus operators to run services by offering them subsidies doesn’t seem to have had its desired effect. With both government and private sector offices having opened from June 8, the state now wants to give people another travel option by asking the Metro to resume services. Metro officials are, however, worried about the rise in Covid-19 cases and the risks involved in overcrowding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-waits-for-centres-nod-before-resuming-ops/articleshow/76698911.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Camp Hanuman temple may open only on July 21||AHMEDABAD: The famous Camp Hanuman temple in Shahibaug, which was to reopen on July 1, is now likely to allow devotees in from July 21. The continued closure is because of the Covid-19 crisis. The temple is in the Army cantonment zone that has been shut in the wake of the pandemic. “Keeping in mind the health of our jawans and devotees, we decided to reopen the temple from July 21, if circumstances permit,” said Parthivkumar Adhyaru, a temple trustee. Also, the shrine can open only after the defence authorities allow access to the public. Various measures to check the spread of Covid-19 have been planned at the temple. It will be mandatory for devotees to wear masks. A sanitization cabin will be set up through which every devotee will have to pass. Thermal scanners will be used to check body temperatures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/camp-hanuman-may-open-only-on-july-21/articleshow/76698884.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Madurai||New treatment protocol after 20 deaths in 10 days in Madurai||Madurai: With as many as 20 Covid-19 deaths in Madurai in the last 10 days, the total death toll has risen to 29, making it the fourth district in Tamil Nadu with the highest number deaths. The highest number of single day deaths was on June 26, when five people died.Meanwhile, doctors said the treatment protocol at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has been updated with the latest globally-approved drugs, including Favipiravir and Remdesivir made available to treat the disease.All 20 deaths have taken place at the Governemnt Rajaji Hospital. Of these, 15 had various comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, coronary artery disease, etc. However, the remaining five, including two 40-year-old men on Monday in the age group of 25 to 40, had no comorbid conditions. Further, out of the 13 deceased patients, who were above 60 years, five of them had no comorbid conditions like diabetes or hypertension. “Four months ago, we didn’t have much idea to tackle the disease. However, now, we know what treatment has worked across the world as well as in Chennai and have updated the latest treatment protocol. Treatment protocol committee, headed by Dr K Senthil from GRH, have improvised it to be more Madurai specific and finalised the protocol,” said Dr B Chandra Mohan, special Covid-19 monitoring officer for Madurai.Head of the committee, Dr K Senthil explained that individual Covid-19 cases widely vary and the treatment protocol is only a guide. “Favipiravir can be used for treating mild cases while Remdesivir and Tocilizumab can be used for treating moderate and severe cases. However, there is no simple formula. Treatment for a patient depends on clinical features, CT scan findings, blood parameters, and comorbid conditions,” he said. He added that death audits of Covid-19 patients are also being carried out regularly to assess and ensure improvement of treatment if possible.Meanwhile, in a first for Madurai district, a post-test counselling centre for Covid-19 patients has been set up to educate them regarding treatment and provide psychological counselling once they test positive. “The counsellors will reach out to all patients immediately after they test positive. This is to reduce any unnecessary fear of Covid-19 among public and guide them through the process of recovery,” Dr Chandramohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-treatment-protocol-after-20-deaths-in-10-days-in-madurai/articleshow/76698887.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 30, 2020||Pune||Two-year-old girl among 34 in family wins Covid-19 fight||PUNE: A two-year-old girl was among a Khadki Cantonment Board elected representative’s 34 family members discharged from a private hospital on Sunday after recovering from the Covid-19 infection. All have now been placed under home quarantine in Sapras. The family members had tested positive for the virus on June 14 and 15. “Initially, we were worried about the youngest member of our family as she is only two years old. Her condition, right from admission, was better and it improved as the days passed. Now, she is doing fine at home,” the elected member told TOI. “Only one of my uncles, aged 74 years, is under treatment, but his condition is stable and he is likely to be discharged in the next two days,” he added. The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) has so far recorded 169 cases. Of them, 103 patients have been discharged after treatment, six have succumbed to the contagion, while 60 are active cases. The elected representative said, “My other uncle had high temperature and faced breathing trouble. He initiallly consulted our family doctor and took medicines. But in the following three days, his condition deteriorated and his sample was collected by a team of cantonment doctors.” “When he tested positive, they collected throat samples of all our immediate and extended family members. By June 16, 35 members of my family and relatives, including 22 who turned out to be asymptomatic, tested positive for the virus. We all got admitted in a private hospital as we did not want to take any chance,” he added. He said, “All of us stay in the same building. We share a common gallery where we sit, talk and spend time together in the evening. This is how, we feel, the virus may have infected so many of our family members. We all were scared but as days passed, we gained confidence.” He added, “We were in contact with each other and received information about each other’s health daily. This, too, helped us to develop a positive attitude. It was a big challenge for the entire family and we have fought it together successfully.” The KCB has shut meat shops in Kasai Mohlla and on Hule Road, which were recently declared micro-containment zones. “Our staffers are visiting markets and acting against violators,” KCB chief executve officer Pramod Kumar Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-year-old-girl-among-34-in-family-wins-covid-19-fight/articleshow/76698869.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Spike in Covid cases in Panvel, Navi Mumbai continues||NAVI MUMBAI: The number of coronavirus cases in Navi Mumbai region spiked during June. NMMC is close to trebling its total, while Panvel civic body has reported more than thrice the cases compared to May 31. NMMC reported 227 new cases on Monday, while PCMC reported a single day highest of 131 fresh cases. Panvel civic commissioner Monday ordered closure of APMC market in view of rising cases. NMMC commenced house-to-house screening in six special containment zones out of 12 that came into effect from June 29. The six other zones will be covered from June 30. Nearly one lakh households in the new containment zones under NMMC will be screened in a week. Over 9,000 people have been screened on day one. The past week, from June 22, has seen the sharpest spike for both civic bodies. NMMC, with an estimated population of 15 lakh, added 4,223 cases during June. NMMC’s total was 2,204 on May 31 increased to 4,961 on June 22, and the present count is 6,427. NMMC added 1,466 cases in the last week. This will make the average addition of cases at 209.4. Panvel, with a population of seven lakh, had 526 cases on May 31, which increased to 1,435 on June 22, and on Monday was 2,014. PCMC reported 579 cases in a week with an average of 82.7 cases a day. NMMC reported two deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 207, while PCMC reported four, taking the toll to 76.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/spike-in-covid-cases-in-panvel-navi-mumbai-continues/articleshow/76699349.cms||SANJAY BANERJEE
June 30, 2020||Madurai||21 to 50 years’ age group contributes to most Covid-19 cases in Madurai city||Madurai: About 61% of people in the age group of 21 to 50 years have been infected with Covid-19 making it the highest percentile to get affected in Madurai city limits.Among these, those between 21 and 30 years have contributed the highest at 20.43%, while people between 31 and 40 and 41 to 50 years have contributed 20.07% each as on June 26.Officials say that people in these age groups are vulnerable to infection since they expose themselves more to the outside environment. The need for them to travel to work places and other locations also pose a risk to them.“One has to avert travel outside only if it is absolutely necessary, as they are not only risking themselves but also their family members. Frequent washing of hands while spending time outside and taking bath and washing their clothes before entering houses can prevent infection to an extent,” said a health official from the Madurai Corporation.Corporation has so far reported 1,104 positive cases, an increase from 501 cases on June 21. Of these, 710 were male and 391 female. There were 53 children under the age of 14.A corporation official said that increasing number of elderly people getting infected is also a cause of concern. Elderly people need to be extra cautious. People getting exposed to outside environment can wear masks inside their houses, if their are elderly people. Those who have crossed the age of 60 are vulnerable to the disease as they will have underlying issues including uncontrolled diabetes. There were 137 people aged more than 60 years infected by Covid-19 as on June 26, including 44 between 71 and 80 years and eight between 81 and 90 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/21-to-50-years-age-group-contributes-to-most-covid-19-cases-in-madurai-city/articleshow/76698895.cms||V Devanathan
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||CM releases 2nd instalment of Rs 512cr to MSMEs, spinning mills to be focus next||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy released Rs 512.35 crore to MSMEs as the second instalment of the total Rs 1,168 crore restart package to handhold the sector. During a video conference with district collectors, the CM said there is a need for the state to handhold the MSME sector, which has 97,428 units of which 24,252 are micro units providing employment to 10 lakh people. The government had released the first instalment of Rs 450 crore in May this year during the lockdown. He said the government has to pay Rs 827.5 crore dues to the MSME sector, which has been kept pending by the previous TDP government. Besides clearing the dues, the government also waived the fixed three-month electricity charges worth Rs 188 crore from April to June. He said the government was also providing working capital from the State Investment Corporation to the MSMEs ranging from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. He told the MSMEs that the government has placed a joint collector in charge of the sector. “These apart we are giving six-month moratorium and have fixed the term to three years. The state will purchase 25% of the 360 varieties of goods produced by MSMEs of which 4% will be from MSMEs run by SCs and 3% from units run by women. The bills will be cleared within 45 days,” the chief minister said. The chief minister announced that focus would be shifted to the spinning mills from the next year. “The previous government did not pay investment incentives to industries to a tune of Rs 4,000 crore. Despite the financial constraints we have cleared Rs 827 core subsidy dues by the TDP government,” Jaganmohan Reddy added. “We plan to give a Rs 1,000 crore package to spinning mills next year and in the following year will focus on other sector. These measures are to bring back the credibility of the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-releases-2nd-instalment-of-rs-512cr-to-msmes-spinning-mills-to-be-focus-next/articleshow/76696521.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Maya: Will side with govt on issues of national security||Lucknow: Two days after NCP chief Sharad Pawar said that matters of national security shouldn’t be politicised, BSP chief Mayawati joined the ranks, saying that her party would always side with the government on issues related to country’s welfare and security. "It doesn’t matter which party it is," she said, asking the Congress to desist from calling her party “a toy in the hands of the BJP”. On Saturday, replying to a question about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s charge that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese aggression, Pawar had also said that one cannot forget China had captured about 45000 sq kms of Indian land after the 1962 war. In Lucknow, a political slugfest has broken out between BSP and Congress over the former’s support to the Centre on the Chinese aggression at the border. Mayawati said Congress should not forget that BSP joined hands with it against the BJP at a time when the country’s security was paramount. Hours after Mayawati berated Congress for calling it names, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said: “Like I had earlier said, some opposition leaders have become undeclared spokespersons of BJP. This is beyond my understanding. At this time there is no sense in standing with any political party. Every Indian should stand with India, for the unity of our land. And if a government cedes our land, we should have the strength to stand against such a government.” Stung by Congress’s criticism, Mayawati said her party was more of an Ambedkarite movement and that it would support any party in power over issues of national importance. “We will always side with the government on issues related to the country's welfare and security. It doesn’t matter which party it is. When Congress was in power, we supported it and now that BJP is in power, we will stand with it on the issue of Chinese aggression. If Congress thinks that we will get into a spat with BJP, it is not possible,” she said. The BSP chief said her party was not a toy in anyone’s hands and that both BJP and Congress had tried to malign its reputation when in power. “Congress is purposely trying to malign the party and mislead people when it knows well that BSP sticks to its ideology. We have never contested an election with BJP because our ideologies are different. Contesting elections and forming a government together are two different things. In 2003, I resigned from the post of CM because of a difference in ideology,” she said. Blaming the Congress for the current migrant crisis, Mayawati said lakhs of people who returned to their home states during Covid-19 lockdown were forced to leave their homes when Congress was in power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-will-side-with-govt-on-issues-of-national-security/articleshow/76699739.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Increase testing in city, says Akbar||Hyderabad: Chandrayangutta AIMIM MLA, Akbaruddin Owaisi urged Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender to conduct extensive Covid-19 testing in old city. In a representation made to the minister, Akbaruddin requested the government to conduct at least 20,000 tests in Hyderabad Parliament segment and another 2,000 in the Nampally assembly segment. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi tweeted the letter. “We will not be able to fight this pandemic without testing,” read a part of his tweet. In the letter, Akbaruddin mentioned that the number of Covid-19 cases are more in the Khairtabad and Charminar zones. In Charminar zone, all the assembly segments expect Rajendra Nagar are headed by AIMIM legislators while in the Khairtabad zone the party has two MLAs _ Nampally and Karwan. “In last few days the number of cases have gone up substantially and about 700 to 800 cases are being reported every day. The cases are more in Charminar and Khairtabad zones,” he said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/increase-testing-in-city-says-akbar/articleshow/76698890.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Madurai||‘Killing of Jeyaraj, Beniks worse than George Floyd murder’||Tuticorin: President of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC), K S Alagiri on Monday said the killing of P Jayaraj and J Beniks by the Sathankulam police is worse than the murder of George Floyd by police officers in the US. “In America, they strangled him. Here, the men were beaten so badly that they profusely bled from their anus before dying,” he said. Talking to reporters in Tuticorin before heading to Sathankulam to meet the kin of the victims, Alagiri said those heading the police force and the government should remove the tainted personnel and arrest them. “By supporting such people, they will only end up tarnishing the image of those who dedicated their lives and rendered selfless service in the police force. Save the image of the police department,” he said. Alagiri termed chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s statement on getting the high court’s approval before transferring the case to the CBI ‘a tricky, brilliant work’ to buy time. He said the issue would become a people’s movement if the government and the police delayed action. Assuring to stand by the victims' family, he handed them a cheque for Rs 10 lakh as solatium. Kanyakumari MP H Vasanthakumar was also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/killing-of-jeyaraj-beniks-worse-than-george-floyd-murder/articleshow/76698904.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Goons break into bank, fail to open locker in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A major break-in took place at a public sector bank’s New Market branch. However, the criminals could not steal any money as their multiple attempts to break through one of the bank’s lockers failed. The incident came to light only on Monday morning when the branch was opened. According to New Market police sources, the desperate criminals made an attempt to make off with a bagful of coins. “But in the end, they abandoned their mission and fled from the spot,” said an investigating officer. Given that the bank is located in the heart of the business hub, Kolkata Police is taking the case seriously. “During the initial probe, we have found certain loopholes in the functioning of the branch. We will be taking up the matter with the management soon,” said a senior IPS officer at Lalbazar. The detective department is helping in the probe. According to police and bank sources, there might have been more than one burglar. “A rear shutter gate was partially damaged during Amphan with water from a pipe gushing in and damaging its edges. It seems that the accused had entered through this place and then used a marble cutter to break the locks and the collapsible gate,” said a police officer. The police claimed that there was no CCTV footage as the cameras had been switched off over the weekend. But the bank officials denied the claim, saying the CCTV connections had been snipped by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/goons-break-into-bank-fail-to-open-locker/articleshow/76698906.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 30, 2020||Madurai||Eyewitnesses, kin testify before magistrate in judicial inquest||Tuticorin: Rajaram, Ravichandran and Kalyani, friends of J Beniks, who were with him when his father P Jeyaraj was taken by the Sathankulam police in their vehicle, testified before Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M S Bharathidhasan, on Monday. The trio were among those who accompanied Beniks to the police station and were witness to the brutality that was unleashed on the father-son duo by police personnel on June 19. Friends of Beniks said they would submit the CCTV footage from the neighbouring shop to the magistrate. Friends and kin of the duo, including Jayaraj’s wife Selvarani and sisters of Beniks, appeared before the magistrate in the inquest that was conducted at the government guest house on the premises of the Tamil Nadu Hotel at Tiruchendur on Monday. On Sunday, the magistrate conducted an inquest at Sathankulam police station. Meanwhile, superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district Arun Balagopalan on Monday ordered the transfer of 27 police personnel from other stations and the armed reserve unit to Sathankulam police station. This follows the transfer of an inspector and two sub-inspectors from other stations to Sathankulam over the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eyewitnesses-kin-testify-before-magistrate-in-judicial-inquest/articleshow/76698909.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy rush at wine shops||Hyderabad: The likelihood of another lockdown in GHMC limits resulted in serpentine queues outside wine shops in many parts of the city on Monday. Over 2,180 wine shops across the city were permitted to sell liquor till 8.30 pm from June 2 by Prohibition and Excise Department. While the wine shops witnessed heavy rush during the first two days, it eventually subsided. Now, with the government mulling another lockdown, many consumers rushed to the wine shops in areas such as Madhapur, Banjara Hills and Bowenpally to stock up for the next 15 days. “I purchased four bottles of 750 ml whiskey. During the last lockdown, we did not have any buffer period to make such purchases and the lockdown remained for 60 days. Thankfully this time we are prepared and stocked up,” said Naveen Gurram, a buyer at a wine shop in Bowenpally. A few wine shops witnessed bulk buying of whiskey, rum and hard liquor by consumers. However, dealers expect further rush only once the government confirms the lockdown. “Once the announcement is made, we expect last minute rush to be much higher. People are also expected to receive their salaries in the next 2-3 days. This will also add to the rush to liquor shops across the city,” said D Venkateshwara Rao, president, Telangana Wine Dealers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-rush-at-wine-shops/articleshow/76698878.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana finances remain precarious, state to borrow additional Rs 1,000 crore||HYDERABAD: Even as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao hinted at a turnaround in the state’s revenues in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic and extended lockdown, Telangana’s financial position continues to be precarious. With the position not going to change any time soon, the state is set to go for an additional — seventh instance in the recent months — borrowing of Rs 1,000 crore in the RBI auctioning on Tuesday. While the state is not in a position to repay Rs 3,100 crore debt to various sources every month, it has already exceeded the borrowing limit of nine months in just 50 days. The state has raised Rs 12,500 crore under the Fiscal Responsibility Budget Management (FRBM) Act. Till now, the state has exhausted the FRBM limit to 80%. Top sources in the finance department said borrowing and maintaining regular expenditure would be a huge challenge as the state’s monthly revenues are far from satisfactory. Before the pandemic, Telangana used to net Rs 15,000 crore income in a month. “Now, it has fallen to Rs 6,000 crore,” sources explained. B Vinod Kumar, Telangana State Planing Board vice-chairman, however, does not foresee any trouble in borrowing for infrastructure projects. “Covid-19 is a global situation and not just confined to Telangana. We do not see any trouble in borrowing for infrastructure projects as we had entered MoUs with many nationalised banks for loans before the pandemic. They are ready to lend,” he told TOI. The state was informed in March that it could borrow Rs 15,051 crore for nine months. “If Rs 1,000 crore is borrowed on Tuesday, the state will have only Rs 2,551 crore to borrow in another six months,” sources said. The state sought a moratorium on repayment of loans. While the Centre allowed relaxation in FRBM limit, it, however, did not grant moratorium on debt repayment. “Every month, Rs 3,100 crore is deducted from the state account automatically towards the debt repayment,” an official said. Fortunately, officials said the rural economy is not doing bad. K Narasimha Murty, former director of Industrial Development Bank of India, observed that time has come for Telangana to maintain fiscal discipline. “With a good GSDP growth, Telangana will bounce back once the Covid-19 situation eases. Till then, the government must curb expenditure on welfare schemes,” he said. Officials said government employees’ salaries, pensions and other monthly expenditure also require about Rs 3,500 crore. “From Rs 12,500 crore raised through FRBM Act, a major portion — Rs 7,000 crore — was spent on Rythu Bandhu. The rest was spent on other schemes,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-finances-remain-precarious-state-to-borrow-addl-rs-1k-crore/articleshow/76698920.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Work on Moula Ali heritage buildings on at brisk pace||HYDERABAD: Heritage structures on Moula Ali hilltop are in the process of being restored. GHMC has handed over the restoration of these structures to Al Kausar Trust. “The projects will be executed in five phases. Work is being undertaken voluntarily by the trust,” said founder of the trust Syed Nazeer Hasan Abedi. The work will likely be completed within two to three months. Anuradha Reddy, convenor, INTACH, Hyderabad, told TOI: “INTACH is happy Al Kausar Trust is taking interest in the restoration work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-work-on-moula-ali-heritage-bldgs-on-at-brisk-pace/articleshow/76698910.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Despite lockdown talk, CETs to be conducted as per schedule in July||HYDERABAD: Amid indications of a lockdown in Hyderabad, officials concerned with conducting the Common Entrance Examinations (CETs) said that it will be held as per schedule in July.  “We are making all arrangements to ensure that Covid-19 precautions are taken at exam centres. At any given time 200 to 999 students will be present at each centre,” said A Govardhan, convenor, EAMCET, adding that there is no communication either from the higher education council or the state government about the postponement of CETs. Similarly, M Manzoor Hussain, convenor, ECET, said that they too are making arrangements for the test, which is scheduled to be held on July 4. Same is the case with PolyCET, which is slated for July 1. The exam will held from 11 am to 1.30 pm. In Telangana, CETs are scheduled to begin from July 1 with PolyCET and PGECET followed by EAMCET, ICET, LAWCET among other entrance examinations for admission into various undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Lakhs of students will be appearing for these entrance examinations. For EAMCET alone, which is scheduled to be held between July 6 and July 9, more than 2.2 lakh candidates have registered. Meanwhile, candidates who have registered for various CETs are demanding postponement of exams as they feel it is not safe to attend as there is a spike in Covid-19 cases. Many even took to social networking sites to raise their concerns. “We don’t want to risk our lives in this pandemic. All common entrance examinations should be postponed,” said Uday S, who registered for EAMCET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-lockdown-talk-cets-to-be-conducted-as-per-schedule-in-july/articleshow/76698903.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||MP writes to CM, seeks appointment||Vijayawada: Dissident MP from Narasapuram, K Raghurama Krishnam Raju, on Monday, wrote an open letter to chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, seeking a brief interview to explain his point of view regarding the controversy surrounding him. Interestingly, Monday was the last day set by party general secretary V Vijayasai Reddy to reply to the show-cause notice served to him. Although the MP had responded to the show-cause notice earlier, again in the form of an open letter, he also wrote an open letter to the chief minister. The MP, in his letter, complained to the chief minister against Vijayasai Reddy for misrepresenting the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress party to a YSR Congress Party. He sought to impress upon the chief minister that Vijayasai Reddy and other leaders were misleading the people and misrepresenting the party against the rules of the Election Commission. Raghurama Krishnam Raju sought to complain to the chief minister that he is being branded as anti-Christian for his objections against the sale of TTD properties. While thanking the chief minister for respecting the sentiments of the Hindu devotees by withdrawing the move to sell the TTD properties, he wondered why some leaders were misleading the government. He said that that his speech in Parliament in favour of Telugu language is being misrepresented. He said he only sought Telugu language under Article 350 and 350A, he wondered why some of the party leaders were finding fault with his speech. However, he tried to caution the chief minister that the recognition of the party with the Election Commission would be in danger if they tried to implement the English medium promise as listed in the manifesto. He requested the chief minister to give him a “short appointment” to brief him personally about the dispute and his point of views. Meanwhile, the YSR Congress leadership had made up its mind to act tough against the MP for his anti-party activities. As the MP is quoting the constitutional provisions and the recognition with the Election Commission, the party, sources said, wants to teach him a fitting lesson at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mp-writes-to-cm-seeks-appointment/articleshow/76696539.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Testing will be ramped up in Hyd, says Eatala||Hyderabad: State health minister Eatala Rajender on Monday, while asserting that the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing in Hyderabad as it is a cosmopolitan city like Delhi and Mumbai, said that the state will ramp up testing in the city to control the virus. “Hyderabad is a cosmopolitan city and is seeing a rise in cases like many other cosmopolitan cities including Delhi and Mumbai where movement of population is large. Out of the 14,919 cases,10,666 have been reported in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits where the maximum movement of population is there. However, rural areas are safe and do not have cases so far,” he said. Pointing out that more cases were being confirmed in the western and southern parts of the city, the minister said that testing will be ramped up in the city, particularly in areas where cases are on the rise, to tackle the virus on a war-footing. The minister also reiterated that a lockdown will be imposed in the city only after a discussion in the cabinet and containment zones might be earmarked at some places if it is necessary. Urging people to follow all precautions, he said that people, without any symptoms, are going to private labs and demanding tests which is not good. He further said that beds in private hospitals are not affordable and, therefore, people should not to go to private hospitals, testing labs and spend money unnecessarily. “Eleven people in the health secretary’s office have contracted the virus and all of them are undergoing treatment at the Gandhi Hospital. So far, 258 health workers have tested positive and only a head nurse of the Chest Hospital died,” he said and added that negative comments on social media were affecting the morale of staff at government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/testing-will-be-ramped-up-in-hyd-says-eatala/articleshow/76698893.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Madurai||Covid patient ends life in Madurai||Madurai: A 56-year-old Covid-19 patient, who jumped off the first floor of a building at Thiruparankundram near Madurai on Sunday, died on Monday morning. P Danushkodi of Palanganatham was admitted to a medical camp at an educational institution at Thiruparankundram where he tested positive. He jumped off the first floor of the building and fell unconscious on Sunday evening. He was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital where he died early in the morning. Police sources said that his family members sent him away after he showed symptoms of Covid-19. The Avaniyapuram police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-patient-ends-life-in-madurai/articleshow/76698912.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Cancer centre to open tomorrow||Guntur: A state-of-the-art cancer care centre is ready to serve the people at Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will inaugurate it on Wednesday. Although, the district administration is making arrangements for the chief minister’s visit, sources said he is likely to launch the health-care institution via video conference. The 110-bed dedicated cancer care centre is the first super-specialty cancer hospital in the state post bifurcation. The centre will act as nodal centre for cancer treatment for all the 13 districts after its inauguration. The Hyderbad-based MNJ Institute of Oncology has been the nodal cancer hospital for both the states till now. The Centre is the initiative of the chief of pharmaceutical major Natco, VC Nannapaneni. While Natco pharmaceuticals paid 60% of the Rs 40 crore project, the state government bore the remaining cost. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cancer-centre-to-open-tomorrow/articleshow/76696531.cms||Samdani MN
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt to bank on migrants to resuscitate 19 ‘dying’ rivers||LUCKNOW: While the revival of Kalyani river in Barabanki takes shape, the state government has prepared a blueprint for roping in workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) to rejuvenate 19 more rivers gasping for life. The total span of these rivers is 3,600km which is much more than the Ganga which covers a distance of over 2,000km from Gangotri to eventually flow into the Bay of Bengal. According to the plan drawn out by the rural development department, these 19 rivers have a catchment area in 39 districts of the state covering 189 development blocks and 1,952 gram panchayats. These rivers are Sai, Pandu, Mandakini, Tedhi, Manorama, Varuna, Sasur Khaderi, Arel, Morao, Tamsa, Naad, Karnavati, Baan, Sone, Kali, Dadhi, Ishan, Budhi Ganga and Gomti. The rivers pass through Bahraich, Gonda, Basti, Auraiyya, Kannauj, Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Prayagraj, Bhadohi, Varanasi, Kaushambi, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Shahjahanpur, Pilibhit, Badaun, Bareilly, Chitrakoot, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Mirzapur, Bijnore, Moradabad, Sambhal, Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Etah, Kasganj and Amroha. Data of the rural development show that the longest stretch is that of Sai which flows for around 250km in Unnao, followed by river Tedhi which passes through Gonda district covering 192km. Manorama river in Gonda covers the shortest distance of 1km though the river has a catchment area of 110km in neighbouring Basti. Ban river in Moradabad also flows for a short distance of 1.20km though its span enlarges to 42km in Amroha and 117km in Bijnor. Talking to TOI, additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said, “The revival of rivers is one of the key projects proposed to be taken up under the Centre’s flagship employment scheme. The work of the revival of these 19 rivers will get momentum in next few days.” The department will work in coordination with Jal Shakti ministry which has jurisdiction over water bodies. A state-level committee having senior officials from rural development department has already been set up by the government. Officials said availability of migrant workers in every district would speed up the project. “We want to complete major part of work before monsoon,” said an official of rural development department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-bank-on-migrants-to-resuscitate-19-dying-rivers/articleshow/76699743.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Former BSNL staffer’s burnt body found||Hyderabad: The partially burnt body of a 57-year-old retired BSNL employee was found in his car in Malkapur village near Choutuppal on Sunday night. A case of suspicious death was registered. Preliminary investigation indicated the man, identified as Ch Shanmuga Chary may have ended his life. Choutuppal inspector P Venkateshwarulu said that Chary had taken VRS in January. He used to work as secretary and treasurer of Nalgonda district BSNL employees’ welfare fund. “During preliminary inquiry we found out that some ex-employees who deposited in the fund wanted about Rs 4 crore back. Several ex-employees who borrowed from the fund for less interest, have not returned the amount on time, making it difficult for payment of money to depositors,” the inspector said. The doctor who conducted the autopsy told cops that soot particles were found in the victim’s throat. Police are analysing cellphone details and are also trying to find out if the petrol was purchased in bottles between Nalgonda and Choutuppal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-bsnl-staffers-burnt-body-found/articleshow/76698891.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath to launch water project for Bundelkhand||LUCKNOW: To put an end to scarcity of water in parched Bundelkhand region, chief minister Yogi Adityanath will launch the first phase of Jal Jivan Mission in Jhansi on Tuesday. The mission, linked with the Prime Minister’s Har Ghar Jal (water to every house) Scheme, will ensure piped water supply to 67 lakh people across Bundelkhand at a cost of about Rs 10,131 crore. The project will be rolled out in four phases, starting with Bundelkhand region. On Tuesday, the CM will launch schemes meant for three out of the seven districts in the region – Jhansi, Mahoba and Lalitpur. The region has been facing scarcity of water for years and witnesses annual droughts. The consultant appointed by the government has prepared a detailed project report for 43 different schemes that entail supply of surface water, and in some cases groundwater, to all villages. The remaining four districts – Jalaun, Hamirpur, Banda and Chitrakoot – will be subsequently covered under the scheme. There are 4,513 revenue villages in seven districts of Bundelkhand of which 891 are already covered by water supply schemes. Jal Jivan Mission will target the remaining 3,622 villages with a population of 67 lakh. The government will start 479 schemes for the area. “For Jhansi, 10 surface water schemes will be rolled out at an approximate cost of Rs 1,627 crore which will benefit 11,42,249 people in 644 villages,” an official said. In Lalitpur, the government will implement 16 surface water and 12 ground water schemes which will benefit 9,87,689 people in 559 villages and cost Rs 1,623.47 crore. In Mahoba, schemes worth Rs 1,219.74 crore will be implemented in 364 villages and benefit 6,68,660 people. In the second phase of the scheme, the government will launch projects in Vindhyachal, while in the third phase, areas affected by Japanese encephalitis (JE) and Acute encephalitis syndrome (AES). In the final phase, piped water will be extended to villages along the Ganga where supply has pollutants like arsenic and fluoride. The project implementation will be monitored by Jal Shakti department and the implementing agency will be responsible for maintenance of all the schemes for 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-to-launch-water-project-for-bkhand/articleshow/76699746.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Law saves marriage of inter-faith couple||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court intervention helped save the matrimony of a Muslim man and a Christian woman. The couple had gotten married just days before the lockdown but the woman’s parents took their daughter away soon after. For three months, he has been helpless due to the lockdown. In the end, he filed a habeas corpus plea charging that the woman’s parents had been illegally detaining her. The high court directed local police to produce the woman before a court. She appeared before a bench through video conference and was asked by the judge if she wanted to go with her parents or her husband. She chose her husband. The HC then directed police to provide security to the couple as they had been facing threats from the bride’s parents. The next morning, the groom’s lawyer told the court that the police and the bride’s father had come to the police station and were ill-treating the bride. The court asked the police to produce the bride immediately. However, when she came online with the court, the groom’s lawyer was unable to. The court though sought the bride’s version and after ascertaining the facts from her, directed police to send the bride with the groom immediately and also provide them security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/law-saves-marriage-of-inter-faith-couple/articleshow/76698835.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Joint effort helped curb surge in cases: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Despite the novel coronavirus cases witnessing a sudden surge in the beginning of June, an “alliance” formed between Delhi government and the Centre and a collective effort by private and government hospitals, experts, banquet halls and religious organisations, helped bring the situation under control. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal gave this statement while talking to a news channel on Monday. In the interview, Kejriwal said he was not concerned about who took credit for the improvement in Delhi’s situation as he was willing to reach out to anyone to help save people’s lives. He added that there had been an improvement over the past week and a downward trend could be witnessed if this continued. “This is a battle that no single government, agency or individual can win. We are thankful to the central government for providing us rapid testing kits. We have added more now. We have also arranged for enough beds and now there is no shortage. I admit we were short on beds at one point. In early June, people were going from one hospital to another in search of a bed, but that has been fixed now,” said Kejriwal, stating that Delhi government reached out to hotel owners and increased the number of beds for Covid patients in private hospitals. The CM said the government made under-construction hospitals operational and also reached out to religious organisations like Akshardham temple, Radha Soami Satsang Beas, among others to join the Covid fight. “Banquet halls have helped us a lot too. Today, the situation is somewhat under control only because everyone came together. This has been a collective effort. We need to keep preparing and looking ahead,” Kejriwal told India Today TV, adding Delhi’s testing capacity also went up fourfold. “We were doing 4,000-5,000 tests earlier, but now 20,000 tests are being conducted daily, which is a good sign,” he said. Kejriwal added, “If you check the (Delhi Corona) app now, we have around 13,500 beds and only around 6,000 are occupied. People are recovering quickly and we aren’t receiving as many patients now.” Talking about the expected “peak” for Delhi, the CM said compared with the last 10 days, there had been a decline in the number of cases, which could point towards a downward trend. However, the government was prepared to tackle any spike in future. “I’m not afraid to fold hands or touch someone’s feet if it means saving lives. It’s my responsibility if something bad happens in Delhi and there is shortage of beds, plasma or testing kits. To fix these problems, I’m willing to go to anyone and if by folding my hands in front of someone means a life is saved, I have no problem in doing that,” said Kejriwal. The CM added, “They (the Centre) can take all the credit. I have no problems. I will take credit for all the mismanagement in Delhi. I’m giving it my all. Fixing problems and saving people’s lives is the most important thing for me right now. I don’t want to bring politics into saving lives. I just want to serve people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/joint-effort-helped-curb-surge-in-cases-kejriwal/articleshow/76698945.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Now, apartments in Bengaluru offer their facilities as in-house Covid care centres||BENGALURU: The Bengaluru Apartments Federation (BAF) on Monday met bureaucrat Rajendra Kumar Kataria and discussed plans to create health infrastructure on their member campuses to treat asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. The move comes after the recent spike in cases in Bengaluru. Kataria is responsibile for identifying and establishing Covid Care Centreswhich isolate and treat asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Vikram Rai, general secretary, BAF said their apartments have large, indoor spaces such as club houses, indoor sports arenas, party halls and other spaces. These can be used to treat asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. “We wanted to extend our help to the government. We discussed the initiatives that apartments can take up to set up Covid Care Centres and we’ll present a proposal soon,” he said. The federation said, "We have 770 apartment associations as members representing over 1.4 lakh apartment units and over 5 lakh residents. As Covid cases across the city have increased in the past few days, it’s imperative that we augment the capacity of the system to handle as many cases as possible." Facilities where the apartment infrastructure is feasible will enable faster recovery of patients since they will be close to their families. These will be less crowded and more hygienic, he added. “As there is a shortage of beds in government-facilitated Covid care centres, we’ll contribute our bit in saving beds for other people outside,” said Kiran Hebbar, president, Prestige South Ridge, Banashankari III Stage. Kataria told TOI that among cases being reported, 85% are asymptomatic and would need isolation and monitoring. “I briefed federation members about how the isolated location should be handled and the medical facilities that need to put in place. This would really help to decrease the rapid spread,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/apts-offer-their-facilities-asin-house-covid-care-centres/articleshow/76698517.cms||Kiran Parashar
June 30, 2020||Mysuru||Hassan records third Covid casualty||HASSAN : A 60-year-old woman, who died on June 26, tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Hers is the third Covid fatality in the district. She was cremated without following the Covid SOP as her relatives were unaware that she was infected. The part of village in Channarayapatna taluk has been sealed down, and 62 persons who had attended the funeral have been considered primary contacts. She was considered as Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patient, said Channarayapatna tahsildar Maruti. The woman had diabetes and hypertension, and she was being treated for fever at a private hospital in the taluk. On June 25, the taluk health officers collected her nasal and throat swab samples. But she died the following day. After the reports suggested that she was infected, the officers sealed a part of the village declaring it a containment zone, and home-quarantined the villagers. Sixty-two of her relatives, including the family members, who had attended the funeral have been quarantined, and their swab samples are being collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hassan-records-third-covid-casualty/articleshow/76697756.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Central team directs govt to focus on testing, containment||Hyderabad: A central government team, which came to assess the Covid-19 situation in the state, on Monday visited the newly-opened and patientless Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) and Gandhi Hospital, the nodal centre for treating Covid-19 patients in the state. Also, the team visited Domalguda to see containment measures put in place. Later, the team held a marathon meeting with state health and municipal authorities. This is the third central team to visit the state since the lockdown in March. The team, headed by joint secretary, ministry of health, Lav Agarwal, meanwhile suggested to the state government to focus more on containment measures and increasing the testing capacity. The state government has been asked to ready an action plan for the next two months in anticipation of a further surge in cases. Also, the officials were asked to enhancing contact tracing of positive cases. Later, the team met chief secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officers and had a detailed discussion on the steps to be taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The health department officials made a detailed presentation on the steps taken for management of Covid-19 in the state. “The surveillance and containment measures, hospital preparedness, procurement of protection equipment, preventive measures were briefed to the central team. The state has 17,081 beds, while 4,489 additional staff have been recruited to strengthen treatment. So far, Rs 475.74 crores has been sanctioned for strengthening medical infrastructure,” an official statement said. Special chief secretary, health, Santhi Kumari, principal secretary, MA&UD department, Arvind Kumar, commissioner, health and family, Yogita Rana, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner Lokesh Kumar among others attended the meeting with the central team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-team-directs-govt-to-focus-on-testing-containment/articleshow/76698914.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Lorry owners protest fuel price hike, seek tax waiver||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners’ Association (APLOA) has demanded that the state and Union governments reduce fuel prices and the state to waive their quarterly road tax on trucks. It held a protest on Monday opposing the continuous fuel price hike over the last two weeks. APLOA president Eswara Rao said “Around 5 lakh families work in the transport field as drivers, cleaners, operators and mechanics. All the families are facing problems owing to Covid-19. A majority of the transport operators have started to default on their loans as there has been no work for three consecutive months. The transport sector started to recover after June 1. But soaring fuel price has become a concern now. Diesel price increased by Rs 11 this month. We are not in a position to operate services if this continues.” Vijayawada is a major transport hub and around 2,000 truck operators work from the city. Families of truck drivers and cleaners are worst hit by the fuel price hike. “Our families starved for almost two months during the lockdown. Neither the state government nor the Center announced a package for us. Now, the Center has started to increase fuel prices. Both state and center should reduce VAT and service taxes on the diesel to help transport industry recover. The government should think of the ten lakh people directly and indirectly dependent on the transport sector,” said M Ramana, a transport operator from city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lorry-owners-protest-fuel-price-hike-seek-tax-waiver/articleshow/76696558.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||PVP’s workers let dogs loose on cops||Hyderabad: When Banjara Hills police went in search of popular financier-cum-YSRC leader Potluri Vara Prasad alias PVP at his Jubilee Hills Road No. 82 residence, his workers allegedly let a pack of dogs loose on the cops to prevent them from entering his residence on Sunday. Following the incident, Jubilee Hills police on Monday registered a criminal case against Potluri Vara Prasad and a few others under IPC Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). A few days ago, Banjara Hills police registered a criminal case against PVP and his associates for allegedly trespassing into the residence of businessman K Vikram and threatening him. In connection with the offence, police personnel had already questioned PVP and served him a notice to reappear for investigation. Since PVP allegedly failed to appear before police, a team led by Banjara Hills detective inspector Ravi Kumar went to PVP’s residence. “Banjara Hills police tried to enter PVP’s residence from the main gate, which was kept locked from inside. On seeing a watchman inside, police informed him that they have to meet PVP. The watchman went inside and returned in sometime to inform that PVP and his wife asked him not to allow anyone inside the gate. When police tried to enter the compound, five ferocious unchained dogs were let loose,’’ Jubilee Hills inspector K Sattaiah told TOI. This development made police suspect that PVP was inside his house and hence the dogs were let loose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvps-workers-let-dogs-loose-on-cops/articleshow/76698908.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Many bristle over cap on online class hours||BENGALURU: With the education department allowing resumption of online classes, schools in the city are gearing up to restart sessions from Tuesday. However, debates on the issue are already raging. While those supporting online classes are delighted over the decision, several schools and parents spearheading the #righttolearn campaign have expressed displeasure about time limitations set by the government until the expert committee submits the new report. According to the new schedule put in place by the government, pre-primary classes can have a 30-minute session once a week. For classes 1-5, there can be two classes of 30-45 minutes duration on alternate days of a week. Classes 6-8 are permitted to have two classes of 30-45 minutes five days a week. Students of classes 9 and 10 can have four sessions of 30-45 minutes five days a week. “We feel the new rules are as arbitrary as the ban itself. The idea is to build structure, routine and learning for children. The mentioned durations are highly restrictive and do not serve any of the above purposes,” said Deepu Chandran, one of the organisers of the campaign. Some schools also expressed their displeasure over the restrictions. “The state government needs to stop being an impediment here. Instead it should enable online learning as schools around the world have embraced online classes as a valid and necessary component of learning, especially until kids can physically return to school,” said Shweta Sastri, managing director, Canadian International School. Agreed Nooraine Fazal, founder, Inventure Academy: “We need classes and touch point every day with children. WHO itself has permitted one hour of daily screen time for children under five years. The ban, total at first and now partial, continues to deprive students of the right to learn.” On the other hand, some parents seemed happy about the cap on timing. “I was worried about my son sitting continuously till 3pm every day. While the government had looked into the issue of primary children, the problems of bigger children were not heeded to,” said Asha S, a parent in JP Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/many-bristle-over-cap-on-online-class-hours/articleshow/76698595.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||No flight from Saudi Arabia leaves Telangana workers upset||HYDERABAD: Many people from Telangana, eager to return home from Gulf, were left disappointed as no flight has been scheduled from Saudi Arabia to Hyderabad during the fourth phase of Vande Bharat mission. In the fourth phase that has been announced from Jeddah, flights will be operated to Kerala and Delhi, but no flight has been scheduled to land in Hyderabad. The Indian embassy in Riyadh announced the flight schedule to repatriate Indians in the wake of prevailing Covid-19 situation and extended lockdown. Mohammed Abdul Sayeed tweeted: “Not a single flight for Hyderabad? When will the embassy consider us as humans? We are being neglected. It has been eight months and we have not got (any) help. I am stuck here with family, two kids and with no job.” Fahad Maqsusi, who was waiting to travel to Hyderabad, tweeted, “Not a single flight to Hyderabad? What is going on?” He also addressed chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, wondering if the government had decided to not permit flights to Hyderabad from Saudi, at least permission should be given for chartered flights. “Please understand the need, people are going into depression and falling sick,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-flight-from-saudi-leaves-t-workers-upset/articleshow/76698926.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Bengaluru’s 738 fresh cases take Karnataka tally past 14,000||BENGALURU: With 738 new Covid-19 cases reported in Bengaluru and 1,105 across the state over the past 24 hours, the total number in Karnataka and its capital climbed to 14,295 and 4,052 respectively The state reported 19 new deaths, including three from Bengaluru, taking the toll to 226. The number of active cases in Bengaluru and Karnataka were 3,427 and 6,382 respectively. A total of 176 people — none in Bengaluru — were discharged on Monday, pushing the total number to 7,683, while 268 people, including 178 in Bengaluru, are in ICUs as on Monday. Of the three deaths in Bengaluru, two persons, aged 80 and 60, had Influenza Like Illness (ILI), and one 67-year-old had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). After Bengaluru Urban, Ballari reported the most number of cases (32), followed by Dakshina Kannada (32) and Bidar (28). For the second day in a row, the government did not give details of how the 1,105 patients contracted the infection, even as there’s increasing consensus that state is in the midst of community transmission. In the past 24 hours, the government said it tested 9,689 samples, of which 8,794 were negative. Overall, the state has far tested over 6 lakh samples, of which 5.7 lakh were negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blurus-738-fresh-casestake-state-tally-past-14k/articleshow/76698386.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||All Indians stranded in Pakistan finally return||Nagpur: On Saturday, the last batch of Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan crossed the border. The wait to reach home for over 40-odd from Maharashtra and 100 from Gujarat got longer at Amritsar. Residents of rest of the states went home in vehicles arranged by their state governments. Those from Maharashtra and Gujarat stayed back for seven days of quarantine in Amritsar. They have to undertake Covid tests before travelling further. An official in the Amritsar district administration handling the transfer said state governments like Jammu & Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana sent their vehicles and UP asked the Punjab government to make arrangement for its residents’ transport. “This was line of directions sent by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) to the concerned state governments. However, Maharashtra has advised Punjab government to keep its residents under quarantine for seven days. On reaching the state they will have to be home quarantined for remaining period. It’s the same for Gujarat too,” said the senior official requesting anonymity. There were just about five persons from Telangana and Tamil Nadu, so no transport was arranged for them. Bringing back stranded Indians from Pakistan became a long-drawn affair. There were Vande Bharat flights to bring back Indians held up in other countries including Bangladesh but there none for Pakistan. There were 748 Indian nationals stranded there, including students from J&K and those on visit visas. Finally they were allowed to cross the border from June 25 to 27. Deepak Bajaj, who had gone to Kashmore in Sindh lost his father during the trip. His father, Ashok Virumal Bajaj, a patient of Parkinson’s disease had gone to Pakistan to meet his brothers. Deepak who reached there on March 5 to bring back his father was stranded too. “The wait got difficult after my father’s death. Each day was an ordeal. Finally I am back in India,” he told TOI, “We will be tested for Covid and then let go further.” Bajaj said while process was done quickly on Pakistani side, there was chaos on Indian side. There was no arrangement for water or food and it took an entire day to reach the hotel, he said. Sanjay Bart from Amravati said a letter from the Member of Parliament Navnet Rena that he should be allowed to go did not help though he was happy he could finally reach India. “I had gone to Pakistan after 20 years and got stranded. On coming back, there were no porters even to help the elderly,” said Mahesh Chawla from Ahmedabad. “The people were in a hurry to reach their homes and did not follow instructions well leading to chaos” said a Punjab government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-indians-stranded-in-pakistan-finally-return/articleshow/76679536.cms||Shishir Arya
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Game update online at half the price? Do not fall for it||HYDERABAD: With most people now indoors, use of online entertainment outlets such as video games, streaming services have seen a substantial rise. But according to experts, this has also sprung up an opportunity for cybercriminals to lure users through fake links offering free versions of popular games, updates and extensions. “There have been several petitions (complaining) of fraudsters sending spoof link on messages to victims. As people are staying home during the pandemic, more and more are engaging in online-based entertainment. Clicking on the link takes the victim to phishing pages. Once they log in to the account, the victim gets hacked,” said Rachakonda cybercrime ACP, S Harinath. In one instance, 27-year-old Kaushal (name changed) had been playing an online game for several months. With him now working from home, he said that his time on playing the game had increased and sometimes he would spend entire weekends at it. “There are certain levels which can be unlocked if you pay. I got a message with an attached link saying the game was providing an update option to unlock some levels at a minor charge. I went for it,” he said. However, as soon as he entered his card details, he got a message saying Rs 3,000 had been deducted from his account. “I had recently sent money to my parents and was left with around Rs 4,000 in my account. As soon I realised what had happened, I blocked my card,” Kaushal said. “The past few months have shown that users are highly susceptible to phishing attacks or clicking on malicious links when it comes to games—whether they are looking for pirated versions or are eager for a cheat that will help them win,” said Maria Namestnikova, a security expert at global cyber security firm, Kaspersky.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/game-update-online-at-half-the-price-do-not-fall-for-it/articleshow/76698907.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Fund shortage set to delay new secretariat work||HYDERABAD: The high court’s clearance for demolition of the old secretariat may have given relief to the Telangana government, but construction of the new secretariat complex may happen only next year. Fighting with coronavirus pandemic on one hand and facing paucity of funds on the other, the government is not in a position to go ahead with the construction of new secretariat immediately. The state government earlier estimated it would cost Rs 400 crore for the new secretariat complex. Going by the current financial situation where the government is struggling to even pay full salaries to employees, construction of the complex will certainly be delayed. Officials pointed out that new secretariat designs have not been finalised though it had received three to four designs from a renowned architect. Since the estimations had been prepared one-and-a- half years ago, the budget estimations need to be reworked. Senior officials in the CMO said the chief minister would review the secretariat issue after getting the court order and take a decision on how to go about with the construction of the secretariat. The government is planning to take up demolition of the old secretariat next month, which would take at least three to four months to complete. The government is considering various technologies and agencies to take up the demolition. The secretariat has been functioning from various buildings, including BRKR Bhavan (temporary secretariat), since September last year and the offices are likely to function for two more years till the new building is constructed. A stone heritage building adjacent to the present secretariat was also vacated as the government wants to take over the land for the new secretariat. A foundation stone was laid for construction of a new secretariat on the existing secretariat complex by the CM in June 2019 along with new assembly building at Errum Manzil last year. The government could not go ahead with the project due to court cases. The government earmarked funds for construction of the secretariat in earlier state budget 2019-20. But in the 2020-21 budget, no funds had been allocated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fund-shortage-set-to-delay-new-sectt-work/articleshow/76698814.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||60 cops return to work after braving battle against Covid-19||Hyderabad: Over 60 police personnel of the Hyderabad commissionerate have returned to work after winning the battle against Covid-19. On Monday, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar appreciated 47 of them for their bravery and resilience in discharging duties. In all, 47 personnel, including three SIs, two ASIs, a head constable, 36 constables, four Home Guards from traffic, law and order police stations of the commissionerate have reported back to duties after getting treated for Covid-19 on Monday. “Conquer fear and conquer corona is the mantra of Hyderabad police. In the present situation, fear should go among the frontline warriors. More than 60 officers defeated Covid-19 and joined duty, sending a positive message to society and setting an example for others. Unlike in Europe, mortality rate due to Covid-19 is less in India. I am saying this because fear should go from people. Those who have co-morbid conditions have to be very careful. Washing hands often and wearing face mask is new normal now,” the CP said. The police chief honoured the personnel who reported back for work after the treatment with a certificate and a small gift. A traffic ASI in his 50s, who recovered from Covid-19 and joined the duty, said with proper care, one could defeat Covid-19. “After I tested positive, I informed senior officers and went to hospital. Senior officials continuously spoke to me and gave me support. Initially, I was scared, but later I became better. All you need to do is take the medicine given by doctors, eat good food, do yoga and do not panic. With my 35-year of service experience I am saying, do not be afraid, one can recover from Covid-19,” the ASI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/60-cops-return-to-work-after-braving-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/76698866.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs sanitise premises with own funds, buy machines||Secunderabad: With a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city, residential welfare associations (RWAs) in Malkajgiri have taken up various safety measures, using their own funds. While the RWAs had knocked on the doors of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials and urged them to take up sanitization in Malkajgiri circle, the work is progressing at a snail’s pace because of inadequate sanitation staff. Therefore, RWAs have purchased their own mini sanitization machines with the funds collected under maintenance charges. “We unanimously decided to follow self-quarantine norms and sanitize the premises ourselves with the equipment. A mini sanitization machine, worth Rs 4,000, has been purchased and we are using it in our colony. The sanitization machine can easily be carried from one place to another and is operated just like a vacuum cleaner,” K Raghavendra Rao, general secretary, Uttam Nagar Colony RWA, told TOI. “The machine will be kept at the RWA office and it can be used for sanitization wherever positive cases are reported,” he said. “We have also asked all remaining RWAs to follow the same procedure and thereby avoid the spread of the virus,” said Rao. K Hanumanth Rao, RWA chairman of Goutham Nagar, said, “Till date, four positive cases have been reported from Goutham Nagar. The RWA members swung into action and took up fogging in every bylane and covered every apartment. In fact, we took up a special drive to lift garbage, which had piled up at various areas, to avoid further cases.” The GHMC authorities admitted that they are receiving representations from RWAs to take up sanitization on a priority. T Dasharath, deputy commissioner for Malkajgiri circle, said, “Till date, 165 cases and three deaths have been reported in Malkajgiri circle. Unfortunately, 14 employees working in the entomology department have tested positive. As a result, the department, which takes care of the sanitization activity, has been slightly affected.” “After positive cases were reported, staff was deployed with machines to sanitize the affected areas. Though staff crunch has become a major problem, we are managing the work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-sanitise-premises-with-own-funds-buy-machines/articleshow/76698935.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 30, 2020||Madurai||State govt transfers custodial death cases of father and son to CBI||Tuticorin: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday transferred the custodial death cases of P Jeyaraj, 58, and his son J Beniks, 31, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). They were allegedly tortured in custody by the Sathankulam Police in Tuticorin district, which led to their deaths. Based on request by the Director General of Police (DGP) J K Tripathy, an order in this regard was signed by the additional chief secretary S K Prabakar.The victims were arrested by the Sathankulam Police in the night on June 19 and was detained and tortured till the next morning. They were produced before the Sathankulam court the next afternoon and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail around 2pm that day. Beniks fell ill in the jail around 7.30pm on June 22 and died around 9pm in the Kovilpatti Government Hospital. About 90 minutes later, his father also fell ill and was taken to the same hospital, where he died around 5.30am on June 23. After a huge outrage that even attracted international attention, the Kovilpatti East Police registered two cases under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and a judicial inquest was ordered. Meanwhile, Madras high court took suo moto cognisance of the issue on June 24. It was then adjourned to June 30.Under these circumstances, the CM had mentioned in Salem on Sunday evening that “when the case comes up for hearing in the Madurai bench of the Madras high court (on Tuesday), we would take permission of the court and hand over the probe to the CBI”. The high court in its suo moto order on Monday morning observed that it is the policy decision of the state government to transfer the case to the CBI, quoting the GO for transferring the cases.The notification stated that the two cases in the Kovilpatti East Police Station are transferred to the CBI under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/state-govt-transfers-custodial-death-cases-of-father-and-son-to-cbi/articleshow/76698937.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||No relief: Polytechnic supplementary exams from July 3||HYDERABAD: Though the Telangana government has cancelled the SSC exams, there is no relief for polytechnic diploma students as the State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET) is all set to hold supplementary exams from July 3. As per the time-table, the SBTET will conduct supplementary exams for diploma students from July 3 for two hours. The decision has not gone down well among a section of students who have demanded the board to postpone the examinations in view of rise in Covid-19 cases across Telangana and likelihood of a lockdown in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. “Many students like me have to travel to different districts to appear for the examination. There is transportation problem and likelihood of another lockdown in GHMC limits will only make matters worse,” said Hafeez Mohammed, a candidate. As per instructions issued by the board, all principals have been asked to duly maintain physical distance among students by making seating arrangements as per government norms. The board has also asked students to carry their own hand sanitizer in transparent bottles, cover their nose and mouth with a mask/cloth and maintain social distance inside and outside examination centres. Students fear that appearing for these examinations may result in further spread of Covid-19. “When the government can postpone SSC exams then why not the diploma exams? They should not put our lives at risk like this,” said a student. Officials said that the examination is primarily being conducted for final year students and those intending to appear for different competitive exams. “The number of diploma students appearing for the supplementary exams is very less. In some examinations, barely 10 students appear throughout the state and in others not more than 500. So maintaining social distancing is not a problem. Students should not fret over their safety,” said Navin Mittal, chairman, SBTET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-relief-polytechnic-supplementary-from-july-3/articleshow/76698938.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||PMR’s tally breaches 21,000-mark, 12 more casualties take toll to 732||Pune: The Covid-19 caseload in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surged past 21,000-mark with the addition of 833 patients on Monday. Besides, 12 more patients succumbed to infection in PMR in the 24 hours, pushing the death toll in Pune to 732. The total tally in PMR now stands at 21,690, of which Pune municipal limits account for maximum 16,854 cases and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas for 3,127 patients. Among Monday’s 833 cases, 589 were recorded in PMC limits, 201 in Pimpri Chinchwad areas and 43 in rural and Cantonment areas. A report released by the PMC health department stated that 482 patients were discharged from various hospitals and Covid centres in the municipal limits on Monday after they were declared cured. With this, the tally of discharged in PMC areas has pushed up to 9,929. PMC health officials said the collection of swabs continued to remain on higher side even on Monday. As many as 4,030 swab samples were collected in the PMC limits on Monday. For the last one week, PMC’s daily swab collection has remained above 3,000. The officials said the total active cases in PMC limits further increased to 6,195 on Monday evening, of whom 333 patients were at critical stage. As many as 61 patients were put on ventilator support, they added. The 12 deceased reported on Monday included a 76-year-old woman from Dhankawdi, a 55-year-old woman from Nanded Phata, a 47-year-old man from the Parvati area, a 68 -year-old woman from Shaniwar Peth, a 60-year-old man from the Hadapsar area. The civic authorities have urged residents to exercise caution and stay indoors as far as possible. If people need to venture of their houses, they should wear facemasks and also maintain social distancing, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-tally-breaches-21000-mark-12-more-casualties-take-toll-to-732/articleshow/76698915.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Centre must manage Covid in T||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Monday asked the central government to immediately take over and constitute a committee to effectively handle the pandemic. In a letter to the Lav Agarwal-headed central committee, which is on a visit to the city to assess the Covid-19 situation and measures taken to control it, Revanth said people have lost confidence in the measures taken by the TRS government to contain the spread of coronavirus. “I urge the central government to take over immediately and constitute a committee to handle the pandemic before more damage is done. If this does not happen, Telangana, especially Hyderabad, will see a huge surge in Covid-19 cases and fatalities,” Revanth stated in the letter. “The number of tests conducted have been abysmally low. Only around 70,000 tests have been conducted in all. Testing is vital to understand the spread of the virus and control it. No transparency is being followed in the tests being conducted, leaving the entire state in uncertainty. Despite ICMR suggesting that Telangana government increase number of tests, it was not done,” Revanth alleged. “Only Gandhi Hospital is approved as a government treatment centre. The staff needed to run the hospital is 1,200 but only 400 are working. This is causing immense burden on every doctor. Frontline warriors, doctors protested for 72 hours in the rain for lack of PPE kits and necessary equipment,” Revanth added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-centre-must-manage-covid-in-t/articleshow/76698922.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana tally hits 14k||Chandigarh: Haryana’s Covid count on Monday reached 14,210 cases and 232 deaths as 381 people were found infected with the virus and nine people succumbed to it in the state. With cases, the state’s daily testing rate rose too, crossing the 10,000 mark. Like neighbouring Punjab, the state recorded more recoveries. In all, 585 patients were discharged form hospitals, taking the the total number of recoveries so far to 9,502. The state’s recovery rate is now 66.87%. The doubling rate, which is the number of days it takes for Covid cases to double, also widened to 15. Tare 4476 patients under treatment in the state. Of them, the condition of 75 is critical, with 58 being on oxygen support and the remaining 17 on ventilator support. Six deaths took place in Gurgaon, two in Faridabad and one in Mahendergarh. The death rate has risen to 1.63%. Of the total 232 deaths, 171 are men and 61 are women. On Monday, Faridabad recorded the highest number of cases, 134, and its tally rose 3,590. Gurgaon got 102 new cases and its count is now 5,260 cases. Thirty-one cases were reported in Rewari, 18 each in Karnal and Panipat, 13 in Sonipat, 12 in Fatehabad, nine each in Jhajjar and Kaithal, seven in Sirsa, five each in Ambala and Nuh, four each in Rohtak and Hisar, three each in Jind and Mahendergarh, and two each in Palwal and Kurukshetra. While state officials confirmed two cases in Kurukshetra, district civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said there were nine new cases and the district’s tally had risen to 124. Karnal chief medical officer Dr Ashwini Ahuja said new cases included a 65-year-old man from Karan Vihar; two men aged 53 and 23, and a 26-year-old woman from Sector 13. (Inputs from Kurukshetra and Karnal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-tally-hits-14k/articleshow/76698944.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Ruling party functionary booked for murder||Vijayawada: Police on Monday arrested eight persons in relation to the murder of YouTuber Ganta Naveen. Addressing the media, Nandigama DSP Ramana Murthy identified the main accused as Kommineni Ravishankar, a local YSRC functionary and director of Krishna District Cooperative Central Bank (KDCC) Bank, who is currently on the run.  Cops explained that Ravishankar was upset with Naveen, whose YouTube channel featured content ranging from politics to entertainment, after he had allegedly put up ‘objectionable posts’ against him. He first began conducting recces of Naveen’s house from June 10. And killed him near a private driving school in Nandigama on June 14. Ravishankar and eight of his hired men buried Naveen near another accused Gonela Sai’s residence. After family members registered a missing complaint, cops unearthed his body on June 20. Ravishankar and the hired men have been booked under IPC section 302.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ruling-party-functionary-booked-for-murder/articleshow/76696575.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Patient count rises in Saswad in 3 weeks||PUNE: Saswad, a municipal town in Purandar tehsil of Pune district, has witnessed a rise in nCoV infections from a solitary one on June 8 to 31 cases by June 28. One person succumbed to the virus, while four have been discharged post-recovery. Saswad currently has the highest active case count at 26 among 14 municipal towns in the district. A Pune Zilla Parishad report said Saswad Municipal Council has the highest active cases followed by Daund and Talegaon Dhabade municipal councils, which have 14 and 12 active cases, respectively. District health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, said, “Barring Daund and Saswad , no other municipal council in the district has registered more than 30 positive cases since the outbreak of the pandemic. In fact, seven municipal councils have reported positive patients in single digits.” Saswad municipal council’s chief executive officer Vinod Jalak attributed the surge to the lockdown relaxations as nearly 6,000 people from the town visit Pune city for work every day. “Two weeks ago, seven working professionals, including some from a PMC Covid Care Centre, tested positive for nCoV, and people who came in contact with them got infected,” he told TOI on Monday. Saswad, being the main town of Purandar tehsil, has vegetable, onion and potato markets, which operate day and night. Farmers from across the tehsil bring their produce to these markets. “We have already closed both the markets day and night for over the week,” Jalak added. The old gaothan area, which has a population of 30,000 living in congested areas, is the worst affected area in this town. “All positive cases have been reported from this area. Hence, we have set up 10 micro containment zones to restrict movement of people and maintain social distancing norms,” he added. Jalak said that the municipal council has already imposed a fine of Rs500 on those found spitting at public places or not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patient-count-rises-in-saswad-in-3-weeks/articleshow/76698921.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Experts told to examine Solapur’s 10.31% death rate||PUNE: Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said he has submitted a report that calls for an expert committee investigation into Solapur’s high Covid-19 mortality rate. As on Monday, Solapur district’s death rate stands at 10.31% — it’s the highest in the state, followed by Jalgaon’s 6.9%, Mumbai’s 5.8% and Pune’s 3.49%. “I have submitted the report to the state chief secretary,” Mhaisekar said. “We have suggested an expert team assess the situation. We have also recommended the deployment of additional medical staff.” Solapur has been registering over 60 new Covid-19 cases every day with at least eight daily casualties. It is now among 10 districts in the country with some of the highest Covid fatality rates — the first case was detected on April 12. Officials said the high death rate, despite a nominal increase in daily cases, indicates scores of undetected patients. Beedi and textile workers in the district are among the worst-hit, officials said. “Byssinosis (a rare lung disease) is a common problem among this group, Mhaisekar had told TOI in an interview earlier. “It’s often caused by exposure to cotton dust. The condition is common among textile workers. Also, non-smoking beedi workers have reported limited lung function. The administration is set to reach out to the most vulnerable here. They will be moved out of these sectors with some remuneration from the Solapur Municipal Corporation,” Mhaisekar added. Most of the workers are currently living inside containment zones across the district. Mhaisekar said peak flow meters will be used to detect lung deficiencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-told-to-examine-solapurs-10-31-death-rate/articleshow/76698924.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||First online int’l Avadhanam held with 315 scholars||Vijayawada: Avadhanam is a unique literary feat that’s limited only to the Telugu language. The Avadhani or the person who presides over this literary marathon answers the questions of scholars, often 1,000 or 5,000 in number. Scholars pose questions randomly while a person attempts to divert the attention of the Avadhani. The Avadhani in reply composes songs, poems, etc and answers the scholars in the order in which the questions were posed. This is a Herculean task. But holding it online this Covid-19 season is even more difficult. But it was successfully overcome thanks to Dr Medasani Mohan, who participated in International Internet Avadhanam (IIA). Dr Mohan holds the record of answering 5,000 scholars at a time. Dr Madabhushi Sampat Kumar, director, Languages Cell of Madras University, chaired the Avadhanam. As many as 315 scholars from all over the world participated in the Avadhaanam. “Avadhaanam requires concentration and imagination. The true purpose of an Avadhanam event is the showcasing of, through entertainment, superior mastery of cognitive capabilities — of observation, memory, multitasking, task switching, retrieval, reasoning and creativity in multiple modes of intelligence — literature, poetry, music, mathematical calculations and puzzle solving,” said Tekumalla Venkatappaiah. Dr Mohan has done about 250 Ashtavadhanams, 10 Aatavadhanams and few Saharaavadhaanams. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/first-online-intl-avadhanam-held-with-315-scholars/articleshow/76696589.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Madurai||Child marriage stopped in Tirunelveli||Tirunelveli: The marriage of a 16-year-old girl with a 47-year-old man was stopped near Nanguneri in Tirunelveli district on Monday evening. “The man, a widower, is seven years older to the girl’s father and has a daughter who is also 16-years-old,” District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) B S Devananth told TOI. Her father, 40, is a labourer. The girl, a Class XI student, has a younger sister who Class IX. The groom M Perumal, 47, is from the same village. “The girl’s father had a cardiac arrest and the family was suffering from poverty. Under these circumstances her parents convinced the girl to marry Perumal as he was better off,” the DCPO said. Revenue inspector Anitha and deputy tahsildar S Chandra Hassan went to the girl’s house and conducted an inquiry on Monday. The official got an undertaking in writing that they will not get her married till she turns 18 and have asked to produce her before the district child welfare committee on Tuesday. The groom could not be found and is to be questioned on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/child-marriage-stopped-in-tirunelveli/articleshow/76698946.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Madurai||‘Monitored home quarantine to start soon for mild Covid patients’||Madurai: The special monitoring officer for Covid-19 for Madurai, Dr B Chandramohan said that monitored home quarantine for asymptomatic and mildly-symptomatic patients will be introduced from this week to help mobilise beds at tertiary care centres like Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) for Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms. Further, GRH has also got approval from the state government to recruit additional staff to handle the increasing inflow of patients.“As of now, the focus is on trying to assess Covid-19 patients, classify them as asymptomatic, mild, moderate and severe. Then, we are looking to shift those with mild or no symptoms to monitored home quarantine if they can afford a separate room for isolation or if not, to a Covid-19 care centre,” Chandramohan told TOI. He added that a system of setting up telemedicine centres is being carried out for monitored home quarantine.The officer further said that through the telemedicine centres, doctors and paramedical staff will constantly stay in touch with the patients, guide and evaluate them, while they are at home. The new arrangements for monitored home quarantine come amid allegations of ‘overcrowding’ of Covid-19 patients at GRH’s ‘Corona Specialty Hospital’.“There has been difficulty in arranging for beds and staff at the Covid-19 wards in GRH. For the staff as well, there is a higher risk if more man power is needed for Covid-19 wards. The problem has been that, if for example, we are trying to keep 100 beds vacant by shifting asymptomatic patients to Covid-19 care centres, as soon as we shift, 100 new patients come in. The census has not at all been coming down for us,” said a senior doctor at GRH.Chandramohan, meanwhile, said that if asymptomatic and mildly-symptomatic patients can be shifted out of GRH, then the hospital will be able focus only on the severe cases. “The hospital has 525 beds with oxygen supply, which is vital for moderate and severe Covid-19 cases. Further, 150 intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators are also kept ready at GRH though so far only very few cases have required it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/monitored-home-quarantine-to-start-soon-for-mild-covid-patients/articleshow/76698949.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Transport operators demand tax waiver||Hyderabad: Demanding exemption of Motor Vehicles (MV) tax for contract carriage vehicles and maxi cabs in view of the situation, hundreds of transport operators staged a protest in front of Regional Transport Authority (RTA) offices across Telangana on Monday. The operators took part in the protest by parking over a thousand cabs and buses on roads near the offices. In Hyderabad, the protest in front of Khairatabad RTA office led to a massive traffic jam for over an hour. A few operators were arrested. “We went to the RTA office to surrender our vehicles to the authorities as they are not in use due to the Covid-19 situation. We wanted to surrender the vehicles as we are not in a position to pay the Advanced Tax,” said Telangana State Cabs and Bus Operators (TSCBOA) president Syed Nizamuddin, who led the protest. “We’re are seeking waiver of MV tax from April-June,” he said, and condemned the arrests. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transport-operators-demand-tax-waiver/articleshow/76698950.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Court manager: No courtroom sealed in Shivajinagar complex||PUNE: Senior district court manager Atul Zende said on Monday none of the courtrooms at the district and sessions court complex in Shivajinagar had been sealed and work in all courts was going on smoothly as of now. Zende, however, said, “After one of the court staffers intimated the authorities that he had been advised home quarantine, the court administration got over 10 staffers, who felt they came in contact with that person, to go for Covid-19 test. Their swab samples have been collected and results of their test are awaited.” He told TOI, “We have been regularly sanitizing all the courtrooms and premises, and today (Monday) also we carried out a sanitization exercise, but no court has been sealed.” The senior court officer’s statement came in the wake of a post on a social media site that a court staffer and a policeman on duty in the new building of the Shivajinagar complex had tested positive. Pune Bar Association (PBA) president Satish Mulik said, “We have’nt yet got any confirmation from the court officials although we are hearing about this news.” Sachin Hinganekar, the PBA vice-president, said, “We have provided sanitisers and other material to the court administration, and the same is being used regularly.” As per the Bombay HC directive, only urgent matters are being heard by the district and sessions court in two sessions of three hours each. Lawyers have, however, raised their concern about the crowd, including litigants and their associates, reaching the court premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/court-manager-no-courtroom-sealed-in-shivajinagar-complex/articleshow/76698934.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC to provide 200 beds at Hindu Rao for Covid-19 patients||NEW DELHI: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to provide a maximum of 200 beds for Covid patients at Hindu Rao Hospital’s emergency building. At present, six positive patients are admitted there, and to ensure safety, the hospital ward has been divided into three zones — red (where positive patients are kept), orange (for suspected ones) and green (for administration). People will not be allowed to roam around from one zone to another. A help desk has been created to give information about the patients admitted and other facilities available at the hospital. On Monday, a proper shaded sitting area was made for the attendants near the entrance, said north corporation mayor Jai Prakash, who visited the hospital to take stock of the arrangements. Prakash checked the status of the Covid-19 sampling centre, corona wards and other facilities created at the hospital. “To avoid confusion we have decided to install huge boards at the emergency building’s entrance declaring it a Covid-19 facility. While a 50-bed facility has already been made available, we have started efforts to increase it to 200 beds in a phased manner. Doctors, nurses and paramedical staff of the hospital have also assured to work in coordination,” he said. Explaining the reason for not preparing all 200 beds in one go, a senior north corporation official said, each bed needed facility for specialist doctors, staff nurses, monitors, oxygen supply points etc. “Also structural requirements —such as separate donning and doffing areas, separate entry exit points and dedicated operation theatre — have to be adhered to. The area had to be separated from other buildings for protection of general public and health care workers. In view of these, we have started with 45 beds, 5 ICUs and 84 isolation beds. More will be added as and when logistics and financial requirements are met,” said the official. The hospital will continue to run other facilities from the main hospital building. “OPDs will continue to run from the main building and there is a separate emergency for gynaecology and heart patients,” said Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-to-provide-200-beds-at-hindu-rao-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76698957.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Plasma therapy starts at PGIMS||CHANDIGARH: With its deaths due to Covid-19 continuing to rise, Haryana has started plasma therapy for treating patients at PGIMS, Rohtak. Plasma therapy is said to be helpful in treating critically-ill Covid patients, and the government would be hoping to arrest the rising number of deaths due to the virus in the state with it. The death toll rose to 232 on Monday. The government is looking to start the therapy at all its medical colleges, but permission is awaited from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Haryana health and medical education minister Anil Vij made a formal announcement about starting the therapy on Monday and claimed that this would boost recovery rate in the state and be instrumental in treating COVID patients. Dr O P Kalra, vice-chancellor of Pandit BD University of Health Sciences, of which PGIMS is a part, said ICMR had given the go-ahead three weeks ago. Now, PGI authorities are motivating recovered patients to donate plasma. “Soon after getting the clearance from ICMR, we got the proposal cleared by the ethics committee of the hospital. This was followed by search for donors. Our teams have got a few (donors) and now we plan to have an extensive campaign to motivate donors,” said Dr Kalra. If all goes according to plan, the facility would have a good amount of donors and this would boost treatment of patients, he added. Dr Kalra said since PGIMS had Haryana’s biggest blood bank and ahuge data base, authorities were writing to voluntary blood donation organisations as well as groups to look for recovered patients among them. After falling to 40%, Haryana’s recovery rate has improved to over 60%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plasma-therapy-starts-at-pgims/articleshow/76698951.cms||Manvir Saini
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC MLA opts for self-quarantine||Guntur: Several YSRC leaders, including a legislator from Guntur city, have quarantined themselves after a senior party leader recently tested positive for Covid-19. The legislator has reportedly moved into a private hotel, which was turned into a quarantine facility. He is the second legislator from the ruling party from the district to self quarantine. The first legislator spent nearly a month at home during the initial days of the outbreak after his relative tested positive. Meanwhile, the YSRC leader who tested positive had been actively participating in Covid-relief operations initiated by the party for the past three months. While he had been frequently meeting senior leaders, scores of party activists had been accompanying him on his field visits. Sources said the ruling party leader had reportedly refused to get admitted to the NRI hospital despite being repeatedly advised to do so by senior medical officers after his test reports came in positive. He is reported to have entered into a heated argument with the medical team, which visited his house to shift him to hospital on June 28. The ruling party leader, however, was allowed to stay in home quarantine after the intervention of a cabinet minister. Soon after allowing home isolation for the YSRC leader, the state government relaxed guidelines for positive patients with mild symptoms. Such patients will be continuously monitored by the health department with the help of a mobile app. Meanwhile, two more PG medical students at Government General Hospital (GGH) tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. As a precaution, GGH administration sent swab samples of professors and other faculty at GGH for testing. Sources said this is the third round of testing for faculty at GGH in the last three months as the administration does not want to take chances with the health of its staff. The legislator is the second ruling party MLA from the district to self quarantine. The first spent a month at home after his relative tested positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-mla-opts-for-self-quarantine/articleshow/76697771.cms||Samdani MN
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||67% urbanites fear using public transport, finds survey||Hyderabad: Even as the country is bracing up for unlock 2.0, many citizens want to avoid public transport and are reluctant to venture out, revealed a survey conducted by Local Circles, an online advocacy platform. About 67% people said that they don’t want to take metro or local trains for the next 30 days. Only 15% want to visit gyms or swimming pools even if they reopen in the next 30 days. Around 93% of citizens prefer to avoid holiday hotel stay for at least three months. Akshay Gupta, general manager, Local Circles said, “Our survey received over 24,000 responses from 241 districts. The Delhi Metro Railway Corporation recently said that they are working on a list of standard operating procedures to resume metro services as soon as possible. Mumbai local trains also re-started operations for essential services providers on June 15 after being shut for 84 days. However, very few are using the local trains”. Despite a sharp increase in the fuel prices, only 25% people want to use public transport, Gupta said. “As Covid-19 is spreading fast, people don’t want to frequent public places. Though the Central government announced on May 30 that it would take a decision on reopening of gymnasiums and pools during unlock phase 3, only 15% are planning to visit them. The gym owners and associations are demanding the government to permit them. But as there is a steep rise in the positive cases citizens are not ready to take any chances. A good 84% said that they would avoid these places for some more time,” he said, adding that only 4% of people are planning a holiday hotel stay. “Between the months of July and September only 4% of people are planning a holiday hotel stay while 93% want to avoid it for the next three months,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/67-urbanites-fear-using-public-transport-finds-survey/articleshow/76698933.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||AP Transco once again seeks Centre’s approval to surrender costly power||VIJAYAWADA: Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (AP Transco) has so far written two letters to the secretary of Union ministry of power requesting to surrender the high cost thermal power. Initially, AP Transco wrote on October 11, 2019, seeking permission to surrender the power allocated by the Centre for two plants – NTPC Kudgil and NTECL Vallur — citing ‘dismal operational performance’ causing overall per unit cost of power surging to Rs 10 per unit. The chairman and managing director of AP Transco once again wrote to the Union secretary on May 14, seeking permission to surrender 625 mega watts of thermal power allocation made to the state as part of JNNSM-Phase-II bundled power scheme citing ‘current financial distress’ due to Covid-19. Justifying the surrender, the letter cites the power supply agreements under bundled power scheme, which states, “if the cost of bundled power is more than the cost of agreed solar power, the beneficiary has the option to surrender the high-cost thermal power.” The average price of solar component for the period FY 2019-20 is Rs 4.63 per unit and the weighted average cost of bundled power is Rs 4.46 per unit. “If PoC (Point of Connection) charges is added to the thermal component it is costing about Rs 5.03 per unit, and the weighted average cost of bundled power becomes Rs 4.85 per unit and is far exceeding the solar component of Rs 4.63 per unit,” the letter further reads. AP Transco sources said that they are still awaiting for a ‘favourable’ response from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/transco-once-again-seeks-centres-approval-to-surrender-costly-power/articleshow/76696603.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 975 new coronavirus cases, total tally crosses 15,000-mark||HYDERABAD: Six persons died and 975 new coronavirus cases were registered in Telangana on Monday as the state crossed the 15,000-case load mark, adding 5,000 new cases in just a week’s time. With the latest numbers, the total count of Covid-19 cases now stands at 15,394, while the death toll rose to 253 in the state. On Monday, 37 per cent samples that were tested turned positive, indicating an increase in the spread of the virus from 10-15 per cent a week ago. So far, 85,106 samples have been tested in the state since the beginning of the pandemic, of which 2,648 were tested on Monday. Along with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits where majority of the cases continue to be detected, a consistent surge in cases has been seen in Medchal, Nalgonda, Ranga Reddy, Karimnagar and more recently at Sangareddy districts. “Some of the districts are now becoming a reason for concern, especially Karimnagar and Nalgonda which have seen a surge earlier and are far from GHMC limits. Moreover, the cases are spreading outside the GHMC limits rapidly, taking nearby districts in its fold,” said a senior official from the state health department. “We have also begun seeing a surge in Warangal, Sanga Reddy and Medchal, which are closely connected to Hyderabad city and see lot of inter district movement. Therefore, locking down the Hyderabad has become imperative,” he added. Currently there are a total of 5,582 patients in the state who have recovered from the coronavirus, while 9,559 continue to be active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-sees-975-new-cases-total-tally-crosses-15000-mark/articleshow/76698925.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Four temporary prisons have only 1 female inmate each||MUMBAI: Four temporary prisons in the state have only one female prisoner each. While Aurangabad temporary prison has 154 males, it has only one female. Women inmates’ security is important and for single woman prisoners, several female guards are posted at those centres. Washim rest-house prison has no male inmates but only one female. Temporary prisons were set up during lockdown as quarantine centres for prisoners before being admitted to jail. It was to check if any inmate had Covid-19 symptoms. A prisoner who is sent to jail is first kept at any such facility for 14 days, after which he/she is sent to a proper jail. At these 36 quarantine centres, 2,450 males and 58 females are lodged. While 426 are lodged at Scheduled Caste Girls’ Hostel in Pune’s Yerawada, there are 396 at Namdar Gopal Krushna Gokhale high school, Kharghar. Both places has no female inmate. On overcrowding at Kharghar, an IPS officer attached to the jail said, “We are working with limited resources and trying our best. There were 37,000 inmates and only three deaths. There is no unrest or rioting in prisons due to Covid. We have decongested the jail to a great extent and are dedicated to work better.” “Women prisoner security is important. Adequate security is provided. The male and female sections in any temporary jail are far apart,” said a jail official. More than 50 Maharashtra jails house 26,480 prisoners. To decongest jails during Covid, the state government had announced emergency parole.  A high-power committee (HPC), comprising HC judge Amjay Sayyed, DG (prisons) Surendra Pandey and Sanjay Chahande, ACS (prisons), had recommended inmates involved in crimes with punishment of not more than seven years of jail term. HPC did not included suspects of heinous crimes and serious banking frauds. “Under these schemes and regular bail, more than 10,000 were released in three months, which is a record in jail history,” said a senior jail official . On the other hand, 2,500 new suspects, arrested for various crimes, have been sent to jails during lockdown. ITI-Sawantwadi has seven men and a female, while DEd college Yavatmal, being used as a temporary prison, has 36 males and a female.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-temporary-prisons-have-only-1-female-inmate-each/articleshow/76699350.cms||Mateen Hafeez
June 30, 2020||Madurai||Southern TN records 664 new cases, 143 more in central dists||Madurai/ Trichy: As many as 664 Covid-19 cases and eight deaths were reported in the 10 southern districts of the state on Monday, taking the regional tally to 7,140 cases and 65 deaths. Out of the eight deaths on Monday, four were from Madurai while others were from Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli. Meanwhile, the central districts reported 143 new cases on Monday taking the tally in the region to 2,706. The four deaths in Madurai district included two men aged 40 without comorbid conditions. One of them died on June 28, while the other man died on June 29 at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). The remaining two were a 67-year-old man with diabetes and coronary artery disease who died on June 25 and a 67-year-old woman who died on June 29. A record high single day spike of 303 cases was reported in Madurai on Monday. The 303 cases comprised 154 influenza-like illness cases, 80 contacts of Covid-19 patients, 31 frontline workers, 12 pregnant women, 11 others and 13 imported cases. The total number of cases in the district has climbed to 2,302, which include 1,664 active cases. Madurai now has the third highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the state after Chennai and Chengalpattu. Ramanathapuram district saw 61 more Covid-19 cases on Monday and two Covid-19 deaths. Two men, aged 60 and 57, with diabetes, admitted to the Ramanathapuram government headquarters hospital died on June 27 and 28. The overall Covid-19 death toll in the district is eight, while the total number of cases is 803, including 585 active cases. The district now has the third highest number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region after Madurai and Tuticorin. Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Theni on Monday reported 77, 64 and 61 Covid-19 cases. All three districts have been witnessing a gradual rise in Covid-19 cases during the past week. Virudhunagar district reported one death after a 66-year-old man with diabetes died on June 28 at GRH in Madurai. Theni became the fifth district in the region to cross 600 Covid-19 cases by reporting 626 cases so far. Virudhunagar, meanwhile, has 444 cases while Dindigul has 438 cases. One Covid-19 death and seven new Covid-19 cases were reported in Tirunelveli on Monday. An 80-year-old man from Tirunelveli with coronary artery disease, diabetes, Alzheimer’s disease and psychiatric illness died on June 28 at GRH, 10 days after admission. Tirunelveli which once had the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region is now seeing a gradual decline in cases. Tuticorin recorded 37 Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the district tally to 903 cases. Trichy district recorded 87 new cases, taking the total tally to 636, the highest single day spike in the district. Among the eight districts, Trichy remained on top with 636 cases while Ariyalur, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur stood next with 462, 443 and 424 cases respectively. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy discharged 35 patients on Monday. Twenty-two more asymptomatic positive patients from Trichy, Cuddalore and Madurai who were kept at the Covid care centre at Bharathidasan University, Khajamalai campus in Trichy, were also sent back home on Monday. Out of 14 cases listed in Nagapattinam on Monday, two were from Bahrain and one from Qatar. As nine cases were cross notified from other districts, only two cases have been added to Nagapattinam district. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Kanyakumari (29), Sivaganga (21), Thiruvarur (15), Thanjavur (2), Karur (1), Pudukottai (27), and Tenkasi (4). Ariyalur and Perambalur district recorded no new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-tn-records-664-new-cases-143-more-in-central-dists/articleshow/76698961.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Best practices advisory for slums||PUNE: The Pune police on Monday released an advisory on the best practices to be followed by slums to contain the spread of covid-19 virus. The advisory has been compiled on the basis of the best practices that are being followed by some of the slums, which have resulted in a noticeable drop in the number of covid-19 cases. The Pune police and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jointly experimented with these practices. The police have now decided to release it in the form of an advisory for all slums. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale told TOI, “Over 80 slums have been affected because of the increase in the number of positive patients. With the help of PMC officials, we have been constantly sensitising slum dwellers to compulsory wear masks, use sanitisers and maintain social distancing.” Morale said, “We have helped the PMC to maintain surveillance, identify positive patients.” “For over a month, no positive case has been reported at Patil Estate slums. The number of cases reported at Tadiwala Road slums has come under control. The measures taken by us has helped in containing the spread of covid-19 virus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/best-practices-advisory-for-slums/articleshow/76698941.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 30, 2020||Madurai||Custodial death: CCTV footage exposes lies of police||Tuticorin: CCTV footage from the shop next to the shop owned by Beniks in Sathankulam proves that the allegations against P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks were false. The FIR registered against them says the two suffered injuries after they rolled on the ground, but the video shows noting of that sort happened.The nearly 15 minute footage from King Electricals adjacent to Beniks’s shop was retrieved a week after the brutal incident. The video shows that adjacent shops were also open. “The police was asking shops to close. Jeyaraj and a few others were just passing some casual remarks regarding the announcement and everyone left the place. A man from the locality had twisted facts and informed Sathankulam police. This is the background of the video we have shared. In this video the time shown is two hours in advance. The time displayed as 9.30pm is actually 7.30pm,” said a close friend of Beniks.The video shows Jeyaraj in white shirt and dhoti in front of his son’s shop and talking to a couple of people. Two minutes later a police vehicle reaches the opposite side of the road. Only the lower portion of the white vehicle is seen at the top of the video. A policeman in uniform Jeyaraj and asks for Jeyaraj. “But he (Jeyaraj) said he does not know as he was unaware of the reason why they asked for him,” said a friend.The cop then talks to a couple of people standing near the autorickshaw stand and walks away. For the next eight minutes Jeyaraj is still seen standing and casually walking in front of the shop, after which two more policemen in uniform approached him and talked to him. “About a minute later the police in the vehicle on the other side of the road called Jeyaraj and he crosses the road,” he said.A minute later, Beniks’ friends who were inside the shop come out rushing and is followed by Beniks, in yellow shirt and black pant, who goes to the other side of the road. “The police asked his father to get into the vehicle to come to the police station,” the friend added. As the police vehicle leaves, Beniks crosses the road and walks back to his shop, trying to contact someone on his mobile phone.According to the FIR, the father and son and a few others were in conversation when the police advised them about Covid-19. The FIR added that the father and son then sat on the floor and also rolled ‘causing internal injuries’ in the act and also used abusive language.“Three of our friends were there when this happened. We also went to the police station with a few others and are testimony to what happened. We have not taken this video to the police. We will expose the lies of the police and prove our friend’s innocence in court,” a friend added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-death-cctv-footage-exposes-lies-of-police/articleshow/76698956.cms||M K Ananth
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Rickshaw, cab drivers head out of city||Hyderabad: Drivers of autorickshaws, taxis and app-based cab aggregators are leaving the city in droves as the lockdown has deprived them of their daily earnings and made repayment of loans, taken for vehicles, difficult. According to driver unions close to 20,000 drivers have already left Hyderabad, in the last four months, while many who waited for the financial situation to improve are now considering returning to their native places. This, after news about the state government contemplating another lockdown, started doing the rounds. Drivers and eyewitnesses that TOI spoke to put the number of drivers from Hyderabad crossing the state border at 30 to 50 per day. Muppu Krishna, 32, from a village in Chhattisgarh’s Korba district said: “I have been driving an autorickshaw in Hyderabad for the past eight years. I ferry school children and others, but since schools are closed since past four months and the fear of coronavirus is still prevalent among people, I am struggling to feed my family and repay my loans. I am mulling returning to my village.” Krishna, who lives with his wife and two children, said he has no savings left. Members of cab and auto unions said drivers were going in groups, either with their families or with other drivers. S Purnachander, a cabbie who left for his hometown in AP’s Ammapalem village on Monday morning said, “There is no food in the city. The cabs which we took on lease and surrendered to the company during the lockdown are not released yet. I will find some work in the village. We will think of returning only when things return to normal.” According to union leaders, the cab and autorickshaw drivers are headed to their native places in AP, Karnataka, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. “While some are planning to go back in trains, others are hitching a ride on lorries. The number of people who are leaving has increased in the past one week. Apart from financial crisis, many are also leaving due to the fear of contracting the virus,” said Satti Reddy, a member of the Telangana Auto Drivers JAC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rickshaw-cab-drivers-head-out-of-city/articleshow/76698960.cms||Moulika.KV
June 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Renewed focus on immunity drives up egg consumption||VISAKHAPATNAM: Eggs have assumed centrestage in diets across the state following measures to improve immunity during the pandemic. These initiatives have drawn attention, in particular, to the importance of consuming eggs as part of a protein-rich diet. M Srinivasa Rao, director of the state department of animal husbandry said sales of eggs had dropped in the wake of speculations surrounding the spread of Covid-19. Soon, however, people increased consumption as experts drew attention to the need to increase immunity to fight the virus. “The egg has become part of a healthy diet in every household in the state. The state presently produces 3.8 crore eggs per day, the highest in the country. There has been huge demand after the lockdown was lifted,” Srinivasa Rao told TOI. Dispelling rumours around consumption of poultry and meat during the pandemic, Srinivasa Rao said people should not fall prey to misinformation. Joint director of the animal husbandry department in East Godavari district, NT Srinivasa Rao said, “Nearly 160-odd farmers are now able to get good price for eggs due to increasing number of consumers across the state and also from West Bengal, which is our district’s major market.” In Chittoor, S Venkata Rao, joint director of the animal husbandry department in the district said, “Eating two to three eggs per day is good for the immune system and eggs are a rich source of protein.” Signs of increased demand were evident elsewhere as well. In Visakhapatnam city, wholesale supplier B Sunil said vegetarians have also been coming forward to buy eggs in bulk. “I procure nearly one lakh eggs every week from East Godavari. Supplies have been sold out during this time. The retail price now is Rs 5, maximum,” Sunil told TOI. Managing director of Chittoor-based Sri Balajji Hatcheries Private Limited Uppalapati Sundar Naidu said, “The market for broiler chicks is all of south India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/renewed-focus-on-immunity-drives-up-egg-consumption/articleshow/76697795.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Heavy showers lash Gangapur, parts of M’wada||Aurangabad: Over 65 mm of rainfall — falling under the category of heavy showers — was received across the eight circles of Marathwada, including five from Gangapur taluka in Aurangabad district, between Sunday and Monday. Ghansawangi circle from Jalna district and Udgir and Dawni circles from Latur district also reported heavy rainfall. A few incidents of bridges and roads in the low-lying areas getting completely submerged were also reported in Nanded and few other districts, causing temporary disruption of vehicular traffic. The rain also turned the farmlands into ponds in many areas. As per official data, Aurangabad district reported the highest (29 mm) rainfall followed by Jalna (16 mm), Latur (14 mm), Parbhani (8mm), Beed (7 mm), Osmanabad (5mm), Hingoli (4mm), and Nanded (1 mm). The good run of monsoon has further increased the quantum of expected showers by the region. Aurangabad district leads in Marathwada with highest 206% expected showers in June, followed by Jalna (181%), Beed (138%), Parbhani (132%), Hingoli, Latur (both 131%), Osmanabad (99%) and Nanded (88%). The region as a whole has so far recorded 135% of expected showers. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast chances of light rainfall over Aurangabad and parts of Marathwada amid cloudy skies for the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/heavy-showers-lash-gangapur-parts-of-mwada/articleshow/76696609.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||30 contract virus from Singareni worker||Hyderabad: As many as 41 people contracted the virus from two persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 in Mancherial in the last couple of days. There has been a sudden spurt in the number of positive cases in the district and it has been found that the virus spread through the two individuals. A Singareni mines worker in Bellampalli was unwell and got himself admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad for treatment. He tested positive for Covid-19. The district authorities who were alerted immediately traced the patient’s contacts and conducted tests. It was found that as many as 30 persons with whom the worker was in contact before he had gone to Hyderabad contracted the virus from him. Among them are some workers of Singareni mines who are now under isolation. In the second instance, a woman who had a chronic illness tested positive for Covid-19 and through her 11 others got infected. “Most of those who had been in contact with the two persons were asymptomatic. Nevertheless, they were shifted to an isolation centre and their swab samples were sent for Covid-19 tests. Those who have tested positive will be treated in home isolation,” DMHO M Neeraja told TOI. So far, 116 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the district. There was one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-contract-virus-from-singareni-worker/articleshow/76698967.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC, PCB notices defective: HC||Hyderabad: Describing the showcause and closure notices issued by the GHMC and pollution control board to the industrial units at Tata Nagar and Sastrypuram in Rangareddy district as defective, the high court on Monday sought to know from the authorities whether they would withdraw them and issue fresh notices in tune with the correct provisions of law. “Better keep the pandemic situation in view, do not do anything that aggravates the current condition,” said a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, while hearing as many as 700 pleas questioning the action of the authorities. The bench also summoned the zonal plan and master plan of the areas because there was confusion over the nature of the areas and it needs to be ascertained whether they fall under residential or industrial zones. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-pcb-notices-defective-hc/articleshow/76698973.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Lahaul-Spiti gets first Covid-19 cases, Himachal Pradesh tally at 942||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 26 positive cases on Monday, including from the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti. Of these, 10 cases were from Solan district, six from Kangra, five from Hamirpur, two each from Lahaul-Spiti and Mandi and one from Chamba. Meanwhile, 38 patients have also recovered from Hamirpur (19), Kangra (8), Sirmaur (6), Solan (2), Una (2) and Kullu (1). Lahaul-Spiti reported its first two positive cases on Monday. Earlier in the day, a 25-year-old labourer from Bihar tested positive for the virus. The labourer, who is working on a bridge being built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) at Patseo near Darcha, had came from Delhi on June 22. His sample was taken at the Keylong district hospital. Later in the day, another person from the district had tested positive. The state now has 942 Covid-19 cases, of which 366 are active while 556 have recovered, 11 migrated out of the state and seven died. Kangra has the maximum number of active cases in the state at 113, followed Hamirpur with 102 cases. A total of 57,317 people were put under surveillance in the state till Monday, of whom 38,567 have completed 28-day surveillance while 18,750 are still under active surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lahaul-gets-first-covid-cases-hp-tally-at-942/articleshow/76698978.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Food safety team raids restaurants||Visakhapatnam: The food safety department on Monday inspected a group of hotels and restaurants in response to complaints lodged by consumers. According to GAB Nandaji, assistant food controller, the inspections were conducted at New Tandoori-Inn, Sri Sai Ram Parlour and Satyam restaurants at Diamond Park near RTC Complex in the city. The food safety team issued instructions to scrupulously follow Covid-19 safety measures in the preparation of food, service, maintenance of physical distance, sanitation and registration of customers. Workers involved in preparation of food and servers must undergo regular health check ups, the team said. The instructions also called for immediate rectification of unhygenic conditions in the kitchen and dining area, including maintenance of drainage, cleaning walls, the roof, utensils and crockery. Premises must be regularly disinfected, a release said. “We also found pre-cooked food in the refregirators and stale food. We collected samples and sent them for analysis,” Nandaji said, adding that action would be taken based on the reports of the samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/food-safety-team-raids-restaurants/articleshow/76697814.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid-19 deaths double to over 400 in 28 days||JAIPUR: In just 28 days, the Covid-19 death toll in the state has doubled, breaching the 400 mark. But while the deaths are a concern, the state has come down from the fifth position to seventh in the cumulative number of cases category in the country. “This means that the spread has been contained when compared to other similarly placed states. Through aggressive contact tracing and other containment measures, the spread has been restricted to small geographies within the state,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). The six states, which are on top of the list of highest number of cumulative Covid cumulative cases (as on Sunday night) are Maharastra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, the state’s health department said. But fatalities due to Covid is a major cause of concern for health authorities.  In June first week, 47 people had died, and in the second, third and fourth week, 55, 55 and 49 patients died in the state, respectively. In June (till 29th), more than 200 people have died, which is the highest number of causalities reported in a month. The Covid fatalities in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bharatpur, Kota and Ajmer account for 68% of deaths reported in the state. The rest of districts reported 32% of Covid deaths. With an aim to prevent mortalities in the state, the health department had launched Mission Life Saving (LiSa). As part of it, health department officials are conducting screening of vulnerable groups such as elderly people, patients with comorbidities, pregnant women and infants. Officials claimed that a majority of the patients who died had some kind of comorbidity such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic ailments related to heart, kidney and other vital organs. Despite deaths have doubled, the mortality rate in the state remained almost static throughout June as more people too tested positive for Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-virus-deaths-doubleto-over-400-in-28-days/articleshow/76699759.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Govt hospital’s ward boy held for molestation||Mumbai: JJ Marg police arrested a 45-year-old ward boy of a government hospital for allegedly molesting a trainee doctor on the hospital premises. Gajendra Gosavi was arrested on Friday for outraging the modesty of a woman, stalking and criminal intimidation under IPC. Police said the 30-year-old victim was on night duty when he allegedly groped her. The accused left when she screamed and informed seniors. Police registered an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-hospitals-ward-boy-held-for-molestation/articleshow/76699351.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Police team to be sent to trace cannabis manufacturers||Kolhapur: Police are likely to send an investigating team to Karnataka and Odisha, from where cannabis is smuggled into Kolhapur through Marathwada and Solapur district, to trace the manufacturers. This comes after six people, who were arrested in connection with cannabis smuggling, provided some new information to the police. Officers, who are investigating the case, on the condition anonymity, said that 43 kg of cannabis was seized from the six people arrested last week. The interrogation of the six accused revealed that all of them were a part of a big racket, which supplies cannabis to various part. The accused were working as agent and police are trying to trace the manufacturers, who are in Karnataka and Odisha, said officials. Police had initially arrested Dhananjay Babasaheb Shinde and Vaibhav Vijay Patil from whom 20 kg of cannabis was seized. Their arrest led to the arrest of four other people. As many as 23 kg of cannabis was seized from the four. All of them are currently in police custody. Police officials said that cannabis come to Kolhapur after two or three halts, where agents are involved. They said the price of the cannabis increase at every stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-team-to-be-sent-to-trace-cannabis-manufacturers/articleshow/76696628.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM slams opposition again||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has slammed opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala for coming out with baseless allegations. While pointing out the allegations levelled on mineral sand mining at Technocity, awarding consultancy agreement to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for e-mobility project and rebuild Kerala consultancy to KPMG, the chief minister said “all these were raised without verifying the facts”. The chief minister said PwC is a company empanelled by National Informatics Centre Services Incorporated (NIC), an agency under Union ministry of electronics and information technology. On August 13, 2019, the state government had decided to appoint three agencies empanelled by NIC for the consultancy of e-mobility project in the state. The three agencies were PWC, KPMG and Ernst and Young. On February 20 this year, the transport department had issued an order stating that these agencies have been appointed as consultancy for the bus ports and PwC as consultancy for the logistic port for the eco system. For each bus port Rs 2.15 crore and for logistic port Rs 2.09 crore were fixed as the rate. All necessary validation has been done by departments concerned before finalising the consultancy. The transport, industry and finance departments have taken the decision unanimously after a series of discussions. The opposition leader had alleged that PwC is a company that has been blacklisted by the SEBI. PWC is a consulting agency and it has not been blacklisted by the SEBI. But PWC has an audit company under it which has been blacklisted by the SEBI. “It will be better to know that this audit agency was involved in the AgustaWestland helicopter deal during the tenure of Manomohan Singh as Prime Minister,’’ Vijayan said. The opposition leader should understand that both are different companies and two different legal entities. “He should have understood that consulting agency is different from an audit agency,’’ he added. What was wrong in appointing an agency empanelled by the central agency as a project consultant in Kerala. How can anyone claim that there is corruption behind it? the chief minister asked. Now the opposition leader has adopted a new habit of eating his words while raising the allegations. He had to backtrack from the allegation levelled against awarding the consultancy to KPMG in Rebuild Kerala initiative. He himself had to admit that the government had taken the decision in the most transparent way, the chief minister said. The government had never taken a decision for mineral sand-mining at Technocity. But the opposition leader jumped into the conclusion that the mineral sand-mining has started there. A three-member committee appointed by the government had reported not to allow mining in the area, said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-slams-opposition-again/articleshow/76697839.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy to launch over 1,000 ambulances on Wednesday||VIJAYAWADA: In a major move, every mandal in the state is likely to get a 104 health vehicle. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will inaugurate around 1,088 ambulances — 676 104 mobile health care units and another 324 108 ambulances — on Wednesday. The government as a part of reforms in the healthcare sector has proposed to allocate 104 vehicles at the mandal level, each of which will have a team comprising a qualified doctor and staff. Dr YSR Arogyasri Trust CEO Mallikarjuna Rao said, “Our motive is to provide better healthcare services for all. The government has purchased new ambulances with an estimated cost of Rs 203.47 crore. 108 ambulances will reach any village within 20 minutes and for this we are adding 412 new ambulances,” the CEO said. “282 ambulances will have basic life support equipment and 104 ambulances will have advanced life support system, such as ventilators to deal with emergencies,” Mallikarjuna Rao added. Another 26 neonatal care ambulances are also ready for inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-launch-over-1000-ambulances-tomorrow/articleshow/76697824.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Parts of 2 major slums now containment zones||Panaji: The state government on Monday declared parts of two major slums — Moti Dongor in Margao, and Zuarinagar — as containment zones after a spike in Covid-19 cases in the densely-populated areas. Moti Dongor, which sits atop Margao's Monte (hill), has seen 17 positive cases so far, while Zuarinagar has 24. Both orders were issued by South Goa collector Ajit Roy under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Meanwhile in North Goa, Sakhali in northwest Goa emerged as a new hotspot of the infection, with the day seeing 16 new infections. The town, which is represented by chief minister Pramod Sawant, now has 24 active cases. The town’s count has steadily been rising over the past week. Monday’s cases were reported from Desai nagar, Bhandar waddo, housing board and Gaonthan. A health official said that over 160 persons in the town have been tested for Covid-19, and that testing will continue on Tuesday. A policeman, resident of the town, has also tested positive. Locals of Karapur village, around 1 km from the town, have opted to observe a voluntary lockdown from Monday to Saturday. Karapur-Sarvan sarpanch Sushma Sawant said that the decision was taken by locals and shopkeepers. While the panchayat didn’t have any say in the decision, it supported residents who conducted a Covid-19 awareness drive in the village. Meanwhile, the state’s active Covid-19 count rose to 724 on Monday with the detection of 53 new cases. The day also saw 46 patients cured and discharged, taking the total number of recovered cases to 524. The state's commercial capital, Margao, saw three cases on Monday. But even as cases piled up elsewhere, there was some relief as hotspot areas like Baina, Curtorim, Zuarinagar and Morlem saw no new cases on Monday. Also, In Sada and New Vaddem, only one and two cases respectively were reported. Canacona and Verna too reported a case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-2-major-slums-now-containment-zones/articleshow/76699760.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||140 Covid-19 cases so far among Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad cops||PUNE: As many as 140 officers and personnel from the Pune and the Pimpri Chinchwad police units have so far tested positive for Covid-19. Ninety-seven of them have recovered from the infection, while three policemen, all from Pune police, died. The two units now have 40 active cases in all. On Monday, state home minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted that 4,743 police personnel in Maharashtra have been infected so far, with 3,637 recoveries and 59 deaths. With 123 positives, 82 recoveries, three deaths and 38 active cases, Pune police have been worse hit than their Pimpri Chinchwad counterparts, who now have only two active cases, and 15 recoveries. “Almost 70% of our personnel stay in containment zones and also discharge duties in containment areas,” additional commissioner of police Ashok Morale, who is supervising the health aspect among Pune police, said. “In many cases, it has been observed that a police personnel came in contact with an infected person, was asymptomatic and has proceeded on leave or travelled outside,” he said. Both Morale and Pimpri Chinchwad deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath said that the focus remains on tamping down the infection among police. This includes an emphasis on the police and their families following social distancing, wearing masks and frequent sanitizing at work and in police colonies, they said All personnel, including traffic police, have been given face shield, goggles, hand and foot sanitisers. Hot water dispensers have been installed at work places and immunity boosting tablets have been distributed, they said. Thermal scanners are frequently used to check the body temperature of police personnel on duty. “If a policeman tests positive, then s/he is isolated and their family, relatives, friends and contacts are identified and tested. We have made arrangements to treat police personnel at hostels and guesthouses at Vaikunth Mehta, Wireless department, Symbiosis (Vimannagar) and Shivajinagar headquarters,” Morale said. DCP Hiremath said, “Almost our entire force has undergone nCoV tests. We have tied up with five private hospitals for our personnel to get treated. Apart from protective gears, including reusable PPE kits and immunity tablets, we are providing ultra-violet scanners for files and other safety equipment. We will be also providing ultra-violet hand-scanners at all police stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/140-ncov-cases-so-far-among-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-cops/articleshow/76698976.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Newly-married couple tests positive for Covid||Kolhapur: A newly-married couple tested positive for Covid-19 at a village in Patan tehsil of Satara following which police have sealed the boundaries of the village. The couple had got married around a fortnight ago and have now been admitted to a hospital in Karad. According to a health official, the father of the groom had come from Gujarat’s Mhaswad village, while a few other relatives had come from Panvel in a private car. “The groom’s father showed some symptoms of Covid-19 and was admitted to a hospital in Karad after his throat swab sample tested positive. Following this, we immediately quarantined his 10 family members, including the newly-married couple. Their throat swab samples was collected and sent for testing in which three people tested positive,” the official said. “We are now tracing everyone who attended the wedding, including the priest, car driver and caterer, as a precautionary measure. The throat swab samples of the bride’s family was also tested, but the reports came out as negative. Police have also sealed the boundaries of the village,” he added. The administration is anxious as nine children, all below the age of 10, were found positive for the contagion late on Sunday. Seven patients were also identified in Chachegao village of Karad Tehsil, while as many as 16 patients were found in Karad tehsil late on Sunday. Positive cases were also found in Chachegao, Goleshwar, Umbraj, Masur and Phaltan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/newly-married-couple-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/76696638.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Don’t cut power over June bills, says MERC||MUMBAI: With several people, both celebrities and common man, complaining about inflated electricity bills for June, Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has directed power utility firms MSEDCL, Adani Electricity, Tata Power and BEST not to disconnect supply to consumers till their grievances are redressed. MSEDCL sources said only 35% of consumers had cleared their June bills, with many refusing to pay ‘inflated bills’ which, in some cases, run up to Rs 44,000. TimesViewA utility provider has to be customer-friendly in its approach, mindful of grievances over quality of service. In this case, given the constraints imposed by the lockdown and the level of automation in billing systems, power companies should offer assistance to allay their subscribers’ suspicions. Surely, if an account records an abrupt surge which is several times the average monthly bill, it calls for a thorough probe.MERC said if consumers were dissatisfied with the reply of power firms to their queries, they should bring it to the notice of the Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum (CGRF), after which complaints could be escalated to the level of the electricity ombudsman. What are these new electricity rates ?? @Adani_Elec_Mum Last month I paid 6k .. and this month 50 k ????!!! What is… https://t.co/kcMJ2S3Xqv— Huma S Qureshi (@humasqureshi) 1593413751000Among celebrities who tweeted were actors Huma Qureshi and Renuka Shahane. “What are these new electricity rates?? @Adani_Elec_ Mum Last month I paid 6k.. and this month 50 k ????!!! What is this new price surge?? Kindly enlighten us,” tweeted Huma. Renuka tweeted, “Dear @Adani_Elec_Mum I got a bill of Rs5510/= on the 9th of May while in June I got a bill of Rs 29,700 combining May & June where yo’'ve charged me Rs 18080 for the month of May. How did Rs.5510/= become Rs.18080/=?”“Internal controls to detect abnormal power usage, which are in place, should be strictly implemented by utility firms. If excessive consumption is noticed, meter-reading should be rechecked on suo moto basis,” MERC ordered. The commission will keep a vigil on billing issues and would not like any consumer to be inconvenienced, it said. MERC issued diktats to power firms that wherever a bill is more than double that of the average for March-May, consumers should be given the option of paying it in three EMIs. A dedicated help desk or grievance officer should be set up or appointed at sub-division or division levels by the power utilities to ensure that grievances are responded to within a day of receipt, it said. MERC said consumers should be provided an online software utility to self-check bills in terms of units consumed as per meter-reading, applicable rate, tariff slab benefits and a comparison with the bill for the corresponding period last year. It also said there was no hike in tariff for any power discom. After the tariff revision in April, there was a reduction in tariff for all categories of consumers. According to it, residential tariffs of MSEDCL had dropped by 5%, BEST 1%, Adani 12%, and Tata 10%, while fuel adjustment charge (FAC) was zero. MERC said 6.1 lakh consumers of MSEDCL, 570 of Adani, 23,446 of Tata and 193 of BEST had automated meters and got actual readings during the lockdown. Adani will get seven lakh more automated meters and Tata 66,000, which will ensure accurate readings without human intervention. An MSEDCL official said 85% of revenue earned from bills was spent on power procurement from Mahagenco and private players, while it had to spend for transmission, operations and maintenance, paying vendors and outsourced services such as billing and meter-reading. TIMES VIEW:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-cut-power-over-june-bills-says-merc/articleshow/76699348.cms||Somit Sen
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Door-to-door survey takes backseat before takeoff in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The door-to-door Covid survey aiming to cover 45 lakh households in Delhi by July 6 is yet to take off properly four days after it started. With district officials still awaiting a detailed standard operating procedures (SOP), it appears impossible that the mammoth exercise will be completed over the next one week alongside the concurrent serological survey in containment zones. The door-to-door survey made a slow start on Friday in Central, East, North and New Delhi districts on Friday. Union home minister Amit Shah had asked for the survey to be carried out to identify suspect Covid cases and their testing. The survey was proposed in a joint meeting of Delhi and central government on June 21. District officials have deployed survey teams comprising domestic mosquito breeding checkers, and sanitation and ASHA workers. “The door-to-door survey was carried out in a few areas where the teams noted down details of family members, their travel details, co-morbidities present and if anyone of them had flu-like symptoms,” a Delhi government official said on Monday. “We were expecting to receive resources, guidelines and SOP from the Centre, but are awaiting directives. For instance, what is the procedure to be followed if the teams detect anyone with severe Covid symptoms?” It is likely that the survey will take a backseat with the priority now on screening in containment zones and collecting of 20,000 blood samples by July 10 for the serological survey. “We have been carrying out regular surveys in containment zones and have teams for that task. The same teams have been asked to collect household details as directed by the Union home ministry,” said a Central district official. Residents’ welfare associations across the city reported no door-to-door survey in their areas, apart from the containment zones. B S Vohra, president, East Delhi RWAs, said that he was asked questions by a surveyor over phone, who also wanted to know if someone in his family had flu-like symptoms. “Why would any resident allow survey teams to enter their houses and why would people reveal information about symptoms when there panic and social stigma attached to Covid-19?” he asked. Pankaj Agarwal, general secretary, Delhi RWA Joint Front, revealed that the survey hadn’t started in Safdarjung Enclave and nearby areas. “I think it makes more sense to conduct a thorough survey in containment zones and buffer areas than across the city, which would be a mere formality on paper with no authentic data because there isn’t the required manpower to complete such a massive exercise in such a short time,” said Agarwal, adding that the state government should involve RWAs in the process and carry out random audits of survey findings to ensure authenticity. While Atul Goyal, president, United Residents Joint Action, said the survey period was too short to cover every family in Delhi, Sudha Sinha, president, Dwarka CGHS Federation, said her colony had seen no survey, except in the containment zones. “I doubt the government has the infrastructure and manpower for carrying out such a survey,” she said. “People so scared, they don’t want to allow other into their residences or talk about Covid-19.” She, however said, it was a good step and the federation was ready to help the government, but “Delhi government needs to first educate people”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/door-to-door-survey-takes-backseat-before-takeoff/articleshow/76698999.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Use Marathi or risk pay hike freeze, babus told||MUMBAI: All state government offices must use Marathi for official communication and officials who fail to adhere to this rule face a year’s delay in getting their increment, said a circular issued on Monday by the general administration department, headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The circular warned all government offices—Mantralaya, divisional offices and civic bodies— to use only the state language in all letters and communications as also for other administrative purposes. As penalty, the employee concerned will either be issued a warning or a record made in his/her confidential report or increment will be withheld for one year. The circular says an exception could be made only if there is a “justified” reason for not communicating in Marathi. The circular points out that many departments published information pertaining to welfare schemes, advertisements and slogans in English or Hindi. It adds that despite several circulars to this effect being issued earlier, numerous complaints were received on the government portal about non-adherence by officials. Following a discussion on this issue during the state cabinet meeting, strict instructions were issued to all offices and heads of the departments to adhere to the order. Former principal secretary Mahesh Zagde welcomed the decision. “If you’re working in Maharashtra, you must communicate in Marathi. In the past, government issued warnings, but they had no impact. Now, it seems the government has taken a serious view,” Zagde said. A former bureaucrat said nothing is wrong in issuing orders in English, but the same must be available in Marathi in a reasonable period. “All orders issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta are in English, entire state is waiting for Marathi version of these orders,” the bureaucrat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/use-marathi-or-risk-pay-hike-freeze-babus-told/articleshow/76700119.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Hidco floats tender for work cocoons||Kolkata: Hidco has floated tender to engage an architectural firm to set up three work cocoons in New Town. These will be small work stations that locals can use for a few hours just a few steps from their houses. Hidco officials said three spots have been identified — opposite Nazrul Tirtha and New Town bus stand in Action Area I and in Action Area II — in the initial phase. The project cost has been estimated at Rs 1.2 crore. “The work cocoons will be AC and have a small café corner, work tables, a library and comfortable sitting arrangements for about 10 to 12 persons, along with Wi-Fi,” said an official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hidco-floats-tender-for-work-cocoons/articleshow/76699004.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KTU postpones BTech exams scheduled from July 1||Thiruvananthapuram: Following widespread protests and requests from students, parents and political leaders, APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has decided to postpone all examinations scheduled to begin on July 1. The university authorities said the decision was taken following the complaints submitted by student, parents and student unions against varsity’s decision to conduct the examinations during the thick of the Covid-19 pandemic. The BTech Hons examinations of KTU started on June 26 and the final-semester engineering examinations were supposed to start on July 1. The university till a couple of days ago had refused to entertain the demand for changing the date of examinations. Instead, the authorities claimed to have put in place all precautionary arrangements for conducting the examinations by adhering to Covid norms, including social distancing. For those students would find it impossible to take the examination would be given another chance to attend it in October, it said. According to varsity authorities, the efforts to conduct the final-semester examination braving all odds was taken in view of the placement offers a large number of students had received from employers through campus-recruitment drives. Shashi Tharoor MP was among those who appealed the state government and the universities concerned in the state to scarp their decision to conduct examinations during Covid times. KTU vice-chancellor M S Rajasree said the academic committee of the varsity would take further decisions on when to conduct the examinations. The examination-standing committee of the university syndicate, which met here on Monday morning, has decided to postpone the examinations. KTU pro vice- chancellor S Ayoob presided over the subcommittee meeting in which syndicate members P O J Labba, C Satheesh and G Venugopal attended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ktu-postpones-btech-exams-scheduled-from-july-1/articleshow/76697866.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Pune||Conman steals woman’s gold bangle worth Rs 60k||Pune: A conman made away with a 60-year-old woman’s gold bangle worth Rs60,000 on the pretext of telling her to perform a ‘puja’ that would bring luck for his new jewellery store on Dehu Road. The incident occurred on on June 26. The woman, a resident of Katraj, lodged an FIR with the police on Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/conman-steals-womans-gold-bangle-worth-rs-60k/articleshow/76698983.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Want new driving licence? Test may take up to three months||NEW DELHI: Want to get a new driving licence? You might have to wait for up to three months for a slot to go for a learner’s licence test or a driving test for a permanent licence, depending on where you live in Delhi. However, if it is renewal of a transport document such as a licence, fitness certificate or a permit, there is no need to rush because the validity of these have been extended till September 30. After remaining shut during lockdown, the 13 regional transport offices (RTOs) had reopened on May 4. However, the number of online appointments were drastically reduced to ensure social distancing. Even the busiest RTOs that earlier faced over 1,000 applicants a day are now giving time slots to only a couple of hundreds. The South Zone RTO at Sarai Kale Khan catering to most of south Delhi used to conduct over 250 driving tests at its automated test track before the lockdown. Since resuming work, it allows a maximum of 80 tests a day. Not more than 50 applicants are allowed to give tests to get a learner’s licence. Even these reduced slots are comparatively higher than in other RTOs. If you apply for a learner’s licence at the South Zone II RTO in Vasant Vihar for areas like Munirka, Vasant Kunj, Green Park and Delhi Cantonment, the earliest you can get a test slot is September 28. Similarly, the Loni Road RTO, meant for entire northeast Delhi, doesn’t have slots before September 28. The waiting period at other busy RTOs, including at Mayur Vihar, Janakpuri, Dwarka and Surajmal Vihar, is two months’ long, while you have a wait of 30 days for an appointment at Rajouri Garden and Sarai Kale Khan (Central) RTOs. “The number of slots vary across RTOs according to the infrastructure and space available. That is why the waiting period is a month at Sarai Kale Khan, but three months at Vasant Vihar though both cater to different parts of south Delhi,” a transport department official said. “It is very important to maintain social distancing and there is no option but to reduce slots for applicants.” Although vehicle registration has hugely dipped after the Covid outbreak, the number registration is now picking up, particularly for two-wheelers. “With Delhi Metro closed and buses unable to cater to the demand of commuters, people are opting for affordable private vehicles. That is why registration of gearless scooters has picked up in particular,” the official added. “Also, those who didn’t need a driving licence till now are applying for one, leading to a rush.” He informed that the central government had extended the validity of all transport documents, including driving licences that have expired since February 1 or will expire by September 30, to September 30. “Those who want to renew their documents don’t need to panic or rush to the RTO,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/want-new-driving-licence-test-may-take-up-to-3-mths/articleshow/76699027.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Suicides, domestic violence peaked during lockdown: City police||Ludhiana: There has been a big spike in the number of suicides and domestic violence cases in the city during lockdown as per a report of city police. In suicides cases, depression has been found to be the main reason, followed by domestic violence and financial problem. While from January to March not even a single suicide was reported due to stress related to studies, as many as six suicides in the age group of 17 years to 25 years were reported amid lockdown. In the first three months of this year, as many as 867 domestic violence related distress calls were received on 112 and 1091 helpline numbers. However, in the three months of lockdown, these complaints have gone up to 1,476. Simultaneously, hike is seen in the number of suicide cases too. From January 1 to March 30 a total 61 suicides were reported, however, from April 1 to June 15 total 102 suicides were reported in the city. Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said, “If we talk about the spike in the domestic violence cases, there is a possibility that due to Covid-19 the woman are not going to police stations and are making complaints only online. However, still there is a huge increase in the number of complaints being received.” “In suicide cases too, there is a rise from 61 suicides, including 46 males and 15 females, to 102 suicides, including 76 males and 26 females. Among these, the maximum reason for suicide is depression, followed by domestic violence, financial problem, medical problem, study issue, unemployment, drug addiction and debt. The data also suggests that the suicidal tendency is increasing among people in the age group of 30-40 years,” he added. The DCP further said, “A total 58 persons have committed suicide amid lockdown due to depression and their age group is from between 9 to 80 years. 17 persons in the age group of 19 years to 40 years have committed suicide due to domestic violence, eight people, aged between 28 years to 50 years, have ended their life due to financial problem, eight in the age group of 42 years to 58 years have committed suicide due to medical issues, six in the age group of 17 years to 25 years have committed suicide for study issues, two due to unemployment by people aged between 38-40 years, two due to drug addiction by people aged between 25-34 years and one due to debt. According to experts, the cause of suicides before lockdown was again depression with maximum 33 suicides, followed by eight for medical problems, seven for domestic violence, seven due to financial issues, four due to unemployment and two suicides due to drug addiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/suicides-domestic-violence-peaked-during-lockdown-city-police/articleshow/76697864.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 30, 2020||Kolhapur||7 patients recover in Satara||Kolhapur: With 39 new Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, the total number of cases in Satara district crossed the three-figure mark to 1,012. Also, one patient was reported to have died due to the contagion, while seven people were discharged from hospitals across the district. According to a district administration official, a 75-year-old man, a resident of Karad, died of Covid-19 in a hospital in Satara on Monday morning. “A woman, who had symptoms of SARI, died in Karad hospital on Sunday night. Her throat swab sample has been sent for testing and the report is still awaited. On Monday, the new positive patients were reported from tehsils like Khandala, Phaltan, Karad, Jawli, Wai, Koregaon and Patan. Currently, the district has a total of 256 patients, while the number of those who have recovered stands at 713. The district has so far reported 43 deaths. Meanwhile, home minister Anil Deshmukh asked the district administration to increase the number of tests carried out every day to arrest the spread of coronavirus. Deshmukh’s instruction assumes significance in view of the large number of people coming back to their native villages from cities like Mumbai and Pune. “Coronavirus, which was initially restricted to urban centers, is spreading to rural areas due to relaxations in the lockdown. Hence, there is a need for concentrating on rural areas to curb the spread of virus. The administration should to take more steps to control the number of patients in Phaltan and Jawli tehsils,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/7-patients-recover-in-satara/articleshow/76696670.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Finish survey in sealed zones by July 6: MHA to Delhi government||NEW DELHI: The home ministry has asked authorities in Delhi to complete the door-to-door survey of all containment zones in the city — which recently saw a big jump in numbers on account of their fresh demarcation — on priority by July 6. The comprehensive house-to-house survey across the entire city shall follow thereafter, an MHA spokesperson said on Monday. The original deadline for concluding 100% health survey in containment zones of Delhi was June 30, which now stands extended to July 6 in the wake of the number of containment zones increasing from 280 on June 25 to 435 on June 29. The comprehensive survey in the rest of the city, which was to be done by July 6, will now get pushed further back. “The home ministry assessed that completing door-to-door survey in containment zones, which had started on June 26, will need more time in view of the huge increase in the number of such zones. It has therefore decided that this must be completed on priority basis, and the comprehensive survey in entire Delhi can wait until the 100% survey in containment zones is wound up,” an officer told TOI on Monday. The officer added that this will not affect the ongoing serological survey — as part of which 20,000 people across the city will be tested to determine the extent of Covid-19 spread — and it will proceed simultaneously. The serological survey had got underway on June 27 and is due to be completed by July 10. The decisions to go ahead with the house-to-house survey first in containment zones and then the rest of Delhi as also to carry out a serological survey were taken at a meeting chaired by home minister Amit Shah on June 21 and attended by Delhi LG Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The meeting had reviewed the suggestions made by a central government committee headed by Niti Aayog member V K Paul, and okayed the house-to-house and serological surveys as per timelines suggested by the panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/finish-survey-in-sealed-zones-by-july-6-mha-to-delhi-govt/articleshow/76699017.cms||Bharti Jain
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 hits graffiti work at railway station||Ludhiana: The rise in the number of Covid-19 cases across the city has affected the graffiti work being carried out at the city railway station, which was meant to facelift the boundary walls of the city railway station for upgrading its cleanliness standards for getting a better ranking in the swacch railway survey. A few months back the railway authorities were planning to get graffiti work done across the station to give a better appearance to the station and besides, passengers coming to the premises will able to see vibrant wall paintings, tribal art and colourful graffiti all around the station premises. But after the outbreak of Covid-19, the railways have decided to suspended its development work for the next few months owing to the emergency health situation. In the past years the railway authorities had carried out graffiti works on the boundary walls, foot overbridge to upgrade the beauty quotient as well as cleanliness standards of the city railway station, but paan and tobacco stains on it caused embarrassment to the authorities. Director of the city railway station Tarun Kumar said, “The railways will consider restart work on the graffiti work after Covid-19 times come to end, which has led to several thousand deaths in the past few months. Presently, we are not trying to connect with any private artist to carry out the graffiti work on the boundary walls as well foot overbridge of the railway station to improve its beatification.” “The railways will conduct the graffiti work after the government bodies will find a permanent solution to Covid-19 as it will help in covering up the paan stains that can be seen on the walls of the station premises, bringing major embarrassment to railway staff and frequent passengers.” “Earlier, the authorities concerned were planning to install a few more bottle crushing machines, including sanitary pad disposal machines, on the premises of the city railway station so that passenger could avail of its benefits without facing any trouble while searching for the same. But due to the outbreak of Covid-19, several development projects will get delayed,” the director added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-hits-graffiti-work-at-railway-station/articleshow/76697875.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||No garbage fee for Manali hoteliers||Manali: The Manali municipal council has waived off garbage fee from April 1 to July 31. MC executive officer Narain Verma said it was decided in the meeting that hotels should be exempted from the fee for four months.  “There is no tourist movement in the town and hotels, which are closed, are not producing garbage. So, the fee has been waived off,” he said. Earlier MC had given this relief only to hotels inside its jurisdiction. But over 75% hotels are outside MC area and the garbage is brought to its treatment facility, so MC had decided to charge one-third of the fee. However, after request from these hotels, the fee has been waived off for all hotels and guesthouses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-garbage-fee-for-manali-hoteliers/articleshow/76699044.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cops target ‘illegal’ travellers, seize 16,000 vehicles||MUMBAI: Heavy congestion and delays were reported in several parts of the city on Monday as the police put up checkposts and impounded over 16,000 vehicles—perhaps unprecedented in a single day—for travel without valid reasons. The number was more than double that impounded on Sunday, when a new directive was passed which said that travelling beyond a radius of 2km from home except for going to the office and for essential services would invite action. But on Monday, it appeared that nobody was spared — whether it was someone going for a blood test, fetching groceries from the neighbourhood store or travelling to a BPO where he is employed. The police checked close to at least 38,000 vehicles. Read AlsoMumbai: Experts question legality of 2km rule and vehicle seizuresLegal experts have questioned the legality of the Mumbai police’s dictate restricting travel up to a 2km radius from home and ordering the seizure of vehicles and prosecution of violators. “It is an arbitrary and absurd dictate,” said senior advocate Niteen Pradhan, among other lawyers. The legalThe entry and exit points to the city— Dahisar and Mulund check nakas—had bumper-to-bumper traffic as early as 9.30am. At Dahisar, the zonal DCP personally supervised checks. A motorist said he could move just about 500 metres in the span of an hour from Kashimira towards Dahisar due to the backlog. Motorcyclists complained they were easy targets and were checked in far greater numbers than other vehicles. “I live alone and had set out to buy groceries on my scooter with a proper list in hand. In the same lane where I live on Andheri’s Veera Desai Road, a cop was intercepting vehicles. I explained I was just a few metres away from home, but he wouldn’t even look at my list and forced me to sign a document that I had violated the lockdown,” said Ajay Malhotra, 59. “I went for a blood test with my father on a scooter and the police seized it. Aren’t there medical emergencies?” tweeted Gaurav Kedia. Stringent checks were conducted on the Eastern Express Highway leading to jams at Ghatkopar. A doctor said he left home at Vikhroli at 8am to see patients but reached Charni Road only at 11.30am. “It was an utter waste of time with major bottlenecks at Ghatkopar, Mankhurd, Suman Nagar, Lalbaug and Byculla,” he said. Javed Deshmukh, who was driving to his office in a Goregaon BPO, was forced to get off his car which was impounded at Goregaon. He spent hours trying to convince the police with his office ID card, to no avail. Many motorists also wondered where would so many impounded vehicles be towed and in what condition would they be kept. Taxis and autos can be used only for essentials, but many drivers were found ferrying non-essential staff, with some going beyond the 2km limit. An auto union leader, requesting anonymity, said that the drivers were taking “risks” as they wanted to earn after three months of total lockdown. Taxi union leader A L Quadros said, “The drivers are desperate as they are without earnings. We have requested the government to allow three people in one cab and also allow us to ferry traders and general office-goers, as they comprise 70% of our customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cops-target-illegal-travellers-seize-16000-vehicles/articleshow/76700123.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Woman among two arrested for killing 80-year-old in east Delhi||NEW DELHI: A week after an 80-year-old man was found dead at the gate of his residence in Laxmi Nagar, police have arrested two persons, including a woman for his murder. Police said the deceased ran an electronics repair shop and the accused men entered his shop-cum-residence on the pretext of buying a spare part. The arrested accused are Faizan (19) and his associate’s mother Sharda (49). “Around Rs 2 lakh and 50 thousand was recovered from Faizan and Rs 12 lakh from Sharda. The accused had also booked a car with the robbed amount,” said Jasmeet Singh, DCP, East. Sharda is the mother of the prime accused Deepak who is on the run. She had hid the robbed amount and even helped her son flee. On June 22, Faizan and Deepak knocked on the door of deceased KP Agarwal. On finding him alone, they covered his face with a cloth and forcibly took him to the first floor of his residence where the almirah was located. “Deepak who was also in the same business was well acquainted with Agarwal. He was aware that Agarwal had kept huge quantities of cash at home. He roped in Faizan who lives a few lanes behind his house. They stole a motorcycle from Shahdara area to reach the victim’s house,” said an officer privy to the investigation. The accused were traced with the help of the CCTV footage. DCP (east) Jasmeet Singh said that the murder came to fore around 10.30am on June 22 when one of Agarwal’s workers had reached his house. Agarwal was not registered with the senior citizen cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-among-2-arrested-for-killing-80-yr-old-in-east-delhi/articleshow/76699068.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Monday blues for office-goers as diesel price climbs to Rs 74.1/L||Kolkata: The unabated climb of diesel price, which touched Rs 74.1 per litre in Kolkata on Monday, again spelt a harrowing time for commuters as private bus operators called off services on most routes across the city. The scene on the road got worse in late afternoon and evening when even fewer private buses plied than that in the morning, creating a yawning gap between the city’s public transport demand and supply, even though state transport undertakings ran their full fleets. With diesel price showing no signs of dipping or stabilizing, more private buses are feared to go off roads, making commute even more difficult than it already is in Unlock 1.0. Suparna Das, a Calcutta High Court employee, who travels from her Barrackpore home to high court every day, had a nightmarish time travelling on Monday. “As local train services have not resumed, I have to change buses and autos thrice or four times. Even then, I got really late in the morning. But it seems to have turned worse while returning, as I have been waiting for the past 50 minutes and not a single bus has arrived yet.”When a bus finally arrived—albeit, on a different route—hundreds converged on it, throwing social distancing norms to the rinds. “Overcrowded is a gross understatement. The government must think of the plight of passengers. Transport officials must hit the roads to see the real situation,” said a 60-year-old Tollygunge resident, Kamal Dum, who managed to gain a foothold on the bus. Claiming they could not afford to run on the earlier fare structure any more, private operators had pulled buses out of north Kolkata routes on Friday, when the diesel price had hit Rs 72.5 per litres. Over the weekend, as the rate rose beyond Rs 73 a litre, they had pointed out that in spite of it being an essential service, the high fuel price, along with the old fare structure, was bleeding them of their resources. On Monday, the diesel price hit Rs74.1 per litre, making it costlier by Rs 8.51 per litre than that on June 6. Even the few bus operators, who had conceded to run services on Monday, decided against it, after their calculations indicated heavy losses. “Majority of bus operators could not absorb the loss any more. We also can’t put pressure on them to run buses under such circumstances,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates (JCBS). Private buses ferry 45 lakh passengers a day, while STUs together cater to 16 lakh people in the Kolkata Metropolitan Area. “Unless, the fare is revised, keeping a provision for future rises of diesel price, we will face the same problem. So, if the government really cares about the lakhs of people dependent on the private bus industry, they should not give us a pittance by raising the fare by Re 1 or Rs 2 per stage,” said an operator. On many routes, some operators have informally raised the fare by Re 1 per stage and on some places, the hike has been higher, but the number of buses was drastically low there as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/monday-blues-for-office-goers-as-diesel-price-climbs-to-rs-74-1/l/articleshow/76519231.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 30, 2020||Delhi||High court stay on 50% quota for Delhi students in NLU-Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday stayed the decision of the National Law University, Delhi (NLUD) to reserve 50% seats for candidates from the capital. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said that prima facie, the university and the state government “completely bypassed” the governing council, which is the authority that is empowered to formulate and review the broad policies of NLUD from time-to-time. The high court noted that a high-powered committee, headed by justice N V Ramana of the Supreme Court, was examining the issue of whether reservation should be provided or not on the request of the governing council, yet NLUD went ahead and decided to reserve 50% seats for Delhiites. “There is nothing placed on record to demonstrate that any recommendation was placed before the governing council, which is the body constituted under the NLU Act to take decisions on all important matters relating to the university and its functioning,” the court noted. The interim order came on a plea by NLUD students and alumni who challenged the reservation decision saying it “strikes at the heart of national character and the standards of excellence” of the university. After granting the interim stay and asking the university to follow last year’s admission formula, the court listed the matter for August 18. On its part, the Aam Aadmi Party government opposed the plea, arguing the students and alumni had no “locus” to challenge an administrative order. It backed the 50% quota, since it funds the university. State government standing counsel, Ramesh Singh, argued that NLUD was not a central university or a national institute of excellence and was only a state university, which came into existence on the basis of the Act enacted by the state legislature. The petition also challenged NLUD’s move to increase the seat intake from 80 to 120, saying it was against the express decision of the varsity’s governing council and there was also a lack of infrastructure such as residential hostels for students, accommodation for teaching and other staff and classrooms. NLUD had decided to reserve 50% of the total seats for candidates passing the qualifying examination from a recognised school, college or institute located within the National Capital Territory of Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-stay-on-50-quota-for-delhi-students-in-nlu/articleshow/76699107.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Centre revives Sivagiri pilgrim circuit project||Thiruvananthapuram: The Centre has decided to restore Sree Narayana Guru pilgrimage circuit (Sivagiri pilgrim circuit) estimated worth Rs 69.47 crore under the ministry of tourism, which was cancelled in the wake of Covid-19 crisis. After the state took up the matter with the Centre in the wake of widespread protests, the Centre on Monday informed the state that the pilgrimage tourism circuit will be restored. However, the Centre has not made any mention regarding reviving the project for improving basic infrastructure in 133 religious worship centres belonging to various religious groups in the reply to the state government. Welcoming the Centre’s decision, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said the Centre had to reverse its earlier decision in the wake of widespread protests as well as pressure from the state government against the decision. He demanded that the implementation of the project should now be handed over to state tourism department. The decision was to hand over the implementation to India tourism development corporation (ITDC). The minister also demanded that the Centre should also restore the project to improve basic infrastructure of 133 religious worship centres as well, a project worth Rs 85.22 crore. The project under the pilgrimage circuit tourism, would cover the places where Sree Narayana Guru had spent, including his birthplace Chempazanthi, Aruvippuram, where he had built a temple with Lord Shiva as the deity, and Varkala where he had established the Sivagiri Mutt. The foundation stone for the project was laid in February last year. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also welcomed the decision. “It is a victory of the people. There were many protests against the decision led by various organizations, inluding Sree Narayana movements and KPCC OBC cell,” Chennithala said here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centre-revives-sivagiri-pilgrim-circuit-project/articleshow/76697906.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab child rights panel for leeway to working couples||Chandigarh: As working couples are facing problem of arranging child care since schools and day care centres continue to stay shut as part of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (PSCPCR) has recommended that government as well as private offices should ensure that one of the working parents is allowed to work from home. In a letter addressed to Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Monday, the commission headed by former IPS officer Rajinder Singh recommended that directions be issued to all department heads in the state to ensure that in case of working couples, either father or mother should be allowed to work from home till schools remain closed. Similarly, the chief secretary has also been requested to issue directions to private organisations across the state emphasising that there is a need to ensure welfare of children facing difficulties due to closure of schools and day care centres. The commission also observed that district and state headquarters mostly have nuclear families and many such families have working couples. After the opening of offices since June 1, there is nobody to take care of children of such working couples during working hours. Due to the closure of schools, students are being given online study assignments which cannot be completed without the presence of one of the parents either through smartphones or laptops. The commission also observed that most of the parents allow their children to complete online assignments through their smartphones as they do not want to hand over smartphones to young children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-child-rights-panel-for-leeway-to-working-couples/articleshow/76699102.cms||Sanjeev Verma
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||27-year-old man run over by train at Sahnewal crossing||Ludhiana: A 27-year-old man was run over by a Delhi-bound superfast train during the early morning hours at Sahnewal railway crossing on Monday near here. The police could not identify the deceased as the body was badly crushed and cut into pieces after it was hit by the train near here within the city limits. Balbir Singh, in charge of Government Railway Police (GRP), said, a line-man had informed the control room of the Government Railway Police in the early morning hours of Monday, following which a police party under my guidance reached the spot for initiating further proceedings. The deceased seems to be in his twenties and might be a factory workers from a nearby area.” “In the preliminary investigation, the police came to know that the deceased was trying to take a short cut to reach his home early by crossing the railway tracks from an unmanned crossing and got crushed under the train coming from the opposite direction. The police did not recover any documents from the possession of the deceased which could reveal his identity,” he said. The railway police initially got the Covid-19 test of the body conducted for further confirmation as the matter related to safety of police officials, who mostly have to come in close touch with several unknown bodies while doing on the spot investigation to solve a case. “Following this, the railway police sent the body to the mortuary of the civil hospital here to be kept there for the next 72 hours in connection with further investigations. The railway police initiated the inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC to ascertain the real reason for the mishap,” the in-charge told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/27-year-old-man-run-over-by-train-at-sahnewal-crossing/articleshow/76697892.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolhapur||People not following guidelines lead to increase in hotspots||KOLHAPUR: As people in the district are not maintaining the social distancing norm, not wearing masks and some of those who have been instructed to stay in home isolation are not doing so, have become the main factors for the increase of Covid hotspots. The health staff has been asked to conduct an informal survey at several locations especially at the three currrently active hotspots-Kudche Mala of Ichalkaranji town, Adkur village of Gadhinglaj tehsil and Kanerkar Nagar of Kolhapur city. The hotspots are the areas where more than five Covid cases are detected mainly due to local or community transmission. Yogesh Sale, the district health officer who recently visited Kudche Mala said, “"We have observed that not more than 2% of the people in many parts of the district follow the guidelines. They do not maintain social distancing, masks are not worn properly. Many of those who have been instructed to stay in home isolation as they are asymptomatic, do not do so.” “So hotspots are likely to increase if this attitude continues. We are pitching to raise district-wide awareness to inform people again regarding the precautions to be followed,” added Adkur has reported 12 cases so far. Recently, a person who had no travel history died due to Covid-19 infection. He contracted the infection from one of his relative who had a travel history. The deceased person was regularly meeting his friends and neighbours. Similarly,an elderly from Kanerkar Nagar, whose son had a travel history, died. Around seven people in the locality and a couple of people from other places contracted the infection. In Kudche Mala, the number of cases has increased to 23. Compulsory institutional quarantine In the view of the rise in Covid-19 cases and people hiding their travel history, the district administration has asked to send people coming from outside in institutional quarantine, even if the person has arrived from a non-red zone area and shows no symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/people-not-following-guidelines-lead-to-increase-in-hotspots/articleshow/76696721.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||NSG commandos get lessons on being stress free||Ludhiana: Seeking to help the NSG commandos to remain stress free and positive in the current Covid-19 times, a city-based psychiatrist addressed the members of the country’s elite force through a live telecast. Dr Anshu Gupta, a reputed neuropsychiatrist, from Kitchlu Nagar, who held the session free of cost says that he feels proud to have provided knowledge on the subject to those serving the country. “Four to five days ago, I was approached by a senior officer of the NSG to hold an awareness session on the subject ‘how to remain stress free and positive in these Corona affected times’. I felt happy that by addressing the commandos I can serve the nation as they are the elite force, which has been serving the country along with other security agencies. It was telecast live via webex throughout the NSG command stations in Chandigarh, Manesar, Raipur, Vijayawada, Guwahati. About 2,000 commandos listened to my address,” said 45-year-old Dr Gupta. “During my address I spoke on how to overcome stress and anxiety during the pandemic. I also stressed upon the need to have a positive frame of mind.” The city-based psychiatrist said e also highlighted the role of family members in helping each other and on how to help children remain stress free in these testing times. He added that he also spoke on how stress could even drive a person to commit suicide and how one can help people around them to come out of suicidal thoughts or ideas. “I also made a presentation on tips to remain happy even in this hour of crisis,” said Dr Gupta. The lecture was followed by an interactive session, where he answered various queries related to coronavirus. He added that he also suggested to them the ways to improve immunity by living a stress-free life and how meditation and yoga could help in the process. The mental health expert said that he also stressed on the need to run life as per routine. During the session, the commandos posted eight to ten questions to the expert on how to fight stress, how family infection can be prevented. They asked him on how to check the time spent by their children online and other family related issues. “I stressed on the need to change self instead of trying to change your partner to avoid marital tensions. Fault finding should be avoided,” he added. Dr Gupta added that he also impressed on his audience to involve children in day-to-day household activities like games, cooking, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nsg-commandos-get-lessons-on-being-stress-free/articleshow/76697928.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||SSLC result today at 2pm||Thiruvananthapuram: The results of SSLC examinations that concluded in May end would be announced on Tuesday. General education minister C Raveendranath would announce the results at PRD chamber at 2pm. Beside Saphalam mobile app and www.result.kite.kerala.gov.in, the results would be available on several other government websites and mobile apps, including PRD Live, which can be downloaded from Google Play store and App store. The app working on auto-scaling is unlikely to face bandwidth issues. Over 41 lakh persons had used the app during SSLC result announcement last year. Along with SSLC results, the minister would also announce the results of SSLC (hearing Impaired), THSLC ( hearing Impaired) and AHSLC examinations. SSLC results would be also available on the following websites. http://keralapareekshabhavan.in, https://sslcexam.kerala.gov.in, www.results.kerala.nic.in, www.prd.kerala.gov.in and www.sietkerala.gov.in. SSLC( HI) results would be available on http://sslchiexam.gov.in, THSLC(HI) result on http://thslcexam.kerala.gov.in and AHSLC result on http://ahslcexam.kerala.gov.in. Watch Kerala: SSLC result today at 2pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sslc-result-today-at-2pm/articleshow/76697940.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Couple leaves decade-old DJ business to sell food on roadside||Ludhiana: The struggle of earning livelihood amid the crisis triggered by Covid-19 pandemic has forced another city-based family to give up their a decade-old profession of organising DJ shows at religious functions as well as parties and go in for the business of selling home cooked food to people in their Swift Dzire car to sustain their livelihood. After the government bodies decided to place restrictions on organising mass gatherings events like marriage or religious function in view of the outbreak of Covid-19 in the past four months, the business of both Amritpal and his wife Rajwinder Kaur of organising DJ shows had to be shut down, which left the family with no option but to step out on the city roads in their car for selling home cooked food items to local customers for managing household expenses. Amritpal said, “I can’t tell you about my experiences of life which I have faced while managing the basic household expenses of my two small children in the past four months as I have to sold my several household things to bear electricity bills, home and car loans because I didn’t earn a single penny from my years old profession of organising DJ functions at religious as well marriage functions.” “Last year, we had received several orders of organising marriage ceremonies in India and across the country but this year after the outbreak of Covid-19 we had to wind up our business as we were not receiving a single order of organising DJ shows in the past five months. Due to poor financial conditions of the family, I had to take up the profession of selling homemade food items to people in my car as I found this was the only way I could survive easily in these circumstances of lockdown.” Moreover, it’s not an easy task of selling food items while standing on city roads in hot and humid weather conditions. Even after all this the government authorities are not supporting us by giving some sort of relaxation in opening street food stalls on city roads. We are struggling with local municipal corporation officials for opening our stalls as they are not allowing us to operate such business on city road which is annoying. They should understand the ground reality of the present times and allow us to conduct such activities on road for some time until the situation returns to normalcy.” “Following the government directions of remaining inside our homes, we have lost all our savings in the past five months in managing the basic essentials things. But now we have started some sort of business to pay house and car loans and electricity bills. They should support us as we are clueless what to do due to lack of resources and employment oportunities,” Amritpal further said. “In view of Covid-19, we are adopting all mandatory safety measures to ensure better service to all our customers. Moreover, we are getting good response from the general public of the city as they are supporting our home-made food items initiative by visiting our stalls in a good numbers. On an average, we are earning Rs 500 to Rs 800 by selling sufficient amount of home-made food items,” he added. On the other hand, while hailing the their efforts, a customer, Kuldeep Singh, said, “The government should support such hard working people and don’t disturb them from earning livelihood until the situation returns to normalcy because several businesses have been hit hard after the imposition of lockdown in view of the outbreak of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/couple-leaves-decade-old-dj-business-to-sell-food-on-roadside/articleshow/76697985.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Intel: 25 terrorists may target Delhi as part of a ‘big plan’||NEW DELHI: Intelligence inputs indicate around 25 hardcore terrorists trained by the Pakistan Army’s special service group are likely to try to infiltrate in the next fortnight as part of a big plan hatched jointly by the Taliban-JeM leadership in Afghanistan. Sources say that a few of the highly trained operatives have been tasked to target three senior politicians and places of religious significance in Delhi while the rest will attempt to carry out terror strike actions in Jammu&Kashmir. The group, comprising mujahideens specialising in VB-IED and long-range weaponry, will split into two after leaving the launchpad and cross over somewhere through the Indo-Nepal border and international border, the alert states. The input, released a few days ago, states that the exact infiltration point and probable dates are currently not available and all state police forces concerned have been asked to step up vigil. The latest developments are being seen by intelligence officials as part of a long-term plan hatched by ISI and Taliban towards the end of 2018 and beginning of 2019. Official recall two multi-party meetings held in Pakistan and Afghanistan during this time which was attended by the leadership of Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Taliban and the Haqqani network. The presence of leaders from the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) was also noted at these gatherings which was organised by a major-rank officer of the ISI and a senior Taliban leader. Post this meeting, sources said, around 100 operatives were hand-picked by a covert unit called ‘SSO’ and trained at camps located in Muzaffarabad, Kotli, Laka-e-Gair in POK. They were specially taken to Afghanistan to be trained in assembling vehicle-borne IEDs aka car bombs. Intelligence officials suspect that this batch of terrorists having such specialisations are the same recruits. Efforts are being made to establish their identities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/intel-25-terrorists-may-target-capital-as-part-of-a-big-plan/articleshow/76699136.cms||Raj Shekhar
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Ambernath lockdown extended by week as city still reports 60 to 100 cases a day||In an attempt to halt the rise in Covid-19 cases, Ambernath Municipal Council has decided to extend the lockdown in the city till July 6. On June 23, the civic body had declared a seven-day lockdown till June 30. In the past week, though, it continued to report 60 to 100 cases. The city has a population of around 3.5 lakh. On Monday, it reported 83 new patients, taking the total cases to 1,727, including 42 deaths. On Monday, new civic chief Prashant Rasal took charge and he along with MLA Balaji Kinikar and others visited a Covid hospital in a dental college to check the infrastructure. — Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ambernath-lockdown-extended-by-week-as-city-still-reports-60-to-100-cases-a-day/articleshow/76697944.cms||Pradeep Gupta
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati division accounts for 60% cases, 81% deaths in Vid||Nagpur: Even as the number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha is expected to reach 5,000 by the end of first week of July, the distribution of cases is uneven in the region.A comparison of two revenue divisions shows that Nagpur division, even if bigger in terms of area and population, has contained the spread fairly well than Amravati division.About 60% Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha are from Amravati revenue division that includes Akola, Washim, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Amravati districts. Of the 152 deaths, 124 are from Amravati division. All districts in Amravati division, except Washim, have more than 200 cases. Akola, which is the divisional headquarters of public health department for Amravati division, is the worst hit by the pandemic. With 1,536 cases till date, Akola alone accounts for 77 of the 152 deaths in Vidarbha. Amravati is next with 549 cases and 23 deaths.Yavatmal has 270 cases and 11 deaths, while Buldhana has 130 cases and 11 deaths. Washim is the only district with less than 100 cases in this division. Washim has recorded 97 cases and 2 deaths. All five districts of Amravati division have reported deaths.On the other hand, Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur — three out of six districts in Nagpur division — have recorded no deaths till date. Barring Nagpur, which has 1,472 cases, no district in the division has even 200 cases till date. Even if Nagpur has 25 deaths on its record, 10 of them are from other districts and states.Wardha also has 3 Covid-19 deaths, but 2 of them are from other state/districts. The only death in Gadchiroli too did not happen in the district. A man from Gadchiroli, who was working in Telanagna, died in Hyderabad during treatment and the district administration included his death in its count as per local regulations. According to experts, better institutional quarantine network in Nagpur division has resulted in containing the spread.“Wardha would have been the first in Vidarbha to report Covid-19 cases. The Hindi University here had received 12 students from China in the last week of February when the outbreak had just started. But, we quarantined these students in the university hostel itself and ensured isolation for the next 14 days,” said Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar. This gave confidence to the authorities in Wardha which has lowest number of cases in Vidarbha till date.Testing facilities also played an important role. When the outbreak began, Nagpur was the only place in Vidarbha with testing facilities. By March, Nagpur got testing facilities at five institutions, while Wardha got two. But, all five districts in Amravati division were dependant on Nagpur laboratories for tests till Akola GMCH got its own lab.Even now, Washim and Buldhana are the only two districts which don’t have their own labs. They rely on Akola GMCH for tests. Whereas in Nagpur division, five districts have their own labs. Nagpur alone has seven government and three private testing facilities due to which the number of tests is high and pendency is low in the division.InfogfxIn comparisonAmravati divisionArea | 46,090 km²Population | 2,888,445Districts| Akola, Amravati, Buldhana, Washim, YavatmalNagpur divisionArea | 51,336 km²Population | 10,665,939Districts | Nagpur, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia, Wardha, Gadchiroli Cases4,556 in Vidarbha 2,681 in Amravati division 1,876 in Nagpur division Deaths153 in Vidarbha 124 in Amravati division (77 of them in Akola) 29 in Nagpur division (25 of them in Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-division-accounts-for-60-cases-81-deaths-in-vid/articleshow/76697970.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Internal policing a must for checks and balances||By K RamanujamChennai: In the poem ‘No man is an island’, John Donne poignantly penned: "Any man’s death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind." These lines written 400 years ago in the midst a plague are apt for the present times, being an eerie portent of coronavirus deaths.Whether in times of a pandemic or otherwise, this is a message that needs to be etched in the mind of every policeman: Any man’s death at the hands of policemen diminishes them.The ‘9 Principles of Policing’ spelt out when the London Metropolitan Police was formed include this cardinal idea "that the police are the public and that the public are the police, the police being only members of the public who are paid to give full-time attention to duties which are incumbent on every citizen in the interests of community welfare and existence." Any unlawful use of force by police undermines this notion that police and public are two sides of the same coin.Nothing prevents action being taken when someone turns into a Derek Chauvin. Quite often action can be taken before a situation turns ugly, or before the courts step in. The police department has the benefit of internal vigilance agencies like CID units under the DGP, which can bring to light misbehaviour by officers or undertake investigation on such misconduct, independent of the influence of local police.There was an incident some years ago, when a man was shot dead inside a police station by a police officer in Ramanathapuram district. Although it was claimed to be a case of self-defence, independent verification found it to be false. CB-CID was ordered to take up the investigation and a chargesheet was submitted in court, leading to conviction. In another case, a newspaper report about an alleged act of sodomy against minors by some policemen inside a police station in Chennai was promptly referred to the CB-CID. The policemen had to face trial in court but were acquitted recently, purportedly because the witnesses turned hostile. Prompt action without the need for any prompting from external agencies can save major embarrassment. Identifying underlying causes and devising preventive measures could help reduce these incidents. While attending a training course in England in the early 1990s, I was surprised to hear police officers proudly claim that in mainland England (excluding trouble-torn Northern Ireland) police had never resorted to firing, not even rubber bullets, while handling riots since World War I. The last occasion when a mob faced firing was in 1919, and that too by the army, which had been deployed because policemen were on strike. One feature that minimised firing was that guns were hard to come by. Very few policemen are trained in firearms and far fewer authorized to use firearms.This gave rise to the idea that making guns scarce could help in minimizing firing. After a major incident involving multiple casualties during firing in one of the southern districts, it was decided that restrictions would be placed about the number and type of guns that could be carried by police teams while going out on law and order duty. Thanks to this, for one whole year, there was no case of police firing in law and order situations.In Tamil Nadu, in the 1990s, the then chief minister insisted on arrest in every case of custodial death. This did bring down the number of such instances. There was such fear of keeping anybody in illegal custody that sentry constables bluntly refused to lock up anybody unless the arrest was properly recorded.Obsession with high percentage of detection and recovery of stolen property is one reason for some officers resorting to shortcut methods, including third degree. There are many cases where victims of theft complain that the investigating officer did not question the suspect "properly", by which they mean the suspect was not interrogated improperly. Political leaders also take pride in claiming that crime has hit an all-time low while detection is at a record high. We must have the maturity to accept that not all crimes can be prevented and that not all crimes can be detected. Avoiding shortcuts will in course of time give a fillip to better use of scientific methods of investigation.Anger management and de-escalation strategies need to be part of the police training curriculum. Unfortunately, there is too much theory in police training, and too little of practical techniques required for day-to-day policing. Reverting to the ‘9 principles’, it will be fruitful to recall that policing was meant to be an alternative to military repression in the matter of prevention of crime and disorder.The job of a policeman at the cutting-edge level is unenviable. A video has gone viral now showing a politician hurling filthy abuses against a police officer and kicking him in public. While we demand action against policemen indulging in high-handedness, such defiance of authority should also be met with stringent action. Ultimately, the bell should toll for everyone who transgresses the law.(The writer, a retired IPS officer, is a former DGP of Tamil Nadu)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/internal-policing-a-must-for-checks-and-balances/articleshow/76700898.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kochi||Shamna case: SIT quizzes Dharmajan, arrests one more||KOCHI: The network of persons contacted by the gang of imposters who targeted actor Shamna Kasim is expanding as police on Monday questioned actor Dharmajan Bolgatty, who admitted that he too was contacted by the gang. The special investigation team (SIT) probing the case on Monday arrested Chavakkad native Harris, a relative of already arrested Rafik and Sharif, the masterminds of the racket. Reportedly a stylist, police say that Harris had close ties with persons in the film industry. “It was Harris who contacted Dharmajan. He was key in connecting the gang to Shamna. So far evidence suggests that Shamna was targeted with the intention of duping her of money. However, we are probing why she was chosen as a target and if there is more to the gang than what meets the eye,” said Vijay Sakhare, IG and commissioner, Kochi city. Including Harris, a total of eight persons have been arrested in the extortion bid case so far. According to police sources, the accused tried to entice Dharmajan with huge profits that can be made from gold smuggling. The gang is learnt to have aborted the plan later. Meanwhile, Dharmajan named a production controller and another actor while talking to media after the questioning. He said that he was contacted by the gang seeking the number of Shamna and another prominent actor. He said that the gang addressed themselves as part of a network dealing in gold smuggling. When asked if the accused sought any help from him for gold smuggling, the actor said that they didn’t ask any such thing. He claimed that the number later was switched off, probably fearing that he would report them. He said that he learnt from police that a production controller gave his number to the gang. Police are yet to confirm or deny the actor’s version. A senior officer involved with the probe said that the truth behind the calls would be known only after questioning more people. “We are talking to all these people to find out if there is a larger agenda behind the crime. Still, evidence so far suggests cheating as the primary motive,” said the officer. Meanwhile, a customs department source said that the customs (preventive) formation would conduct a preliminary enquiry into the incident. According to the source, a letter seeking information of the accused would be given to the police commissionerate since the accused made claims of gold smuggling. Meanwhile, police have not ruled out involvement of a woman associated with the gang. Including Shamna’s case, eight FIRs have been booked so far. Sources said that the cases may be clubbed together at a later stage. Police found that the gang had duped several women of money by offering them acting jobs. The other FIRs are relating to this. Also, there is an FIR based on such a woman’s complaint that she was molested by a member of the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shamna-case-sit-quizzes-dharmajan-arrests-one-more/articleshow/76697987.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||202 +ve, 5 die in Punjab; count at 5,418||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 202 new cases of Covid-19 and five deaths on Monday, taking the state’s overall tally to 5,418 and the casualty count to 138. Also, 238 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus. Most fresh cases were contacts of previous patients, people co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI) and those in which transmission history could not be traced by the health department. Three police officials, three health workers and a frontline worker were among the new patients. The source of infection was outside Punjab in 24 cases. Sangrur recorded the highest number of 60 cases, which included 12 contacts of positive cases, 12 in which health teams could not trace the source and remaining cases were being worked out. As many as 45 people were found to be infected in Patiala, including 23 contacts of positive cases and 19 cases in which transmission history could not be traced. Twenty-one cases were recorded in Amritsar, 14 in Ludhiana, 10 in Nawanshahr, nine each in Jalandhar and Barnala, six in Tarn Taran, five in Ropar, four each in Mohali and Mansa, three each in Faridkot, Pathankot and Gurdaspur, two in Ferozepur, and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala, Bathinda and Moga. Three deaths were reported in Patiala, and one each in Sangrur and Gurdaspur. In all, 3,764 patients have recovered from the virus and 1,516 are still under treatment. The death in Sangrur is of a 55-year-old man from Dulma village in Malerkotla block. There have been 13 deaths in Sangrur so far. A fourth death was also reported in Patiala, of a 55-year-old man who died at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. The Sangrur patient tested positive on June 24 and had died of a cardiac arrest on Sunday night. He was on ventilator support at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. (Inputs from Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/202-ve-5-die-in-punjab-count-at-5418/articleshow/76699169.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University aspirants’ concern over certificates at centre stage||NEW DELHI: With over 2,900 participants, Delhi University’s second open-house webinar saw more than 1,600 questions asked by applicants on various platforms. The webinar, which focused on admissions through reservations and other categories like Persons with Disabilities (PwD) and Children or Widows of Armed Forces (CW), saw questions ranging from concerns about the unavailability of fresh documents to DU’s policies. “The webinar on Monday was held especially for all those aspirants who wanted to avail the benefits of various categories of reservation provided by the university. There were over 700 registered participants and more than 2,900 people watched the live streaming of the webinar on Facebook,” the admission committee said. The webinar saw specific portions of the Bulletin of Information being explained by the committee members. Shobha Bagai, the dean of admissions, took questions related to certificates. Students who raised the issue of their inability to get updated EWS and OBC certificates and sports certificates were told that they must try to apply online and that they can upload an acknowledgement slip while registering. “However at the time of admissions, new certificates have to be brought.” Applicants were also told that DU had two sets of forms for those applying to minority Sikh and Christian colleges. “For these colleges, you have to register at the UG portal but also have to fill another form on their respective websites. Apply there when the colleges begin their registrations by June 30.” DU’s OSD at the Equal opportunity cell, Bipin Kumar Tiwari, stated that “the admission branch has reached out to the PWD students who have had issues. There are some concerns about certificates but the government is trying to solve them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-aspirants-concern-over-certificates-at-centre-stage/articleshow/76699179.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||First patient to get plasma therapy in Nagpur today||NAGPUR: Project Platina, the world’s largest convalescent plasma therapy trial-cum-treatment project for severe Covid-19 patients, was launched from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Nagpur on Monday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the project through a video link. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra, principal investigator for the project Dr Sushant Meshram, and state coordinator and nodal officer for the project Dr Mohd Faizal participated in the online inauguration event from Nagpur. While two recovered patients donated plasma on the inaugural day, the first patient will receive plasma therapy under this project on Tuesday in Nagpur. Altogether 23 medical colleges of state government and Municipal corporations are participating in these trials which will be conducted on 500 patients across Maharashtra. On the inaugural day, patients reached 17 GMCHs in state and donated plasma. “GMCH Nagpur will coordinate Project Platina under which trials will be conducted on 500 patients in 23 government and corporation hospitals. It’s an ambitious project of the state department of medical education. DMER director Dr TP Lahane and our secretary Dr Sanjay Mukherjee have taken special interest in it,” said Dr Mitra. GMCH Nagpur will coordinate between DMER, MEDD, ICMR, state government and participating hospitals. It has already guided the participating hospitals about infrastructure, technical support, training, knowledge support, proper documentation, quality control, and presentation of final results. Project Platina will help ICMR prepare national guidelines about plasma therapy as a remedy for Covid-19. “We are expecting the result of this project by August, which is the new projected peak of Covid-19 in the country. This means, we have started at the right time. We are all optimistic to save lives of 5,000 critical patients projects by then in the state,” said Dr Faizal. Dr Meshram appealed to healthy donors to come forward and donate plasma. Healthy individuals who recovered from Covid-19 can donate plasma. The only condition is that they must have experienced at least some symptoms for some days during treatment. Asymptomatic patients who recovered are not eligible for plasma donation. Advanced machines for plasma donation have already arrived at GMCH Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-patient-to-get-plasma-therapy-in-nagpur-today/articleshow/76697994.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 30, 2020||Delhi||People got huge power bills during lockdown: Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Monday alleged that “huge” electricity bills were sent by power distribution companies to consumers for the lockdown period that didn’t have the subsidy component for frugal customers who use up to 400 units every month. Addressing a press conference, Gupta also demanded that Delhi government waived off fixed charges for commercial connections as there was complete lockdown for almost two months and most businesses were operating on 25% capacity since the unlock process started. Gupta claimed that the data on bills received from RWAs of Delhi and complaints from other consumers showed that in the three months period of the lockdown, subsidy was not provided to them. A Delhi government functionary, however, said there had been no change in the power policy or the subsidy component that is provided to frugal consumers. “If there are any specific cases (of inflated bills or subsidy not computed), we will absolutely look into it and make sure the (power) discoms fix any discrepancy that may have caused it. BJP is always free to send details to the government about such discrepancies and we will immediately act on it,” the functionary said. Gupta also said that instead of provisional, actual bills should be sent to the consumers and facility of payment in instalment be offered by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/people-got-huge-power-bills-during-lockdown-bjp/articleshow/76699196.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Trucks can carry 4 tonnes garbage, NMC recording 6 tonnes||Nagpur: West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre has come up with more evidence about irregularities in garbage collection, a day after his surprise visit to Bhandewadi dumping yard revealed that trucks carrying refuge had upto 60% mud while Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) was releasing payments considering it as 100% garbage.Thakre said all officials were aware that if trucks are filled entirely with garbage they can carry only 3-4 metric tonnes (MT) of it but they were okaying trucks carrying 6-6.5 MT garbage. He said it proves the scam that is causing huge financial loss to the cash-strapped civic body.Thakre told TOI, “I am having receipts issued by NMC weigh bridge situated at the entrance of Bhandewadi dumping yard. Trucks are weighed while entering and after unloading the garbage at yard. Quantum of garbage is recorded as 6-6.5 MT in all trucks.”He said it was not possible and challenged the NMC officials to show how 6-6.5 MT garbage collected from households could be accommodated in a truck. He asked how NMC officials were allowing trucks to enter into yard and unloading the garbage when they know about irregularity from the start. “It clearly proves NMC officials are conniving with two private operators- AG Enviro and BVG India,” he said.NMC on Monday issued a show cause notice to AG Enviro directing it to file reply on the allegations of Thakre.Thakre said, “NMC officials should have registered an FIR immediately. Show cause notice is just to buy time. The irregularities have been going on since appointment of two private operators in November last year. Entire record should be taken and the amount recovered from two operators. Stringent action should be taken against officials involved,” he said.Thakre added he would write to CM Uddhav Thackeray, urban development minister Eknath Shinde and home minister Anil Deshmukh demanding FIR against the NMC if an offence was not registered against two operators on Tuesday. “I have proved allegations with all video recordings at dumping yard as well as two spots from where mud was being mixed with garbage. I am also having statements of drivers who accepted irregularities by the companies. Therefore, there is no need for any inquiry,” he said.NMC is paying around around Rs 5.50-6 crore per month to the two companies.Last month, Shiv Sena leader Nitin Tiwari had also levelled same allegations on BVG India. A five-member committee is investigating the case and is yet to submit report. Representative of BVG India had refuted the allegations a day ago. An official from AG Enviro refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trucks-can-carry-4-tonnes-garbage-nmc-recording-6-tonnes/articleshow/76697982.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Pvt schools ask Hry to waive power bill||Chandigarh: Private schools of Haryana on Monday admitted that as much as 12 lakh teaching and non-teaching staffer of around 20,000 schools are deprived of their wages due to the losses suffered by the schools following the lockdown. Interacting with the media, Satyawan Kundu, president of Haryana Private Schools Association, and Saurabh Kapoor, president of the Integrated Private School Welfare Society, demanded Rs 1,125 per student for students coming from poor or below the poverty line (BPL) families. They also demanded waiver of passenger tax as well as electricity bills for the lockdown period. “The government has given a waiver to industries, commercial vehicles and other categories, so school buses should also be exempted from paying the tax to transport authorities. Similarly, the electricity bills should also be waived off,’’ said Saurabh Kapoor. Claiming that the government had adopted a negligent attitude towards private school operators on the issue of fees, Kundu said except for a few selected schools, others had a meagre 5% fee collection, due to which they have not been able to pay the salaries of lakhs of employees of about 20,000 schools for the last three months. Kundu demanded that the government come out with a clear definition of capable and incapable parents to decide who can pay the fees. They also demanded that temporary recognition to 3,200 schools be extended for a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pvt-schools-ask-hry-to-waive-power-bill/articleshow/76699183.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: From no. 3, Madhya Pradesh improves to 12th rank||BHOPAL: From number three in having highest number of cases, to number 8 in sixty days and now to number 12, Madhya Pradesh has improved considerably in containing Covid-19 over the days. Though the improvement is significant, there are still several grey areas that need to be looked into. While state has less positive cases than 11 other states, the mortality rate of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh is one third highest in the country as 4.22% of people who were tested positive in the state have died. Besides when it comes to testing per million—though number of samples tested has increased considerably since the onset of Covid in state and more than 3.5 lakh samples have been tested so far, but when compared to the 12 states where maximum number of cases have been reported Madhya Pradesh is 10th, thus all other 9 states with higher cases have conducted sampling of larger population than that of Madhya Pradesh. In Madhya Pradesh so far only 4,193 people out of every million population is tested while in states like more than 25,000 samples per million have been taken. When it comes to mortality rate, so far, 564 people have died in the state and it’s mortality rate is 4.22% of the total positive patients who have died in the state. This is higher and MP is among the worst three states when it comes to mortality rate, it is better only to Gujarat and Maharashtra. On the brighter side, Madhya Pradesh has outperformed several states when it comes to recovery of patients suffering from Covid-19. State has second highest recovery rate in the country. In MP more than 76% of the positive people have recovered, it is only less than Rajasthan where more than 78% of the total people who were tested positive have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/silver-lining-from-no-3-mp-improves-to-12th-rank/articleshow/76698027.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nashik||Cong protests against fuel price hike||Nashik/Aurangabad: City units of the Congress protested against the rising fuel prices at various location in the state on Monday. The protesters demanded a rollback in the price hike with immediate effect. In Nashik, Congress activists and functionaries manually dragged a car with a rope outside the district collectorate to mark their protest. Sharad Aher, the city unit president said the rise in fuel prices had a direct impact on inflation and this was the worst thing to happen at a time when people have been rendered jobless because of the pandemic. “The Centre does not seem to care for people and is taking no measures to cut down the fuel prices,” Hemlata Patil, another functionary, said. Congress said the petrol price has risen by Rs 9.12 per litre since June 7, while the diesel price has gone up by Rs 11.01 per litre during this time. “Before 2014, the excise duty on petrol was Rs 9.40 per litre. It is now Rs 32.98 per litre. The excise duty on diesel earlier was Rs 3.65 per liter and now is Rs 31.83 per litre,” Aher said adding even if this was cut by half, the people would get a huge relief. When the international oil prices are at their lowest, the fuel prices are on the higher side only to allow petroleum companies to amass wealth. The government then increased the excise duty to line its coffers, the protesters said. In Aurangabad too, the party workers protested at the district collector’s office. They too accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of being insensitive. A worker was seen holding a placard stating: “Under Modi-government, country’s GDP registers unprecedented surge” and GDP was expanded as Gas, Diesel and Petrol. Another placard read: “Bas Karo Mann Ki Baat, Ab Karo Sirf Kaam Ki Baat”. Newly appointed city president Hisham Osmani said: “At a time when the country is facing unprecedented pandemic and lockdown, the Centre is making a mockery of commoners by continuously hiking prices over 21 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cong-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/76696776.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown extension dishes out further troubles for hoteliers||Nagpur: Owners of hotels, restaurants and bars are extremely dejected over the state government’s decision to extend the lockdown by another month. They had started preparing for opening up after over three months of closure. Owners say that the government should give them some relief else the survival of the sector will become difficult.TS Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA), said, “Pandemic threat is more important for the government. However, simultaneously they need to take cognisance of businesses kept in prohibited list since March lockdown, which includes hotels and restaurants. Instead of statewide lockdown for such businesses, the government should classify the areas district wise so that those areas not having much cases can be relaxed accordingly.” “The latest order has disheartened many NRHA members as lockdown is extended by another month. Many members were sure of opening and had even started repairs and maintenance, looking forward for guests but now they’ll have to wait for another month,” he added. Renu said that another factor which is more problematic is that NRHA members are strictly following orders and directives of the government and are keeping their establishments closed, but few non-members, lodges in Itwari, near railway station and service apartments are giving rooms. “This reflects that those following orders are being punished for being law-abiding citizen,” said Renu.Piyush Rathi, a hotelier from Khamgaon, said that it was strange that the central government had allowed opening of hospitality sector but the state government hasn’t. “A Pune hotelier committed suicide because of lockdown. We might see more such cases unless the government changes its stand. The sector is fully cooperating with government by allowing hotels as quarantine centres but the government is not helping us,” he added.City hotelier JS Arora said that the government should grant some relief if it was not possible for it open the sector. “Excise department is demanding full yearly fee. How can we pay when we have not done any business in past three months? Banks, especially private ones, are refusing to treat us as micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). We are not getting working capital loans. How will we survive,” he added.Sameer Sharma, a bar owner, said that the condition of the sector was very bad and government should allow the establishments to open. “We can have some norms like only 50% tables are to be occupied. The government should reduce our annual fee when it is not allowing us to open,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-extension-dishes-out-further-troubles-for-hoteliers/articleshow/76698041.cms||Ashish Roy
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||HC asks Hry why shouldn’t Covid cess on booze be stayed||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issued notice to the Haryana government on a plea against imposition of Covid cess on the sale of liquor in the state. While fixing the matter for July 10, the HC asked the state government to inform as to why its decision on Covid cess should not be stayed on the next date of hearing. The division bench, comprising Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi Mehta, passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by M/s Haryana Wines, a retailer in Haryana, challenging the imposition of Covid cess by Haryana by amending the excise policy that had been acted upon. The petitioner pointed out that the imposition of cess is not only without jurisdiction in law but also couldn’t be applicable to vends already allotted in March 2020. Counsel for the petitioner Chetan Mittal submitted that the state had brought the amendment in the excise policy after the state accepted the petitioner’s bid, thus the state cannot unilaterally change the conditions of the excise policy. "Even otherwise the Covid cess has been imposed on transaction by retailer and on the retailer irrespective of there being any further sale or not. It was further pointed out that all taxes are included in the price fixed in the excise policy by the distillery. The distillery while calculating the price has to pay to the government taxes like excise duty, VAT, TCS etc, which is the first point of sale to the wholesaler," argued the counsel. HC was also informed that even the Chandigarh administration has imposed Covid cess to be paid at the first point of sale i.e. on the wholesaler applicable with effect from July 1, 2020. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Haryana government had amended its excise policy in the first week of May and announced a Covid-cess on liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-asks-hry-why-shouldnt-covid-cess-on-booze-be-stayed/articleshow/76699190.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Delhi||As people stayed home, cyber fraud tripled during lockdown in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Despite the entire country being under lockdown, fraudsters seemed to have a field day as the number of cybercrime complaints tripled during this period. Data released by Delhi Police showed that 3,430 complaints were received in May compared with 1,260 in January. While 60% of the complaints were regarding financial fraud, 20% were of online harassment. As of now, over 1,000 cases have been registered and inquiry is under way in many cases as various social media platforms have not shared the relevant details. Several accounts and IDs through which people were defrauded in the name of Covid-19 donations were also blocked in the recent past. Over 80 blocked IDs pertained to the PM-Cares fund. About 150 social media accounts were blocked for posting provocative content. In all, 14,286 complaints were lodged till June 29 this year of which 9,487 were received from April to June. The complaints were made on the common cybercrime portal that was launched in August 2019. Between January and March, 4,799 complaints were received, the maximum (1,849) being in February. Since people were using payment gateways and online banking during the lockdown, most cases pertain to fraudulent transactions. DCP (Cyber Crime) Anyesh Roy said, “We have been making people aware of the online scams through print and social media. The most common ways are cashback offers, free vouchers and callers asking people to initiate transactions, scan QR codes or download applications and give details of OTPs. So far, we have registered over 1,200 such cases based on complaints received on the portal.” Many also took to Twitter to complain about the creation of their fake social media profiles and fraudsters asking for money from such accounts. Most cases pertained to debit/credit cards, e-wallet payment and scamsters calling people to transfer money. Complaints were also made regarding stalking, provocative online content and cyber bullying. Investigating officers said that a probe is on in around 52% of the complaints. “In most of the complaints, information is required from social media platforms, email service providers, e-wallets, banks, etc. Because of work from home restrictions in other countries, it took more time to process details,” an officer said. Police were forced to close 30% of the complaints due to insufficient details provided by the complainants and lack of unlawful content on the online platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-people-stayed-home-cyber-fraud-tripled-during-lockdown/articleshow/76699209.cms||Sakshi Chand
June 30, 2020||Chennai||How the Madras Magician wowed SW19 60 years ago||By Partab Ramchand Chennai: This is Wimbledon fortnight and as we miss the greens of SW19 for the first time since World War II, we can’t but go back to the exploits of Ramanathan Krishnan, the Madras Magician who became the first Indian to make the men’s singles semifinals of the tournament in 1960. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-the-madras-magician-wooed-wimbledon-60-years-ago/articleshow/76707231.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-the-madras-magician-wowed-sw19-60-years-ago/articleshow/76700927.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||NMC passes buck to collector over open country liquor shops||Nagpur: After collector Ravindra Thakre allowed opening of country liquor (CL) shops in city, Mahal resident Rashmi K Bhayani served legal notice through advocate Ankita Shah to Thakre and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. In reply, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has said it allowed only home delivery, while Thakre said he had power to allow country liquor shops to reopen.Citing TOI’s news report dated June 13, Shah served legal notice to Thakre and Mundhe on June 16. Shah said the government had appointed municipal commissioner as competent authority for city regarding lockdown to contain Covid-19. When a controversy had erupted over powers of civic chief, the state government had on May 5 issued a clarification that municipal commissioner will be authority for city, and collector for rest of the district to regulate shops or markets during lockdown.Shah added Mundhe did not allow liquor shops to open and permitted only home delivery on June 5. She said the collector still allowed opening of country liquor shops in city.The notice was served to Mundhe, stating he kept quiet and did not shut down country liquor shops, which were allowed to open against his orders.Citing Shah’s notice, NMC deputy commissioner Nirbhay Jain wrote to Thakre and said, “NMC issued order dated June 5 and allowed only home delivery taking cognisance of rise in Covid-19 cases. The copy of order was also sent to your office. But your office on June 9 allowed opening of country liquor shops in city and prohibited home delivery. Shah has served legal notice stating confusion prevailing as municipal commissioner is competent authority for the city. Therefore, we are sending the legal notice for appropriate action from your office.”Thakre replied to Shah on email on Monday. But the date mentioned in reply is June 17. “I did not receive any reply before this, either through post or email,” Shah said.In the reply, Thakre said, “Collector is competent authority under the Bombay Prohibition Act 1949 to regulate activities of all liquor vendors and other retail as well as manufacturing of liquor. Commissioner of state excise is superior body to govern activities for running of liquor shops. It was permissible to collector to take appropriate decision with regard to prevailing circumstances induced due to Covid-19 in view of guidelines of commissioner of state excise, which specifically permits liquor shops to be opened by following necessary precautions.”Thakre said the permission was also given considering various directives by the central and state government. “By guidelines of government and commissioner of state excise, collectors are empowered to change the relaxation having regard to local situation of Covid-19 pandemic in their jurisdiction,” he said.Thakre added he had on March 18 issued orders to close down wine shops, beer shops, permit rooms, bar, restaurant, clubs, country liquor shops, paan shops etc in the capacity of collector and chairman of disaster management authority for containing Covid-19.The government order dated May 31 said, “Liquor shops will continue to operate if permitted, home delivery or otherwise.” Then, Mundhe had permitted only home delivery.Even in notification dated June 29 for extension of lockdown till July 31, the government had clearly mentioned collectors and commissioners of municipal corporations may enforce certain measures and necessary restrictions on permitted non-essential activities to contain spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-passes-buck-to-collector-over-open-country-liquor-shops/articleshow/76698213.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Shunned by herd, elephant calf dies due to ‘trauma’||Nagpur: An elephant calf, which had got stuck in a marshy lake pond on June 10 and was intriguingly deserted by the herd, died on Monday. Though foresters had rescued the 4.5-year-old calf Aditya, it did not respond to treatment at Kamlapur camp in Sironcha forest division of Gadchiroli. “According to veterinarians, Aditya was not responding to treatment due to psychological trauma it suffered after being abandoned by the herd,” said assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Shrikant Pawar. There are 10 elephants in Kamlapur camp including 4 males and 6 females. Aditya was born to dominant elephant Ajit and Mangala. According to Pawar Aditya got stuck in the muddy pond on June 10 and struggled to come out, but failed. “Contrary to the social behaviour of the pachyderms, none of the elephants came to the rescue of Aditya. We rescued the calf next day and started treatment as it was completely exhausted,” said Pawar. “We started giving multi-vitamins. We also contacted several vets, local as well as from other states, and started treatment. Aditya was also kept with other elephants during the treatment, but they did not accept him. We fed nutritious food like bananas, bamboo shoots, wheat flour laddoos mixed with jaggery and rice pudding,” said Pawar. On June 17, Aditya’s condition started deteriorating. The calf could not lift even his trunk. The calf’s health worsened further and it died on Monday morning. “I’m surprised by the behaviour of other elephants in the herd. Normally, these mammals are very sociable and parents rejecting their babies is very unusual. When we took dead Aditya to its mother, she just touched it with the trunk and left,” said Pawar. “It may happen when mother suspects the calf has deformity or just psychological distress of labour. But the dead calf was 4.5 years old and hence it is very difficult to comment,” said Dr Bhaskar Chaudhari, a vet with Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) working on elephants in Assam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shunned-by-herd-elephant-calf-dies-due-to-trauma/articleshow/76699195.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Serial cheque forger nabbed||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Monday detained Jayesh Soni, 23, a resident of Naroda who is from Udaipur, for alleged involvement in several cheque fraud cases in the city, Vadodara and Jaipur. The accused, along with his father Rameshkumar Soni, were allegedly inspired by the Hollywood film ‘Catch Me If You Can’, based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr, who was an infamous cheque forger and con artist. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, Bhagirathsinh Gohil, said, “The accused came on to our radar after he allegedly cheated a Narol company by forging the owner’s signature and company stamp and withdrawing Rs 14,78,000 from its account. “As we dug deeper, we found out five similar offences registered at Kagdapith, Kalupur and Navrangpura police stations. We got an indication that all the cases involved the same perpetrator,” added Gohil. Crime branch sources said that through analysis, they found the technical footprint of the accused in Udaipur. “We dispatched a team, found his house and gathered information about him. We learned that he was going to Ahmedabad in search of a job. We followed him till Ahmedabad and on Monday detained him when he was going for an interview in Changodar,” said Gohil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/serial-cheque-forger-nabbed/articleshow/76699203.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe, Thakare to issue lockdown guidelines today||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and collector Ravindra Thakare will issue guidelines for the city and Nagpur rural for the lockdown period from July 1 to 31 on Tuesday. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Monday issued notification, extending the lockdown till July 31.In the notification, Mehta states, “Collectors and commissioner of municipal corporations may enforce certain measures and necessary restrictions in specified local areas on permitted non-essential activities and movement of persons to contain the spread of Covid-19.”Deputy municipal commissioner Nirbhay Jain said Mundhe will issue guidelines for city limits. Resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanchi said Thakare will do the same for Nagpur rural.The city has registered 1,223 positive cases of which majority were reported in June. The number of deaths in the city stands at 13.Since the beginning, Mundhe has been eager to put various restrictions in the city to contain the spread of Covid-19. The government had removed city out of the red zone, but Mundhe took up the matter and restored the status.Thakare had allowed various relaxations in Nagpur rural and is likely to permit more commercial activities. Nagpur rural has registered around 192 positive cases.In the city, shops selling tobacco-related products, tea stalls, paan kiosks, and roadside food stalls are under prohibition. Wine shops are allowed only home delivery. All these commercial establishments are in operation in Nagpur rural.Non-essential shops are allowed on alternate days in city limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-thakare-to-issue-lockdown-guidelines-today/articleshow/76698052.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Four home guards infected||HUBBALLI: Four home guards, two of whom were on the frontlines of the battle against the virus in the district, tested positive on Monday, dealing a huge blow to morale of the force. More than 4,500 home guards are deployed across the state and they work in tandem with the police – the department is severely short-staffed – to help contain the spread of the virus. Now home guards are catching the infection and hindering the fight. Besides the four who tested positive, 46 others, identified as primary contacts are now in quarantine. Renuka Sukumar, deputy commandant general, home guards, said despite taking all safety measures the four – two each in Bengaluru and Bendigeri police station, Hubballi – had caught the virus. “The district home guard commandants are in touch with family members of those who tested positive and are extending support. Although in quarantine they will be considered to be on duty,” she said. Satish Patil, home guards commandant, Dharwad district, said all home guards have been asked to discharge their duties with utmost care. However, a home guard deployed in a sealed area in Hubballi said, “We have not been provided proper masks. We are still using masks which we given to us at the beginning of the lockdown. We can’t afford to buy hand sanitiser nor do we have provision to wash hands frequently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-home-guards-infected/articleshow/76697664.cms||J Abbas Mulla
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||Undertrial who tested +ve for Covid escapes from Karwar hospital||Karwar: An undertrial, who was tested positive for Covid-19, escaped from the Corona special ward of Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) here in the early hours on Monday. However, police arrested him at Kadra, 30km from here, hours later. According to police, the undertrial broke open the glass windowpanes of the ward sometime between 4.30am and 5am and escaped under the cover of darkness. From there, he went to Karwar bus stand and travelled to Kadra. After being told about his escape by the hospital staff, police launched a manhunt by sharing his photos with police stations in the region. The hunt paid off, with police catching him at Kadra checkpost. They brought him back to KIMS in an ambulance. The hospital authorities are keeping him in a separate ward. Though the police had worn PPE while arresting him, they have been isolated and their swab samples have been sent for tests. Seven of those who had travelled with him in the bus have been identified and brought to KIMS for testing. The undertrial was arrested for stealing motorbikes in Dharwad and Sirsi. The habitual offender from Hubballi had been arrested by Sirsi police. He was tested negative during the first test, but tested positive in the second test. He was earlier arrested by Dharwad police in connection with a bike theft case. During interrogation, it was found that he had stolen bikes in Sirsi too. Sirsi police had brought him from Dharwad sub-jail for interrogation, after which he was produced before a court. While bringing him to Sirsi, police had worn PPE. When he was produced in the court, the judge had reportedly directed the police to test him for Covid-19 as he had shown some symptoms. His swab sample was collected and sent to a lab, and the result was negative. As he was put in Sirsi sub-jail then, 10 police officials who had come in contact with him have been quarantined, and the station was sealed down. The court was closed on Monday, and will remain so on Tuesday. The undertrials who were housed in the sub-jail along with him have been isolated and their swab samples have been sent for testing. Police said the undertail’s irresponsible behaviour has created a lot of problems for people and the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/undertrial-who-tested-ve-for-covid-escapes-from-karwar-hospital/articleshow/76698131.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
June 30, 2020||Mysuru||Man dies before reaching hospital as ambulance breaks down||Hassan : A 60-year-old man, suffering from TB and COPD, died as the ambulance that came to fetch him from his home in DummiKoppalu village of Arkalgud taluk broke down after travelling some distance. It took about two hours for another ambulance to arrive at the spot and finally when the patient reached the hospital, he was declared brought dead. The deceased is Ramegowda. He developed breathing complications on Monday morning. At around 8am the family members called 108. The state central unit sent an ambulance from Paduvalahippe of Holenarsipur taluk. The ambulance arrived at the patient’s door and picked the patient. However, after travelling a small distance, the vehicle stopped due to some technical problem. Another ambulance from Arkalgud reached the spot, but by then the patient was gasping for breath. The doctors at the hospital declared him brought dead. His nasal and throat swab samples have been sent for testing, said taluk hospital AMO Dr Deepak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-dies-before-reaching-hospital-as-ambulance-breaks-down/articleshow/76699735.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Steep hike in diesel price pushes state-run RTCs to the brink||BENGALURU: The four state-run road transport corporations (RTCs), which are already on their knees, have been hit hard by the steep hike in price of diesel. Price of high speed diesel, which RTCs use for their fleet, has seen a jump of over 7% between June 1 and June 15 forcing these loss-making transport entities to shed an additional Rs 70 lakh per day on fuel, thereby raising serious concerns about their financial viability. The four RTCs are: Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC). “By hiking diesel price, the Centre has rubbed salt into our wounds. We are struggling to run our full fleet of buses and those we are operating have become unviable. Most are running with half the capacity. We are not even recovering the fuel cost,” said a senior officer in Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). The transport corporations, which together had incurred a loss of over Rs 800 crore due to the two-month-long lockdown, are even struggling to pay their employees. In fact, they had to seek financial support from the state government to disburse salaries for April and May, a first in the history of RTCs. Things are not even looking up for these corporations as fear has gripped commuters in the post-lockdown phase. “Unless people shed this fear, we cannot hope for recovery,” said another senior official. What is more worrying is that the RTCs’ spending on diesel is expected to go up significantly from July 1 when prices for bulk users will be revised. For bulk users, price revision happens once a fortnight (1st and 16th of every month), unlike daily revision in case of retail users. Since June 15, the retail selling price of diesel has seen a huge jump and bulk selling price too will see a proportionate spike. “We are expecting our additional spending on diesel to go up by another Rs 20 to Rs 25 lakh per day from July 1,” the officer added. “We are not in a position to seek a bailout package from the state government again since it has already pumped in Rs 700 crore to pay salaries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/steep-hike-in-diesel-price-pushes-state-run-rtcs-to-the-brink/articleshow/76697647.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Clumsy BBMP leading patients to shun ambulances||BENGALURU: Keen to avoid drawing the attention of neighbours and the possibility of being stigmatised, Covid-19 patients are increasingly ditching ambulances and preferring their own vehicles to reach hospitals. A huge part of the problem is the manner in which BBMP has approached the task of moving patients to hospitals, contributing to the stigma. Ambulances come to patients’ doors with sirens blaring and a crew dressed in PPE, turning the entire process into an opera show which passersby and neighbours happily film on their mobile phones. The footage is widely shared and often finds its way to television and social media platform. Bengaluru police commissioner Bhaskar Rao had recently warned people against taking pictures and videos of patients, but the invasion of privacy continues unabated. So much so that Covid-19 patients are giving out fake addresses, calling ambulances to a spot near their houses or driving in their own cars or riding personal bikes to a predesignated spot from where they are picked up. On Saturday, Ramesh (named changed), a patient in Nagarbhavi who appears to have caught the infection while grocery shopping, chose to board an ambulance from a spot near his house. He had tested positive on Friday evening and when the ambulance came for him the next day, he directed the crew to a nearby landmark. “My neighbours might treat my family differently and I wanted to avoid it,” Ramesh said. “So I asked my son to drop me to the ambulance which came to an address near my home.” In another incident, the family of a 21-year-old Covid-19-positive woman said they chose not to ride in an ambulance not only to avoid the drama, but also the rude and humiliating behaviour of BBMP officials. “When BBMP officials learnt that my daughter has tested positive, they immediately rushed to our house on Friday morning and kicked up a huge drama outside our home. They erected barricades and yelled at us,” said Raji (name changed), the mother of the 21-year-old. “Some of my neighbours came out and watched, while others stood at their windows looking at us. They spoke ill of us and removed us from the resident welfare group. We felt humiliated,” Raji said. On Friday evening, Raji and her husband’s swab results also returned positive. “BBMP officials called us and said they would take us to Haj Bhavan, but we were not comfortable with that. We had already booked beds in a Whitefield hospital. We tried to get ambulances, but in vain so we took our personal vehicles. BBMP officials kept calling and badgering us to prove that we were in hospital. They made us do a video call to prove it. We feel like killing ourselves,” Raji said. “Things won’t be the same when we go back home.” A senior BBMP official said all they were doing is “protecting patients’ neighbours and family members from contracting the virus”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/clumsy-bbmp-leading-patients-to-shun-ambulances/articleshow/76697720.cms||Nithya Mandyam
June 30, 2020||Patna||Highest single-day Covid +ve cases take state tally to 9,618||Patna: State surpassed all its previous records with 394 fresh cases of Covid-19 in a single day on Monday, taking the tally up to 9,618. Patna district also had its highest number of coronavirus cases in a single day with 109 people testing positive for the virus. With one more death, the toll has gone up to 63 in Bihar. Total 7,374 of the 9,618 patients have recovered from the infection, which is 76%, leaving only 2,179 active cases in Bihar. The 63rd death was reported from Jehanabad, the third in the district. However, no detail was given by the health department about this death. As per the state health department bulletin, fresh cases were reported from 35 districts with maximum 109 from Patna. Of the total cases in Patna district, 80 were from Paliganj block alone and all of them had attended a wedding ceremony a fortnight back. The other fresh cases in Patna district were reported from Doctor’s Colony in Kankarbagh, Shastri Nagar, Lohanipur and Patna City besides Dhanarua, Bikram, Barh and Masaurhi. Other districts which registered a large number of cases included East Champaran (33), Nawada (28), West Champaran (26), Samastipur (19) and Begusarai (18). In the past 24 hours, 218 people recovered from coronavirus. So far, the health department has tested 2,12,659 samples, including 6,827 in the past 24 hours. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said, “As per our testing strategy, samples of those coming from outside are being collected and then contacts of those found positive for the virus are also tested. We are also taking random samples from households falling under containment zones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/highest-single-day-covid-ve-cases-take-state-tally-to-9618/articleshow/76698048.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||No community spread in Dharwad, says Shettar||Dharwad: District in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar on Monday rejected rumours on community transmission of Covid-19 in Dharwad. Following the spike in Covid-19 cases, rumours are being circulated on social media about community transmission, but this is false and people should not believe such rumours, he said. Speaking to reporters after chairing a meeting of the health taskforce at the deputy commissioner’s office here on Monday, the minister said the steep increase in the number of cases post-lockdown is the result of increased testing capability. Random samples are also being tested in the district. So far, 447 random samples of people belonging to vulnerable groups have been tested and of them 367 have tested negative and only one positive case is reported. Results of 78 samples are awaited, he said. “If it was a community spread, more samples would have tested positive. Therefore, people need not panic,” he added. The minister further said that following the surge in cases, the Centre has asked the district administration to increase capacity at hospitals by adding more beds and other medical equipment. Accordingly, the administration has arranged for 6,000 beds in private hospitals and hotels while17 hospitals have been identified as Covid Care Centres. To a query on the government declaring a private single speciality neo-natal care hospital in Dharwad as a Covid hospital when there are other multi-speciality hospitals, Shettar said the services at the facility will be availed only for Covid positive infants. “Moreover, doctors at private hospitals need not worry as the government has ensured adequate facilities to treat the patients at the state run hospitals. Only if all the beds in KIMS are full and there is a sudden rise in cases, reserved beds in private hospitals will be taken,” he said. The minister added that the district will be under complete lockdown on Sundays beginning July 5. “No shops other than medical stores will be kept open. Movement of the public too will be prohibited,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/no-community-spread-in-dharwad-says-shettar/articleshow/76698056.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||115 more beat Covid, cases in Madhya Pradesh at 13,370||BHOPAL: With 184 positive cases reported on Monday, the tally of positive patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 13,370. Apart from the new cases, seven casualties were also reported in the state. The districts where these casualties were reported includes Indore (4 deaths) and 1 death each in Sagar, Gwalior and Khargone, says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 564. On the brighter side, 115 people admitted at different hospitals recovered and were discharged on Monday. As such, the total number of patients who have recovered so far in the state reached 10,199. Thus, 76.2% of those who tested positive so far, have recovered from the disease. The number of people who have recovered in the state is little less than four times of the active patients in the state as on June 29. There are only 2607 active patients in the state, while 10199 people have so far recovered from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/115-more-beat-covid-cases-in-mp-at-13370/articleshow/76698051.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru’s ‘Dodda Gadiyara’ all set to chime again after 3 decades||Mysuru: The city corporation has initiated measures to repair, renovate and conserve the Silver Jubilee Clock Tower, popularly called as ‘Dodda Gadiyara’, near Rangacharlu Town Hall, almost 30 years after it stopped chiming. A team comprising heritage experts, structural engineers, district heritage committee member N S Rangaraju, mayor Tasneem Bano and MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde inspected the prominent heritage landmark to initiate measures to repair the iconic structure. Speaking to TOI, Hegde said they have collected the masonry material, lime mortar, rusted iron and samples of the construction material that had chipped off over the years from the 75ft tall structure. These samples were sent to the Regional Conservation Laboratory (RCL), a branch of National Research Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property in the city. RCL is well-equipped with adequate infrastructure and laboratories for material analysis and testing, developing sustainable conservation solutions. Some of the samples of the 93-year-old structure were also sent to a laboratory in Pune for analysis. “There is a 5.5ft tall bell on top of the tower and it has stopped ringing since the last 30 years. The weight of the French-made bell is around 920kg. The arch of the structure has cracks owing to rusting of the iron used in the construction. As cracks have developed in the area near the bell, the civic body is consulting experts to repair the clock and regain its past glory,” he said. The official said the civic agency has set aside Rs 35 lakh for the work and is awaiting the laboratory results. Once the clock repair experts are finalised, the work will commence. “It will be renovated in the next three months, if all goes well,” he added. The prominent landmark, which was built to commemorate the silver jubilee of the coronation of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in 1927, has withstood all climatic vagaries nearing centuries. The clock tower has been built in Indo-Saracenic style and has a canopy in Rajasthani style.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysurus-dodda-gadiyara-all-set-to-chime-again-after-3-decades/articleshow/76699834.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad to remember its martyrs||Dharwad: It has been 99 years since Dharwad saw a police firing in which three khilafat activists were killed. On July 1, 1921, three Khilafat activists who were picketing in front of a liquor shop near Jakani Bhavi circle in Dharwad were shot and killed by the British. Those were the days of non-cooperation movement at its peak and it shook the British. Dharwad was actively participating in the movement. Picketing in front of liquor shops was part of the movement. The British government had imprisoned six people who had earlier picketed in front of liquor shops in the city. To protest this, hundreds of people had gathered near Jakani Bhavi on July 1, 1921 and were picketing. To quell the mob, Painter, the then British Collector of Dharwad district had ordered police to open fire. The police action had resulted in the death of three persons Maliksab alias Mardansab, Goususab alias Khadersab and Abdul Gafar Chokathai. Every year, July 1 was being observed as Martyr’s Day in Dharwad and people were holding protest meetings and some used to fast as a mark of respect to the martyrs. There were folk songs condemning those who did not pay respect to the martyrs. During the 25th Independence Day a ‘Martyr Memorial’ was erected at the spot where the three persons were killed. From then onwards, martyr’s day is observed at the memorial by paying tributes to those who sacrificed their lives. Accordingly, a programme will be organized at Hutatma Chowk near Jakani Bhavi on Wednesday morning by following lockdown protocols and people will pay floral tributes to the martyrs. Social activist Uday Yandigeri has appealed to citizens to visit the memorial on Wednesday and pay homage to the martyrs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-to-remember-its-martyrs/articleshow/76699769.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||6,000 tribal in lurch as Gadchiroli police seize Rs1.2 cr cash||Nagpur: After police recently seized Rs1.2 crore in cash, payments have been held up for tendu leaf collection, a major source of income for at least 6,000 tribals in the backward Bhamragarh tehsil of Gadchiroli. Locals say the money was for labourers, while the police suspect the funds were being routed to Naxals. Labourers from Mallampudur, Laheri, Hodri, Botanfundi, Manne Rajaram, Dhirangi, Pally, Yerkedume, Bamanpalli and Madevelli gram panchayats now do not know when they will be paid. The season ended on June 8, and the tendu leaves they collected have already been taken away, but their payments are yet to reach them. This has upended their lives, as this seasonal income funds the education of their children, investment for agricultural activities and so on. The villagers, who met collector Deepak Singla last week, said the payments were being sent by tendu contractors Mohd Basu Miya and Mohd Alliuddin from Telangana. But the cash Rs1.2 crore was seized by the police. The cops claim the money was being taken for Maoists, who would have used it for sabotage activities. One of the villagers said the tendu season is the most productive period of the district, and the tribal economy revolves around it. “We have no cash to purchase seeds, send our children to school, see doctors or celebrate festivals,” he said. It’s learnt the nine gram panchayats of Bhamragarh tehsil had unanimously allotted the contract to Basu and Alliuddin without auction since the pandemic lockdown did not allow the routine processes and formalities. After the tendu leaves were collected, the contractor had taken them away too since the villagers have no place to store them till the payments were made. “We had to give away the collected leaves as they would have got damaged in the rainy season,” said a villager. In the first week of June, Gadchiroli police seized cash Rs2.20 crore in two separate cars following a tip-off that the money was being routed to Maoists in South Gadchiroli for subversive activities. The police released Rs99.30 lakh cash after the concerned persons produced relevant documents and details of banking and commercial transactions. The Rs1.20 crore was being ferried by one Sanjay Awthare. Police had arrested Awthare and his driver before handing over the cash to the income tax department. Later, tendu contractors Basu Miya and Alliuddin too were booked in the case and made co-accused. Police said the cash belonged to Basu and Aliuddin but they did not turn up with documents or banking details. SP Balkawade said if the cash seized was really meant for distribution among labourers then the contractors can come forward and furnish details to support their claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6000-tribal-in-lurch-as-gadchiroli-police-seize-rs1-2-cr-cash/articleshow/76699232.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 30, 2020||Bhopal||MP’s Nitin Menon is 3rd Indian to make it to ICC elite panel of umpires||BHOPAL: Monday turned out to be a historic day for MP’s cricket. Umpire Nitin Menon from the state became only the third Indian to be inducted in the ICC’s Elite Panel. 36-year-old Nitin is also the youngest umpire in the 12-member elite panel of the cricket’s highest body in the world. Earlier, V Venkataraghvan and Sundaram Ravi from India were in the ICC elite panel. Nitin’s father Narendra Menon was also a renowned umpire. Talking to TOI Nitin said, “My father played a big role in shaping my cricketing career. His experience helped me at all stages. It is a great honour to be a part of the select group of ICC umpires in the world.” Nitin stood in his first Twenty20 International match between India and England in 2017. Thereafter, he stood in his first ODI match between Afghanistan and Ireland also in 2017. In October 2018, he was named as one of the twelve on-field umpires for the 2018 ICC Women's World Twenty20. He was the on-field umpire for the 2019 Indian Premier League final along with Ian Gould. Nitin was also one of the on-field umpires for the one-off Test match between Afghanistan and the West Indies in India in November 2019. He became the 62nd Indian to umpire at this level. In February 2020, the ICC named him as one of the umpires to officiate in matches during the 2020 ICC Women's T20 World Cup in Australia. Incidentally, Nitin had also represented the MP cricket team in domestic cricket as a right-hand batsman. “I had represented the MP team at a good level. Even if you have played club cricket and taken up umpiring it would help a lot. Being a cricketer, you know even minute details of the game and it would help you a lot,” said Menon. Nitin had left the game at the age of 22. “My father motivated me to take to umpiring. In 2006, I got the opportunity as tests were organised after longtime. Thus, I shifted my focus from cricket to umpiring,” said Nitin. MPCA president Abhilash Khandekar said, “Nitin is a talented umpire and he has proved it. I wish him good luck for his career.” Before Nitin, Sudhir Asnani, Narendra Menon, Giridharan and Ram Chandran were the international umpires from Madhya Pradesh. Asnani was in the ICC panel. The Elite Panel of ICC Umpires is a panel of cricket umpires appointed by the International Cricket Council to officiate in Test matches and One Day Internationals around the world. The panel was first established in April 2002 when the ICC decided to reform the way that international cricket was umpired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-menon-is-3rd-indian-to-make-it-to-icc-elite-panel-of-umpires/articleshow/76698094.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold prices rise due to safe investments||Ahmedabad: Gold prices once again went up on Monday, to settle at Rs 50,050 per 10g, due to increasing safe haven investments in gold. The prices rose by Rs 450 against Friday’s closing price of Rs 49,600 per 10g. Analysts said that gold prices went up in the international market as several stock markets in US and other countries remained volatile over fears of the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic. “As stock markets crashed globally, safe haven investments in gold went up and as a result, the price of gold in the international market increased. This led to an increase in gold prices in the Indian market,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-prices-rise-due-to-safe-investments/articleshow/76699224.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nashik||2 corporators held for assault||Nashik: Ambad police have arrested five people, including two corporators, for allegedly assaulting a police constable and a home guard on Sunday night. Bhagwat Arote and Rakesh Donde were among those who were arrested. Police said that an accident had taken place in the MIDC area of Ambad around 9pm. On learning about the accident, a police constable and a home guard had rushed to the spot. The accident involved a car that belonged to Arote’s brother. When the police constable and the home guard started seeking details of the accident, Arote’s brother called the corporator. Arote arrived at the spot with a few more men and started beating the home guard and the constable on duty. When Donde reached the spot, he too jumped the bandwagon and started assualtng them. Subsequently, policemen from Ambad police station reached the spot and arrested Donde and the supporters of the two corporators. ACP Ashok Nakhate said that Arote was arrested late at night. All of them have been remanded in police custody for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-corporators-held-for-assault/articleshow/76696835.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Court stays move to hold exam for science admissions||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday stayed the decision taken by Board of School Education Haryana to conduct science examination compulsorily for those students who opted for science stream in Class XI. The science examination of Class X could not be conducted by the board on account of lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. The court has also issued a notice to the state education board as well as the state government, seeking their response on the issue. Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul of the HC passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by NISA Education through its president Kulbhushan Sharma and Haryana Private School and Children Welfare Trust. The petitioners challenged the move, citing press notes dated June 7 and June 12, issued by the state education board, directing the students willing to opt for the science stream in Class XI to take an examination. The authorities of schools were also directed to upload the consent of such students for the examination on the website of the board by June 17, failing which the report/result of the students would be treated as ‘zero’. Pankaj Maini, counsel for the petitioners, submitted that they are primarily aggrieved from the decision taken by the board to hold the examination of science for those students who opted for the subject in Class XI and exempted students of other streams. According to the counsel, such a decision of board is not only discrimination with students opting for science subject, but also in a situation like pandemic, it would be extremely difficult for the schools to arrange infrastructure to hold the examination. The HC was also informed that the higher and technical education departments of the state of Haryana has already decided through a notification issued on June 23 to defer the examination to be conducted by the university and colleges of state of Haryana by promoting all the students. The petitioners submitted that the Board of School Education Haryana can also adopt the same criteria vis-a-vis the students of secondary examination by declaring their results to protect the students and the schools from facing severe hardship. After hearing the contentions, the HC adjourned the matter for July 6 making it clear that “the conduct of the examination would remain stayed till the next date of hearing”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/court-stays-move-to-hold-exam-for-science-admissions/articleshow/76699216.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Three Sathankulam cops face Madras high court ire, district officials to take over||MADURAI: In an unprecedented order, amounting to expression of no-confidence on the Tuticorin district police, the Madras high court has asked the district revenue officials to be at Sathankulam police station to preserve ‘clue materials’ relating to the custodial torture, and the subsequent deaths, of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks. Incensed by the non-cooperation of police officers, besides the verbal abuses hurled on a judicial magistrate when he visited the Sathankulam police station for inquiry, a division bench also initiated suo motu contempt of court proceedings against additional superintendent of police D Kumar, DSP C Prathapan and constable Maharajan. All the three have been summoned to appear ‘in person’ before a division bench on Tuesday. As for the TN government’s stand that it had decided to hand over the custodial deaths case to the CBI, the bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi said the government’s policy decision would not need the court’s nod.It all began when Kovilpatti judicial magistrate, deputed by the high court, sent a report to the registrar (judicial) complaining that police officials were doing everything in their command to prevent the magistrate from proceeding with the inquiry. In the presence of Kumar and Prathapan, policemen were videographing magisterial proceedings, refusing to provide documents and Maharajan used abusive phrases in Tamil to say judiciary could do nothing in the case. Directing the three to be present at 10.30am on Tuesday, the judges further said that unless the state government intervenes immediately to transfer the Tuticorin additional superintendent of police, deputy superintendent of police and police personnel from Sathankulam police station, it would be difficult to conduct a free and fair investigation and inquiry. The judges said additional advocate-general K Chellapandian may also appear in person before the court and zonal deputy inspector-general and Tuticorin superintendent of police Arun Balagopalan should also accompany the AAG. Earlier, after Chellapandian informed the court of the government intention to entrust the probe with the CBI, judges appreciated the deference shown to the court, but added, “we make it clear that to transfer or not to transfer the case to the CBI is the policy decision of the government.” Narrating the procedural formalities involved in such a transfer and noting that it may consume a ‘reasonable time’, the judges directed the registry to take a copy of preliminary post-mortem certificates, certify them and keep them in safe custody and send the original certificates in a sealed cover to the Tuticorin chief judicial magistrate (CJM) who shall hand over the same to the CBI investigating officer. Noting that doctors are awaiting chemical analysis, histopathological and microbiological examination reports to give a final opinion, the judges asked the director of Tamil Nadu Forensic Sciences Laboratory at Chennai to give top priority to the examination of the materials sent by the doctors, so that they can give their final opinion at the earliest. The judges directed that on receipt of the final opinion, the dean of Tirunelveli medical college shall send the same to the Tuticorin chief judicial magistrate, who shall hand it over to CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-sathankulam-cops-face-hc-ire-district-officials-to-take-over/articleshow/76699211.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 30, 2020||Delhi||South, north Delhi corporations to extend property tax payment deadline||NEW DELHI: The south and north corporations have planned to extend the deadline for paying property tax with rebate till July 31. A senior official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation said that as soon as the file gets approval, a formal announcement will be made possibly by Tuesday evening. The move has come in wake of the difficulties faced by residents in reaching property tax offices during the corona pandemic. Also, on one hand, there has been a rise in complaints of the new online portal not functioning properly and on the other, the corporations have not been able to organise tax collection camps in their areas unlike in the previous years, said residents. An official, however, claimed that over 1.25 lakh people have submitted the tax online, using the new website, which shows that the system is operating fine under the south corporation. In North Corporation too, most of the residents complained about non-operational website causing hardship in filling online forms. And they also abstained from going to the property tax offices due to increasing chances of infection. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that they have already moved the file.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-north-corporations-to-extend-property-tax-payment-deadline/articleshow/76699217.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||14 fresh cases reported in rural Ahmedabad areas||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad district barring municipal areas reported 14 fresh cases on Monday, taking its tally to 814 cases and 54 deaths so far.Rural Ahmedabad did not report any death on Monday. Since AMC took over the Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalilka recently, its cases are not included in the rural Ahmedabad figures. Of the 14 fresh cases, four each were reported from Dholka and Sanand while three cases were reported from Daskroi, two from were Viramgan and one from Bavla.Taluka-wise, of the 814 cases in the district, 246 are from Dholka, 176 from Daskroi, and 160 from Sanand, 86 are from Viramgam, 79 from Bavla, 26 from Dhandhuka, 16 each from Mandal and Detroj, and nine from Dholera.As on Sunday, 1,288 people are under home quarantine in Ahmedabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-fresh-cases-reported-in-rural-ahmedabad-areas/articleshow/76699247.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nashik||2 Ahmednagar civic officials among 4 booked under Juvenile Justice Act; no arrests made yet||Nashik: Two officials and a staffer of Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation have been booked along with a woman under Section 75 (punishment for cruelty to child) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The Tofkhana police of Ahmednagar said the case was registered soon after a 14-year-old boy approached them with a complaint against the four, including his mother, who is a widow, on Sunday. API Ravindra Pingle of the Tofkhana police said that no one has been arrested so far in the case and that a search has been launched for the three men. The boy’s father died about two-and-a-half years ago, following which his mother got a job as a nurse in a civic hospital in Ahmednagar. “All was well until the two civic officials started visiting the widow’s home and partying there,” said police. The boy has alleged in his complaint that the suspects allegedly started visiting his house late at night and indulging in “liquor parties” from time to time with his mother’s consent, which he detested. “The boy has stated that he was thrashed and silenced by the two civic officials about four months ago, when he objected to their visit. On June 13, the two civic officials and the other staffer thrashed and threatened to kill the minor when he objected to their presence in his house at night. His mother remained a mute spectator,” said police. The boy approached Childline, which helped him with lodging the police complaint. A member of Childline refused to comment on the issue, saying that “it is a sensitive matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-ahmednagar-civic-officials-among-4-booked-under-juvenile-justice-act-no-arrests-made-yet/articleshow/76696879.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh lifts 50% capacity term, no new buses||JALANDHAR/PATIALA: No new buses started operations on Monday even as Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had announced to allow buses to carry passengers to their full capacity. While no private operator started operations, state transporter Punjab Roadways also did not increase the number of buses as there were not enough passengers and the buses they operated were either half full or less. Monday was the first day of regular operations for buses after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in March. Bus travel and transport business has taken a massive hit from the Covid-19 pandemic. Buses of second start transporter PRTC were also carrying up to just 45% passengers. PRTC managing director Jaskiran Singh said passengers were less and buses running with a capacity up to 45%. “The daily receipt is Rs 15 lakh. Before pandemic, it was around Rs 1.25 crore. Our dues of Rs 185 crores are pending with the state government. We faced a loss of Rs 42 crore per month during lockdown. We are holding meetings with the state government to overcome the crisis,” he said. Sources revealed that Punjab Roadways had also been unable break even from revenue. “We reach the break-even point if a bus returns with a revenue of Rs 28 per km, but the average collection from June 15 to June 26 has been close to Rs 19,” said an official. Official data revealed that there had been no Punjab Roadways depot across the state which reached the break-even point on any day during this period. As has been the practice, public sector buses still do not move till they get reasonable passengers. Private operators have already been pleading that their operations would not be viable at all with such less number iof passengers. They have committed to pay full taxes in spiye of the steep hike in diesel prices. Congress MLA and Punjab Motor Transport Union general secretary Bawa Henry has refused to start operations, saying these were not at all viable without some concessions from the government. “We don’t want profits, but at least we should be able to recover expenses and pay staff,” he said. PRTC general manager (operations) Surinder Singh said they were still operating on only 20% of total routes. “We are operating on around 100 routes, which were 500 before the pandemic struck. On many routes, buses are plying with few passengers,” said Surinder Singh. PRTC chairman K K Sharma cited the absence of long route services for the poor. “The routes to Delhi, Jaipur, Jammu, Katra, Shimla and others are shut and number of customers is far below the average,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cm-lifts-50-capacity-term-no-new-buses/articleshow/76699270.cms||I P Singh
June 30, 2020||Patna||Groom dead, 90 guests test Covid positive in Paliganj||Patna:In perhaps the first case of mass spreading of Covid-19 virus in Bihar, over 90 people who attended a wedding at a Paliganj village in rural Patna have tested positive for the virus. The 30-year-old groom, a software engineer who had Covid-19-like symptoms, died two days after the wedding on June 17, but his body was cremated leaving no scope for the authorities to trace if the death was caused by the virus. Confirming the incident, Patna DM Kumar Ravi said he had got an anonymous call informing about the groom’s death after the wedding. “Someone called me and told me about this incident. Groom had returned from Gurugram and even though he was symptomatic, the family went ahead with the wedding. When his condition deteriorated, his family rushed to AIIMS-Patna but he died on the way,” he said. The DM further said that the family carried out the funeral without informing the administration. “After getting the call from a local more than a week back, we collected the sample of the groom’s close relatives and his neighbours and 15 people then tested positive. We then started tracing all the contacts who had attended the wedding and 80 people tested positive on Monday,” he added. The wedding was held at Naubatpur on June 15 and the accompanying rituals during which the infection is said to have spread was performed at Deehpali village in Paliganj block. The techie groom, who worked in Gurgaon in Haryana, had returned to his village in a rented car on May 12. Both the bride and groom’s father are teachers and the bride is a civil engineer. According to a source, the bride has tested negative for coronavirus. The wedding rituals began on June 8 starting with Tilak. The next day, his health took a bad turn and he started getting loose motions, which has now been recognised by WHO as one of the Covid-19 symptoms. However, locals said instead of taking him to a doctor, the groom was taken to some quack and was not quarantined. “Even a day before his baraat (wedding procession), he collapsed and was shivering,” said a local resident who did not want to be named. On June 15, the wedding procession went to Aadampur Piplawan in Naubatpur and returned on June 16. “He died on the day of his reception on June 17. The families of bride as well as groom were educated, yet they ignored the boy’s health as well as other norms while conducting marriage rituals,” said another villager wishing anonymity. Paliganj BDO Chiranjeevi Pandey said apart from Deehpali, they have sealed Purani Bazar, Mithakuan, Baba Boring Road and Bibipur from where people had gone and attended the wedding. “We collected 300 samples, including those of vegetable sellers and all those involved in any kind of trade in the vicinity. Of them, 80 tested positive today. Now we are preparing the list of contacts of these 80 people,” said Chiranjeevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/groom-dead-90-guests-test-covid-positive-in-paliganj/articleshow/76698107.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Patna||Groom dead, 90 guests test Covid positive in Paliganj||Patna:In perhaps the first case of mass spreading of Covid-19 virus in Bihar, over 90 people who attended a wedding at a Paliganj village in rural Patna have tested positive for the virus. The 30-year-old groom, a software engineer who had Covid-19-like symptoms, died two days after the wedding on June 17, but his body was cremated leaving no scope for the authorities to trace if the death was caused by the virus. Confirming the incident, Patna DM Kumar Ravi said he had got an anonymous call informing about the groom’s death after the wedding. “Someone called me and told me about this incident. Groom had returned from Gurugram and even though he was symptomatic, the family went ahead with the wedding. When his condition deteriorated, his family rushed to AIIMS-Patna but he died on the way,” he said. The DM further said that the family carried out the funeral without informing the administration. “After getting the call from a local more than a week back, we collected the sample of the groom’s close relatives and his neighbours and 15 people then tested positive. We then started tracing all the contacts who had attended the wedding and 80 people tested positive on Monday,” he added. The wedding was held at Naubatpur on June 15 and the accompanying rituals during which the infection is said to have spread was performed at Deehpali village in Paliganj block. The techie groom, who worked in Gurgaon in Haryana, had returned to his village in a rented car on May 12. Both the bride and groom’s father are teachers and the bride is a civil engineer. According to a source, the bride has tested negative for coronavirus. The wedding rituals began on June 8 starting with Tilak. The next day, his health took a bad turn and he started getting loose motions, which has now been recognised by WHO as one of the Covid-19 symptoms. However, locals said instead of taking him to a doctor, the groom was taken to some quack and was not quarantined. “Even a day before his baraat (wedding procession), he collapsed and was shivering,” said a local resident who did not want to be named. On June 15, the wedding procession went to Aadampur Piplawan in Naubatpur and returned on June 16. “He died on the day of his reception on June 17. The families of bride as well as groom were educated, yet they ignored the boy’s health as well as other norms while conducting marriage rituals,” said another villager wishing anonymity. Paliganj BDO Chiranjeevi Pandey said apart from Deehpali, they have sealed Purani Bazar, Mithakuan, Baba Boring Road and Bibipur from where people had gone and attended the wedding. “We collected 300 samples, including those of vegetable sellers and all those involved in any kind of trade in the vicinity. Of them, 80 tested positive today. Now we are preparing the list of contacts of these 80 people,” said Chiranjeevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/groom-dead-90-guests-test-covid-positive-in-paliganj/articleshow/76698095.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 30, 2020||Nashik||Pilot run of virtual hearings at Nashik court in two weeks||Nashik: Senior members of the Nashik Bar Association said the Nashik district court would have virtual hearings in two weeks from now. All court-related work -- from filing cases to hearings -- would be online and there would be no need for the litigants or the lawyers to physically remain present in the court. On an average, 500 cases are filed every month in Nashik district court. Nitin Thakre, office-bearer and former president of the Nashik Bar Association, said the virtual court system would be set up in Nashik on a pilot basis. “The Supreme Court has been working on setting up virtual court system. Justice Dhananjay Chandrachud of the Supreme Court is the president of the e-committee formed for implementing the virtual court system. Since the lawyers in Nashik showed willingness to adopt the virtual court system, the e-committee has given its approval for it,” he said. Thakre said that over the past three months, only urgent matters are being taken at the district court. “Thus, neither the routine matters are filed, nor the pending cases heard. On this backdrop, the bar members decided to go for virtual court system and approached the state bar council, from where, the proposal went further,” he said. Thakre said that the process has already begun. Even the chambers of the lawyers would have arrangement for them to make arguments. “If the litigants do not have a facility to attend the virtual hearing, they can attend it from the library of the district court, where cabins would be set up from the litigants,” he said. He said that the computers, wiring system, LAN system, optic fibre lines, etc would be set up in the next two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pilot-run-of-virtual-hearings-at-nashik-court-in-two-weeks/articleshow/76696887.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Rape accused gets bail, told to give blood and semen samples||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to rape accused on condition that he will give blood and semen sample of DNA profiling. Petitioner Santosh Pote had knocked judiciary’s doors contending that he was falsely implicated in a rape case filed at Pusad in Yavatmal by the complainant. According to prosecution, the complainant had been living with the accused, who had promised to marry her, and indulged into physical relationship. But when it came to marriage, Pote always gave it a slip. Finally, on April 8 last year, Pote said he was not financially capable of marrying her, forcing her to lodge an FIR against him. She later go back to her father’s place. Opposing the prosecution’s claims, petitioner’s counsel Mir Nagman Ali said that the complainant had suppressed material facts while lodging the FIR. “Both accused and the girl were in consensual relationship and wanted to marry. The marriage was even solemnized before relatives on September 8 last year, but it was opposed by relatives of the complainant. Hence, both had sworn in on marriage affidavit on October 3,” Ali said. The counsel further said that there was a delay of eight days in lodging the FIR which itself shows that the entire story was concocted. “From the perusal of agreement executed by the complainant and the petitioner, it is clear that they have performed the marriage without the consent of parents,” Justice Murlidhar Giratkar said. Before granting bail, he directed petitioner to remain present at Pusad police station on every Sunday between 10am to 5pm and cooperate with the investigating agency. “The applicant shall give blood sample and semen sample for DNA profile. The breach of any condition amounts to cancellation of bail,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rape-accused-gets-bail-told-to-give-blood-semen-samples/articleshow/76699263.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 30, 2020||Chennai||62 Covid deaths push Tamil Nadu toll to 1,141; doubling time falls to 14 days||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 infections in TN were close to 4,000 for the second day on Monday, which saw 62 deaths pushing the toll to 1,141. As the disease spread into the districts, the case doubling time dropped to 14 days for Tamil Nadu from 17 days on June 20, though a bigger worry for the state is the rapidly dropping doubling time for deaths.  In June, the state recorded 947 deaths, excluding the 200 deaths in Chennai yet to be added to the official toll. Statistics released by the state health department show that Covid deaths in TN have been doubling in 10-11 days. The state had about 125 deaths on May 26 and in the next 11 days, on June 6, the state had more than 250 deaths. By June 16, there were 250 deaths and in the next 11 days, the number crossed 1,000. “We are now beginning to see a spike in deaths in districts. If we don’t contain the disease, it could increase. The only effective way to do this is to increase diagnosis and initiate early treatment,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. Chennai on Monday recorded 2,167 cases and its three neighbouring districts had a total of 416 cases – Chengalpet (187), Kancheepuram (75) and Tiruvallur (154). Madurai recorded 303 cases and Vellore logged 144. While four districts -- Dharmapuri, Ariyalur, Namakkal and Perumbalur – had no fresh cases, five others (Tirunelveli, Thanjavur, Tenkasi, Ranipet and Karur) recorded cases in single digits. Those who tested positive included 108 people who returned to the state from other states and abroad. While the total Covid tally rose to 86,224, the actual number of people under treatment in hospitals, Covid care centres and home quarantine was 37,331, including 21,681 people in Chennai. Of the 62 deaths, 34 were in Chennai and its three neighbours logged 13 more deaths – Chengalpet (7), Tiruvallur (5) and Kancheepuram (1). Among other districts, Madurai had four and Ramanathapuram had two. Erode, Pudukottai, Kallakuruchi, Virudunagar and Tirunelveli had one death each. The youngest victim was a 13-year-old boy from Pudukottai with an autoimmune condition that causes skin changes and muscle weakness, who died at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on June 27. Analysis released by the state health department showed that about 58% of the people who died until now were above the age of 60 and there were about 34% of them between the age group of 41 and 60. “The most common co-morbid conditions seen among the deceased is a combination of diabetes and hypertension,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. At least 36% of the people had a combination of these diseases, while 22% of them had diabetes and 12% of them had hypertension. About 18% of the patients had no comorbidities. A total of 2,212 patients were discharged on Monday. It takes the total number of discharged patients to 47,749.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/62-deaths-push-tn-toll-to-1141-doubling-time-falls-to-14-days/articleshow/76699249.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Two kidnap trader, threaten to burn him alive||Nagpur: Bhavesh Bhagwani, a trader, was allegedly abducted by dreaded goon and former murder accused Sagar Yadav, along with his accomplice Rajat Raut over a monetary dispute on Sunday from Itwari railway station. The kidnappers later threatened Bhagwani to set him on fire at a petrol pump if he did not summon his friend Mohit Dewani. Police said Dewani had mortgaged his two-wheeler to Yadav who damaged it in an accident. It’s learnt that Dewani and his friends took away Yadav’s mobile phone which the goon wanted back. Police said Bhagwani and his friend Trilok Tolani were heading towards Chhapru Nagar to play cricket when they were intercepted by Yadav and Raut who wanted the victim to make a call to Dewani. The accused, after forcing Bhagwani to ride with them on their bike, also roughed him up on Itwari railway yard premises as he was not willing to call Dewani. Yadav, a former externee booked under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous activities Act, threatened Bhagwani at knifepoint compelling him to call Dewani, who said he could not come immediately as he was at Kanhan. Yadav and Raut later took Bhagwani to a petrol pump and threatened to set him on fire. The two later allowed Bhagwani to go but after threatening him to settle score if Dewani did not turn up. Bhagwani approached Shanti Nagar police station where an offence against Yadav and Raut of kidnapping was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-kidnap-trader-threaten-to-burn-him-alive/articleshow/76699274.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hubballi||Fear driving locals in North Karnataka out into fields||HUBBALLI: With Covid-19 spreading rapidly across districts in North Karnataka, locals are moving out of their homes in villages and staying in fields. The trend began in Tumukuru and Gadag districts, but has caught on in other districts too. Just as they did during previous epidemics and pandemics such the plague and small pox decades ago, locals are moving out of crowded villages with essentials such as clothing and groceries. Experts welcomed the trend, claiming it will cut community transmission since social distancing is rarely followed in villages. Moreover, experts say, immunity levels of people improve when they are exposed to fresh air and sunlight. Iranna Lakkundi, a farmer in Kotumachagi, Gadag district, where many are moving to huts and sheds in agricultural fields, said, “Because of the fear of Covid-19, we are now spending more time in fields where contact with others is rare.” Suresh Sangareddy, a merchant in Kavalur, Koppal district, said seniors and children are staying out in the fields and only youngsters come to villages to buy essentials. “Social distancing is impossible in villages since people sit together on the same platform constructed between two houses,” he said. Folklore scholar Dr Siddanna Jakabal, a native of Savadatti taluk, Belagavi district, said it was a common practice in the 1940s for people to erect temporary huts and stay in the fields. “They would have a grinding stone, sow vegetables and grains and generally stay independent,” Jakabal said. “This indigenous knowledge was transferred from generation to generation. This temporary shifting prevented any type of pandemic from spreading.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fear-driving-locals-in-north-karnataka-out-into-fields/articleshow/76697744.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||17 slums identified as special cases||Shantanu Sen, MP and adviser to KMC, said: “We have been conducting intensive micro-surveillance for the past three weeks. Seventeen slums have been identified as special cases. The idea is to identify and treat ILI and SARI cases early. The viral load must be reduced. If that is done, the caseload will automatically reduce. HCQ is being used for its prophylactic properties. We aim to bring down the slum cases further.” Sen, a former IMA president, added that people in the slums were being “extremely cooperative”.Given the shared amenities – a single drinking water outlet catering to nearly eight slum households and 5-8 people cramming into a single unit – home isolation of Covid positive patients in slums will be counter-productive, health officials realised. Positive cases are, therefore, being sent to government quarantine facilities in Rajarhat and Baltikuri in Howrah. “There was some resistance initially but now we sense a lot of cooperation and acceptance that this is for their own good,” Sanjay Thade, KMC's nodal officer for Covid, said. According to health officials, surveillance teams have already visited 18.46 lakh households — some houses more than once — and 750 dedicated teams are providing medicines at these houses. The KMC has provided HCQs to 32,435 persons and homeopathic medicine to another 14,000 who have requested for it, including those in home-quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/17-slums-identified-as-special-cases/articleshow/76698135.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||14 new cases in Chandrapur||Chandrapur: Altogether 14 people tested positive for coronavirus in Chandrapur on Monday, taking the total to 95 in the district. Six persons tested positive on Sunday night, including a 12-year-old boy, nine-year-old girl, and two others from the same family in Warora. They are relative of a positive patient who had returned from Hyderabad recently. A 35-year-old person from Malviya ward in Warora, who had arrived from Mumbai with his wife, too was tested positive. The reports of his wife came negative. A 47-year-old man from Bhadrawati, learnt to be a close contact of a positive patient from Haryana, tested positive as well. Eight other persons, all from Bramhapuri tehsil, tested positive on Monday. The infected include a 30-year-old woman, her son (4) in Patel Nagar locality, a 50-year-old woman from Gujari ward, and a 25-year-old man kept in institutional quarantine after his return from Nagpur. Four other positive patients are from Gangalwadi village. All of them have caught the infection from positive patients. They include 30-year-old son, 55-year-old brother, a 3-year-old granddaughter of different positive patients. Officials said 42 patients have been treated and discharged from hospitals so far in the district. There are 53 active patients in Chandrapur currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/14-new-cases-in-chandrapur/articleshow/76711657.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Pvt hosps to urge govt to revise cap||Kolkata: A couple of private hospitals in Kolkata have decided to seek a revision of the cap on Covid consultation, test and PPE charges fixed by the state government last week. Even as the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India is set to write to the government to reconsider the caps on charges prescribed, the hospitals will write individually urging the same.The state government last week fixed a daily limit of Rs 1,000 on consultation and PPE charges for Covid patients and announced a ceiling of Rs 2,250 for each Covid test. “A Covid patient, especially one with co-morbidities, may require consultation by multiple doctors. In that case, it will be difficult to restrict their fees to that amount. Even though PPE cost has come down sharply, a cap of Rs 1,000 will make it difficult to provide enough protection to our patients and healthcare workers,” said CEO Sudipta Sengupta.He added that while the RT-PCR test could be done at a cheaper rate, rapid tests like GenXpert and TrueNat cost much more. Another private hospital official said restricting PPE charges could jeopardize safety. “Even though PPEs now cost as little as Rs 300-400, we need to use multiple gears for doctors and healthcare workers,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-to-urge-govt-to-revise-cap/articleshow/76698134.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||State info commission for online RTI applications||Panaji: The Goa state information commission has written to the National Informatics Centre (NIC) requesting that RTI applications and replies be received online. “If this system is implemented, the RTI applicant can submit his application to the concerned public information officer online and also receive the response online. If he is not satisfied with the reply he can file a first appeal online,” state information commissioner Juino De Souza said, adding that under this system, one can file a second appeal or complaint to the commission online following which the matter will also be disposed of online by the commission. “Public must get services from the comfort of their homes. They shouldn’t personally visit respective offices if they don’t want to. Such a system has been developed by NIC and is being implemented in other commissions. Jharkhand is a unique example of RTI online. It is high time, it is implemented in Goa also,” De Souza said. “NIC is keen to implement this and they have developed comprehensive software for RTI online,” he added. The commission is currently sending notices to parties and is functional. Social distancing is maintained and the details of each person who comes to the commission are entered in the log book. The Goa state information commission recently participated in the interactive session held through video conferencing where the chief information commissioner (CIC) of the central information commission interacted with the state information commissioners of several state information commissions. Various commissioners suggested hearing cases online using WhatsApp and Google meet by group audio/ video calling. The meeting was called to exchange ideas to streamline the hearing of RTI cases in the commission due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-info-commission-for-online-rti-applications/articleshow/76699271.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nashik||Dhule, Jalgaon & Solapur now in restricted category||Nashik: The cities of Dhule and Jalgaon in Nashik division, along with Solapur city from South Maharashtra, will now have the same restrictions on shops, establishments and travelling like in Mumbai and Pune. The Dhule Municipal Corporation on Tuesday had 512 cases, up from 100 cases on May 22. Jalgaon city area has 728 Covid -19 cases, up from 100 cases registered on May 4. Solapur city had recorded over 2,000 cases till Sunday. The Covid-19 situation in these cities and neighouring talukas has been worsening, especially after the Unlock phase 1 began. The high death rate in these three cities and districts has been under the scanner this month. “Given that the cases were rising, the district administration had already put up restrictions on the inter-district movement of people. This cut down the chances of fresh infections from outside,” a senior officer from Jalgaon district said. Jalgaon district administration got a rehaul after a woman missing for five days from a Covid-19 hospital was found dead in the toilet block of the same ward. In Dhule district, the administration had take measures like Janta Curfew on regular basis, but the cases refuse to go down. The major rise in the case was seen after the unlockdown announced by the state government. “We have people coming in from Malegaon (once the hotspot in Nashik district) and Jalgaon,” the officials said. Solapur city has seen rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in a short period. While the first patient in the city was recorded on April 12, it had 2,217 positive patients till Sunday night. Solapur city has seen 245 deaths during this period. Considered the gateway to Marathwada and Telangana, the civic administration has identified 55 areas, where patients are found in large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-jalgaon-solapur-now-in-restricted-category/articleshow/76696968.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 30, 2020||Goa||With food hard to come by, stray dogs in Calangute, Candolim turn aggressive||Calangute: Residents in the Calangute-Candolim beach belt have been complaining that several stray dogs, which have been struggling to find food ever since the lockdown brought tourism activity to a grinding halt, are now turning aggressive. General secretary of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS) John Lobo, said with the shutdown of the tourism industry, packs of stray dogs that would usually live off of food given to them by restaurateurs and shack operators, were left to fend for themselves. “If you go for a walk on the beach, you get chased by at least 15-20 dogs. There are around 100 stray dogs in the Baga area alone,” Lobo said. Soon after the lockdown was announced in March, Drishti Lifesaving, which deputes its lifeguards on the beach, had stepped in to provide food to stray dogs. A spokesperson of the agency said they discontinued the practice in May, after the lockdown was relaxed. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said there wasn’t much the local body could do to resolve the situation. “We had put forth some proposals to the state government, but as per Supreme Court directions, stray dogs cannot be captured and relocated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-food-hard-to-come-by-stray-dogs-in-calangute-candolim-turn-aggressive/articleshow/76699265.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Collection of toll at NITK ‘illegal’, KRS moots agitation||Mangaluru: Karnataka Rashtra Samiti (KRS) has sought transfer of national highway infrastructure to the respective state governments. Deeming toll plazas on national highways as an affront to federal structure of the country, the samiti also assailed silence of local elected representatives on continuation of toll plaza near NITK, Surathkal and said the organisation will launch an agitation seeking its removal. Amrith Shenoy, state vice-president, KRS told reporters on Monday that Nalin Kumar Kateel, member of parliament and Dr Y Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA should explain to people the reasons why the toll plaza at Surathkal is being allowed to continue. The contract of this toll plaza is being renewed despite assurances they have given about getting it merged with toll plaza at Hejamady, but nothing has happened thus far, he said. With maintenance of toll plaza is leaving a lot to be desired, Amrith said while Rs 35 is collected as one-way toll for the 48-km stretch between Hejamady to Saligrama, motorists have to pay Rs 55 for the 16-km stretch between Surathkal and Hejamady. Even if one adds the 14-kms between Mangaluru and Surathkal to this 16-km stretch, the toll is too much, he contended seeking an explanation from the local NHAI authorities. With prices of petrol and diesel headed north when global economy is reeling under pandemic, Amrith said the ‘illegal’ toll at Surathkal is akin to adding insult to their injuries. Collection of toll could have been justified if it had been used in maintenance of the roads. Instead, the public is forced to pay in the form of road cess on fuel, road tax on vehicles and a host of other levies that are collected in name of road infrastructure, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/collection-of-toll-at-nitk-illegal-krs-moots-agitation/articleshow/76699874.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Bijoygarh bazaar shut for 3 days||Kolkata: Covid positive cases have been fast spreading on the southern suburbs especially over the past two weeks. Among the worst-affected areas, Bijoygarh tops the list with 16 cases in a fortnight. The virus scare on Monday compelled a section of locals to shut down Bijoygarh Bazar for three days.According to a market source, after two traders from the market and four others from other shops tested positive for Covid-19, locals approached Debabrata Majumdar, a member of board of administrators (BOA) governing the KMC, urging temporary closure of the premises. Majumdar agreed and the traders of the market were approached to shut down their stalls for three days.“We have asked the traders to shut down the market for three days. We need this time for sanitization of the premises,” Majumdar said. Majumdar conceded that the infection was fast spreading in the neighbourhood. Tarun Ghosh, a local said that in past one week more than 10 cases were reported from the area. “We are living in extreme fear. We hope that the KMC and Kolkata Police will take steps to keep the virus at bay,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bijoygarh-bazaar-shut-for-3-days/articleshow/76698141.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||With excess rain, reservoirs already touch half-capacity||Panaji: With the state receiving excess rainfall in June, three of the five major water reservoirs in the state were filled up to 50-60% of its capacity upto June 29. Last year, the reservoirs had reached this level only in the second week of July. Selaulim reservoir, which supplies water to most of South Goa, was 49% full, up by 14% within a fortnight. Similarly, the Amthane dam, which provides water to Bardez and parts of Bicholim taluka, saw its water level fill upto 67% of the capacity. The reservoir at Chapoli in Canacona was also nearly 70% full on Thursday. When the dams reach full capacity, which is usually in the last monsoon month of September, four dams of the five major dams in Goa have an inbuilt mechanism to release excess water. Before release of the water, villagers living in nearby areas are alerted. Only in the case of Anjunem dam, the gates have to be opened manually before release of the water. On Thursday, Anjunem reservoir in Sattari was 21% full. The dam has seen its water level rise the slowest among all reservoirs in the state, by 6% over the last fortnight. The Tillari reservoir in Maharashtra along the Goa border was filled to 59% of its capacity. The dam provides water for drinking requirements and irrigation purposes in Goa. Last year, due to release of the excess water, a flood like situation was caused in parts of three talukas in North Goa. This year too, the dam has filled up fast. The large reservoir is known to mostly reach upto 60% of its capacity during monsoon. A team under North Goa collector has been monitoring the situation. Meanwhile, the reservoir in Panchawadi in the state is 26% full. A minor reservoir in Gaunem has also reached 30% of its capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-excess-rain-reservoirs-already-touch-half-capacity/articleshow/76699276.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pay hike for vocational, lecture-basis teachers||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday hiked the monthly remuneration of lecture-basis teachers working in government high schools and higher secondary schools to Rs 25,000. This pay hike will be applicable to those who have worked in the institutions for the last five years. It was a decision long awaited by the teachers, who were getting paid around Rs 250 per lecture until now. Most government high schools and secondary schools are driven by the lecture-basis teachers, with such teachers comprising 80% of teachers in some institutions. At a meeting of education officials chaired by Sawant at the secretariat, he also hiked monthly payment for part-time instructors under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan to Rs 22,000 as against Rs 16,000 per month. This was another long-pending demand of the instructors. Sawant said that similarly remuneration of vocational teachers too has been enhanced to Rs 25,000 a month. He said all vocational teachers in aided schools will be now known as ‘contract basis vocational teachers’. The nomenclature of full-time contract basis, double part-time and single part-time etc has been done away with. “Government has also formed a committee to ascertain vertical mobility of the vocational courses. The committee comprises of director of education, director of technical education and director of higher education. The recruitment rules (RRs) for government jobs where changes can be made to accommodate the vocational students will be examined,” Sawant said. The objective is to allow those who have undertaken vocational education to pursue higher education and to seek employment, as per a shift being carried out nationally. Additional divisions in excess of that permitted in the vocational scheme will not be allowed and schools running more than three vocational courses will not be permitted to run the extra courses, Sawant said. The state government has also decided that aided primary schools will be covered under maintenance grants instead of the existing scheme of Rs 400 per child per month. At Monday’s meeting, it was also decided to take up redistribution amongst the self-help group (SHGs) supplying mid-day meal (MDM) so that parity is maintained in respect of number of students served by each group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-hike-for-vocational-lecture-basis-teachers/articleshow/76699280.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Awareness drive on House functioning||200 words Panaji: With the monsoon session of the Goa legislative assembly expected to kick off on July 27, Goacan wants more people to understand the functioning of the House, including use of legislative assembly questions (LAQs) to resolve issues faced by people. Goacan plans to launch a month-long awareness drive from June 30 to help people prepare for the monsoon session of the legislative assembly so that people can take up their consumer-related issues with their respective MLA. “The focus of the Goacan drive is to get consumers to familiarise themselves with the functioning of the legislative assembly prior to the start of the session, the proceedings of the session and the final outcomes by getting them to keep track of the bulletins issued by the secretary legislature,” said Goacan co-ordinator Roland Martins. The month-long ‘Making Democracy Work’ campaign aims to make consumers aware of the functioning of the Goa Legislative Assembly and the opportunities provided to MLAs to deliberate on issues faced by the people, pass resolutions, move amendments, introduce legislation and decide on policies, said Martins. The campaign is being launched to coincide with the International Day of Parliamentarism observed by the United Nations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/awareness-drive-on-house-functioning/articleshow/76699286.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Rajkot||Horse, donkey cart rallies mark fuel hike protest||Rajkot: The issue of rising fuel prices led to ruckus during the general board meeting of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) with both the ruling BJP and opposition Congress engaging in a war of words. The statutory meeting which was held at the RMC Pramukh Swami Auditorium to maintain safe distancing among members ended within 30 minutes with no business being transacted or issues on agenda being discussed.The Congress leaders, who had been protesting of rising prices of petrol and diesel, arrived for the board meeting on horses and bicycles. Several of the Congress members were detained from the auditorium premises for protesting over fuel prices. As soon as the meeting started there was an uproar by the Congress members who objected to detention of their colleagues from the house premises.Adding fuel to fire, the Congress corporator from ward 16, Sneha Dave, who has been advised bed rest due to injury in the spine was not allowed to mark her presence. As per rule, any members who do not attend three general board meetings get disqualified. Dave could not attend the previous two meetings because of her hospitalisation, hence she had come in an ambulance to mark her presence.Leader of opposition in RMC Vashram Sagathiya requested the mayor to register Dave’s presence by allowing her to sign the attendance register outside the hall as she was on a stretcher. But BJP corporator Kashyap Shukla opposed the proposal saying it was against the BPMC Act. The mayor ruled that she be taken into the meeting room on a stretcher. Deputy leader of opposition Mansukh Kalaria said “This is inhumane behaviour of the ruling BJP.”The Congress members held sit-in protest inside the hall and had to be carried out by police and marshals before the meeting ended without any discussion on the listed agenda. Meanwhile, earlier in the day police detained 57 Congress workers for protesting against the fuel prices in different parts of Rajkot city. The party worker took out processions on horses and bicycles in all 18 wards of the city on Monday. Randeepsinh Jadeja, a Congress worker also had a heated argument with police when the latter used force to detain him. The video of the incident went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/horse-donkey-cart-rallies-mark-fuel-hike-protest/articleshow/76699283.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||State records 194 otters, 451 muggers and 77 gharials||Dehradun: The maiden estimate of aquatic species conducted by the forest department has brought to the fore some promising findings. In the estimate, it was revealed that the state has 77 gharials (Gavialis gangeticus), 194 otters, and 451 muggers (or marsh crocodiles) in its rivers. The Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) staff recorded the highest 133 otters, 75 gharials, and 145 muggers. “Gharials are listed as critically endangered species in the IUCN Red List since 2007. Their presence in CTR is a ray of hope. The wild gharial population has declined drastically since the 1930s and they are conserved through captive breeding,” explained Rahul, CTR director. The most number of marsh crocodiles (Crocodylus palustris) — 255 — were spotted in Tarai East forest division. They were not found in any other surveyed location other than the CTR and the Tarai East. The marsh crocodiles are enlisted as vulnerable in the IUCN Red List since 1982. Similarly, the maximum of 133 otters were spotted in CTR and almost all the surveyed rivers had the presence of at least an otter. According to Rajiv Bhartari, chief wildlife warden, three different types of otters have been identified by the team. Rajaji Tiger Reserve had a dozen otters. The official added that the forest department used drones for the first time under the aegis of Parag Dhakate, Chief Conservator of Forests, for conducting the population estimation of these species. The population estimation was conducted early this year in the rivers flowing through Corbett Tiger Reserve, Rajaji Tiger Reserve, Kedarnath, Champawat, Haldwani, Tarai East, Ramnagar, and Haridwar. The forest department of Uttarakhand has plans to conduct population estimates of each animal species so that their conservation plans can be drafted according to the chief wildlife warden of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-records-194-otters-451-muggers-and-77-gharials/articleshow/76696950.cms||Shivani Azad
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||Aurangabad returnee tests positive||Wardha: A youth, who returned from Aurangabad, tested Covid positive on Sunday night. The 21 year-old, a resident of Ghorad village, works for Bajaj in Aurangabad. With the latest case, Aurangabad joined the list of returnees from Mumbai, Pune and Akola who tested positive. In the last five days, seven patients have tested positive in the district. On Sunday, reports of the Bajaj employee and a ration shop owner from Pulgaon came out positive. The youngster was kept in the isolation ward of civil hospital. His swab sample was sent to the lab for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aurangabad-returnee-tests-positive/articleshow/76711686.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 30, 2020||Trichy||Now, Covid-19 patients get siddha, naturopathy care||Trichy: Indian medicine and homeopathy department in Trichy also joined the battle against Covid-19 by assigning its doctors and hospital workers to the isolation wards, Covid care centre and quarantine facilities in Trichy to closely monitor the patients. The department had already started distributing siddha concotion kabasura kudineer to the residents soon after the outbreak. Now, siddha and yoga and naturopathy practitioners have started visiting the isolation wards at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy, Covid care centre set up at Bharathidasan University Khajamalai campus and quarantine facility at the Government Engineering College in Sethurapatti. The physicians will visit the centres from 7am to 8am and 4pm to 5pm. The doctors will interact with patients and will give them tips to be physically and mentally fit during the pandemic. Isolation wards at MGMGH have symptomatic Covid-19 patients, while the Covid care centre has asymptomatic positive patients whereas the quarantine facility accommodated the returnees of Chennai and foreign countries until the results of Covid-19 tests were out. District siddha medical officer (DSMO) Dr S Kamaraj said that interactions with asymptomatic positive patients at the Covid care centre revealed that most of them had not taken kabasura kudineer before they were infected. “Everyone should take kabasura kudineer twice a day for five days to improve the immunity against Covid-19. But most of the people don’t follow the instructions of the government. If they take it regularly, they could ward off the infection,” said Kamaraj. As per the first schedule of the duty, doctors Dr Thamizhkani, Dr Merlin Dora and Dr Ramachandran will take care of the siddha aspect of treatment, while Dr Isai Amudhu will provide yoga training to the patients. The visiting doctors have been provided with personal protection equipment (PPE) kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/now-covid-19-patients-get-siddha-naturopathy-care/articleshow/76699289.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||23-year-old dies in road accident||Vasco: A 23-year-old man was killed in an accident at Zuarinagar on Monday. The victim, Sameer Sharma, was on his two-wheeler when he hit a tanker, police said. Verna police said Sharma, a resident of Dabolim, was on his way to work at Cipla, Verna. When he reached the gate of Zuari industries, he hit a tanker turning into the gate. He was declared brought dead by the doctors. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/23-year-old-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/76699290.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||India’s first Covid-19 vaccine candidate by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech set for trials||HYDERABAD: India’s first Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology (NIV), has received Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for phase I and II human trials. Human trials for the indigenous, inactivated vaccine will begin across the country next month, Bharat Biotech said. Pointing out that results from preclinical studies on animals have been promising and show extensive safety and effective immune responses, Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella said the results of trials should be out by October 2020. “The trials resulted in a safe and immunogenic response from all the animals that were tested,” Ella said. “At the moment, we are not sure how the vaccine is going to perform in humans as clinical trials are about to commence. Based on the success of results of phase I & II, which would be out by October 2020, we will progress to larger clinical trials. Thereafter, the licensure timelines will be set upon receiving regulatory approvals.” “Expedited through national regulatory protocols, the company accelerated its objective in completing the comprehensive pre-clinical studies,” he added.Ella said inactivated viruses have proven safety records and Bharat Biotech has expertise in vero cell culture vaccine manufacturing platform as it has already manufactured rabies, polio, Japanese Encephalitis and Rotavirus vaccines. The SARS-CoV-2 virus strain was isolated from an asymptomatic Covid-19 patient at NIV, Pune, and transferred to Bharat Biotech, which grew and replicated the virus and developed the vaccine candidate at its BSL-3 (Bio Safety Level-3) high containment manufacturing facility at Genome Valley in Hyderabad, where it will be manufactured. Apart from Covaxin, Bharat Biotech is partnering with US-based vaccine maker FluGen and virologists at the University of Wisconsin-Madison to develop an intranasal vaccine - CoroFlu. It has also inked an exclusive deal with the Thomas Jefferson University of Philadelphia for the development of a new vaccine candidate for Covid-19, which has been invented at Jefferson using an existing deactivated rabies vaccine as a vehicle for coronavirus proteins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-first-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-by-hyd-co-set-for-trials/articleshow/76699925.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Trichy||SI plays Good Samaritan, supplies essentials to needy during lockdown||Trichy: At a time when people are shocked by the stories of police brutalities, sub-inspector of police D Nagaraj, 32, attached to the Thiruverumbur police in Trichy district, has set an example of friendly policing by reaching out to the needy to provide them essential commodities since the announcement of the lockdown. He has been helping several people below poverty line (BPL) in the 42 villages in the Thiruverumbur police station limits access food for the past three months. Even after the relaxation of the lockdown, Nagaraj continues to reach out the poor. “The number of people benefitted would be around 500 in our jurisdiction. All of them were needy people. They managed to run the show with rice and groceries,” Nagaraj told TOI adding that he would also distribute food packets sent from the office of superintendent of police, Zia Ul Haque. A pack contains 5kg of rice, 2kg of dal, refined oil and vegetables for a family. Hand sanitizers and masks would also be distributed along with the pack. Nagaraj explained how he jumped into action soon after the higher officials instructed all police stations to take care of the needy people by providing food and essential commodities. “Lockdown has come as an opportunity to serve people, which is my lifetime ambition. I explore all the avenues to bring down the struggle of the poor people,” he said. The sub-inspector took monetary help from village panchayat presidents and businessmen to provide groceries and vegetables to the poor. The list of beneficiaries included people below poverty line, destitute people, orphaned children and children with single parent, transgenders, mentally ill people living in the streets and migrant workers. “I have traced around 20 children with single parent in the villages. A local man helped me identify them. They were living with their grandparents in huts,” he said. He rescued the mentally ill people who are wandering in streets. He arranged barbers to do their haircut and washed them himself. “I enrolled six such people in the corporation-run shelter to safeguard them from Covid-19 infection,” he said. Enlisted as an SI in 2016, Nagaraj, a native of Thuraiyur in Trichy, served in Pudukottai before shifting to Trichy. Police service was a dream come true for this master of engineering (ME) holder and polytechnic college faculty as he was fulfilling the desire of his father who is a retired head constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/si-plays-good-samaritan-supplies-essentials-to-needy-during-lockdown/articleshow/76699320.cms||Gokul Rajendran
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records over 10% increase in jumbo population in less than 3 yrs||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand forest department, in its latest elephant estimation exercise, has found out that the population of pachyderms rose by 10.17% in the state in a span of 2.5 years. In the 15th State Wildlife Board meeting on Monday, the officials stated that the population of elephants in Uttarakhand has risen to 2,026 in 2020 from 1,839 in 2017. In Uttarakhand, a three-day elephant estimation was conducted across Corbett Tiger Reserve, Rajaji Tiger Reserve, and all the connected and associated forest divisions. TOI accessed the official data and found out that the maximum 1,224 elephants were found in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR). The reserve had 1,035 jumbos according to the 2015 estimate and 743 according to the 2012 estimate. Rajiv Bhartari, chief wildlife warden, told TOI, “Uttarakhand is home to 771 female elephants, 304 male elephants, 266 sub-adult female elephants, and 181 sub-adult male elephants.” Notably, Asian Elephant (Elephas maximus), a threatened mammal species, is the largest terrestrial mammal of India. The status of these elephants, as per IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) Red List, is “endangered” and the species is placed in the Appendix 1 of CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species). At present, there are 285 young elephants below five years of age and 285 suckling calves in the wilds of Uttarakhand. The gender of 47 jumbos couldn’t be identified in the estimate. The male-to-female sex ratio of elephants in Uttarakhand is 1:2.5 which is among the finest, according to scientists. “Uttarakhand has one of the healthiest tusker sex ratio in the country. In past two decades, southern Indian states owing to poaching pressure has seen a skewed sex ratio of tuskers as poor as 1:100. Uttarkhand has traditionally been performing well in maintaining the elephant sex ratio which reflects a positive picture of its conservation efforts.” said Bivash Pandav, senior scientist from Wildlife Institute of India (WII). After CTR, Ramnagar Terai forest division has the highest population with 1,011 elephants. The Rajaji Tiger Reserve is home to 352 jumbos while the Kotdwar Forest Division is home to 213 jumbos. According to the latest estimates, no elephants were traced in Narender Nagar and Kalsi forest division. “The number of pachyderms in the state is constantly rising. Therefore, we have urged the Wildlife Institute of India to conduct a study and understand the capacity of our tiger reserves and national parks. Through the study, we can find out whether these reserves are over-pressurised or can accommodate more mammals,” said Harak Singh Rawat, forest minister, Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, the All India Synchronised Elephant Estimation, in its 2017 report, had stated in India, Karnataka has the maximum 6,049 free-ranging or wild elephant population, followed by Assam with 5,719 jumbos, Kerala with 3,054, Tamil Nadu with 2,761, and Odisha with 1,976. TOI had earlier reported that this elephant estimation exercise in Uttarakhand has revealed that the jumbos may have started shifting towards higher altitudes from the foothills and Terai regions in search of food and water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-over-10-increase-in-jumbo-population-in-less-than-3-yrs/articleshow/76696959.cms||Shivani Azad
June 30, 2020||Goa||Netravali kids unable to attend online classes, approach education director||Panaji: Residents of the remote village of Netravali in Sanguem taluka have submitted a petition to the director of education stating that students of the government high school in the area are being deprived of online classes. Villagers have said that many students are unable to participate in the online classes started by their school teachers due to poor or no internet network available in their areas, adding that this is causing “mental harassment” for students. Netravali resident Amit Naik also said that many students are unable to afford smart phones to attend online sessions. “We also agree that education cannot take a backseat even during this crisis. At the same time, safety of the students is also first preference. While on one hand, several schools and colleges in the state have started online classes, non-availability of internet connectivity in the remote villages has made students and parents a worried lot as they fear missing important classes,” Naik said. Following the lockdown, the directorate had trained around 12,000 teachers in the state from Class I to XII on use of online tools and methods to conduct online classes. Accordingly, schools started online classes. “One such institute, Government High School, Netravali, where teachers have started online classes for Class X, we are producing a list of 36 students appearing for Class X, of which 34 are those who cannot pursue online education because of no or poor internet connectivity in the area where they are living. The remaining two students cannot even afford a smartphone due to bad financial position of their parents,” said Naik. He said that this is injustice on the part of the education department. “Education authorities should stop the mental harassment of students and parents and come out with a common solution so that every student from the city to the last corner of the village will not be deprived from getting education,” Naik said. The chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant has said on June 22 that the government is in talks with Doordarshan to telecast teaching sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/netravali-kids-unable-to-attend-online-classes-approach-education-director/articleshow/76699903.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Rajkot||Proposed convention hall at SU mired in controversy||Rajkot: The syndicate members of Saurashtra University (SU) have alleged gross irregularity in on-going construction of a convention hall and claimed that the original plan approved by the body had been modified.Syndicate members from the Congress Dharam Kambaliya and Hardevsinh Jadeja have filed a written complaint with the Gujarat Governor, who is also chancellor of SU. They said that though the plan for the hall with sitting capacity of 2,000-2,500 people was approved for Rs 3 crore in 2008, only foundation of the structure has been laid so far. However, more than half of the amount that is Rs 1.60 crore has been paid to the contractor, who too was selected without tendering process, alleged Kambaliya and Jadeja.In the 18-member syndicate, four are government representatives, while 12 are BJP members and two seats belong to the Congress party.The two Congress members stated that on their complaint the public accounts committee (PAC) had inspected the site and recommended that the modified construction plan of the hall be rectified by the syndicate and action be initiated against the person who modified the approved plan and gave a go-ahead for construction.During June 27 meeting of the syndicate, Kambaliya and Jadeja left in the middle of the meet to register their protest over the issue. They alleged that the BJP members of the syndicate were not allowing the meeting as per the agenda. “It was an order of the PAC to discuss this issue and fix the responsibility. Till then the construction work of convention hall was suspended. The PAC had also summoned registrar of the varsity in February 2019 and asked him to complete the work as soon as possible and submit the report to the committee,” stated the duo’s letter.Kambaliya said, “The PAC members visited convocation hall in December 2019 and indicated that there were irregularities in the work. The committee members asked the varsity to complete the work as per the proposed plan as soon as possible. PAC had also objected to modification of the original approved plan for the convention hall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/proposed-convention-hall-at-su-mired-in-controversy/articleshow/76699295.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Velingkar gets SC relief in edu society case||Panaji: A dispute over elections of the managing committee of the Prabodhan Education Society is being pursued in the Supreme Court, by a faction lead by former Goa RSS chief and now opposition party president, Subhash Velingkar. Velingkar is currently serving as secretary of the society, which runs the Vidya Prabodhini institute in Porvorim. The former RSS chief is alleging misuse of government machinery against the society, stating that chief minister Pramod Sawant and state BJP leaders are continuing to pursue their political vendetta against him because he had protested against the then Manohar Parrikar-government’s medium of instruction policy. The dispute over the society and the state government had even gone to the high court. On June 25, inspector general of societies Soniya Halarnkar had called an annual general body meeting of members of the society to conduct elections of the managing committee of the society. In the order, she has cited failure on the part of Velingkar to comply with the high court orders. Velingkar has, however, wrote to Halarnkar stating that her order has misinterpreted the high court order. Accordingly, no annual general body meeting as per the inspector general of societies’ order was conducted on June 25. Velingkar’s team filed a special leave petition in the SC and has been granted relief in the matter. Velingkar said that the government order does not stand as the society is still functional as per high court orders and therefore no one can interfere in the functioning of a society which is not defunct. No annual general body meeting was conducted on June 25. Velingkar’s team filed a special leave petition in the SC and has been granted relief in the matter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/velingkar-gets-sc-relief-in-edu-society-case/articleshow/76699297.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Covid brings all planned metro projects to a stop||Chennai: On June 29, 2015, when the 11km Koyambedu-Alandur metro rail opened, it was expected to give commuters an easier and faster daily travel option. Five years later, metro rail’s efforts to augment patronage with expansion projects including opening the 9km north Chennai extension line, launch of app-based last mile connectivity and commencing the 118.9km phase-2 have been grounded. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) officials now hope they can open the north Chennai line and launch other passenger-friendly initiatives before end-2020. During the intense lockdown, CMRL employees are working on shifts to ensure trains and critical systems like communication and signals are fit to be operated when services begin. It was planned to carry 160 passengers in a four-car train with a 1,270 passenger capacity to ensure physical distance is maintained. “We are operating trains across the two corridors twice a day,” an official said. CMRL was to open the 9km Washermenpet-Wimco Nagar line by June and work on the last part had begun when the lockdown was announced. More than 80% of the workers were asked to stay in their shelters to prevent the virus spread, bringing construction to a halt. Around the same time, CMRL was likely to begin construction of 52km of the 118.9km phase-2. It had floated tenders for tunnels in a part of the stretch earlier. Officials had said tenders will be floated for the rest of the 52km in the first half of 2020. While 52km of phase-2 was to be ready by 2024-25, it is not clear if the present lockdown will further delay it. But CMRL’s future plans are hit. Before March 24, metro trains covered 45km ferrying daily an average of 1.16 lakh passengers, about 15% of the projected 7.76 lakh. Several plans to increase footfalls were to be launched in the first half of 2020. One plan was to launch 255 cabs through a uniform app-based share service as last mile connectivity across all 32 stations. Launched in around 13 stations, it was to be extended. Work was at the final stage when the lockdown began. A service based on QR-code for purchase of train tickets online was also planned. A QR code that appears on purchase of a ticket in the CMRL mobile app can be swiped against a scanner to enter station platforms. CMRL also planned to install signages in neighbourhoods to direct people to the nearest station. A pilot project was started near Vadapalani. The underground parking project near Central Metro, as part of the Central Square project, and the underground passenger amenities centre in Shenoy Nagar have also been hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-brings-all-planned-metro-projects-to-a-stop/articleshow/76698181.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Intense lockdown in Chennai, Madurai to continue till July 5||CHENNAI: The TN government on Monday announced extension of the general lockdown until July 31 with an aim to contain the Covid-19 surge. The government also extended the ongoing intense lockdown in Greater Chennai, including parts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, besides Madurai corporation until July 5. The government, however, decided to allow all industries, export units and private offices to function with 100% strength in the rest of the state from July 1. In the rural areas of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Madurai districts it will open up from July 6. Tasmac outlets would be allowed to be kept open between 10am and 8pm in the rural areas of these three districts besides the rest of the state. It has also announced total lockdown in the state on all Sundays in July to break the chain of infection, while movement of public and private bus transport within the districts will remain suspended between July 1 and 15. The government announced that e-pass would not be required for movement within the districts, while it is required for inter-state movement and inter-district movement. In the intense lockdown areas, the passes issued upto June 30 could be used upto July 5. In all areas under intense lockdown, workers shall be accommodated inside the industry premises or nearby places and allowed to work. On Monday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami held discussions with public health experts on the way forward. “Lockdown is not the solution, whereas containment management is the solution. Lockdown is required by balancing relaxation and restriction,” chief secretary K Shanmugam told TOI. The government decided to go ahead with the extension of intense lockdown even as aggressive testing continued across the state. As Covid cases spiralled in Chennai and Madurai, the plan is to continue the intense lockdown which would help the administrative machinery get a breather to cope with the rising demand for services. The spike in cases could be seen from the sharp rise in Tamil Nadu’s containment zones -- from 303 to 703 within a week ending June 26. Chennai, Salem, Madurai, Cuddalore, Tirupattur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvannamalai districts have seen an increase in containment zones as well. Only seven of the 37 districts have reported completion of containment, including The Nilgiris, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Trichy, Vellore, Perambalur, Karur and Ariyalur. Hours after holding the meeting, one of the expert committee members, Dr Prabhdeep Kaur tweeted, “TN Govt will take a decision on restrictions or lockdown based on the district level situation. Expert group recommended that analysis of various epidemiological indicators and field situations might be considered while making the decision.” The experts did not recommend total lockdown in other parts of the state and insisted restrictions be placed on movement of public transport and public events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/intense-lockdown-in-chennai-madurai-to-continue-till-july-5/articleshow/76699303.cms||Julie Mariappan
June 30, 2020||Goa||After week of light showers, monsoon picks up pace||Panaji: After almost a week of light rainfall, the southwest monsoon has once again gathered momentum over Goa in the past 24 hours. Monsoon activity has picked up in the state and India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have said that it is expected to strengthen in the coming days. Experts at IMD have attributed the reason for the enhanced activity of the southwest monsoon to two weather systems that are currently prevailing - an upper air circulation over the Andhra coast and the strengthening of a pressure gradient over the Arabian sea. In continuation of previous warning bulletins, IMD has issued a heavy rainfall warning (yellow alert) up to July 3. The forecast predicts heavy rainfall at a few places on June 30 and July 1. Heavy rainfall is also very likely at few places, with very heavy rainfall likely at isolated places, on July 2. A weather warning has been issued for high sea and other coasts beyond 75km from the coast. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into these waters during this period. TOI had earlier reported that rainfall is expected to pick up after June 27. Until last week, the southwest monsoon was weak over Goa with only very light to light rainfall occurring at most places in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-week-of-light-showers-monsoon-picks-up-pace/articleshow/76699307.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Record 624 cases in a day, experts fear upsurge ahead||Kolkata: The number of fresh single-day Covid-19 cases crossed the 600 mark on Monday. The state recorded 624 cases out of the 9,513 samples tested on Monday. This is the largest single-day spike so far. With this, the total number of Covid-infected in the Bengal rose to 17,907. But due to a high discharge rate — 65.4% — the number of active cases currently is only 5,535. Over the last three days, there has a more than 500 new cases on a daily basis but on Monday, it breached the 600 mark. With a majority of days in June having recorded fresh cases over 400, the positivity rate that was pushed down to as low as 2.7% on June 1 has now rose to 3.7%. Health experts fear the spike in number of cases will go up further from here. “Apart from the surge in numbers, we are also concerned about arresting the mortality rate as far as possible,” said a source in the state health department. Fourteen more deaths were reported on Monday, taking up the Covid death toll in the state to 653. Though states like Maharastra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh is ahead of Bengal when it comes to the number of deaths, health department officials felt the mortality rate could be checked further by adhering to some protocols. A few days back, the state health department had set up two protocol-monitoring teams to monitor if all Covid-19 treatment norms and steps to treat existing co-morbid conditions are being adhered to by Covid hospitals. The teams have visited a few hospitals and pointed out certain gaps in managing patients, especially the serious patients and patients with co-morbid conditions. On Monday, the department came up with recommendations for all Covid hospitals based on the insight of the expert teams. The recommendations include proper triaging of patients on the basis of the severity of symptoms, maintaining of oxygen prescription for patients on oxygen therapy, mentioning the dose, when and how to give steroid in case the requirement for oxygen increases. “Co-morbidity is a challenge when it comes to treating Covid-infected patients. Therefore, identifying co-morbidities at the earliest, roping in specialists for a multi-disciplinary treatment and giving the right kind of medicine at the right time to the right patient are a few measures that can arrest the mortality rate,” said senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee, who is in the state’s global advisory board on Covid-19. The advisory on Monday also asks hospitals for appropriate management of co-morbid conditions with specialist teams, early recognition of danger signs that would allow timely clinical intervention and also on the usage of prophylaxis and antibiotic drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/record-624-cases-in-a-day-experts-fear-upsurge-ahead/articleshow/76698180.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||After locusts swarm Haryana, Punjab braces for pest attack||Bathinda: Two days after swarms of locusts invaded neighbouring Haryana, Punjab agriculture and farmer welfare department on Monday launched an awareness campaign for farmers in Bathinda district on how to control an attack by the pest. Publicity vehicles have been pressed into service to visit villages. These will sensitise famers about all measures being taken to ward off a possible attack. Officials of various departments have been directed to coordinate among themselves too. Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan and chief agriculture officer Bahadur Singh Sidhu said adequate arrangements had been made. He said farmers had 1,442 gun spray pumps, 32 sprayers were available with horticulture department and 50 boom sprayers with UPL company. In addition, the local government department has nine fire brigade vehicles and four aero blast spray pumpsa, and 2,320 litres of chloropyrifos 20% EC and 200 litres deltamethrin 2.8% EC were available with the agriculture department. He said 35 search lights, 1,500 floodlights and water tankers had been set up by the agriculture department in coordination with the departments concerned in different locations in the district. Forty-four teams have been formed to deal with any type of situation. A locust infestation had been witnessed on a small scale in January in some villages of Fazilka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-locusts-swarm-haryana-punjab-braces-for-pest-attack/articleshow/76699308.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 65L seized in two raids||Rajkot: A total of 15,600 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 65.24 lakh were seized in two raids carried out in Rapar of Kutch and Surendranagar on Monday. In Bhimasar village near Rapar, 13,260 IMFL bottles worth Rs 56.33 lakh were seized from a tanker that used to contain LPG. “The driver of the tanker and the cleaner fled before we conducted the raid. We are investigating on the basis of the registration number of the tanker about its owner from whom we can get the details about the liquor supplier,” said D M Zala, inspector with Rapar police station. In Surendranagar district, a total of 2,340 IMFL bottles worth Rs 8.91 lakh were seized from Sejatpar village near Sayla. “We had received a tip-off that the distribution of IMFL bottles was being carried out at Sejatpar village, following which we raided the spot. However, the bootleggers got the whiff of our action and fled before we could reach the spot,” said D M Dhol, inspector with Surendranagar LCB. “We got the names of three bootleggers identified as Mangru Khawad, Anirudh Khawad and Jaka Khawad involved in the crime. Apart from the liquor bottles, we have seized one utility vehicle and a tractor with a trolley from the spot,” added Dhol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-65l-seized-in-two-raids/articleshow/76699331.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Borrowing cash to pay road tax, say several vehicle owners||Chennai: Amid lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government has set June 30 as deadline for commercial vehicles to pay their road taxes. With little income and steep rise in diesel prices and toll rates, tax payment has put them under further stress, say vehicle owners. Without much bookings, vehicle operators were already staring at huge losses and some have started knocking the doors of money lenders to pay the road tax. According to official data, Tamil Nadu has around 4.65 lakh trucks. Of this, less than 13% saw regular bookings during the lockdown, transporting essentials such as vegetables, milk and medicines etc. The remaining trucks were idling as most industries remained shut, said C Dhanraj of State Lorry Owners’ Federation. “Given the diesel price hike, a truck owner has to spend Rs 8,000 on fuel and Rs 2,000-Rs 2,500 as toll fee for travelling one way from Salem to Chennai. After deducting drivers’ pay, broker commission and other miscellaneous expenses, owners earn barely Rs 1,500-Rs 2,000 per trip,” Dhanraj added. In this backdrop, the government has announced that state road tax of Rs 3,500-Rs 5,000 per quarter should be paid before June 30, failing which a 100% penalty will be levied, forcing many owners to borrow money. S Yuvaraj from TN Sand Lorry Owners Association said, “While neighbouring states like Karnataka have waived road tax for two months, Tamil Nadu has given only 45 days extension to pay it. How can we pay this when lockdown was imposed from June 19?”. Vehicle owners have repeatedly petitioned the transport department asking for a waiver similar to Karnataka as they were already overburdened with insurance cost and EMIs of vehicle loans. But there was no response, he added. While at least a few trucks had some income, owners of private omni buses that have remained non-operational since Day 1 of lockdown (March 25) have also been asked to pay the tax. Bus and lorry owners approached the Madras high court for relief last month and the case is likely to be heard on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/borrowing-cash-to-pay-road-tax-say-several-vehicle-owners/articleshow/76698190.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Complaints about poorly kept Covid care centres pour in||CHENNAI: Patients at two Covid care centres in Tambaram complain that medicines were not provided on time and premises were badly maintained without clean toilets and drinking water facilities. Though authorities inspected the spots after chorus for better facilities got louder on social media platforms, patients say basic issues were yet to be addressed. Patients, who tested positive at Chengalpattu Government Medical College Hospital and have no symptoms, were shifted to the care centres in Tambaram after three days of treatment at the hospital. Two such centres — Prince Shri Venkateshwara Engineering College in Ponmar and Bharat Institute in Selaiyur — now have around 550 patients, according to official data. “I was not given any of the medicines mentioned in my transfer sheet (after discharge from the GH). I started coughing and after a frantic search, found a nurse in a room, which was two blocks away,” said a 54-year-old patient from Chromepet, who now has access to medicines at Bharat Institute centre but feels it will be better if someone can check on the health of patients regularly. A revenue official from Tambaram said doctors and nurses work round the clock in two shifts at the centre and an ambulance was deployed in case of an emergency. “A team, monitored by the Chengalpet collector, visited the centre on Monday and ensured toilets were clean and waste disposed effectively,” the official added. At Prince College centre, patients alleged that quality of food provided was poor and there was no emergency response team. A 39-year-old patient said that poor sanitary conditions pose health risk at the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/complaints-about-poorly-kept-covid-care-centres-pour-in/articleshow/76699306.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 30, 2020||Nashik||Niphad, Yeola to get new Covid facilities soon||Nashik: The Nashik Zilla Parishad is creating additional facilities in Yeola and Niphad taluka for the treatment of Covid-19 patients as cases have been steadily rising in the two towns. The two facilities are expected to be ready soon. Nashik ZP CEO Leena Bansod on Monday said there are sufficient number of facilities for treating Covid patients at the local level, but the new ones are being created while keeping in mind the future needs. Yeola has reported nine more positive cases, taking the total count to 130, out of which 71 have recovered, while 67 active cases are in Niphad, officials said. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who represents the Yeola constituency in the state assembly, conducted a review meeting of health officials on Sunday. He issued instructions to get prepared for more Covid-19 patients. Bhujbal directed the administration to take all the measures required to increase the number of beds in Yeola and Niphad as the number is higher comparatively. Leena Bansod said the rural hospital, which is coming up at Pimpalgaon Baswant, and the primary health centre in Yeola were being used as quarantine facilities in Niphad and Yeola talukas respectively. “The facilities are under construction. We have asked the contractors to finish the same at the earliest. We will soon have dedicated Covid health centres at Pimpalgaon Baswant and Yeola,” the official added. Another senior official of the ZP said that a door-to-door survey in Yeola town has been completed and 1,916 people with co-morbidities were found and that measures are being taken to provide immunity boosters to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/niphad-yeola-to-get-new-covid-facilities-soon/articleshow/76696979.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 30, 2020||Goa||Loud sound alarms Salcete residents||Margao: Panic struck residents of Fatorda, Loutolim, Navelim, Sarzora and surrounding areas, apart from Salcete’s coastal belt, Monday evening after they heard a “loud shattering sound” which they claimed was unusual and unfamiliar. Along the coastal belt, the sound was heard as far as Colva, Benaulim, Carmona, and Orlim. Chief officer of Margao Municipal Council (MMC) Ajit Panchwadkar who lives in Fatorda confirmed the incident. “The intensity of the sound was like that of thunder, but it sounded like a hole being drilled by a giant drilling machine,” Panchwadkar said. Former Benaulim sarpanch Royla Fernandes also claimed to have heard the sound. “My aunt even saw a flash of light,” she said. Inquiries with fire and emergency services, police and disaster management cell and the Navy yielded no information. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/loud-sound-alarms-salcete-residents/articleshow/76699318.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Paddy sowing: Migrants missing, local women lead the way||ROHTAK: In the absence of migrant labourers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh during the paddy season, the women labourers from Scheduled Caste community in the villages are spearheading transplantation work in farms. Sharmila Devi, a labourer engaged in paddy transplantation at Dobh village on Rohtak-Bhiwani highway, said they have formed a group of 18 women of Baniyani village of the district to take up the job. “We transplant paddy in one acre in four to five hours by charging anything between Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,500 per acre and divide the money equally at the end of the day,” said Sharmila, who heads the group. She said they have been engaged in the transplantation work for the last three years, but this season has brought double work due to paucity of migrant workers. Bimla Devi, who runs a group of eight women at Karontha village of the district, said earlier they would go to landlords asking for work, but this time they came to their houses, asking them to transplant paddy in their fields. She said most of them in her group are single working women as their husbands have either died or are bed-ridden due to health issues. They have a lot of responsibilities from children’s studies to run their family. Sarla Devi, a member from Bimla Devi group, said landlords prefer women group over men for paddy transplantation as they don’t take breaks for smoking, chit-chatting over hookah or discussing politics. “We hit the fields as early as 7am with our packed food and leave the fields by 7pm with an intention to work as much as possible,” she said. They said for others, the exodus of migrant workers may have become an issue, but for the women from SC community in villages, it is an opportunity to earn double. They said earlier, they used to charge Rs 2,500 per acre for the job, but now they charge between Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,500 per acre. Manjeet Kumar, a local farmer who is getting paddy transplanted in 20 acres, said the transplanting season cannot wait till the situation gets normal or migrant workers return, so they are making the most with the available options. “I tried to persuade the labourers who went back to their villages over the phone, but they are not ready to come and those available in the state are already occupied with work. So, local women are charging a bit extra for doing the same job,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/paddy-sowing-migrants-missing-local-women-lead-the-way/articleshow/76699317.cms||Sat Singh
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Park Circus hospital refuses Covid-19 suspect, faces relatives’ ire||KOLKATA: Irate kin of a patient, who were told to shift the latter to a Covid-19 hospital, on Saturday ransacked Islamia Medical Research Institute in Park Circus, attacked staffers and threatened doctors. The matter was reported to police on Sunday but the patient and his kin are yet to be traced. “Nearly 10-12 of them had come to Islamic Medical Research Institute with a patient. Our emergency department RMO checked on the patient — aged between 50-55 — and found that he was breathing with difficulty and was running a 101°C temperature. Accordingly, we asked them to shift the patient to a facility that can handle Covid-like symptoms as he also had a history of fever. But they refused,” said Ishtiaque Ahmed, the hospital chairperson. “When we asked them to at least provide us more details about the patient and his medical history, they refused to cooperate at the admission desk. We even explained that since we do not have an isolation ward, we are using only two cabins as stand-by measure where we are testing suspect patients. For corona patients, we are shifting them to Covid hospitals with the help of the state health department. But at that point, not even a cabin was empty. But they kept insisting that the patient be attended to at any cost. Suddenly, they became aggressive and around 10 of them targeted one of our staffers. They misbehaved with one doctor and smashed the glass of the main entrance gate and the window beside it. We then approached police,” the hospital chairperson said. Police said an FIR was registered on Sunday under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 427 (mischief) along with sections 3 and 4 of the West Bengal Service Persons and Medicare Service Institution (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2009. Some of these are non-bailable offences. Police said the CCTV footage was being studied. "It is difficult to ascertain who were involved as several people can be seen running around in the melee. We are trying to gather more footage. The fact that all this happened even before registering the name of the patient has made the probe difficult," said an investigating officer. The state health department and KMC have been informed about it. "We have already spoken to the hospital security guards and the doctors. We are sure that they were from nearby areas. Attempts are on to trace them at hospitals and nursing homes. We have been told that they came in either a SUV or a van. We are trying to locate the registration number," said an officer. When TOI visited the hospital on Monday, the hospital emergency and other units were functioning normally. The broken glasses are yet to be changed. "There were several serious patients at the hospital at that time and we are relieved that they did not enter inside," a doctor from the emergency ward said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/park-circus-hosp-refuses-covid-suspect-faces-relatives-ire/articleshow/76698200.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||KT Rama Rao keen to get high-speed train between Hyderabad and Vijayawada||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government will make efforts to bring a high-speed train between Hyderabad and Vijayawada, industries minister KT Rama Rao said. The minister, who participated in various developmental works and Haritha Haram programme in Huzurnagar assembly constituency in Suryapet and Nalgonda districts, said if the high-speed train is realised it would immensely benefit both the states, especially towns abutting the national highways. The minister is keen on getting high speed trains connecting Hyderabad. Last year, he had expressed displeasure when the Centre did not include Hyderabad in 10 new high-speed train corridors and tweeted to the railway minister how did the Centre ignore Hyderabad (fifth largest city in the country) in the train corridor. The AP government had also evinced interest in a high-speed train between Hyderabad and Vijayawada. Meanwhile, the minister inaugurated the RDO office and laid the foundation stone for an urban park and a skill development centre in Huzurnagar. He said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had brought administrative reforms for the convenience of the people by creating more revenue divisions, mandals and districts. “Though the government was going through a financial crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, it had released Rs 7,000 crore to 54 lakh farmers under Rythu Bandhu scheme apart from continuing schemes such as Kalyana Lakshmi, Aasara pensions and Shaadi Mubarak,” KTR said. TPCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy and MP B Lingaiah Yadav were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-keen-to-get-high-speed-train-between-hyd-and-vij/articleshow/76699325.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nashik||Brief spell of rain leads to waterlogging||Nashik: A brief but heavy spell of rain left many areas and streets waterlogged across the city while throwing vehicular traffic out of gear on Monday afternoon. According to IMD officials, the city recorded 34mm rainfall, which started around 2pm and lasted for over 45 minutes. A tributary of the Godavari river and other nullahs in the city were also flooded following the rain. Waterlogging was reported from Panchavati, Ramwadi, Gangapur Road, Krishi Nagar, Sharanpur Road, D’souza colony and other areas . Meanwhile, the rain came as a blessing for many agricultural areas of the district, where farmers have started sowing operations. The areas that received good rainfall on Monday were Niphad, Lasalgaon, Sinnar, Deola, Malegaon, Chandvad and Dindori. Talukas where 70% of sowing has been completed are Malegaon, Baglan, Kalwan, Deola, Nandgaon, Yeola and Chandwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/brief-spell-of-rain-leads-to-waterlogging/articleshow/76696986.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Man creating nuisance bundled into police vehicle in Chennai's Arumbakkam||CHENNAI: The sight of more than 10 police personnel surrounding a man and bundling him into a vehicle at Arumbakkam on Monday morning created a flutter before a video of the incident went viral and sparked further panic. Police identified the man as Sadam Husain of Azad Nagar and said he had to be forcibly removed as he was creating a nuisance for his brother’s vehicle being seized. Hussain was later let off after his family members tendered an apology. Earlier, a police officer said, a team had intercepted Sadam Hussain’s brother Raja while he was crossing MMDA Colony on his bike. They asked him the reason for using his vehicle and when he said he was on his way to buy rice, they seized it for venturing beyond a 2km radius of his residence, as this is prohibited as part of the intense lockdown. Members of the public are allowed to use vehicles only in an emergency. Raja apologized for this, surrendered the vehicle and walked home, the officer said. Soon, Sadam Hussain reached the spot and asked the police team members to release his brother’s vehicle. He initially pleaded with the law enforcers and when they did not budge, he began to abuse them, police sources said. He then tried to stop a few people on the road, including a woman doctor on her scooter, asking the policemen why they were letting them go. As he began coming in front of many vehicles, causing confusion, police forcibly cleared him from the spot and put him in the vehicle, the officer said. Before boarding the vehicle, Hussain was heard screaming that all police personnel deployed for duty were Covid-19 patients, he added. When contacted, a senior police officer clarified that the man had to be cleared from the road to avoid any chaos. “We did not book him for causing public nuisance after he and family members apologized,” he said. Police, however, refused to hand over the vehicle seized from his brother and said it would not be released before June 30 according to the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-creating-nuisance-bundled-into-police-vehicle/articleshow/76698198.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Sidhu ends exile with Cong web address to NRIs||Chandigarh: Ending his self-imposed exile, Congress MLA from Amritsar East Navjot Singh Sidhu addressed NRIs on Sunday night as part of a ‘Speak Up India’ campaign started by the Congress. The event in which Sidhu spoke was a web broadcast organised by the Indian Overseas Conference. He said Punjab had slipped from being a revenue surplus state to being neckdeep in debt and also referred to his report on generating revenue from mining while he was a minister. “You cannot afford to be apolitical in such a scenario,” said Sidhu. “Between 2007 and 2017, the debt of the state shot up manifold. Those at the helm mortgaged the state for personal gains. (I) don’t think that the debt has no bearing on people of the state. The funds being used to pay back the loans would have been used for development, education and health.” “Why are funds not being spent on schools and hospitals? The total revenue receipts of this year was Rs 88,000 crore and of that Rs 47,000 crore has to be repaid as loans with Rs 19,000 crore on account of interest. To add to the problem, we were hit by coronavirus. Now revenue receipts have been calculated to be Rs 62,000 crore. Where will we go? How can we think of development? People who are the cause of this, why will they find solutions to this?” he said. “In 2019-20, Punjab’s revenue from VAT, taxes etc was Rs 33,000 crore and a state like Tamil Nadu earns Rs 32,000 crore from excise revenue alone… I made a report on sand mining after going to Talengana. The state is earning Rs 43 crore in 10 days. The Akali government earned Rs 42 crore in one year. Where is the money going? The Badals had two buses but now they had 2,000, but the PRTC is under debt,” he said. He also referred to cable mafia and Justice Kuldeep Singh’s report on land under alleged illegal occupation in his address. “The land should be vacated and then the NRIs can be involved,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-ends-exile-with-cong-web-address-to-nris/articleshow/76699342.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nashik||Notices served to occupants of 1,032 dilapidated wadas||Nashik: As a monsoon-related safety measure, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has served notices to the occupants of 1,032 unsafe wadas and structures across the city, asking them to vacate the buildings. Last year, during the monsoon, over a dozen wadas had collapsed. Then too, the NMC had asked all occupants to vacate the old dilapidated structures, but most did not heed the warning. Last month, the civic body issued notices to the owners of 1,032 dilapidated wadas and structures in the city, including 508 in Nashik West, 83 in Kazigadi, 180 in Panchavati, 128 in Nashik Road area, 105 in Nashik East, 70 in Satpur and 41 in Cidco. The NMC has also decided to display boards saying “unsafe structure” at all the dilapidated wadas. “Some tenants have disputes with the wada owners and, therefore, do not want to leave,” said the NMC officials. “In May this year, we issued a public notice to the owners and tenants of the old dangerous wadas across the city, asking them to relocate. Otherwise, the NMC administration would forcibly evict them with the help of police machinery,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/notices-served-to-occupants-of-1032-dilapidated-wadas/articleshow/76697091.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 30, 2020||India||Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu extend lockdown till July 31||Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu governments on Monday extended the lockdown till July 31 to stop the surge of Covid-19 cases — with stricter norms in the Mumbai and Chennai regions — while the Karnataka government indicated that it will bring back from July 7 harsher measures such as banning the entry and exit of people from high-risk districts like Bengaluru and shutting down parks and markets. In a notification, the Maharashtra government restricted inter-district travel between municipal corporations within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) only for office purposes and essential activities like medical reasons. The order comes a day after Mumbai police announced restrictions on non-essential travel beyond 2 km of one’s residence. The notification also slashed the timings of non-essential shops by four hours, restricted their operations only between 9 am and 5 pm. However, there is no change in the timing of essential shops like groceries and pharmacies. Officials said stricter norms were notified as there were too many people on the streets unnecessarily. According to the new notification, the powers to implement a stricter lockdown have been delegated to the local administration in case they find that cases are on the rise in a particular area. The Tamil Nadu government also extended curbs for a month across the state. In particular, Greater Chennai police limits, including parts of Chengalpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, will have an “intense lockdown” till July 5. Announcing this, CM Edappadi K Palaniswami said total lockdown will be enforced in the state on all Sundays. The Karnataka government indicated that it will bring back harsher measures from July 7 to stop the spread of the pandemic. The curbs on the cards include restricted entry into districts where cases are on the rise, temporary closure of major public parks, wholesale markets and temples for at least two weeks to avoid congregation of people. Meanwhile, with an eye on the rising Covid-19 graph in Bengal, CM Mamata Banerjee announced that no international flight will operate in the state till July 15. Watch Covid-19: With stricter norms, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu extend lockdown till July 31||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashta-tamil-nadu-extend-lockdown-till-july-31/articleshow/76700887.cms||---
June 30, 2020||India||India, Bhutan launch 1st joint hydel project||NEW DELHI: India and Bhutan on Monday signed a concession agreement for the first Indo-Bhutan joint venture hydroelectric project with external affairs minister S Jaishankar describing it as yet another milestone in the diverse and multifaceted bilateral cooperation between the two countries. The 600 MW Kholongchhu hydro-electric project is the first ever joint venture project to be implemented in Bhutan. The agreement was signed in the virtual presence of Jaishankar and his Bhutanese counterpart Tandi Dorji. Bhutan had last week emphatically denied that it had blocked water channels leading to shortage of irrigation water in Assam. "The signing of the concession agreement will lead to commencement of construction and other works of this first joint venture hydroelectric project between India and Bhutan," said MEA in a statement. "Besides continuing with our developmental partnership, we have also ensured uninterrupted supply of essentials to Bhutan despite the lockdown," Jaishankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-bhutan-launch-1st-joint-hydel-project/articleshow/76700941.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Night sleep disturbed, man clobbers stray pup to death||RAJKOT: Barely two days after a waiter in a Kutch resort strangled his pet puppy, another incident of similar cruelty has come to light; this time from Porbandar. A 23-year-old man clubbed to death a stray puppy in Jhundala locality of the coastal town. The man, identified as Rahul Chawda, was detained on Monday after an animal rights activist approached the police. During preliminary questioning, Chawda said that he was spending sleepless nights due to the constant whining of the puppy and therefore he had decided to kill it. “While Chawda was hitting the puppy with the bat, one of his neighbours shot his act on his cellphone and uploaded the clip social media, which went viral. When animal rights activist Jiva Ratadia (50) saw the video, he approached us with the complaint, leading to Chawda’s arrest,” said H N Chudasama, sub-inspector with Kamlabaug police station. “When I went to Chawda’s house and took up the issue with him, he and his mother hurled abuses at me and dared me to approach the police,” said Ratadia. Chawda has been booked under sections 429, 294 (B) and 114 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 11 (1) (I) of IPC dealing with cruelty against animals. Chawda works in a private firm in Porbandar. On Friday, Khumkili Sangatam from Nagaland, who worked as a trainee waiter in Sharma Resort in Adipur, was arrested for killing his pet pup after it soiled his room. Sangatam also made two video clips of his act and sent them to his friends. After an animal rights activist saw the video clips, he approached Kutch superintendent of police with with a complaint, leading to Sangatam’s arrest. Watch Shocking! Man clobbers stray pup to death for disturbing sleep in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/night-sleep-disturbed-man-clobbers-stray-pup-to-death/articleshow/76699357.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Property registration tokens misused as e-passes to travel||Chennai: Tokens issued by the registration department for property registrations, which can be now be used to travel between districts, are being misused as e-pass alternative by many to travel to their native. This came to light after it was observed that sub-registrar offices outside Chennai and neighbouring districts saw many avail the tokens but not turn up for registrations. To get a token, basic property details such as its location, survey number and the sub-registrar under whose purview it is have to be keyed in on the website. The token is generated in a few minutes. While e-pass applications can be rejected, the tokens are issued in all cases. While about 10% of those availing tokens did not turn up for registrations before the Covid-19 outbreak, 20% to 35% no shows were observed in sub-registrar offices in districts south of Villupuram. The registration department began issuing online tokens specifying the date and time for property registration at the respective sub-registrar offices after the entire process was pushed to cyber space in 2018. The state government announced that these tokens can be used as an alternate for e-pass for registrations that required travelling to other districts for land registrations during the lockdown period. This is being used by several to move to their native places. Registration department sources said the number of no-shows for property registration raised an eyebrow. “Sub-registrar offices in districts that issued 50 tokens a day saw only 30 turn up for property registration,” a registration official in Coimbatore said. A sub-registrar in Villupuram said the number of people present for property registrations was way lower than the tokens issued on any given day. The token gets cancelled if the buyers and sellers do not turn up on the particular day. When contacted, inspector general of registration Jothi Nirmala said the issue would be looked into. “The token will have one of the buyers name. While travelling with the token, the draft document, which has other names, should also be shown to prevent any misuse. The misuse had not been brought to my notice. I will verify,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/property-registration-tokens-misused-as-e-passes-to-travel/articleshow/76698208.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||23 cases in 2 weeks, Burrabazar on edge||Kolkata: A sudden spurt in positive cases in Burrabazar — with almost 23 cases in less than two weeks in a single ward — has spooked the local administration and the business community, who acknowledged the spike could be the result of flouting safety guidelines in various markets. Sources in the local administration said the cases could be much higher but are not reflected in the official tally as several traders, labourers and drivers in the business hub are not informing the market committees after testing positive. According to sources, close to 60 cases have been detected in various pockets of Burrabazar and Posta in the past one month. Sunita Jhawar, co-ordinator of ward 42, has been releasing video messages on social media and holding meetings with market associations, requesting traders to wear masks and follow the guidelines. During the entire period of total lockdown, the ward that includes portions of MG Road, Brabourne Road, Jamuna Lal Bajaj Street and Strand Road had recorded only three positive cases. “We are sanitizing everyday. We have also arranged our own vehicle for sanitisation so that people of this ward do not suffer till the time KMC sends vehicles and resources for sanitization. We are also distributing marks and conducting awareness campaigns,” said Jhawar. “If we strictly follow social distancing norms, check temperatures and wear masks, these spurts are not likely to lead to massive outbreaks. It is very important that citizens, businesses and institutions follow the rules,” said a Mahendra Jain, secretary of a business chamber in Burrabazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/23-cases-in-2-weeks-burrabazar-on-edge/articleshow/76698207.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh records 793 new Covid-19 cases, tally jumps to 13,891||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 793 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 13,891. The state also saw 11 deaths, increasing the toll to 180. With the discharge of 324 people, there are currently 7,479 active cases in AP. As many as 6,232 people have recovered so far. West Godavari added 113 new local cases to the table on Monday, followed by Guntur (98), Anantapur (96) and Kurnool (86). Of the 793 cases reported on Monday, 87 infections were found among the foreign returnees and those who returned from other states. Kurnool reported five deaths, taking the district’s cumulative toll to 63, the highest among all the districts of the state. Krishna district stood second with 60 deaths. According to the state health officials, about 1,640 Covid-19 patients are being treated at the Covid-19 care centres among the 7,479 active cases. Maharashtra returnees continued to contribute the major chunk of the cases with 40 new infections detected on Monday. As many as 862 people, who returned from Maharashtra, have beeb diagnosed with the disease so far in Andhra Pradesh. There are 444 cases among those who returned from Tamil Nadu. Several employees of the Government ENT Hospital, Visakhapatnam have tested positive for the disease. A Keralite, who operates a tyre puncture shop on the national highway near Ranastalam in Srikakulam district, and several of his family members were found positive. The district officials suspect that he might have caught the virus from the migrants returning to the district. A circle inspector in West Godavari also contracted the disease. With the recent fiasco of taking the Covid-19 patient’s body in an earthmover to the graveyard, the Indian Red Cross Society, Srikakulam chapter, has invited applications from the volunteers to extend humanitarian services to assist the staff to conduct the final rites. The state conducted 30,2000 sampled on Monday. As many as 8.72 lakh tests have been conducted so far, which translates into screening nearly 17,500 people per every million population in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-records-793-new-covid-19-cases-tally-jumps-to-13891/articleshow/76699347.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Aurangabad||9-day lockdown in Waluj industrial area from July 4 as Covid cases rise||Aurangabad: Citing the demands by local residents and people’s representatives, the district administration has decided to enforce a complete lockdown in the Waluj industrial area between July 4 and 12. The decision was taken during the maiden weekly-meeting of the administration with people’s representatives.The lockdown will cover gram panchayats spread across Bajajnagar, Ranjangaon, Pandharpur and Waluj , which have over 2,000 industrials units. The meeting was held after MPs and MLAs lodged a complaint against the authorities for not paying heed to the issues raised by them. It was held at the divisional commissionerate office and was attended by collector Uday Choudhary, civic body chief Astik Kumar Pandey, police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad, two MPs, three MLAs and an MLC.“Considering the rising number of cases in the Waluj industrial area, residents and the people’s representatives have unanimously demanded a complete lockdown in the area. We have agreed to it,” said the collector. “The industrial houses have been requested to temporarily halt production and adhere to the lockdown order.”Talking about the measures to be taken in the city, Choudhary said that for 8-10 days, efforts would be made to ensure that people follow self-discipline. “And if the number of cases continues to surge, then, with prior intimation, complete lockdown will be imposed in the city as well,” he said.Citing the latest directives about the extension of lockdown in the state, he informed the inter-district movement would require passes. Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve said, “We have also demanded an increase in the number of quarantine facilities and effective measures to boost the morale of the health workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/9-day-lockdown-in-waluj-industrial-area-from-july-4-as-covid-cases-rise/articleshow/76695900.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 30, 2020||Kolkata||Woman, who fought Covid at home and won, steps out to donate plasma||Kolkata: A young woman from Howrah, who has been cured of Covid-19 infection, donated her plasma on Monday, making her the 10th donor in the state for clinical trial on the efficacy of plasma therapy. Amrita Panda is the first donor who did not need hospital care but got cured in home isolation. A highly motivated 26-year-old also did not need any counselling for the donation. In fact, she searched and approached people on her own with the query if she could donate. “I read in newspapers that plasma from a Covid-cured person can help the infected undergoing treatment. Since I am healthy, I was confident that I could be a donor. That is when I started searching where and whom to approach,” Panda told TOI. She got connected with Sayantan Chakraborty, a young cancer doctor who had donated plasma, on a social media platform. Chakraborty got her connected to Sandip Paul, scientist at CSIR-IICB (Indian Institute of Chemical Biology), one of the investigators of the trial. “I am lucky that my plasma will be utilised for a trial that could benefit thousands. I would also appeal to the young and healthy Covid winners to come forward. Let us do it for the doctors and scientists who are putting their heads together for the trial,” said Panda, who is preparing for state civil service examination. A resident of Shibpur in Howrah, Panda had tested positive on May 11, along with four other family members while results of two others were inconclusive. Apart from her 82-year-old grandfather, who had to be admitted at MR Bangur Hospital, the rest stayed in home isolation, in consultation with health department officials. Now her grandfather, too, is back home, cured. “We are extremely proud of these highly motivated young Covid winners. Out of the 10 donors, eight are healthcare workers,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, head of the immunohematology and blood transfusion unit of the Medical College Hospital, Kolkata (MCH), where plasma is being collected. A collaborative venture of Council of Scientific & Industrial Research and the state government, the clinical trial on passive immunization using convalescent plasma is going on at ID Hospital. “Apart from healthcare workers, we are hopeful that more people like Monami and Amrita will come forward,” added Bhattacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-who-fought-covid-at-home-and-won-steps-out-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/76698224.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal gets Bharosa centre||Warangal: A Bharosa support centre for women and children was inaugrated in Subedari, Hanamkonda, on Monday by commissioner of police Dr V Ravinder. Speaking at the event, Ravinder said that the state government has been taking several steps to ensure safety of women and children. The Bharosa centre, run by women, is aimed towards providing women and children in distress a safe space, according to the CP. - Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-gets-bharosa-centre/articleshow/76699373.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 30, 2020||Rajkot||Four including two minors drown in Jamjodhpur village||Rajkot: Four persons including two children drowned in a stream while they were crossing it on a bike between Udepur and Sattapar villages of Jamjodhpur taluka in Jamnagar district on Monday. Police said while they fished out the bodies of Awal Sindhav (27) and his sister Manju Solanki (33), they were searching for the bodies of Anandi Solanki (13) and Minal Solanki (3), both daughters of Manju. According to the police, the incident occurred while Sindhav was driving Manju and her daughters on his bike from her in-laws place in Ranavav of Porbandar district to their home in Udepur.“It appears that Sindhav misjudged the depth of the water in the stream and decided to cross it on his bike on which Manju and her daughters were seated. When he reached the middle of the stream, the current in the water was so strong that it toppled the bike and swept away within seconds,” said V D Rawaliya, head constable with Jamjodhpur police station. “While Sindhav and Manju both drowned, it is suspected that Manju’s daughters too have drowned. We have sought the help of swimmers to search for their bodies,” added Rawaliya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-including-two-minors-drown-in-jamjodhpur-village/articleshow/76699366.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Mumbai||Proceedings on CISCE board exams closed by HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday closed proceedings before it in pleas against holding of CISCE board exams for classes X and XII in pending papers. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde said “nothing survives for decision” in view of Supreme Court’s June 26 order. The judges also told advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni along with assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan that after methodology was formulated, fresh proceedings could be initiated by those aggrieved with it. The court heard a PIL and intervention pleas by parents against and for exams. Supreme Court on June 26 heard similar pleas on CBSE and CISCE board exams. CISCE board said exams in remaining papers were cancelled and results would be declared as per methodology decided and adopted by it. It said if the situation was “conducive” in the near future, students could appear later, and marks in that exam would be considered final. SC judges noted that proceedings pending in courts on classes X (ICSE) and XII (ISC) exams would be governed by its order and deemed disposed of accordingly. They clarified the order did not deal with other issues which may arise for consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/proceedings-on-cisce-board-exams-closed-by-hc/articleshow/76699362.cms||Rosy Sequeira
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand wildlife board forms standing committee to quickly clear projects needing forest land||Dehradun: In one of the most striking decisions taken at the 15th meeting of the Uttarakhand state wildlife board, a ‘standing committee’ was formed to clear projects that involve forest land use. The committee will be chaired by the state forest minister, Harak Singh Rawat. Officials said since state wildlife board meetings happen after long gaps, the standing committee was formed to clear on the basis of need, urgent and significant projects of strategic importance that need urgent execution and can’t be put on hold for long. “It is just like with the Centre, where, before a project is presented to the national wildlife board, it is presented to a standing committee headed by the Union forest minister. Today, a standing committee headed by the forest minister was formed on similar lines to clear projects requiring forest land,” said Rajiv Bhartari, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand forest department. At Monday’s meeting itself, three proposals were cleared by the board. These included a proposal for three roads of “strategic importance” passing through Uttar Kashi — an 11.85 km road from Sumla to Thangla that would require around 30.30 hectare, a 6.21 km road from Tripani to Rangmachgar that requires 11.21 hectare of forest land, and a 17.60 km road from Mendi to Sangkochla needing 17.60 hectare of forest land — all of which have been requisitioned by the ITBP, and play a crucial role in connecting India ith China. These proposals will now be sent to the National Wildlife Board in Delhi for final clearance. At its last meeting, on November 26, 2019, too, the state wildlife board had cleared three projects that involved forest land for defence works. “We felt its need because the pace of development gets delayed, as a state wildlife board meeting requires the presence of all members to take place, which is difficult to achieve most of the time. In a standing committee, forest officials, along with a handful of experts, will be involved to clear important projects,” said Harak Singh Rawat, forest minister, Uttarakhand. The Board also cleared another proposal of handing over around 87 hectare of forest land for the expansion of Dehradun’s Jolly Grant airport. This is yet to get clearance from the National Wildlife Board, though. The third proposal cleared by the board — which is chaired by the chief minister — involves granting 127 hectare of forest land to the Saung dam project. It too awaits the final nod from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-wildlife-board-forms-standing-committee-to-quickly-clear-projects-needing-forest-land/articleshow/76697020.cms||Shivani Azad
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Agriculture Ordinances: Reform or Regression?||By-Rajinder ChaudharyThe Union agriculture minister has equated the promulgation of three recent ordinances on agriculture with farmers gaining ‘independence’. However, farmers did have this freedom before the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Acts implemented in states the 60s and 70s. Before that the farmer was free to sell. The reality, of course, was that he was at the mercy of the trader. The legislations brought private farmer-trader transactions into public domain. With June 5 ordinances, farmer-trader transactions have receded back from public gaze. Even without the ordinances, trade in agricultural produce was private. All agents and functionaries in ‘anaj mandis’ are private players. The mandi is regulated by a market committee made up of representatives of all stakeholders. After release of the model APMC Act, 2007, by the Centre, many states tried to set up private mandis, with little success. To tackle this reluctance of states in de-regulating markets, the Centre has now unilaterally allowed private players to bypass all state regulation. Even now, there are no restrictions on inter-state or intra-state trade between traders. The restrictions are only on first sale — from the farmer to the trader. Many states allow single licence for the whole state. Restrictions on interstate movement are for two reasons: special bonus above MSP in states, and MSP not being equally effective across states. States rightly feel that massive efforts put into MSP procurement operations and bonus above MSP should benefit their own farmers. The Electronic National Agriculture Market (eNAM), officially operative in 1,000 mandies, can definitely help overcome market fragmentation. However, if the governments have not been able to do so all its powers, can farmer do it? Regarding contract farming ordinance, one only needs to look at a recent example. Four potato growers of Gujarat were dragged to court by Pepsi last year. The MNC wanted Rs 1 crore each from them for “violation of contract and bio-piracy” as these farmers had sold their leftover stock, which was not bought by Pepsi because it was not up to contracted standards, in the open market and it was used as seed. Public outrage during election season saved them and the corporate house withdrew the case. The ordinance is not just about contract farming but can now cover whole range of farm services. The farmer may just be land and labour service provider and not seller of produce. Often even farmers want to fix their own prices and not go by MSP. Agriculture is unlike industrial production in two respects. Its greater dependence on nature leads to greater variability in production. Secondly, food being a necessity, its demand is more or less invariable. These features have two consequences: huge volatility in food prices, which does not always benefit farmers, and low income elasticity, food prices do not keep pace with the economy. Thus, all over the world there is some sort of state intervention in farming. Even now, there is no market regulation on fruits and vegetables, yet every year some produce is dumped on the road. What stops private enterprise from entering these commodity markets? What stops private players from ensuring remunerative prices in states like Bihar, where no APMC Act exists? Rather than do away with it, the government needs to improve market regulations. Primary need is to democratise the functioning of APMC markets rather than have it tun by bureaucrats or nominated persons. Deregulation of agriculture marketing, would have consequences similar to privatisation of education. Private mandies, direct purchase and contract farming may serve big farmers well, but for smaller farmers APMC yards will become like government schools. The author is former professor, department of economics, MD University at Rohtak, and adviser, Kudarti Kheti Abhiyan, Haryana||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/agriculture-ordinances-reform-or-regression/articleshow/76699361.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Aurangabad||New restrictions a setback for factories||Aurangabad: The latest restrictions announced in the Waluj industrial area has further added to the worries of the local industrial units as many of them are already facing reduced production and dearth of workers. The Waluj industrial area has over 3,000 large industrial companies and ancillary units. Of them, only half could commence operations by the last week of April when the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. Abhay Hachanal, president of Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (Massia), on Monday said the new lockdown announced from July 4 would further slow down industrial activity. “Out of 3,000-plus industrial units in Waluj, around 2,000 had resumed operations by mid-June. While a dearth of labour due to the mass exodus of migrant workers is a big problem, the overall reduced production due to reduced demand is also affecting the companies. The proposed curfew is an experiment that could affect local industries further,” he said. While pledging its support to the government authorities, Massia has demanded an increase in quarantine facilities and Covid care clinics in Waluj. Ban on the movement of the workforce from Aurangabad and Waluj and continuing operations by taking necessary passes are some of the proposed restrictions in the Waluj area during this new lockdown. Vishnu Jadhav Patil, deputy sarpanch of the Tisgaon gram panchayat in Waluj area, blamed the local industries for the spread of Covid-19. “Waluj is located on the outskirts and it did not have an extensive spread of Covid-19 when the industries were closed. However, many of these industrial units did not follow the norms when allowing the workforce to rejoin work, which led to the outbreak,” he said. While data of confirmed cases in Waluj area was not officially available, Patil said Waluj has more than 400 positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/new-restrictions-a-setback-for-factories/articleshow/76695926.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||MC can’t pay its employees through the year||Chandigarh: Forget development activities, the Chandigarh municipal corporation does not have the required amount to pay even the salaries and wages of the employees during the current financial year, a monthly house meeting was informed on Monday. The financial crunch is due to a substantial reduction in the grant-in-aid (GIA) from the UT administration and a drastic fall in the civic body’s own revenue receipts, municipal commissioner K K Yadav told the house members and requested them to suggest ways to tide over the crisis. According to him, the development fund of the corporation, which was estimated at Rs 67 crore before the Covid-19 crisis, has nil balance at present and the proposed works entailing Rs 121 crore cannot be executed now due to the worst-ever financial crisis. “We will get only Rs 340 crore as GIA and our own revenue is around Rs 250 crore, while to meet our committed liabilities, including salaries, wages, bills etc, we need over Rs 600 crore. Since the central government has imposed a 20% cut on UT administration’s budget too, there is very less chances to get any major financial help even from there,” Yadav said. Amid the discussion on financial health of the corporation, a blame game between the Congress and BJP leaders ensued. While Congress blamed the BJP for their and city MP’s failure to pull the city out of the financial crisis, BJP said the civic body’s coffers went empty during the Congress’ 15-year regime The meeting, which started around 2.30pm, lasted over five hours, as the members were also given zero hour to raise the issues of their respective wards. BOX Panel to help beat crisis Mayor mayor Raj Bala Malik formed a committee comprising seven members of the general house to look into the financial crisis facing the corporation and suggest ways to generate additional revenue. The members have been asked to submit their recommendations in a detailed report, after the ways to execute those will be decided No new development activity Since the municipal corporation has dedicated funds from the UT administration for road re-carpeting, dark spots and enhancement of water capacity, only these works will be executed this financial year. The dedicated funds had been provided by the UT last year 11 agenda points nodded Out of total 12 agenda points, the general house has passed 11, including increasing the water storage capacity of the water tank, waiving the rental fee of the night food street for the Covid-19 period, initiating tender process to generate income from advertisements on toilet blocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-cant-pay-its-employees-through-the-year/articleshow/76698229.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 30, 2020||Chennai||Crowded online classes irk parents||Chennai: Since online classes have become the new normal, several teachers have been taking lessons for more than 60 children at a time, much to the annoyance of parents. In a conventional set up, most schools had not more than 35 children in a classroom. “The main reason I enrolled my son in this school was that they had a small classroom strength. He got better individual attention and guidance. This is missing since they started classes online,” said Kaushik Ramkumar, parent of a Class VI student. Also a parent, T Kausalya said she was shocked to see more than 100 windows of children, including those from other sections, while her son’s teacher was taking a class in Zoom. “The teacher was reading from her book, while I could see many children, including my son, not pay attention. My son was playing games on his phone and the teacher did not notice,” she said. “When I called her after class regarding this, she simply said she has to complete the syllabus on time and cannot do it individually. I was taken aback by her response,” said Kausalya. A few of the parents have raised this issue with their school managements, saying they need to restrict class strength online. As per the norms of the ministry of human resource development, the pupil-teacher ratio at primary levels should be 30:1 and for higher classes, it should be 27:1. “Half the time I see him distracted as the teacher finishes lessons. I’m worried about how much he is learning,” said Lalita Parvaty, parent of a Class VII student. Educators, on the other hand, said they find it hard to teach the same lessons for different sections online the same day. “In a conventional setup, teachers could teach the same chapters to five classes in a day. They find it hard to keep repeating themselves online. They can’t teach effectively,” said Ganga Natarajan, principal of SAN Academy. Ganga said teachers are doing their very best to cope with this new form of education. “Without the emotional connect, it can be a task to teach effectively. They are doing all they can,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crowded-online-classes-irk-parents/articleshow/76698236.cms||Aditi R
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry BJP chief: Union min joins race||Chandigarh: Union minister Krishan Pal Gurjar’s name is now in the reckoning as possible replacement for state BJP chief Subhash Barala. Sources said the name emerged following consultations among senior BJP leaders. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has also apparently consented. The party high command has announced to finalise the name in the first week of July. BJP Haryana organising secretary Suresh Bhatt, whose name was also being discussed, has apparently been called back by RSS. These names were an addition to list already having Capt Abhimanyu and Om Parkash Dhankar on it. Abhimanyu and Dhankar are considered close to leaders at the national level and have handled responsibilities at various levels. The issue of election of Haryana BJP president is hanging fire for over three months now. Khattar is believed to have strongly backed the names of Panipat Rural MLA Mahi Pal Dhanda and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini, or possibly a second term for Barala. Last week, CM Khattar had met the party’s national president J P Nadda and other senior functionaries. He also had a long interaction with home minister Anil Vij at his residence. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and former Union minister Birender Singh had also met Nadda to discuss various issue. Birender had even expressed his wish to play an important role in strengthening the organisation in the state. The sources, however, said Birender’s name was dropped the same day, as the party was not in favour of handing over organisational responsibilities to someone who had switched sides only a few years back. Besides, RSS has been keen on naming a leader with Sangh background, who could question the government as well. Sources said Gurjar’s name cropped up after senior leaders in New Delhi suggested Punjab-like experiment in Haryana. Vijay Sampla was appointed Punjab BJP chief while serving as a Union minister. Interacting with the media in Faridabad, Gurjar expressed ignorance about any such move. “However, we are always there to serve the organisation, whether it’s in the Centre or the state,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-bjp-chief-union-min-joins-race/articleshow/76699368.cms||Manvir Saini
June 30, 2020||Goa||Credai: Ensure speedy clearances to realty sector||Panaji: Reduction in necessary paperwork, extension of existing licences beyond six months and a quick approval process would help improve the real estate sector, said Credai Goa. With the Covid-19 pandemic disrupting the economy, Goa wing of Credai on Monday submitted a list of problems faced by the sector to the government. The suggestions, said Credai president Nilesh Salkar, are aimed at increasing ease of doing business, speeding up approvals and kick starting the economy. Salkar also said that the price of raw materials, which are largely procured from Mumbai, has risen 23%. Developers said the costs will most likely be passed on to home buyers. “The lengthy processing method which needs to be shortened in order to save time,” said Salkar. According to Salkar, the multiple compliances enforced by the town and country planning department, forest department and village panchayats make construction activity tedious. For starters, Credai has questioned the need for repeated approvals from the government and local governing bodies every time a revision is made to a project. Credai has pointed out that even if a project is within settlement zone as per the Regional Plan, an approving committee, along with the forest department and agriculture department, still needs to check the property zoning. Permission to cut trees is another major cause for delays with Salkar saying that permission is a hassle to obtain. “Government approval to cut more than 100 trees in approved and converted land is unnecessary and results in delay and double work. And why do we need approval to cut trees, which the department is encouraging to cut like Acacia?” said Salkar. While government bodies have granted an extension for all regulatory approvals granted, Credai has said that the licences should be extended further. “We need extension in the licence duration because after TCP approvals comes electricity, PWD, conversion sanad, health, pollution board, village panchayat and then RERA registration which take approximately six months therefore leaving available time for construction under the original approval of only two and half years which invariably is not enough,” said Salkar. “If all the above issues are resolved then it will result in removal of unnecessary paperwork, speeding up of construction, completion and handing over possession of homes to buyers and speeding up of revenue receipts by government,” said Salkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/credai-ensure-speedy-clearances-to-realty-sector/articleshow/76699907.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Trichy||Minor girl rescued from Tiruppur garment factory||TRICHY: Trichy rural police rescued a 13-year-old girl from a garment factory in Tiruppur on Monday. The girl left her house on June 22 after she was scolded by her parents. As the parents could not find her, they lodged a complaint with Thottiyam police. Superintendent of police, Trichy, Zia Ul Haque formed a special team for investigation. The team traced her at the garments factory with the help of the Trichy cybercrime wing. The investigation revealed that she went to Tiruppur after leaving home. She found a job advertisement and joined the company. Police rescued her and produced her before the child welfare committee (CWC) on Monday. SP Haque said in a statement that the process of rehabilitating has started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/minor-girl-rescued-from-tiruppur-garment-factory/articleshow/76699381.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Nagpur||BJP pounces on Raut for inflated bills, Congress adds fuel to petrol hike fire||Nagpur: Political parties held a number of protests in the city on Monday. While BJP protested astronomical power bills issued by MSEDCL at six places, Congress leaders protested central government’s failure to rein in petrol and diesel prices.At all the seven places, no social distancing was maintained. Many workers were not even wearing masks. TOI was present at the Tulsibagh MSEDCL office where BJP workers were staging a protest. Until city president Pravin Datke had reached the spot, activists were standing close to each other. Datke asked them to stand at some distance from each other.Datke slammed the state government for sending astronomical bills to consumers, when their income had gone down due to the lockdown. He slammed energy minister Nitin Raut for demanding aid from the central government to reduce power bills.“The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government wants others to do everything but doesn’t want to spend a single penny to help the common man. Why is it continuing in power if it is so incapable? The Centre has given money for rations, cotton procurement, train tickets of migrants, etc. The MVA wants employers to pay their employees even if they are unable to work. However, it paid only half the salary to its employees in March. People have completely lost faith in this government,” said Datke.The BJP MLC reiterated his demands for free electricity up to 300 units for the lockdown period, abolition of all surcharges, etcBJP staged protests in all six assembly constituencies. MP Vikas Mahatme, mayor Sandip Joshi, MLAs Vikas Kumbhare, Krishna Khopade and Mohan Mate, MLCs Datke, Anil Sole, Nago Ganar, Parinay Fuke, Girish Vyas, etc besides hundreds of office-bearers participated in them.Congress workers led by their city president MLA Vikas Thakre staged demonstrations against continuous hike in prices of LPG, diesel and petrol. Thakre hit out at the central government for burdening citizens, who had been badly hit by the coronavirus recession.In Chandrapur, city unit of Congress staged sit-in agitation before district collectorate. MP Balu Dhanorkar met district collector and forwarded a memorandum of demand in the name of President Ramnath Kovind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-pounces-on-raut-for-inflated-bills-congress-adds-fuel-to-petrol-hike-fire/articleshow/76698228.cms||Ashish Roy
June 30, 2020||Rajkot||ACB nabs cop accepting Rs 1L bribe||Rajkot: A head constable with Chotila police station was caught red handed by the Rajkot anti-corrpution bureau (ACB) while accepting the bribe of Rs one lakh on Monday.The officials of Rajkot anti-corruption bureau (ACB) said the accused, identified as Bhagirathsinh Solanki (33), had demanded the bribe from the complainant in order not to subject the complainant's cousin, who was arrested in a bootlegging case, to custodial torture.“When the complainant approached us, we laid a trap and caught Solanki while accepting the bribe red handed at Chotila police station itself,” said H P Doshi, deputy superintendent of police, Rajkot Anti-Corruption Bureau. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/acb-nabs-cop-accepting-rs-1l-bribe/articleshow/76699388.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Dehradun||93 recoveries, 1 death in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The total number of recoveries from Covid-19 in Uttarakhand reached 2,111, with the state health department announcing the recovery of 93 people on Monday, which took the state’s recovery rate to 75.54%, even as eight new cases of infection were reported on June 29. Among the eight fresh cases, four are from Dehradun and two each from Nainital and US Nagar. Commenting on the recovery rate, Abhishek Tripathi from the Covid-19 “war room” at the health directorate, said only 659 active cases are currently under treatment in the state. “Of the 176 cases reported from Almora, 153 have recovered. In Bageshwar too, only 19 of the total 81 positive cases are currently under treatment. From 73 infected people in Chamoli, 59 have already recovered, while from 54 cases reported in Champawat, 47 have been cured and have returned home,” said Tripathi. Dehradun reported a maximum 681 cases, of which 526 have recovered. Of the 313 people infected in Haridwar, 186 have managed to defeat the virus. In Nainital, 340 out of the 470 people who were infected have recovered. In Pauri, 141 total cases were reported, of which 85 have recovered. “Only 13 patients are currently under treatment in Pithoragarh, as 52 of 65 patients have recovered,” said Tripathi, who also said there are only nine active cases in Rudraprayag. Among 416 positive cases in Tehri, 355 have recovered, while of the 231 positive cases in US Nagar, 147 have returned home. Of 64 positive cases in Uttar Kashi, 44 have recovered. With one death of a Covid-19 patient reported from Coronation Hospital on Monday, the total count of Covid-19 deaths in Uttarakhand reached 39. The 65-year-old who died was brought to the hospital last week. His sample was returned positive only after his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/93-recoveries-1-death-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/76697067.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||MC garners 1.42cr from Covid cess||Chandigarh: The municipal corporation (MC) has received Rs 1.42 crore from Covid cess imposed during the coronavirus pandemic at a time when it is battling a financial crunch and struggling to pay salaries to employees. The civic body, however, is unable to spend even a single penny from the amount. It has to seek permission from the ministry of home affairs. Since the amount is significant, the MC is identifying areas where the money can be spent. “As it is a special cess, we have to take permission from the ministry for expenditure. The UT administration has already sent a request in this regard. We are hopeful of a positive response soon,” sources in the MC said. The authorities had imposed 5% Covid cess on liquor in the city during the later days of May and in just a month, the authority has received a good amount. “The cess is imposed on every kind of liquor like whisky, beer and wine,” said a senior official. Box: Rs 54k from cow cess The civic body has received Rs 54,000 through cow cess. The amount will be spent only on the welfare of cows and development of cattle pounds. A special team of the civic body will ensure proper infrastructure and related development of the city-based cattle pounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-garners-1-42cr-from-covid-cess/articleshow/76698234.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 30, 2020||Kochi||UDF shows the door to Jose group of Kerala Congress(M)||KOTTAYAM: The Jose K Mani group in the Kerala Congress (M) was suspended from the UDF on Monday in connection with a tussle over the Kottayam district panchayat chief post.  “The Jose K Mani group has no right to continue in the UDF. They will not be called for future meetings of the UDF,” said UDF convener Benny Behanan in Thiruvananthapuram. However, sources within UDF said Jose group has been given a final chance to rectify its mistakes to remain in the UDF. Addressing mediapersons at the party headquarters here on Monday, Mani said he came to know about the UDF decision only through news channels. He said rejecting K M Mani’s politics was “political injustice”. The UDF has actually ousted K M Mani who played an important role in the growth of UDF and who always defended the Front during crises, he added. Speaking on how the UDF dealt with Jose and Joseph groups differently, he said that “selective justice is injustice”. He said some have “selective dementia” which makes them remember or forget agreements and understandings as per their convenience. “It is more than an issue over district panchayat president post. The alleged reason for the action is not implementing the agreement. But we have been reiterating that there was no such agreement,” Mani said. “Is imposing something on someone called an agreement? If violation of agreements was a criterion then P J Joseph should have been ousted from UDF over a thousand times,” he added. “I had written to UDF on the statements by Joseph group during Pala bypolls. However, there was no action against him. This is an issue pertaining to the self-esteem of the party built by Mani sir. We will not surrender before anyone,” Mani said. The Jose group is yet to reveal its future plans. The group’s decision will have a big impact in the politics of central Travancore where KC(M) is a force to reckon with. Jose group will be holding its steering committee meet at the party headquarters in Kottayam on Tuesday. The UDF will hold a meeting at 3pm on Wednesday via video conferencing. “We communicated to Jose several times. If there has to be some progress then Jose will have to obey the UDF decision,” said Behanan. “We dealt the issue in a democratic way. We gave sufficient time for Jose,” he added. P J Joseph said the decision to expel Mani by the UDF was just. Those who do not approve the UDF decision are not part of the UDF, he said. Mani violated agreement of power sharing in Kottayam district panchayat. They are not even agreeing that such an agreement existed, said Joseph. According to Behanan, an agreement was made between the rival groups when they claimed district panchayat president post when it became vacant. As per the agreement, Jose group was to keep the post for eight months and Joseph group for the remaining six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-shows-the-door-to-jose-group-of-kerala-congressm/articleshow/76697088.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Reopen schools when there is no Covid-19 case in city, say parents||CHANDIGARH: Schools, both government and private, should not reopen till there is even a single case of Covid-19, according to parents who were asked to give suggestions on the subject. Government schools have forwarded the views after holding meetings of school management committees, as per directions of the education department. According to them, parents are against the idea of sending children to schools amid the risk of Covid-19 spread. “Parents present in the meetings were not in favour of reopening schools for fear of their children’s health and safety. Online teaching should go on,” said one of the government school principals. School authorities also point out that many children would be coming from outside the city, which would heighten the risk of infection. Another principal said, “Many students in government schools are migrants and have moved out of the city. Once schools reopen, they will be coming from contaminated areas, increasing the risk of bringing the virus.” Officials point out that government schools, with sizeable student strength would struggle with the logistics of social distancing. A school teacher said, “Government schools have huge strength and maintaining social distancing among children will be difficult. We should focus on getting more students to attend to online classes.” Teachers are still struggling to get 100% children to attend classes. In various schools, the strength of students attending online classes is less than 85%. Even the students who are willing to attend classes need to arrange gadgets and internet connections. On the other hand, private schools are claiming success of their online model. According to some schools who conducted surveys, 90% parents are satisfied with online classes. “We had taken feedback from parents last week and 96.1% agreed that online classes are helpful,” said Ritu Bali, principal, AKSIPS, Sector 41. She said, “Only once we have no Covid-19 case in the Tricity over a time approved by medical authorities as a safe period and with the consent of parents, should the schools be reopened in a structured manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/reopen-schools-when-there-is-no-covid-19-case-in-city-say-parents/articleshow/76698244.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 30, 2020||Kanpur||‘Covid-19 Janpahal’ championshiplaunched||Kanpur: Department of medical health and Family welfare has launched ‘Covid-19 Janpahal’ championship to create awareness among people regarding prevention from Covid-19 infection. Under the championship, the participants have to prepare and submit one minute video of challenges (Hindi) and suggestions/model (Hindi or English) by July 8. The names of winners would be declared on July 15. The top 100 entries would receive a prize of Rs 10,000 each, said Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary, medical and health. He has invited people to participate in maximum numbers. He said participants have to prepare a one minute video on Covid-19, and its theme should be how to check Covid-19, preventive behaviour inside and outside of the house, measures to keep mental and physical health fit, social stigma, story about victory over corona. Suggestion/model should be in English or in Hindi. Suggestions must be of maximum 150 words and in original. The ten top suggestions/ models would receive a cash prize of Rs. 10,000, he said. Participation in two championships is free and all entries should be sent to 1min4kovid@gmail.com or whatsApp no. 8005192995, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-janpahal-championshiplaunched/articleshow/76699389.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Chandigarh||1st phase of Sidhwan canal water front project to be completed in 15 days||Ludhiana: Touted as one of the most ambitious projects of the city, the first stage of Sidhwan canal water front project, started as part of The Times of India’s Let’s Save Sidhwan campaign, is set to be completed in the next 10 to 15 days. The project, that is being executed as part of Smart city programme, seeks to provide much needed place for amusement and enjoyment in Ludhiana. On September 8 in 2019, the project was inaugurated by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in presence of councillor Mamta Ashu and other dignitaries. The project envisages development of the stretch along the Sidhwan canal, starting from Pakhowal road till Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) Zone D office near Ferozepur road and includes development of a green belt, dedicated cycling track, playing zone, dedicated footpath along canal, sitting areas, wall climbing activities etc. Talking to The Times of India, Mamta Ashu, who worked on the project along with her husband, said only laying of tiles in the parking area is pending. The cycling track, footpath, sitting area, plantation of plants and grass, construction of ramp and entry to the water front project have already been completed. She added that the first phase of the project is expected to be completed in the next 10 to 15 days. Councillor said the second phase of the project will probably begin in a month. Meanwhile, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Ashu on Sunday said the Sidhwan canal waterfront is eco-friendly — all lights will be solar powered and that a large number of medicinal and fruit trees have been planted. He had inspected the ongoing work of the project on Sunday. He was also accompanied by councillor Ashu, as well as senior officials of Ludhiana Smart City Limited and the MC. The second phase of the project will cover Pakhowal road to Dugri road. He said green belts, plus dedicated cycle track on both sides, double road along canal, etc will be developed here too. The total cost of the project is Rs 4.75 crore. The total length of this stretch is approximately 1,100 metres and the width varies from 20–22 metres. City residents said they are eagerly waiting for the project to be completed. “It is surely going to be a great place to hang out,” said Amandeep Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1st-phase-of-sidhwan-canal-water-front-project-to-be-completed-in-15-days/articleshow/76699385.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 30, 2020||Trichy||Once a hotspot, Alwarthope becomes Covid free in a month||Trichy: Alwarthope, which was a Covid-19 hotspot reporting multiple cases until May, is on the path of recovery as no fresh case has been reported for almost a month now. Trichy Corporation attributed the turnaround to the distribution of immunity booster, kabasura kudineer and sensitisation drives in the locality. Alwarthope, a congested locality in ward 19 in Ariyamangalam and ward 49 of K Abishekapuram zone were the city’s first containment zones in April. People with travel history to Delhi and local transmission kept the locality under scanner for two months. A septuagenarian in Alwarthope with no travel history succumbing to Covid-19 was the first fatality in the district. Two more positive cases with no travel history made the civic body declare Alwarthope a hotspot in May. Since then, corporation has distributed kabasura kudineer to at least 1,500 households in Alwarthope. “Sanitary supervisors through our field workers ensured that all households got kabasura kudineer for three continuous days. Multivitamin tablets were also distributed,” a corporation sanitary official said. From first week of June, Alwarthope vicinity has not reported any fresh cases. For a month now, there are no active cases in the locality as well. “Residents gained awareness after several Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in our neighbourhood. On witnessing the civic body distributing the immunity booster, people on their own started consuming the concoction regularly,” said S Kamal Musthafa, a resident. Several organisations too chipped in by distributing kabasura kudineer in the vicinity. The same model was emulated by the corporation at Kottapattu in Ponmalai zone after it reported more than seven Covid cases early this month and was declared a containment zone. “No fresh positive cases were reported in Kottapattu locality as well. The same model is being emulated in all the 12 containment zones and this way we will prevent the spread,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/once-a-hotspot-alwarthope-becomes-covid-free-in-a-month/articleshow/76699400.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||BCCL confident of meeting production target: CMD||Sindri: Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) is poised to meet its annual production target of 37 million tonne despite the lockdown, said the PSU’s CMD P M Prasad. He added, from July, the company will start making up for the losses due to Covid-19. Talking to TOI, Prasad said, “In May, we produced 1.2MT, but in June, it is set to increase to 1.5MT and in July, we will certainly reach 2 million tonne. The railways used to provide us 23 racks per day for coal loading last year, but at present we are getting only 11 racks per day. We have been assured 15-16 racks a day from July and once the dispatch of coal improves, we will bounce back.” About protests by trade unions over the Union government’s decision to allow commercial mining in the coal sector, the CMD said it will have no impact as the government has allowed to reduce expenses on foreign exchange in importing coal. “There is a gap in the demand and production of coal in the country and the government has to import nearly 230MT of coal costing a huge amount in foreign exchange. Commercial mining will only help in reducing this gap and save precious foreign exchange without having any impact on the existing manpower,” he opined. Earlier, announcing the financial result of the last financial year, Samiran Dutta, director (finance) of the company informed that though the company produced just 27.74MT coal, much below its production target for the last financial year, the profit after tax of the company jumped from 288.77crore in 2018-19 to 918.68 crore in last financial year. “The net worth of the company also improved from 1,052.32 crore to 4,297.66 crore in last financial year. The accumulated loss has also come down to 580.90 crore in last fiscal from 2,557.10 crore in the previous year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bccl-confident-of-meeting-production-target-cmd/articleshow/76700117.cms||Anil Ashutosh
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||2 more deaths take toll to 15, 24-yr-old is Jharkhand’s youngest virus casualty||Ranchi: The Covid casualty count in Jharkhand rose to 15 on Monday after the samples of one man and one woman, who were admitted to two separate hospitals in Ranchi, tested positive after their death. Meanwhile, with 14 fresh cases, Ranchi district recorded its second biggest single-day spike since the outbreak started. On April 27, Ranchi had diagnosed 20 Covid patients. The samples of a 24-year-old woman from Giridih’s Bagodar block, who was admitted to the Covid ward at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) with a cardiac ailment on Sunday morning, tested positive on Monday. The woman died late on Sunday night, becoming the youngest Covid casualty in the state. A 22-year-old migrant labourer from Bengal had died during surgery at Rims in May. Though he tested positive for the virus after his death, he has not been added to the official list of Covid casualties yet. A 40-year-old man from Hazaribag, who was wheeled in to Medica Hospital with critical injuries he sustained in a road accident, died on Sunday evening. His samples also tested positive on Monday, the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) cell said. Jharkhand has recorded three fatalities within 48 hours. This is also the first time when more than one Covid death has been recorded in Jharkhand since the outbreak started on March 31. On Monday, 40 fresh Covid cases were reported from 11 districts. Of them, 14 are from Ranchi and 11 from East Singhbhum districts. Simdega reported three cases while Dhanbad, Lohardaga, Garhwa and Seraikela-Kharsawan reported two cases each. Deoghar, Koderma, Hazaribag and Sahibganj reported one new case each. None of the new cases reported on Monday are migrants. Along with 22 cases recorded late on Sunday, the state’s total caseload rose to 2,386. At present, there are 562 active cases while 1,849 patients have discharged upon recovery. The IDSP cell said 56 patients were discharged after making a full recovery and. As many as 24 of them are from Simdega and five from Ranchi. West Singhbhum and Koderma reported four recoveries each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-more-deaths-take-toll-to-15-24-yr-old-is-jharkhands-youngest-virus-casualty/articleshow/76698716.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||Tent owners, caterers want gatherings curbs eased in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: Battling to remain economically viable, tent house owners, caterers and light and sound system providers in the Steel City have asked the state government to ease Covid-19 curbs on social gatherings and help them revive their business, which has dried up ever since the imposition of the nationwide lockdown in March. Close to 200 tent decorators, 150 sound and light system dealers and 250 caterers in the twin cities of Jamshedpur and Adityapur have suffered business loss worth crores in the past three months. They have asked the Hemant Soren government to increasing the limit on number of persons allowed at marriages from the existing 50 to 200 and from 20 to 100 for shraadh ceremonies. After a meeting with East Singhbhum DC Ravi Shankar Shukla on Monday, Dinesh Sah, president of All Decorators Sangarsh Samiti, said they have suffered losses in crores due to cancellation of marriage and religious ceremonies political events, conferences etc. He said, “The limitation on the number of people at gatherings leaves no scope of doing business for us. We urge the state government an increase the number of persons allowed to attend social gatherings,” The association functionaries said the government should fix the number of attendees depending on the capacity of the venue. Tent decorators asked the government to identify large grounds in residential colonies and allow marriages and other social, religious and cultural events so that at least 200 people can gather while adhering to social distancing and other safety norms. Chandan Bhattacharjee, proprietor of Anand Tent Light and Caterer, said, “The wedding season in April and May was washed out completely. A small number of auspicious dates were available in June, but that too will end on Tuesday as the holy month of Shravan begins,” said tent house decorator. He said with the government should allow temple committees to host Shravan programmes during the holy month so that there is some business for tents and lights. Sudarshan Kumar, owner of S K Tent, said the marriage season is the time when he makes most of his earnings and that helps him remain financially viable for the rest of the year. Rohit Kumar of Dinesh Lights and Sound System agreed. “We provided livelihoods to lakhs of people, including electricians, generator operators, cooks, catering staff, band party members and florists Their families depend on our revenues for sustenance. For three months, we are giving them salary without getting any business and revenues, but how long can we continue this way,” he asked. Tanmay Event owner, Deepak Singh, said they are incurring huge losses. “Our income has plunged to almost zero since March 24 because of cancellation of functions. If the present situation continues, we will have no choice but to wind up our business,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/tent-owners-caterers-want-gatherings-curbs-eased/articleshow/76700121.cms||B Sridhar
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||Recovery rate promising, but more testing needed: Experts||Ranchi: In the last fortnight, the state’s recovery rate from Covid-19 has vastly improved and stands at 75.85%, much higher than the national figure of 58.56%, but the testing of samples per day has come down by a few hundred, prompting medical experts to call for more aggressive testing to effectively combat the viral infection and prevent its community transmission. In the last 16 days since June 13, a total of 1,039 patients were discharged in comparison to only 648 new cases. The experts said while it is encouraging to see that the recoveries are nearing double the figure of fresh cases, there should not be any room for complacency as far as the testing is concerned. The initial days of June saw the number of tests peaking at 3,000 per day (on June 7 and 8) but the weekly average gradually fell from 2,379.85 in the first week to 2,276.42. During this period, the return of the migrants was also at its highest and the daily fresh cases shot up to an average of 187 in the second week. The third week had a much more reduced average daily testing of 2,225 and further dipped to 2,151 in the fourth week (till June 28). Expressing concern over the dip in testing, a civil surgeon, unwilling to be named as he is not an authorised spokesperson of the state health department, said, “It is not the time to feel complacent about the recovery rate. Although, it’s a good sign that people are winning over the virus, we seriously need more tests to prevent the risk of community transmission.” He added that the situation is scary as people without any travel history are no longer in the low-risk group. On Sunday, a 45-year-old medical shop owner, who has no travel history, tested positive in Koderma. Indian Medical Association (IMA) state president A K Singh said the Koderma patient may have come in contact with an infected and asymptomatic person, but supported aggressive testing to stop community transmission. Stating that the number of cases detected is directly linked to the rate of testing, Singh said, “I believe that we should go for more tests to cover the maximum number of people and detect every single case out there.” State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the current daily average of 2,000 tests is by and large satisfactory. He said, “More tests were done in early June because of the heavy influx of migrants. The per day test figures will naturally keep changing and it is not a reason for worry at the moment. In May-end and early June, the migrant influx was at its peak and we tried to trace the maximum suspects through tests. The issue of migrants’ return is almost over now and we are largely able to maintain an average of about 2,000 tests per day.” Kulkarni further said the department is likely to increase the daily testing rate from July onwards. “Our door-to-door surveys are on in all districts and in containment zones. It will result in flooding of more samples. Moreover, three new labs at the medical colleges of Hazaribag, Dumka and Daltonganj are getting ready to test samples in about 10 days. Necessary hardware and other equipment have already arrived. The state’s testing capacity will increase soon.” Praveen Karn, state epidemiologist and in-charge of the state’s Covid fight, said the three new labs will initially target 400 tests each. These labs will help the state’s testing capacity to a minimum of 3,000 from July, he added. Currently, four government labs at Rims and Itki in Ranchi, MGM in Jamshedpur and PMCH in Dhanbad are conducting the tests. A private hospital — TMH in Jamshedpur— and four private labs in the state are also empanelled to conduct the tests. According to the health department records, of the 1,36,367 samples collected till June 28, a total of 1,35,306 are tested and 2,364 have tested positive. Of them, 1,793 were discharged and 559 are currently active besides 12 deaths. On Sunday and Monday, the state reported one death each and the toll now stands 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/recovery-rate-promising-but-more-testing-needed-experts/articleshow/76698443.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||‘Welfare schemes during lockdown failed to reach many beneficiaries’||Ranchi: Only 58% of about 4,428 families in the state with valid ration cards received in April the two months’ advance PDS foodgrains announced by the government to help the poor during the lockdown, a survey has found. The first phase of the survey, which was conducted by the social audit wing of the state rural development department at the directive of the Jharkhand State Food Commission (JSFC) between April 27 and May 7, covered 4,428 families in 23 districts. The survey, aimed at finding out the actual number of beneficiaries of welfare schemes during the lockdown, also covered mid-day meals (MDM) scheme of the education department and aganwadis of the social welfare, women and child department. Data from the second phase, conducted from May 7 to May 18, is currently being compiled.  Halder Mahto, a member of the state food commission, said an exhaustive phase three of the survey will be initiated from July. The sample size of the first phase included around 2,000 SC/ST and 18 PVTG families. Halder said, “Of the total underprivileged group surveyed, 96% had ration cards while the remaining families are yet to get the cards. Of the remaining 4%, only 58% had applied for ration cards. For those who had the ration cards, 93% received the two months’ ration while only 7% got only one month ration. Of the total who got two months’ ration, 48% complained of receiving less quantity.” Halder expressed hope that that situation is likely to improve in the second and third phases. He said the surveyors had also focussed on sensitising the beneficiaries of their rights and the district administrations concerned were recommended to take action against erring PDS dealers or officials. “After the first phase survey report, the government penalised around 400 PDS dealers like cancelling their licenses and filing FIRs against them, which is a good sign,” Halder said, adding that JSFC made recommendations to the state food and civil supplies department for improvement. “We had recommended roping in of panchayats in the PDS work. It will improve accountability on the ground. We have also suggested to the government to simplify the online ration card application process. Under the system, a person is required to submit a hard copy of the online application, but a majority of the beneficiaries are not aware of this clause. We have asked the government to do away with the dual process,” he added. The survey further said 20% of MDM suppliers failed to get raw materials and 49% of them could not get cash benefits for procuring raw materials. Similarly, under the integrated child development scheme (anganwadi), the survey found that only 20% children were enrolled in the anganwadi centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/welfare-schemes-during-lockdown-failed-to-reach-many-beneficiaries/articleshow/76698495.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||To stop virus spread, locals block roads to Benaulim beach||Colva: Even as villages in Salcete, including Colva and Cavelossim along the beach belt, decided to go in for a voluntary lockdown as a preventive measure against coronavirus, Benaulim locals have taken it upon themselves to curb the movement of people in their village. The village has seen two cases, and local youth said the measures were precautions to protect themselves against the virus. While villagers blocked two roads leading to Benaulim beach on Sunday, the road leading to the Vaddy stretch of the shore has been blocked for the last few days. Ironically, most of the youth blocking the road were not wearing masks and also not maintaining social distancing. Traffic police personnel, who were stationed 150m away did nothing to clear the blocked road. Colva traffic police inspector Hiru Kavlekar said that they had immediately informed the Colva police, however, Colva police inspector Melson Colaco denied being aware of the roads being blocked. “I’m not aware but will look into the matter,” he told TOI. When contacted, Salcete mamladar Prataprao Goankar said that he has not issued any order for closure of roads and is not aware of roads being blocked. Benaulim sarpanch Ezlina Fernandes also said she is “unaware of any roads being blocked”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-stop-virus-spread-locals-block-roads-to-benaulim-beach/articleshow/76698283.cms||Nisser Dias
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC rejects abortion plea of minor rape survivor||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by a minor rape survivor seeking permission for medical termination of her pregnancy. The high court also directed the state government to ensure that the expenses incurred in the delivery and for the well-being of the newborn and the survivor will be borne by the government. The court of justice Ananda Sen had earlier sought a medical report from Bokaro General Hospital, where the girl is undergoing treatment. A three-member medical board headed by the director of the hospital sent their report to the high court saying the girl was examined and it was found that the foetus is 34 weeks old. The report further mentioned that the girl is anaemic and has low hemoglobin, due to which the medical termination of the foetus could pose a threat to her life. The doctors opined that no procedure of abortion can be done at this stage. The bench, in consonance of the opinion of the medical board, rejected the petition filed by the girl and observed that the government will have to cater to the medical expenditure incurred by her and her family. The government will also provide for expenses to the girl and her newborn for six months after the child is born, the court said. The petition was filed by the survivor before the high court informing that she was sexually abused by a married man who duped her into having a physical relationship with him. The victim conceived after being exploited by the accused. She then came to know that the accused is married. A FIR has also been registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-rejects-abortion-plea-of-minor-rape-survivor/articleshow/76698612.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||When admn is appealing to follow lockdown norms, political parties violating it||Bokaro: In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Bokaro, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar appealed to commercial establishments on Monday to strictly adhere to ‘no mask, no grocery’ rule. Kumar said, “Shops should not sell products, including medicines, to customers if the latter don’t wear masks.” He added that it is a matter of concern that coronavirus cases were now being reported in the township. The administration has demarcated two micro-containment zones in Hanumannagar of Camp-2 and Sector-9 of Bokaro township recently. Meanwhile, leaders and workers of political leaders were spotted violating lockdown and social-distancing norms. On Sunday, Congress workers led by working president Rajesh Thakur staged a protest against the recent hike in fuel prices at the District Collectorate Building in Camp-2. A majority of the participants at the demonstration, including Thakur, were not wearing masks. A similar scene was also witnessed at BJP Dhanbad MP P N Singh’s residential office in Sector-1 of the town. Singh, who resides in Dhanbad, had come to Bokaro on Sunday and met hundreds of people here. The Camp-2 area, where Congress cadre had assembled is close to the micro-containment zone in Hanumannagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/when-admn-is-appealing-to-follow-lockdown-norms-political-parties-violating-it/articleshow/76700231.cms||Divy Khare
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||BJP meets Guv with CBI probe plea into death of Sidho-Kanho’s descendant||Ranchi: BJP leaders of the state on Monday called upon governor Droupadi Murmu, demanding a CBI inquiry and capital punishment to the guilty in connection with the death of Rameshwar Murmu, a sixth-generation descendant of tribal icon and freedom fighter duo Sidho-Kanho. On June 12, Murmu’s body was found in his Bhognadih village in Barhait area of Sahebganj district. Police have arrested one person in connection with the case and said Murmu’s death was an outcome of a tussle over liquor. BJP, which sent a 10-member fact-finding team to Bhognadih village last week, has accused the Hemant Soren government of trying to “cover up a murder”. On Monday, a 10-member BJP delegation met Murmu at Raj Bhavan in the evening and formally submitted a memorandum and their findings. Rajya Sabha MP Sameer Oraon said, “We have demanded a CBI inquiry, death sentence to the accused, Rs 10 lakh to the wife of the deceased, state-sponsored education for his kid and a speedy trial in the case.” He added, “Tuesday is Hul Diwas which marks the Santhal rebellion led by Sidho-Kanho against the British rule. But the state government is busy trying to cover up the murder of the tribal icons’ descendant. We have now sought the governor’s intervention in the case.” BJP had earlier announced that it will not celebrate Hul Diwas as a mark of solidarity with the family of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-meets-guv-with-cbi-probe-plea-into-death-of-sidho-kanhos-descendant/articleshow/76700190.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||Plantation in Dalma to reduce man-elephant conflict||Ranchi: A Mumbai-based organisation, Grow-Trees, which has footprints in various countries and states within India, aims to tide over Jharkhand’s growing human-elephant conflict through large-scale tree plantations. The NGO aims to plant 6.5 lakh saplings in hamlets surrounding Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, the largest haven wild elephants in the state. It has identified Lylam and Luabasa hamlets in East Singhbhum district as an elephant corridor a couple of years ago and has now obtained permission from panchayats to plant saplings in the barren tracts within the villages. Bikrant Tiwary, an IIM-Calcutta alumnus and CEO of Grow-Trees, claimed the plantation drive will prevent human-elephant conflicts. “Through our initiative, we aim to plant saplings of various fruit-bearing trees. These villages sit on the elephant corridor of Dalma. Once the trees bear fruit, the elephants, which venture into villages and wreak havoc, will satiate their hunger by eating from these trees,” Tiwary told TOI. Besides preventing man-elephant conflict, the trees will be a source of livelihood for forest dwellers and its plantation will create man-days for employment, Tiwary said. He said the organisation, which works with corporate houses, has partnered with Odisha government recently to take up plantations along the elephant corridors of Simlipal National Park and in Sikkim. He added that a formal request to the Jharkhand government’s department of forest, environment and climate change is awaiting a response. Man-elephant conflicts in Jharkhand are rampant as more than 60 humans are killed every year and over 300 incidents of conflicts are reported across the state annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/plantation-in-dalma-to-reduce-man-elephant-conflict/articleshow/76700136.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Ranchi||Woman hangs self a day after son’s suicide||Ranchi: A day after her 10-year-old son committed suicide, Rekha Dadel (45) was found hanging in the bathroom of her house at Namkum in Ranchi on Monday. Police said Dadel might have killed herself after failing to come to terms with the loss of her child. Dadel’s son, Boby Kumar, was found hanging at the same spot on Sunday. Boby had apparently gone to take a bath, but he did not come out for a long period. Later, he was found hanging by a saree. Bobby reportedly had the habit of posting videos on a social media app. Earlier in the day on Monday, officers of Namkum police station visited the family. DSP (headquarters) Neeraj Kumar said, “Our team didn’t have any inkling of what was going on in the woman’s mind. An hour after they returned to the police station, we received the news that Dadel, too, has committed suicide.” Another school student, Sanjiv Kumar, also hanged himself at his uncle’s house at Riverview colony under Jagannathpur police station in Ranchi area on Sunday. In another incident, a woman who had reportedly set herself ablaze under Murhu police station area died during treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-hangs-self-a-day-after-sons-suicide/articleshow/76698567.cms||Sanjay Sahay
June 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Doctors on frontline advise against get-togethers for next 2-3 weeks||PANAJI: As Covid cases emerge from attendees of lockdown weddings and gatherings over the past few weeks, health workers advise against get-togethers, even intimate ones, in this time of crisis. “Social events are a big no for the next couple of weeks at least. What can be avoided should be avoided and what can be postponed must be,” deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida told TOI. At a time when the small state is witnessing up to 79 Covid cases a day, get-togethers and events not only cause undue stress to family members, but are burdening the health infrastructure. Panchayats and health workers have found that the recent cases include those who let their guard down while celebrating birthdays. Other cases had links to backyard wedding celebrations and associated get-togethers and participated in religious group sessions in a small premises and no masks were used. “People chanting loudly in an enclosed room is the worst thing you can ask for. No place where a large number of people are gathered is safe. The cases spread in Mangor Hill because residents lived in houses close to each other. In some cases, they spread due to social gatherings,” an official said. Recently, several close relatives of a newly-married couple and wedding attendees tested positive. Almost all of them were asymptomatic and didn’t feel the need to be tested. The panchayat’s intervention helped convince the invitees and family members to get tested and admitted after testing positive. In such crucial times, all social obligations must be done away with, frontline workers said. “Unnecessary visiting of relatives and friends should be avoided. Social practices of visiting someone sick in hospital or someone who delivered a baby, thinking they may feel hurt, or going to wish someone on their birthday or anniversary must all be stopped. This is not required. People can use social media instead,” a frontline worker said. “You can never let your guard down even when meeting close friends or relatives or colleagues. The comfort level is much more here and the tendency is to lower one’s mask thinking the other person is clean. One doesn’t know where who went the day before,” a doctor at a Covid care centre said. Laughing and talking loudly, both common at get-togethers are risky as they increase the velocity, spread and reach of the droplets, Dr Almeida said. “The use of masks is very important. Social distancing must be followed at all times,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/frontline-workers-advise-against-get-togethers/articleshow/76698353.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 30, 2020||Goa||474 seafarers arrive, MPT to see 2nd largest sign-off||Panaji: The second largest sign off of stranded Goan seafarers will take place at MPT on Tuesday. The cruiseliner, Norwegian Escape, the largest vessel to berth at MPT, arrived on Monday morning carrying 474 Goan seafarers from Italy. Goa was the first port of call for the vessel which will proceed to Mumbai where another 500 crew will be signed off, nodal officer for stranded seafarers and ports secretary P S Reddy said. “The company had plans to proceed directly to Mumbai and had no intention of signing off crew in Goa. They were reluctant to come here because it was a matter of disembarking only 400-odd Goan crew, but the government managed to convince the company. We didn’t want to give the seafarers more trouble by making them travel from Mumbai to Goa. It is an achievement for us,” Reddy told TOI. A team of doctors tested the crew members on Monday evening after which they were sent back on board. “All the crew will be disembarked on Tuesday after receiving their results. Those who test negative will be directly sent on 14-day home quarantine. They will be dropped at various points in Goa, from where their family can pick them up. The cruiseliner will leave Goa on Tuesday evening for Mumbai,” Reddy said. The vessel left Italy around three weeks ago, making a stop at South Africa along the way for bunkering. From Mumbai, the vessel will proceed to the Philippines where more crew will be disembarked. Officials say the vessel with a capacity of 4,900 passengers is the largest to berth at MPT till date. It arrived at around 6 am and berth at 9 am. It is the second vessel to arrive at MPT with stranded seafarers. The first vessel, Celebrity Infinity with 1,450 seafarers arrived on June 18. Most seafarers stranded in various parts of the world for months, have already come home. “With this latest vessel to arrive, almost 99% of the seafarers have been brought back to Goa. Around 6,000 seafarers have arrived by air and sea since April, with the number peaking in May,” Reddy said. Only 100-odd seafarers stranded in the UK are left and expected to be sent on a flight chartered by the company in the first week of July, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/474-seafarers-arrive-mpt-to-see-2nd-largest-sign-off/articleshow/76698372.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 30, 2020||Goa||Political slugfest over Moti Dongor as +ve cases spike||Margao: As Covid positive cases continued to spike at Moti Dongor, Margao, a political slugfest raged on social media on Monday over the demand for declaring the area as a containment zone. While BJP supporters questioned Margao MLA Digambar Kamat’s silence over the issue, the latter’s supporters accused BJP workers of “spreading lies” and defaming Kamat. Moti Dongor has been Kamat’s vote bank over the years. It all began with a BJP functionary Chandan Naik posting on Facebook accusing Kamat of objecting to Moti Dongor being declared a containment zone. In his post Chandan attributed Kamat’s “objection” to his “political motive” and “personal vote bank benefits.” He urged the South Goa Collector to declare the area a containment zone and have rapid Covid tests done of all the residents. In a sharp riposte, president of Margao Congress block Gopal Naik accused Chandan of “spreading lies with an intention of defaming Kamat” and demanded that he be booked for defamation. “It is unfortunate that the former mandal president of the BJP (Chandan) has no knowledge about the authority who can decide and declare containment zone. Is it that the BJP workers have now accepted the fact that the BJP government has completely lost its track on Covid management in Goa and now expect opposition to take the driver’s seat?” Naik said in a press note. Later, BJP workers led by Sharmad Raiturkar and Navin Raikar submitted a representation addressed to the district collector urging him to declare Motidongor a containment zone. “With Goa witnessing steep rise of Covid-19 patients we cannot afford to keep hotspots like Moti Dongor open to the public,” they said. Meanwhile, sources in the health department said that of the 197 swab samples drawn on Sunday, four returned positive necessitating further contact tracing. Throat swab samples of 100 more people from the locality were drawn on Monday by health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/political-slugfest-over-moti-dongor-as-ve-cases-spike/articleshow/76698169.cms||---
June 30, 2020||India||Repatriation flight goes empty to China||NEW DELHI: A Vande Bharat repatriation flight flew empty to Guangzhou after two Indians who had flown to China in an earlier flight tested positive for Covid-19. China was not keen to receive passengers from India as it looks to check the spread of what's effectively the second wave of the novel coronavirus spread in that country. Official sources said that it was mutually agreed that the aircraft will not take passengers from here. "This was pre-decided and the passengers were informed by the Indian authorities well in advance," a source here said. The passengers included family members of some Indian diplomats. The repatriation flight later returned with about 80 Indians from Guangzhou. An earlier repatriation flight to Shanghai from India had two passengers who tested positive for Covid-19 on their arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/repatriation-flight-goes-empty-to-china/articleshow/76700977.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Goa||Zuarinagar slum joins list of containment zones||Vasco: After extended discussions throughout the day, Zuarinagar slum in Sancoale was declared a containment zone late Monday night. On Monday morning, South Goa collector Ajit Roy held a meeting with stakeholders at the police outpost near Zuarinagar to discuss the requirements as well as pros and cons of declaring the area as a containment zone. Verna police, along with the panch members of Sancoale panchayat, marked all the entry and exit points where police barricades will be put up. Earlier in the evening, Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said, “They have discussed the requirements and preparedness in case the slum is declared as a containment zone.” Sancoale deputy sarpanch Kavita Kamal, who was among those who attended the meeting, informed the collector that since there are no toilets in the slum, the residents cross the highway and defecate in the open. She said that mobile toilets need to be arranged. While stating that the family members of the 16 new Covid positive patients had not yet been tested, Komal urged authorities to intensify the testing process in the slum. Officials who attended the meeting told TOI that “executive magistrates will be also appointed to supervise the area, which has a 15,000 population”. The containment area comprises parts of ward nos. VII, VIII and IX, while 'Umeya Building, Electricity Quarters and Lamani Colony' are the buffer zones. Mormugao mamlatdar Saiesh Naik, joint mamlatdar-I Krishna Gauns and joint mamlatdar-II Dhiren Banvaliker have been appointed as duty magistrates for the containment zone, for maintaining law and order||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zuarinagar-slum-joins-list-of-containment-zones/articleshow/76698160.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 30, 2020||Goa||Money given for welfare schemes||Panaji: Even under severe economic stress due to the pandemic, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday cleared the instalment of Dayanand Social Security Scheme (DSSS) and Griha Aadhar scheme of around 2.65 lakh beneficiaries. “We continue to work for the welfare of our people, especially the needy. I have approved release of next instalment for DSSS and Griha Aadhar,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/money-given-for-welfare-schemes/articleshow/76698419.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Rise in caseload, Covid care centres to the rescue||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has decided to enhance Covid Care Centres (CCCs) as strategy to treat patients who have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. With the caseload increasing by the day, the health department has decided to set up such centres in every district to reduce the burden on hospitals. Equipped with medical personnel and basic diagnostic and radiographic imaging facilities, these centres have come as a boon for Covid-19 patients seeking treatment outside the hospital setting. Andhra Pradesh has 13,891 cumulative Covid-19 cases as of Monday. There are 7,479 active cases with 6,232 recoveries and 180 deaths. Of the 7,479 active cases, 5,839 patients are being treated at Covid hospitals, while the remaining 1,640 patients have been kept at Covid Care Centres . Dr C Prabhakara Reddy, special officer of Covid Command Centre, said that the state government has allotted 1,000-bedded Covid Care Centres in every district. “One of these centres will be designated as ‘novel CCC’ (triage centre). Diagnostic facilities such as ECG, X-ray will be available in every novel CCC,” Dr Prabhakar Reddy said. “Soon after a person tests positive for Covid-19, they will be shifted to the novel CCC. If the patient has mild symptoms or is asymptomatic, the patient will be shifted to a CCC. If someone with mild symptoms seeks home isolation, permission will be provided for the same as well. However, moderate and severe cases will be shifted to Covid hospitals,” Dr Prabhakar Reddy added. Patients in home isolation will monitor their pulse, blood pressure, blood glucose level, SpO2 (oxygen saturation) on a regular basis. They will be trained to do this on their own at the CCC or by ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives) of that particular area. Further, tele-consultation centres have been set up in every district to monitor patients in home isolation. These centres will offer guidance on nutrition and provide psychological support. If there’s any anomaly in the patient’s health, they will be shifted to Covid hospitals. ANMs and tele-consultation teams will inform rapid response teams to shift such patients. Home isolation of a patient will be deemed complete on the 28th day of the isolation period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/rise-in-caseload-care-centres-to-the-rescue/articleshow/76702781.cms||---
June 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Rise in caseload, Covid care centres to the rescue||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has decided to enhance Covid Care Centres (CCCs) as strategy to treat patients who have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. With the caseload increasing by the day, the health department has decided to set up such centres in every district to reduce the burden on hospitals. Equipped with medical personnel and basic diagnostic and radiographic imaging facilities, these centres have come as a boon for Covid-19 patients seeking treatment outside the hospital setting. Andhra Pradesh has 13,891 cumulative Covid-19 cases as of Monday. There are 7,479 active cases with 6,232 recoveries and 180 deaths. Of the 7,479 active cases, 5,839 patients are being treated at Covid hospitals, while the remaining 1,640 patients have been kept at Covid Care Centres . Dr C Prabhakara Reddy, special officer of Covid Command Centre, said that the state government has allotted 1,000-bedded Covid Care Centres in every district. “One of these centres will be designated as ‘novel CCC’ (triage centre). Diagnostic facilities such as ECG, X-ray will be available in every novel CCC,” Dr Prabhakar Reddy said. “Soon after a person tests positive for Covid-19, they will be shifted to the novel CCC. If the patient has mild symptoms or is asymptomatic, the patient will be shifted to a CCC. If someone with mild symptoms seeks home isolation, permission will be provided for the same as well. However, moderate and severe cases will be shifted to Covid hospitals,” Dr Prabhakar Reddy added. Patients in home isolation will monitor their pulse, blood pressure, blood glucose level, SpO2 (oxygen saturation) on a regular basis. They will be trained to do this on their own at the CCC or by ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives) of that particular area. Further, tele-consultation centres have been set up in every district to monitor patients in home isolation. These centres will offer guidance on nutrition and provide psychological support. If there’s any anomaly in the patient’s health, they will be shifted to Covid hospitals. ANMs and tele-consultation teams will inform rapid response teams to shift such patients. Home isolation of a patient will be deemed complete on the 28th day of the isolation period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rise-in-caseload-care-centres-to-the-rescue/articleshow/76698421.cms||---
