02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Discrepancies in Covid data leave Haryana health authorities baffled||As many as 2,091 coronavirus cases were recorded in Haryana on May 31, a number that does not go with the data of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Union ministry of health.The ICMR web portal, for the same day, showed two values for the total number of coronavirus cases — 2,875 and 5,529 — while the Union ministry of health showed 2,881 positive cases in the state. The ICMR and health ministry also got the sampling data from 12 government and seven private testing labs in the state. Similarly, the total number of samples tested till June 1 stood at about 1.21 lakh as per the Haryana health department statistics. The ICMR data, however, showed that about 1.33 lakh samples were tested till June 1.In a nutshell, the numbers — sampling as well as positive cases — reflected in the ICMR records are higher than the state data.The glaring discrepancies in the Covid-19 data have serious repercussions in terms of isolating the infected persons, contact tracing, surveillance, infrastructure planning and strategy formulation to tackle the emerging situation. ‘PRIVATE LABS DID NOT SHARE DATA’The data muddle has perplexed the state authorities who suspected private testing labs of suppressing the sampling data.When asked additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that a number of private testing labs based in Delhi but having collection centres in Gurgaon and Faridabad did not share the testing data with the state authorities. The private labs though submitted the testing data for the ICMR web portal. “If they do not share the sampling data, how will we do the contact tracing,’’ the ACS said. Officials said that while the labs dispatched the data online to ICMR, they did not share it with Haryana.The health department, subsequently, in a communication to 18 ICMR approved private labs in the national capital asked them to mandatorily inform each Covid-19 positive case from Haryana to the civil surgeons.“It has been brought to the notice of state health authorities that the ICMR approved Covid-19 testing private labs in Delhi were accepting samples of patients and suspects residing in Haryana without the concurrence of Haryana government. Moreover, these labs are not conveying the results to concerned district health authorities even in the case of coronavirus positive results, a serious concern in the control of Covid-19 pandemic. In many cases, incomplete and wrong addresses, incorrect contact details are mentioned which defy surveillance activities,’’ reads the communication sent to private labs.ICMR WEB PORTAL SNAGSEven as the data tangle remained partially sorted, the state government on Tuesday took up the data mess with the ICMR.In a letter to the ICMR director, Haryana’s director-general health services said the state was facing issues regarding the data on the ICMR portal. “There are incomplete entries with no mandatory columns being filled. In many entries, there are wrong, missing or incomplete addresses without contact details. Some cases have a permanent address of a particular district of Haryana, details of which have been taken from Aadhaar card but the patient is not residing at that particular address. There are duplicate data entries. If one person got tested at two labs, the ICMR portal showed two different cases, as there were no unique ID being generated for such patients. There is a mismatch of data between state and ICMR web portal,’’ the letter said.Meanwhile, during an audit of a private lab in Gurgaon, it emerged that while the ICMR data showed a total of 16,889 tests and 825 positive cases of the lab as on June 2, the lab’s own record showed 12916 tests and 635 positive cases.While chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday claimed the government has sorted out the data mismatch and there was nothing to get alarmed, the confusion is far from being over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/discrepancies-in-covid-data-leave-haryana-health-authorities-baffled/story-PExIZnMpk9WtgZioO5EACN.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Can’t set up testing labs in all 36 districts: State to HC||The state government said in an affidavit at the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday that it is not possible to set up full-fledged Covid-19 testing labs in all 36 districts.The affidavit filed by director health services, Mumbai, stated that there is a shortage of skilled technicians to operate the labs and facilities in all districts. It added that as more cases were being reported from urban and semi-urban areas, hence most labs were in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad. In all, 24 districts have full-fledged testing labs and work on setting up facilities in the remaining districts is being considered.The division bench, headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta, after hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a fisherman from Ratnagiri seeking directions to set up a full-fledged Covid-19 testing lab had asked the state why all districts did not have testing facilities for the novel coronavirus.The PIL filed by a fisherman Khalil Ahmed Hasanmiya Watsa through advocate Rakesh Bhatkar was listed for hearing on Tuesday but it was adjourned to Friday. The state, however, submitted its reply by Dr Sadhana Tayade, director health services, Mumbai stating that before the outbreak there was only one testing lab in Pune but additional labs were made operational at breakneck speed and now there were 79 labs across the state. Of the total labs, 44 were state-run while 25 were private.The affidavit added that though only 24 districts have proper labs, the remaining districts were being serviced by labs in adjoining districts. Tayade also stated that as there is a shortage of skilled manpower and requisite facilities in all districts, thus efforts are being made to upgrade existing labs to be able to handle Covid-19 testing too.The affidavit concludes that the thrust is on having labs in urban and semi-urban areas as most positive cases are being reported from there, however setting up labs in other areas is under consideration and the one at Ratnagiri will become functional in 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-t-set-up-testing-labs-in-all-36-districts-state-to-hc/story-NtgdtPhaqZ2Gyq0i2atp7L.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Shramik train operations to continue; Railways keep eye on waterlogging||The railways will continue operations of special passenger trains and Shramik special trains for migrant workers from the city on Tuesday. With the warning of heavy rainfall due to cyclone Nisarga, the Central, Western and Konkan railway have asked their control room to be on high alert.200 Railway Protection Force (RPF) officials have been deployed on railway stations, foot overbridges (FOB) and on railway platforms to assist passengers. The railways have also formed teams of their disaster management unit that will undertake patrolling of railway tracks to inspect waterlogging.“The control rooms are kept on high alert and constant weather updates will be taken from India Meteorological Department (IMD). Track patrolling will be undertaken and railway engineers will be kept on standby as precautionary measures,” said AK Jain, senior public relation officer, Central Railway.The railways have also formed teams of its railway disaster unit that will be visiting the railway stations and monitoring passenger movement and rainfall.The decision on continuation of trains will be taken after checking on water logging of tracks.“We will decide on the operation of trains to and from the city after inspection and checking of waterlogging and updates from the IMD,” said a senior railway official.Areas like Kurla, Sion, Bandra, Chunabhatti, Masjid Bunder are critical locations for the railways as waterlogging in the areas have disrupted train movements.Earlier, train operations were suspended to Kolkata after cyclone Amphan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shramik-train-operations-to-continue-railways-keep-eye-on-waterlogging/story-D4Ahd14glCJRxCLVnvr2SN.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||150 Covid patients shifted from BKC||About 150 patients were shifted from the Bandra Kurla Complex’s (BKC) makeshift Covid-19 hospital on Tuesday to the NSCI Exhibition Centre in Worli and Sion Hospital, as a precautionary measure against the arrival of Cyclone Nisarga.BKC is also a low-lying area, however, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), that had built the makeshift hospital, said that although the structure can sustain winds of 80 to 100 km per hour, patients are being shifted as a precautionary measure by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, while addressing citizens on Tuesday evening, said, “Along with heavy rains we are also expecting heavy wind flow due to which, as a precautionary measure, we shifted patients.”MMRDA in a statement said, “The impending threat of Cyclone Nisarga is upon Mumbai. The hospital can sustain strong winds of up to 80 to 100 km per hour, however, with human lives at stake, as a precautionary measure, all the patients (about 150) from the hospital are being shifted by BMC.”The MMRDA had constructed the makeshift hospital in 10 days at the MMRDA grounds in BKC for treating Covid-19 patients and handed over the same to the BMC last month. A BMC official said, “We had to shift patients from BKC as the makeshift structure would be directly impacted by the cyclone as it is on an open ground.”In case of Dharavi that has around 2,000 patients admitted under an isolation and quarantine facility at the slum, BMC officials said they will not require shifting considering they are in a safe place. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, BMC’s G North Ward, under which Dharavi falls, said, “We do not need to shift any patients from Dharavi due to cyclone alert or predictions of rainfall. All patients are in a safe spot.”Meanwhile, in all the remaining Covid-19 care centres the BMC said either the beds are prepared on the pucca structure or are under the structure due to which the patients will not be required to be shifted. A BMC official not wishing to be named said, “There are handful of covid-19 hospitals or health care centres having close proximity to the sea, however, there is no requirement of shifting them considering there is enough buffer space.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/150-covid-patients-shifted-from-bkc/story-LYiBme3SNPsiYFiHMXlUhL.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi govt decision on sealing of borders holds weight:Khattar||The Haryana government which had allowed free movement of people from Delhi after the fourth phase of the coronavirus lockdown appeared on Tuesday to be having second thoughts, after the national capital ordered sealing of its own borders. Responding to mediapersons on the issue, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the decision holds weight as strictness was needed on the Delhi-Haryana border. “The ministry of home affairs has given guidelines that all interstate borders should be opened. We also took a decision to open these. But later, Delhi said the borders should not be opened for now,” Khattar, who was addressing a virtual press conference, said. “Our borders were already closed but when the Delhi government said these should not be opened, we felt what they are saying holds weight. Strictness should be there for now along the Delhi-Haryana border,” he added.The CM said they will talk to the Delhi government as a consensus should be there on interstate issues. On Monday, the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government ordered the sealing of the Delhi borders for a week in the wake of rising coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-govt-decision-on-sealing-of-borders-holds-weight-khattar/story-bsY90IpCumzMUskby6rFAO.html
02-06-2020||City||Ludhiana MC panel sticks to 2014 CLU, EDC rates, rejects 2017 changes||Ludhiana: A municipal corporation (MC) committee set up to take a decision on change of land use (CLU) and external development charges (EDC) in the city, has decided to continue with rates notified in 2014, rejecting rates issued by the state government in 2017.The decision will benefit people getting building plans approved for residential buildings but will prove to be expensive for those seeking permissions to build commercial propertiesA meeting of the committee was held at Zone D of the municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday in which the MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar also participated. Earlier the committee accused the building branch of imposing rates from which builders would benefit even when the 2017 rates were rejected by the MC general house in 2017. Members of the committee, councillors Mamta Ashu, Dr Jai Prakash, Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Bhalla among others said, “As per the rates issued by the state government in 2017, the charges for getting commercial plans approved were reduced while rates of getting residential plans approved were increased. The house had rejected the rates issued by the state government and a committee was formed by mayor Balkar Sandhu to take a final decision on the same. The committee has stood by the decision of house and rates issued in 2014 would be applicable in the entire city.”The proceedings of the committee meeting will now be tabled in the general house meeting and then forwarded to the local bodies department for final approvals. “MC chief Brar has also been asked to take action against the officials who have imposed different rates for approving building plans in the past,” Ashu said. Construction of illegal buildings: Making officials accountableAshu said that the building branch of the MC took action against owners of illegal buildings only when the building violations were brought to the notice of senior officials or councillors. MC chief Brar had been asked to fix the responsibility of officials and action should also be taken against the building inspector or assistant town planner concerned in case of any illegal construction in the area. “Illegal multi-storey buildings have been constructed in Feroze Gandhi Market and near Chand Cinema in the past.Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh has been directed to inquire into the matter and has also been asked to inquire into the role of the municipal town planner (MTP) Monica Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-panel-sticks-to-2014-clu-edc-rates-rejects-2017-changes/story-tvht3HMhW5vPBwDxWcWryN.html
02-06-2020||City||Two more staffers at Thane jail test positive||Two more employees of Thane central jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. A 56-year-old administrative officer, who was on leave for two months, and a 36-year-old constable have been infected. With this, a total of three staffers from Thane jail have tested Covid positive.On May 29, a 22-year-old jail guard tested positive and he is asymptomatic.The constable and the jail guard had been handling calls using the same phone.The constable has been admitted to a Thane hospital. “Prison guards and constables have been working in a shift of 21 days. Since May 29, I had cold and didn’t recover. I went for Covid test and on Tuesday the report came positive,” he said.Thane jail superintendent H Ahirrao said that they are screening others who are on duty.“The administrative officer was already on leave since the lockdown started. The constable was not on duty for the past several days. But, we are checking employees’ health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-staffers-at-thane-jail-test-positive/story-XqyIxPhhcY8jsnUlG19SAO.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s hostel wardens asked to interact with hostellers||The hostel wardens of Panjab University have been asked to hold interactive sessions with hostellers under them.This was discussed in a meeting on Tuesday, chaired by dean students’ welfare (DSW) women, Sukhbir Kaur, in which hostel wardens were present. Kaur took charge as DSW (women) on Monday after approval from the PU syndicate on Saturday. This was the first meeting she held with the wardens.“We have asked wardens to increase their visibility among hostel residents in present circumstances. We have given the wardens many ideas to hold webinars for the hostellers.”“We have told them to get their contact details so they can be part of these interactive sessions. In the next two days, the topics will be decided,” she said.“We are already in touch with students and addressing their grievances in the best way possible,” a hostel warden said.UIPS gets new chairpersonMeanwhile, Indu Pal Kaur joined as the chairperson of PU’s University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) for a three-year term on Monday. Kaur is an active researcher at PU with an expertise in “Improvement of bioprofile of therapeutic drugs and molecules using nanoparticle technology”. She has been granted four Indian and one US patents and filed 22 patents in 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-hostel-wardens-asked-to-interact-with-hostellers/story-lZ4RZ5DCaA0EJ1JAbJ0EMP.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Governor likely to overturn Thackeray’s decision on final year examinations||After objecting to the recommendations made by the state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant for cancellation of final year examinations to the University Grants Commission (UGC), Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari asserted on Tuesday that he has the final authority on the matter as chancellor of all the universities, and the decision for conducting examinations should be taken in consonance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act.The move comes two days after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray declared that universities will not be holding examinations for final year students and they will be promoted based on their past performance. The announcement was made in a live address made by the CM on Sunday.This may lead to another round of tussle between Koshyrai and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The Governor had described the announcement made by Thackeray as “unprecedented’ and made “without any profound thinking on the legal repercussions”. He also said that the decision, if implemented, would jeopardize students’ future.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) have opposed the decision and demanded that exams be conducted.ABVP is the students’ wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).In a letter to the CM written on June 2, the Governor said that he was “surprised” to learn through media reports that the former had declared that “no examinations shall be conducted this year’” while he was still awaiting a response to his letter to the CM.Stating the decision as arbitrary, he said that it has violated the basic principle that to obtain an identical degree, there cannot be two sets of criteria, one who has given examination and for the other who has obtained marks on average. “The examinations cannot be made optional”, the letter states.Koshyari said even though the committee of vice-chancellors constituted by Samant, to analyse the situation and to explore various options available to conduct the examinations, had given its report to the secretary, higher and technical education department on May 6, the same had not been presented to him till date.Samant did not reply to calls and messages.Koshyari stated that he had mentioned that the chancellor’s office shall give further directions after accepting the recommendations of the committee partially or fully once the report was received by him.He added that all vice-chancellors had communicated their preparedness for conducting examinations in a video conference meeting held recently.On May 22, the Governor wrote to the CM to resolve the issue of conducting final year examinations “without any further delay in the larger interest of students.”Previously, Koshyari had not taken any decision on the request made by the state cabinet to appoint Thackeray as MLC from his quota to avoid a constitutional crisis amid the pandemic.Before that, the Governor also did not appoint NCP leaders — Shivajirao Garje and Aditi Nalawade — as members of the state legislative Council, despite being recommended by the CM in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/governor-likely-to-overturn-thackeray-s-decision-on-final-year-examinations/story-dX7E2j5u0eitarZwf8BJQO.html
02-06-2020||City||On Day 1 of border sealing, inter-state traffic moves without a hurdle||New Delhi: Traffic moved smoothly at some of the 29 border points in Delhi while intermittent checking was conducted at some others on Tuesday, a day after the Delhi government put stringent curbs on interstate travel for a week to protect the city’s health care resources as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed 20,000-mark.On Tuesday, Delhi reported 1,298 Covid cases with the total tally reaching 22,132. Eleven more people died over the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 556, according to the Delhi government’s daily bulletin. The average number of daily new cases in the last week has been 1,095 and the Delhi government has been taking several measures to augment bed strength across hospitals and medical institutions. Senior Delhi Police officers said their personnel were briefed not to “unnecessarily harass anyone” and “allow Delhi residents to enter the Capital after seeing their residential proof”. Many regular commuters HT spoke to said that their travel to Delhi from Ghaziabad and Noida was smoother than what they had experienced in the past few weeks despite curbs imposed by the district administrations of the two Uttar Pradesh cities.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “The Delhi government had sent the order to seal all borders to the Delhi police. It is now the job of the police to enforce it. The Delhi police is not under us.” At the Gurugram border, there was no restriction on the Delhi side as commuters, including officer-goers, drove across without any checking by the Delhi Police staff. At the Ghaziabad (UP)-Ghazipur (Delhi) border, the police conducted random checks occasionally during the day time. But in the evening peak hour, no car was being stopped from entering or leaving Delhi. Many commuters said they were confused about whether the restrictions on the border had been relaxed contrary to what the Delhi government had announced a day ago.The Gurugram police, however, closed the barricades to check for movement passes and turned away a few commuters who could not establish a reason to visit the city. The police also asked people to paste the movement pass issued by the district administration on the windscreen of their cars so that their personnel deployed at the border can check it without disrupting the traffic flow.The Haryana government had decided on Sunday evening to ease restrictions on the state’s borders with Delhi in Gurugram that had been in place since May 1. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said talks will be held with the Delhi government to build a consensus on the inter-state movement issue. He, however, said some restrictions should stay in place. “Our borders were already closed but when the Delhi government said these should not be opened, we felt what they are saying holds weight. Strictness should be there for now along the Delhi-Haryana border,” Khattar said.Mandeep Singh, a senior executive of a private company in Gurugram, said he had left his home in Hauz Khaz for his office at 7am to avoid any screening from the police at the border. “I left way ahead of my office reporting time because I did not have any pass to show to the police had they stopped me. But, my colleagues who came from Delhi at the usual office time, later told me that there was no checking of any kind. I had a sleepless night for no reason. The government should have made its intention clear,” he said. At the Badarpur border, however, the police checked the identity cards and passes of all commuters entering the national capital by cars or motorcycles, but no questions were asked of those leaving the city.Many motorists had a tough time trying to convince the police that they belonged to Delhi and should be allowed to pass through.“So many people are showing old passes. We don’t know how to deal with them. So, we are going by our judgement in each case,” said an assistant sub-inspector deployed there.“I had gone to perform a puja at my client’s home in Indirapuram in the morning. Nobody stopped me or asked for any pass. Now that I want to return home, the policemen at Delhi border refused to let me in as I do not have a movement pass. I told them Delhi CM has banned other states residents and showed them my Delhi residence proof. But they are not letting me in,” said east Delhi’s Mandawali resident Anil Pandit, after a brief argument with the policemen at the Ghazipur border.When told about such confusion and confrontation, deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said, “The personnel deployed at borders have been briefed to assist people who are facing emergent situations. They have been asked not to harass anyone but guide and educate people properly.”At the Dundahera and Mandi Border-(Chattarpur farms) in south Delhi, commuters were seen crossing the border without any checks, even as police barricades and policemen were present. Similarly, no restrictions were seen at the Maharajpur, Mayur Vihar, and Bhopura borders in east and northeast Delhi, as motorists were crossing the barricades freely.“We are implementing all the provisions mentioned in the new notification. Whatever issues and confusions have come to our notice will soon be resolved. Those who require to visit Delhi should get movement passes to avoid the restrictions,” said Delhi Police spokesperson, Mandeep Singh Randhawa.Movement passes, the real hassleWhile the traffic flow was mostly smooth, the issuance of travel passes by the district magistrates in Delhi appeared to be the real pain for the people. While senior officials in the government said those working in private firms will also be issued passes by the district magistrates (DMs), the district administrations remained divided over whether to give passes only to those engaged in emergency and essential services, or grant permission to others working in non-essential sectors as well. “At a time when all offices and other economic activities have been opened up nationally, it is difficult to restrict the movement of people. Also, there is a waiting of over 4,000 e-pass applications, accumulated over the last two days,” said one DM on condition of anonymity. At least two DMs said e-passes in their district are being issued only to those engaged in essential services. Government employees do not require such passes and persons having a travel pass issued by district in any other states are also allowed to travel. Trucks, cargo and good vehicles are also permitted unrestricted movement, as per the Delhi government’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-day-1-of-border-sealing-inter-state-traffic-moves-without-a-hurdle/story-uhTsZOh3pG2n8BAPj9T1nN.html
02-06-2020||Noida||After man tests positive, residents of Ambedkar Basti worry about their livelihoods||After a 21-year old man from an urban slum in Sector-37 tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, a number of other residents in the congested locality have been left worrying about their livelihoods apart from being concerned about the spread of the infection in the area.Many residents of Ambedkar Basti who work as domestic workers in the neighbouring sectors said after the Covid-19 case emerged, their employers fear the infection could spread through them prompting many resident groups to bar their entries in housing societies.Gali No 3 of Ambedkar Basti, from where the case was reported, houses hundreds of people who work as domestic helps, gardeners, guards and drivers in the nearby upscale residential area Arun Vihar (spread over sectors 28, 29 and 37). Many of these workers said they were expecting to join work from June 1 following a two-month-long hiatus in the wake of the nationwide lockdown, but now their plans have gone up in the air.Suparna Haldar and Chandana Haldar, who work as domestic helps in Arun Vihar, said even as they were scared of the virus spread, being left two months without wages had rendered them helpless and in desperate need of getting back to their jobs.“ We had received no salaries for April and May, and I was supposed resume work in Sector 27 yesterday. However, our employers asked us to go back home because of this one case,” said Suparna.Sunita Kundru, another resident of Ambedkar Basti was facing similar issues. “I did not earn anything in the last two months and in this period I received no financial support from the families I work for or from the government. We received only 10-kilo wheat and 10-kilo rice from as ration per month,” said Sunita.“Police officers came to the locality and asked the people living in the house where the suspect resides not to step outside, but they would not listen at all. It’s only after the people of the Basti started to object, that they finally went inside their home. Now it’s because of them that we can’t work either,” said Shyam Lal, a resident of Ambedkar Basti, who cleans cars in the neighbouring sectors.Suneeta Devi, another resident of the area, said on Tuesday she was asked to return from the entry gates of the housing society in Sector 27 where she works as a domestic help.Keeping in mind the well being of the residents and fearing a community spread through the residents of Ambedkar Basti, the resident welfare association(RWA) of Arun Vihar has advised its residents to stay cautious.“It’s a difficult situation as most of the helping staff that works here as guards, helps and others live in Ambedkar Basti where a man tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. A few gates were opened and some families are still letting them in and allowing them to resume work. Some families have also called their drivers back on duty. However, we have advised the residents to not let the workers from the basti to join work in a bid to contain the virus from spreading,” said Colonel (Retd.) Shashi Vaidh, chairman, RWA, Arun Vihar.Meanwhile, administration officials said new cases are being tracked closely, and residents in areas from where the cases are reported are being advised against socialising.“All positive patients are being taken to the isolation centres, and their contacts have been asked to remain inside their homes as much as possible,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Officials said that they are also carrying out sanitisation drives in all the areas.“Our teams are conducting sanitisation drives and spraying disinfectants in all areas where new cases are being reported. Even today, we sanitised over 25 localities and the process will continue,” said Dr Shireesh Jain, assistant chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-man-tests-positive-residents-of-ambedkar-basti-worry-about-their-livelihoods/story-HmwYQEafFUZ7F0XAKySnaL.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn sends reminder to Punjab govt for panel of names for SSP post||The Chandigarh administration has sent a reminder to the Punjab government seeking the panel of names (IPS officers) for the post of UT senior superintendent of police (SSP). The post is reserved for Punjab cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. The term of incumbent SSP Nilambari Jagadale, a 2008 cadre officer, ends in August. Jagadale took over on August 22, 2017.The panel of names, received from Punjab, and then cleared by UT administrator, will be recommended to the Union home ministry for its approval.Significantly, the Chandigarh Administration had sent a request for panel for the SSP post more than two months back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-sends-reminder-to-punjab-govt-for-panel-of-names-for-ssp-post/story-g8w6L92tgtHF9FJzqZsbdK.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 doubling rate in Haryana shrinks to 6 days||The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Haryana shrank to six days on Tuesday as the state recorded 296 new infections. In Gurugram alone, 160 people have tested positive in last 24 hours. The rate was 17 days on May 27 and by May 31, it fell to nine days. National doubling rate two days ago was 15.6 days. Two men in Faridabad succumbed to the disease, taking the total number of fatalities to 23, the state government said in its bulletin. Haryana’s corona count has now mounted to 2,652 with 1,560 active cases. Gurugram, a national capital region (NCR) district, continues to be a major cause of concern for the health department. In past one week, there has been a sudden spike in infections in Haryana in general and Gurugram in particular. Now, Gurugram has 1,063 cases of which, 775 are active. On Tuesday, Rohtak registered 45 cases, Faridabad 26 and Sonepat 21. As per the bulletin, nine cases were detected in Palwal, seven in Ambala, six in Bhiwani, five in Fatehabad, four each in Karnal and Sirsa, three in Jind, two each in Panipat and Jhajjar, and one each in Narnaul and Kurukshetra. Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Of the seven patients, six are from Ahluwalia building in cantonment. They are closely related to the 65-year-old cancer patient, who tested positive on Sunday. Four of these persons live in the same house while two are neighbours.”MISMATCH IN NUMBERSThough the health department in the bulletin mentioned four fresh cases in Karnal, the local administration said 11 people, including five children and a jail inmate, had tested positive on Tuesday, pushing the number of infected persons in the district to 67 and active cases to 44.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the new patients included a 49-year-old undertrial lodged in district jail, who was arrested in Yamunanagar on June 1. Among the other infected patients are three kids, a young couple and a 72-year-old woman of Karnal village.In Panipat, a 22-year-old newly married woman with travel history to Delhi was tested positive. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said she belonged to Purewal colony of Karnal city. She had come from Ghaziabad. A 55-year-old woman, whose husband is a Covid patient, was also found infected in Kurukshetra. BOX:Patient found dead at Dadri civil hospital ROHTAK: A 38-year-old Covid-19 patient was found dead inside a toilet of Charkhi Dadri civil hospital late on Monday. He hailed from Dhani Phogat village of the district and had tested positive for the virus on Monday. His body was spotted by other patients the same night. However, hospital authorities claimed that the man fell inside the toilet, which caused his death. Dadri deputy commissioner Shiv Prasad Sharma said he has formed a team of eight doctors to investigate the reason behind the patient’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-doubling-rate-in-haryana-shrinks-to-6-days/story-tbFOK8VkQPkpGdsBiWNJuI.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to procure sunflower seeds at ₹5,650 per quintal MSP||The Haryana government will procure 13,784 metric tonnes (MT) of sunflower seeds at the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹5,650 per quintal from June 5 onward, said additional chief secretary (ACS), agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal.The sunflower crop is mainly grown in Kurukshetra, Ambala, Panchkula and Yamunanagar districts.The state government has designated Haryana State Co-operative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited (HAFED) and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) for procuring the crop, the ACS added.Procurement centers have been set up at Ambala Cantonement, Ambala City, Mullana, Sahajadpur of Ambala district, Barwala of Panchkula district, and Ismiliabad, Shahbad and Thanesher of Kurukshetra district.Kaushal said that the state government will procure the entire estimated production of 13,784 MT during the current season as against the 3,446 MT approved by the central government.“Only the farmers registered on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal will be entitled to sell their produce to the procuring agencies. As many as 6,109 farmers have registered themselves on the portal,” he said.He added that the payment will directly be transferred into the farmers’ bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-procure-sunflower-seeds-at-5-650-per-quintal-msp/story-bMuMCG8Sp9JvbfxNMoH0LJ.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman stabbed to death in Rohtak||A 26-year-old woman was stabbed to death allegedly by her brother-in-law in Rohtak’s Kharak Jattan, police said on Tuesday. The victim is Sonia, who had married Tinku about six years ago.Her aunt Sami said Sonia was stabbed by her brother-in-law Baljeet alias Ballu on Monday night and she died during treatment at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) on Tuesday. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Satywan of Lakhan Majra police station said they have booked Baljeet under sections 302 (murder), 323 and 324 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“ A hunt is on to nab the accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-stabbed-to-death-in-rohtak/story-NT1YUYvQQSHE9su7Q614jK.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||CBSE issues guidelines for students taking board exams from July 1||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday released the provisions and guidelines for board students slated to appear for their examination between July 1 and 15. The exams had been postponed since March 19 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown that followed.The board has laid down special provisions for students who have returned to their home towns and wish to appear from a different examination centre than their schools. Last week, HT had reported that students in residential or boarding schools were likely to face challenges while returning to their schools to appear for their papers.“The CBSE will allow change of examination centre with respect to candidates who have shifted and are residing in districts other than the place of their school,” the board said on Tuesday. Students who were residing in hostels, or were being sponsored by state governments, or those who have shifted from the district of their school to other districts will be eligible to change their exam centres.Since Delhi will be considered as a single district for this purpose, change of examination centre from one local district to another will not be permitted, the board said. While the exams for 12 subjects of Class 12 will be held across the country, the examinations for six subjects of Class 10 will be held only in north-east Delhi, which was torn by communal riots in February, with the result that children in these parts were unable to take their exams.For students whose schools fall in containment zones, different centres will be allotted outside the containment zone. The board will accept requests of candidates for change of examination centre only through their school. Schools have been asked to contact the students and provide the necessary information to the board through the e-pariksha portal of the CBSE website between June 3 and 11. The board will later provide “Permission Letters” to the schools to forward it to students who will have to take printouts of the letter and carry it to their exam centres.The CBSE has also said the exam results of children with special needs, who need scribes and do not wish to appear for their papers, will be declared as per the assessment scheme that is to be decided by the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cbse-issues-guidelines-for-students-taking-board-exams-from-july-1/story-Tsk4VRSTiKgu399Kx8G7QO.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||New online property tax format throws up glitches, residents hassled||At a time when the three municipal corporations in the city are facing a financial crunch and are seeking to boost their revenues with property taxes, residents complained that the new version of the online format to fill the tax details is not user-friendly and that there were issues in accessing and submitting forms to pay the tax.Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across Delhi have raised the issue with the corporations and urged them to simplify the process and provide assistance to house owners, especially senior citizens, who have been facing the most difficulties. Unlike every year, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the corporations are unable to set up facilitation camps to help those without internet connectivity or smartphones.According to civic officials, the property tax websites of the corporations -- South, North and East --- have been updated last month and new features were introduced. The sites were under construction until at least May 20. Every year, most house owners deposit the property tax between April 1 and June 30, which is the window when they are entitled to get a 15% rebate on the total amount.From errors in signing up to wiping out previous records of the property, the issues raised by residents are many. Atul Goyal, president, URJA (United Residents Joint Action), an umbrella body of 2,500 RWAs, said the association has written to the corporations to fix the glitches. “There are multiple errors showing up such as not allowing one to register or access the form. Also, the new system does not include all modes of payment,” Goyal said.He added that the site also makes it mandatory to submit banking details for payment. In the previous format, there was an option to generate a receipt with which one could pay the tax by cheque. Also, registering your phone number and email address are now prerequisites to access the form. For many senior citizens, this has become an issue.“Until last year, a civic official would come home to help us with filling up the form. Most of the elderly people do not have email addresses. Many live alone while their children are abroad and nobody is there to help them with online activities. Also, there are network issues and sometimes, the OTP doesn’t get generated,” Ashok Prabhakar (80), president, Malviya Nagar senior citizens forum, said.Rajiv Kakria, member, Greater Kailash-1 RWA, said, “Though I was able to access the website, it was only after four days that I could submit the form. However, one of the major issues is that except for the previous payment details, the rest of the history of my property dating back to the 1960s, the renovations and all other such details till date, have been wiped out.” Radha Krishan, joint assessor and collector, south corporation, said with the help of the central government, a new website has been developed to help taxpayers in the long-run. So far, there was no uniformity in the format and people could access the tax details through multiple ways.“However, because of the newly developed format, users are facing some glitches. We are resolving these and offering help to residents on our zonal helplines on weekends. The system will soon be made error-free,” he said.A senior north corporation official said hey are going to release a video, explaining to users step by step how to access the form. Besides, the civic body also plans to launch a helpline to assist people with the procedure. “The portal is being made into a single-window system from where users will be able to avail of other services such as getting licences of shops, renewals, etc., using the same property ID.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-online-property-tax-format-throws-up-glitches-residents-hassled/story-BNLFDP7zvs7E5A9T44xgaO.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||HC directs Azadpur Mandi’s hunger centres to provide labourers two meals a day||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Delhi government to ensure that the two hunger relief centres set up in Azadpur Mandi are provided with enough cooked food so that they can provide the labourers stranded there packed lunch and dinner every day.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad also sought the Delhi government’s response on the plea by the Potato and Onion Merchant Association through its president seeking direction to ensure that about 1,000 labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi, Delhi, during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown are provided two square meals a day, till normalcy is restored in the mandi.The plea filed through advocates Sumit Rana and Amit Jain sought that the stranded workers be relocated to a makeshift shelter home within or around Azadpur Mandi.On Tuesday, the counsels for the petitioner told the court that the labourers are stranded due to the lockdown since only a minimal number of shops have reopened. They said that the workers, who live hand-to-mouth, have been sleeping outside the shops and sheds where social distancing norms are difficult to follow.The plea also said that several letters were written to the authorities, but so far there has been no response from them.Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the court that there are 34 relief centres in the Model Town sub-division, and two hunger relief centres are situated within the Azadpur Mandi.He, however, sought time to file an affidavit furnishing the requisite details detailing how the needs of the labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi are being met, not only in respect of shelter but also of two square meals a day.Following this, the court said, “An affidavit shall be filed by the Delhi government with all the relevant data on or before June 6… In the meantime, the government shall ensure that the two hunger relief centres set up in Azadpur Mandi are provided with enough cooked food so that the labourers stranded there can be provided packed lunch and dinner daily”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-directs-azadpur-mandi-s-hunger-centres-to-provide-labourers-two-meals-a-day/story-BZ1j7Caqh323r70QN7dgzL.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Ahead of Cyclone Nisarga landfall, rains lash Mumbai||Ahead of the expected landfall of cyclone ‘Nisarga’ in Alibaug in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, Mumbai and its metropolitan areas received rainfall since Monday evening, which intensified later in the night.“Met updates at 10.30 pm, 2 Jun. Mumbai and around rainfall since evening. Now its picked up intensity,” India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Mumbai deputy director general of meteorology K S Hosalikar tweeted.The IMD has predicted moderate rainfall in most parts of the metropolis and heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places over the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahead-of-cyclone-nisarga-landfall-rains-lash-mumbai/story-LsezjSSh631QbnBfpyOYXL.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||As cases rise, parents wary of sending kids to schools even if they reopen a month later||With schools and authorities getting ready with plans to reopen educational institutions sometime in July, parents across the national capital are not in favour of sending children back to schools, even in July, as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been rising in the national capital by the day. A cross section of parents HT spoke to on Tuesday said with cases likely to peak in July, going by the present trend, they were wary of sending their wards to school till a vaccination is found for the disease or till the infaction curve flattens in the national capital.Delhi has had over 22,000 cases and 556 deaths till now. Over the last few days, Delhi has seen a record number of cases with the highest ever spike on Tuesday with an increase of 1298 cases in the past 24 hours.An average 968 new cases were reported every day in the last seven days. In the seven days before this, this number was 571, and it was 403 the week before that.As per the ministry of home affairs guidelines released Saturday, schools and educational institutes can reopen in the second phase of the Unlock 1 plan of the Union government to gradually lift the ongoing lockdown. The reopening dates will be announced after consultations with the state governments and all stakeholders, including parents. A decision is this regard is likely in July when the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will also be conducting its remaining board exams.The National Council for Education, Research and Training (NCERT) has already suggested conducting classes in shifts to avoid crowding and curtailing group activities involving the use of common instruments or equipment, among other restrictions. The Delhi government, too, has asked all principals to prepare “micro plans” for opening schools in consultation with teachers, parents, and school management committees.Many parents, however, are wary of sending their children to schools in July – when a peak in cases is expected. Vikas Sharma, whose children study in classes 5 and 1 at DAV Public School, said, “We don’t want schools to reopen till a vaccination is found for Covid-19. A year without education is better than the threat of losing our children.” The Nangloi resident, who has his own business, said, “Most of the parents I have interacted with don’t want this experiment to be done on their children. We won’t send them even if schools decide to reopen.”Rajesh Jha, father of a class 8 student of a government school in Shalimar Bagh, said, “The kind of spike in cases we are seeing now is worrying. Unless there is a drop in cases and the chain is broken, we won’t send our children to school. We are just monitoring the situation and will take a call accordingly.”Aparajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents Association, said parent WhatsApp groups have been abuzz with discussions on the matter. “When adults are finding it hard to maintain social distancing, how can we expect children to do so? Schools will not take the responsibility of our children falling ill.” The association recommends declaring a “zero year” for all classes, except class 12 students.“There were reported cases of Covid-19 among children once schools reopened in France even after maintaining physical distancing. Even South Korea reported a spike in cases. In view of all this, parents are concerned. There has been no consultations with parents so far in this matter,” she said.A petition on change.org, a popular petition website, started by a group called Parents Association urges the Union minister of human resource development to continue the current academic session in the e-learning mode. The petition has nearly 4,20,000 signatories from all over the country so far.Bharat Arora, general secretary of the action committee of unaided recognized private schools, said, “We would like to assure parents that schools will open only after the government allows us. Once open, the safety of every child will be our priority. In addition to standard operating procedures provided by authorities, we are encouraging schools to have their own SOPs for the safety of children.”Director of education Binay Bhushan said, “The Delhi government hasn’t taken any decision on when schools will reopen. It will depend on the condition prevailing at the time the decision is taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-cases-rise-parents-wary-of-sending-kids-to-schools-even-if-they-reopen-a-month-later/story-htBaIe3IQSGrVb0JRatqeI.html
02-06-2020||Noida||Residents approach administration against AOA’s high-handedness||Residents of a high-rise in Sector 78 have approached the office of the district magistrate to highlight violations of the administrative guidelines by the Apartments Owners’ Association (AOA) of the society.Residents of the Hyde Park Society have alleged that the AOA has contravened regulations throughout the lockdown and, despite relaxations in norms, they are not lifting restrictions.“Despite the relaxations in norms, the AOA is making its own rules and going against the directions issued by the administration. There is a restriction on the movement of residents and the entry of domestic help, newspapers, car cleaners, etc.,” a resident of the society said.Residents alleged that since March 17, they have not received newspapers even though they are under the category of essential services.“The latest guidelines only empower the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) or AOAs to ensure hygiene and measures of social distancing or thermal screening, etc. in the society. However, the AOA is still making decisions that go against the guidelines. We have filed two complaints with the district magistrate’s office against the AOA, which is harassing the residents. They want us to get a medical fitness certificate for the maids, which is not a government regulation,” a complainant said.The AOA has, however, denied these allegations.“We have conducted a survey, for which we shared a Google Form with the residents. All decisions have been taken based on the opinions of the residents themselves,” Ashwini Tripathi, the president of the AOA, said.An official from the district magistrate’s office, requesting anonymity, said, “We’ve received the complaint and officials concerned will look into the matter.”Meanwhile, residents-RWA conflicts have been reported all through the lockdown.Regarding the AOA survey, a resident of a society in Sector 75, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “Very few residents participate in the surveys AOAs circulate. It’s not even a transparent process. And now that there are not a lot of restrictions, surveys are pointless. We should be allowed to bring in domestic help if we need them. I want my cook to start coming but the society is still not allowing them to enter.”The police said that legal action can be taken against residential bodies in case of violations.“Residents can file an FIR and action will be taken in case the RWA or AOA is making its own rules against administrative guidelines,” the additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-approach-administration-against-aoa-s-high-handedness/story-WNdp2j5SbNej3Q2PgfhEiM.html
02-06-2020||Noida||Noida authority employees engaged in essential services demand COVID-19 tests||Employees of Noida authority engaged in providing essential services have asked the administration to test them for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Noida employees association (NEA), a group of all staff members of the authority, had met the senior officials of the authority over the issue and had submitted a letter last week demanding camps to conduct random Covid-19 tests for the employees.The Noida authority staff is engaged in the distribution of food to migrant workers and others who were rendered jobless after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown apart from delivering vegetables, groceries in containment zones, and carrying out sanitisation drives across the city.NEA said many employees are worried about their safety after at least six employees, including three accountants, one senior official, and two assistant accounts, showed symptoms of fever and cough (both indicators of possible Covid-19 infection).“We have demanded the administration to conduct random tests of our employees who are possibly exposed to the infection. Many staff members are going daily into hot spots to carry out their duties and they can get infected easily because they are also engaged in disinfecting houses, public spaces, and common areas there. We hope the district health department will start random testing of the employees,” said Dharmendra Sharma, vice-president, Noida Employees association.There are at least 5,000 Noida authority employees who work with multiple departments including horticulture, water, sewer and health department.NEA president Rajkumar Singh said he hopes that the district administration will soon start testing all the employees.“Senior officials have communicated our demands to the district magistrate and other officials in the district health department. We hope that random Covid-19 for our employees will start form Wednesday,” said Singh.Senior district admin officials said the health department cannot conduct Covid-19 tests for all employees because of limited testing capacity. As per protocol, they will first examine people for Covid-19 symptoms and if they feel that someone needs to be tested, they will collect the samples of the suspected patients.“The employees should surely be tested. We will raise the request with the chief medical officer,” said Suhas LY district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-employees-engaged-in-essential-services-demand-covid-19-tests/story-ezeRIk1Ku9At9fWZf6gkNP.html
02-06-2020||City||Delhi government launches mobile app to track corona beds||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched a mobile app, called “Delhi Corona”, using which residents can track the number of available hospital beds and ventilators in Covid-dedicated hospitals across in the national capital. The service can also be accessed using a web browser.While launching the app at a video press briefing, Kejriwal said, “There are 6,731 beds in the city’s hospitals, of which 2,819 beds are occupied, while 3,912 are vacant. Of 302 ventilators in the hospitals, 92 are occupied and 210 vacant. But people are often unable to gather information on hospitals and availability of beds... To bridge that information gap, we have launched an app. You can download this app to avail information on bed availability in various government and private hospitals in Delhi.”The app does not require a user to register or provide any details before using it.He, however, stressed on the importance of home isolation, and asked people to follow doctors’ advice in this regard. As per guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic, or display mild symptoms can isolate at their homes, instead of being admitted to hospitals, subject to them meeting certain criterion.As per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin, the national capital currently has 12,573 active Covid-19 patients, of whom more than 7,461 are in home isolation. “Delhi is four steps ahead of coronavirus in the race, and even if the number of cases is rising, we have made all arrangements if somebody from your family gets infected with the virus. While we say that there is adequate health infrastructure such as beds, ventilators, and ICUs, we receive distress calls and messages from people not getting beds for treatment in hospitals. There is a gap in information,” the chief minister said on Tuesday. Kejriwal had last week announced that such an app would be launched, to quell this “confusion”.The application will be updated twice a day, Kejriwal said, adding: “It is very important to ensure proper management of the health care system to avoid overcrowding hospitals. If a doctor says there is no need to be admitted in the hospital and advises you to self-isolate at home because you are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms, please do it… Please do not panic. We have appointed a team which will be in regular touch with you and your family. If your condition worsens, you will be immediately transferred to a hospital and bed will be arranged for you.” Kejriwal said that if the app tells a patient that beds are empty in a hospital, but the staff refuses to admit them, they can call on the helpline number 1031 and the special secretary will immediately speak to hospital authorities and ensure that patients get help. The application can be downloaded through the Google Play Store or through a link availed by sending a message on a WhatsApp number. The application can also be accessed on its web portal.Later in the day, Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal met Kejriwal, health minister Satyendar Jain, members of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and other top officers in the city for a review meeting on Covid preparedness and resource augmentation, said a press statement issued by the LG’s office.In the meeting, the government was directed to scale up the number of beds with oxygen facilities, ICU beds and ventilators in the dedicated Covid hospitals. The L-G also reviewed the mobile application launched earlier in the day.Baijal also appoined two IAS officials as nodal officers for “proper communication of data” related to Covid-19 from private and government hospitals in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-government-launches-mobile-app-to-track-corona-beds/story-hpdVWWNY4m3yV9uzs9YoRO.html
02-06-2020||City||50 year old woman dies as minister inspects L3 Covid hospital in Ghaziabad||Uttar Pradesh minister finance and medical education Suresh Khanna on Tuesday afternoon inspected a tertiary care facility dedicated to treat Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad. The hospital, the only facility in the district that serves patients who are critical, was opened after the district administration acquired the Santosh Medical College near the Old Bust Stand. It had recently suffered the deaths of two patients due to Covid-19.The death was the fifth in Ghaziabad where it was attributed to comorbid conditions. “The recent death in the hospital was that of a 50-year-old woman. She died due to comorbid conditions. Later, the minister arrived for inspection and also spoke to with several patients,” said Dr. NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO). “We are trying to ensure that emergency services are operational whether it is related heart patients or cases of trauma, gynaecology, kidney or even cancer. We must protect patients from corona while other patients should not be neglected. This is why I have visited,” Khanna told reporters. “Ghaziabad also has a good recovery rate while UP has about 60% of the recovery rate. The state government is taking up all effort to tackle spread of the coronavirus. I spoke to seven corona patients at the hospital. It also included a doctor at the airport and he told that he probably contracted infection at airport and could not maintain social distancing.”The move to start emergency services had several health department officials in the district in a fix. “The hospital is meant exclusively for critical Covid-19 patients and any opening of emergency services for non-Covid patients may pose potential risk,” said one official.CMO Gupta and distric magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey offered no any comment over the issue.“We have non-Covid emergency services at MMG Hospital and Women Hospital while the L-2 (secondary care where moderate cases are treated)category Covid hospital is kept separate and not allowed to operated emergency services due to risk of spread of infection,” CMO said.The tally of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday in Ghaziabad stood at 344 as 13 more cases were added to Monday’s tally of 331. Health officials added that 237 persons have been discharged so far while the number of active cases stood at 102.“The tally of deaths has now reached five which includes death of the 50 year old woman on Tuesday. She is from Jhandapur and had history of diabetes and hypertension. The 13 cases which have come on Tuesday include three from Vasundhra besides others from localities including Vaishali,” CMO added.The other cases include one case each from Surya Nagar, Indirapuram, Crossings Republik, Chander Nagar, Maharajpur, Shalimar Garden, Vijay Nagar, Khoda and Jhandapur.In the meantime Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), said that as per directions of the Indian Council for Medical Research the state has also started with sero-surveillance activities.“Such surveillance activities are taken up in form where Elisa test which is done through blood samples in order to find out infection. The blood samples have been taken up in 10 districts and we are awaiting results. This will help is strengthen containment activities,” Prasad said. “We have already procured 41 tru-net machines which were brought in by state plane and 34 more will arrive in next 2-3 days. We already have 20 of these. These machines will be given to each of the 75 districts and will considerably boost testing of Covid-19 samples and ensure faster results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-year-old-woman-dies-as-minister-inspects-l3-covid-hospital-in-ghaziabad/story-nELlSMthmuYCOyrcKZOjwM.html
02-06-2020||Noida||Another patient dies of Covid-19 in GB Nagar; death toll goes now to eight in the district||A 48-year-old man died of Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday, taking the toll in the district to eight, district health officials said. It also saw 26 new cases, pushing the tally to 496.The dead man, a resident of Rajat Vihar in sector 62, was admitted to the Covid-19 intensive care unit (ICU) of Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida on Saturday afternoon. He also suffered from bronchopneumonia with sepsis and acute respiratory distress syndrome, the district administration said in its statement.This is the first death of a person under 50 in the district. The district earlier had recorded deaths of seven men, aged 60, 62, 62, 65, 71, 90 and 58, due to Covid-19, according to district officials.Forty-seven patients were discharged -- 12 from Sharda Hospital, 31 each from GIMS and two from Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Postgraduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI). Two other patients, who have also been cured, are still in the treatment for other ailments.District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said of 496 positive cases till Tuesday late evening, 346 patients have been discharged from different hospitals till the date. “Eight patients have so far lost their lives and 30 have been cross-notified from other districts and states. As a result, the district now has 142 active cases,” Dohre said.Dohre further said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Sunday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 838 patients were screened today and 18 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Giving details of the 30 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the district surveillance officer said that while 13 of them are from Delhi, one patient each from West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have also been found cross-notified in the GB Nagar district. “While three patient have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 12 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including five from Bulandshahr, four from Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/another-patient-dies-of-covid-19-in-gb-nagar-death-toll-goes-now-to-eight-in-the-district/story-zOdlABZp41Kx3XD2MPuh5I.html
02-06-2020||City||Chaos, confusion prevails after Vaishali locality sealed||The Ghaziabad administration on Monday night sealed Vaishali as the number of Covid-19 cases from the area reached 34, evoking sharp reactions from the residents who alleged that there was no clarity on provisions for door-step delivery of essential services, whether domestic helps would be allowed and the closure of markets in the neighbourhoods. The administration has not specified for how long the measures will be in place. The total number of Covid cases in Ghaziabad district on Tuesday was 331.The main roads leading to Vaishali remained choked since Tuesday morning as residents wanting to move out and those attempting to enter the area were stopped by police at all entry and exit points. Under the sealing drive, Vaishali was divided into two zones comprising four sectors, officiated by administrative, police and health department officers who would be responsible for sampling, tracing and surveillance for the coronavirus.“The restrictions on entry and exit are for all, except essential services, and we have covered all sectors from 1 to 9. Residential colonies have not been sealed but the access controlled roads have been sealed. Those providing essential services can access the areas through two points, one near Max Hospital and the other at sector-4,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).But without clear directions, particularly after the central government had relaxed lockdown norms, the residents were caught unaware. The central government’s order had allowed state governments to decide on how relaxations ought to be implemented within their jurisdiction.“We also sealed our society gates too. Our residents had issues when their online grocery orders were not delivered. Since the lockdown the delivery boys were allowed to come to the main gate. Other residents complained that their domestic helps, plumbers, technicians, etc .,were not allowed to enter. The domestic helps started their work last week but now they were again denied entry,” said Mohit Sharma, joint secretary of Express Green high-rise in sector-1. “The local markets which opened last week were again shut down and only some shops dealing in groceries, fruits, vegetables and milk were allowed to open only from 8am to noon. Since we are also clueless about state of affairs and clear directions, we circulated the number of our sector magistrate to residents to directly reach him for complaints.”Thirty-four markets in the city were allowed to open on alternated days with two days for sanitisation from May 22. But with the sealing on Tuesday, they too have been temporarily put out of business.“We tried our best to clean, sanitise and even stock up. But now it is back to what it was during the lockdown. Our employees who had started report for work were not allowed and sent back. Even we cannot deliver items to our customers,” said Sanjay Rastogi, president of Vaishali Udyog Vyapar Mandal. “Delivery agents were not allowed to come in. The sub divisional magistrate did not specify till when the sealing will be in place.”Aditya Prajapati, the sub divisional magistrate, did not respond to calls or messages about the issues raised by residents.Vaishali is comprised of nine residential sectors and an estimated population of about 150,000 people. It comprise of malls, markets, residential and commercial areas.“When I arrived on Tuesday morning the cops did not allow me to move in to Vaishali. We have our office in sector 3. The entry points are blocked with barricades and buses. The putting up of blockades was initited on Monday evening and even on Tuesday morning. I informed my office that I will not be able to come and went back home.even people who came afoot were not allowed in or out,” said Naveen Rastogi, a sales executive who lives in Dilshad Garden in Delhi.Like Vaishali, the other localities neighbouring Delhi like Khoda (41 cases till June 1) and Loni (29 cases till June 1) were sealed since May 10 and May 27, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chaos-confusion-prevails-after-vaishali-locality-sealed/story-2XOT27bjeNuxMP11VZjJuO.html
02-06-2020||City||Despite Delhi seals its border, Ghaziabad and Noida commuters have free run||Ghaziabad/Noida: Even as the Delhi chief minister on Monday announced to seal the borders for a week, the movement of vehicles on Tuesday was smooth and there was no strict checking at the national capital’s borders with Ghaziabad and Noida.Several commuters from Ghaizabad and Noida had a free run in the morning and also returned home without hindrance in the evening. Commuters said that there were hardly checks put in place by the UP Police or the Delhi Police at the borders.To contain the rising Covid-19 cases, both Ghaziabad and Noida have announced restrictions on border movement, and only those involved in essential services or people with valid passes are allowed to entre the two cities.“There was no stoppage of traffic either by the Ghaziabad police or the Delhi Police, and the commuters went smoothly to Delhi. There were barricades at the border, but no checks were in place in morning hours. I came back home around 5.30pm and still there were no checks by the police on either side,” said Kuldeep Saxena, a commuter from Indirapuram who works at Qutub Institutional Area in South Delhi.“Only the internal expressway lanes of NH-9 near Ghazipur were blocked due to construction works. Although the authorities in both cities have announced sealing of borders, there is hardly any restriction at ground level,” Saxena added.For commuters going to Delhi from Noida, the situation was similar in the morning hours. People coming to Noida faced traffic congestion, while those going to Delhi had a smooth sail on Tuesday.“Though the traffic movement was better than Monday, there was thorough checking at the Noida border. But the other side seemed clear as always,” said Rishi Oswal, a commuter from Delhi travelling via DND Flyway.The barricading at Delhi side was done after 10am, said officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar police.“The traffic was considerably less compared to yesterday’s. But people without requisite documents were being turned away from both sides,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.The officials said that old passes will work for entry in both Delhi and Noida.Anita Singh, a resident of Greater Noida West, said, “We have a medical pass to visit a relative in Delhi and we have been travelling for the past one week. In the evening when we went through the Kalindi Kunj area, we found the police presence and even barricading on the Delhi side. However, the traffic was smooth and we were able to go comfortably.” At the Ghaziabad’s UP Gate border, the checks, however, were put up around 12.30pm on Tuesday, the district police said.“I was going to Delhi without a pass, and the cops turned me back at UP Gate around 12.30pm. Then I took the UP Gate flyover and went towards East Delhi. There were no checks by the Delhi Police,” said Prateek Kumar, a resident of Patel Nagar III in Ghaziabad, who works with a company in Noida’s Sector 65.The Ghaziabad authorities had issued directions for strict sealing of borders with Delhi in the wake of rising number of cases related to cross-border travel. “We have already placed checks and sealing at the borders. However, the traffic was smooth at UP Gate on Tuesday. To avoid any jams, we usually resort to random checks during peak hours. But we keep a tab on vehicles moving across the border. Only those having valid passes or engaged in essential services are allowed to move through,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).Thousands of commuters from Ghaziabad and Noida go to Delhi daily to attend their offices which have now opened in the national capital following relaxations in lockdown.The Ghaziabad officials have advised commuters to return from Delhi after 6pm. In his directions on May 25, the district magistrate had issued a list of commuters who are exempted and can move to Delhi on the basis of their identity cards or through special authroisation issued by their offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-delhi-seals-its-border-ghaziabad-and-noida-commuters-have-free-run/story-gmnlWgI9MWEK445v57NzYN.html
02-06-2020||City||Gurugram records highest single-day jump with 160 Covid-19 cases, breaches 1,000 mark||Gurugram: The district on Tuesday registered 160 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day jump till date, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,063, according to the state health department bulletin. In Gurugram, the Covid-19 death count stands at four.Of the 1,063 cases, 775 are active cases while 284 patients have been discharged from various hospitals after being cured. Since last Tuesday (May 26), positive cases in Gurugram have seen a sharp spike of more than 235%. The district, which accounts for about 40% of Haryana’s total tally of 2,652 cases, has the highest Covid-19 burden in the state till now, official data shows.The data shows that only 57 cases were reported till April 30 in Gurugram. From May 1 till May 25, when the total count of infected persons was 284, the cases grew by five times in 25 days. And the positive cases tripled in a week’s time from May 26 to June 1. Till now, more than 14,000 samples have been tested in the district, officials said.Now, cases are being reported from almost every area of the district. However, numbers are constantly increasing in the emerging hot spots like Sirhaul where 42 people have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus, 35 in Dundahera, 33 in Rajeev Nagar, among other residential areas where the cases have exceeded beyond 20.Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that nearly 80% of the coronavirus disease cases are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. “These patients should not panic as they can easily be cured at home through isolation. Our teams will visit patients who will be under home isolation and samples of high-risk contacts of the patients will be taken from the home,” said Khatri in a statement issued on Tuesday .According to the deputy commissioner, teams will enquire about the patients’ health for 17 days through telephonic calls. The home isolation will be over if there is no onset of symptoms like fever and cold for 10 days. It will be informed by the health team to the patient. Khatri also said that there is no necessity for a test if the time period of isolation is over. Notably, those admitted in hospital will go through a confirmatory test on the 10th day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-records-highest-single-day-jump-with-160-covid-19-cases-breaches-1-000-mark/story-Ndofe5J0D8LvSNd45kJLXN.html
02-06-2020||City||Interstate movement between Delhi and Gurugram will continue to be regulated, says district administration||Gurugram: The district administration stated in its latest order on Tuesday that interstate movement will continue to be regulated for now, making it clear that the curbs at the Gurugram-Delhi border are likely to remain in place till further orders.Gurugram Police has closed the borders on May 1 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease(Covid-19) as many cases were traced back to the Capital. The checking was relaxed in the following days due to the resulting traffic congestion on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway though the police continued to randomly screen commuters.On Tuesday, district administration released a fresh order regarding Unlock 1.0, stating that there shall be no restrictions on the intrastate movement of persons and goods. However, e-permits will be required for movement outside the state.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that the borders will be regulated by previous orders and mechanism in this regard. “Until further orders, movement passes from district administration are needed for the movement between the two cities. Those who already had passes until May 31, do not need to apply for fresh as they have automatically extended the dates until June 30,” he said. The Haryana government on Monday issued orders stating that the passes already generated and issued from the SARAL portal shall automatically stand extended till June 30, under Unlock 1.0.Khatri said that for passes, people can apply on the SARAL Portal to travel to the national Capital and the process of passes is ongoing. “The passes will be issued only in case of a medical emergency, personal emergency and for employees of the company who already have permissions for running their operations. Passes will also be given for the movement of vehicles engaged in essential services and people exempted from the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions or if the company has already taken permission for operations,” he said.Meanwhile, responding to mediapersons on the issue, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the decision of Delhi government to shut borders holds weight as strictness was needed on the Delhi-Haryana border. “The ministry of home affairs has given guidelines that all interstate borders should be opened. We also took a decision to open these. But later Delhi said the borders should not be opened for now,” said Khattar, who was addressing a virtual press conference. “Our borders were already closed but when the Delhi government said these should not be opened, we felt what they are saying holds weight. Strictness should be there for now along the Delhi-Haryana border,” he added.The CM said they will talk to the Delhi government as a consensus should be there on inter-state issues.The Gurugram police continued to carry out random checks at their side of the border leading to minor congestion near the barricades during peak hours as the traffic slowed down.Many commuters said that they were confused about whether the restrictions on the border had been relaxed or made severe.The daily commuters said after the news circulated on social media that the borders were sealed in Delhi, they started early and crossed the border before the sunrise to escape police screening. “I am very confused and had a sleepless night as I had to cross the border early morning before the police start checking. The police get active after 8 am, until then I have crossed many times and its free flow,” said Mandeep Singh, senior executive of a private company.Around 25 police personnel were deployed at Sirhaul border, out of which nine were randomly checking the vehicles and had turned away several commuters who were not carrying valid permissions for work.The police said the volume of traffic was high during Tuesday evening which resulted in long queues at Sirhaul, Dundahera and DLF Phase-3 connecting to Aya Nagar in Delhi following which they had removed barricades for half an hour.Gurugram police commissioner Muhammad Akil said they will continue to follow the existing directions till the state government issues new guidelines. “We have not received any new guidelines for the borders but we are randomly checking the vehicles. The residents travelling to Delhi are allowed to cross the border if they have valid movement passes or identity cards to establish valid reasons to visit the city for work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/interstate-movement-between-delhi-and-gurugram-will-continue-to-be-regulated-says-district-administration/story-vGYfRnOa3ZgszncSi7hkiP.html
02-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram admin divides district into seven zones to handle surge in Covid-19 cases; tally crosses 1,000-mark||The administration on Tuesday divided the district into seven zones in a bid to tackle the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With Covid-19 cases crossing 1,000 on Tuesday, senior officials said that dividing the district into separate zones would streamline the process of handling new coronavirus cases being reported from different containment areas. The officials said the division will also help in increasing surveillance and contain the spread of the disease.“We are following a multi-pronged approach. The district has been divided into seven zones, including five zones in Gurugram city and two in Sohna and Pataudi blocks. Each zone will have several containment areas where Covid-19 cases have been detected. District administration and health department officials have been designated as nodal officers to look after the management of each of these seven zones,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner. Currently, there are 63 containment zones in the district. With 160 new Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, the total count of persons infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus has reached 1,063. Since May 26, cases in Gurugram have increased by more than 200%. The city saw a huge spike on May 28 when 68 cases were reported, followed by 115 cases on May 29, 157 on May 30, 97 cases on May 31, and 129 on June 1. Under the administration’s new plan, a separate control room would be set up at the civil surgeon’s office from where data on Covid-19 positive cases will be shared with the nodal officer each new zones.Dr Asruddin, director, health services (training), who has been deputed to monitor the situation in Gurugram and neighbouring Faridabad for a week, said, “At the control room level, the positive cases will be segregated based on the new zones and the containment areas in these zones. The nodal officer will coordinate with the health team of the Urban Primary Health Centre (PHC) or Community Health Centre (CHC) of the respective area to reach to the affected patient at the earliest.” He added that the health team will suggest home isolation or hospitalisation based on the health condition of the patient.According to state health officials, earlier the number of cases reported in the city were fewer, and hence only the district health department was engaged in dealing with them. “It is now important to streamline the internal process to avoid any delay in reaching out to the positive patients and prevent the infection from spreading,” said Dr Asruddin. The administration is also concerned about the alleged delay in sharing of Covid-19 test reports by private labs in the city which, officials said, hampers the surveillance of the positive patients. To address the issue, Dr Asruddin said, the state government is planning to start a Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test facility in Gurugram soon. “We are in the process of establishing the lab so that two to three days are not wasted in waiting for the report. With the new lab, the results can be delivered within 10-12 hours,” he said.Acknowledging that the cases will continue to surge in the city, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “After the relaxations under phase 4 of the nationwide lockdown, the public movement has led to the intermingling of infected and non-infected persons. After May 26, there has been a spurt in cases as many people have started developing Covid-19 symptoms.” Arora, however, said that majority of the cases are asymptomatic and do not require immediate critical care. “We have already started self-paid and government-paid isolation facilities in different hotels in the city and many asymptomatic patients are getting admitted there. Asymptomatic cases are also being discharged after 10 days to accommodate new patients.”DC Khatri said residents should not panic as the administration is strengthening government health facilities to provide treatment to critical patients. According to him, an epidemiological plan is being prepared to project future cases so that suitable action can be taken accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-admin-divides-district-into-seven-zones-to-handle-surge-in-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-1-000-mark/story-fgVF5bmYAvVLzDfIpVDL9H.html
02-06-2020||City||Delhi HC seeks data on migrant workers||New Delhi The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the central and the Delhi governments to give data on migrant workers available with them as of June 1 and detail the procedures being followed for contractors or employers to register such workers. The court said the first significant measure would be collection of the actual data and its integration between the Centre and the state governments.Justice Pratibha M Singh directed the Ministry of Labour, Union of India and the Delhi government to file affidavits detailing the number of establishments currently registered under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979. The court was hearing a plea that had sought implementation of this Act.The petitioner, Shashank S Mangal, had sought framing of rules for migrant workers under the Act for its operation in the national capital.In its interim order, the court sought the number of licences issued to contractors, number of inter-state migrant workers who registered under the Act, action taken against ‘contractors’ and ‘employers’ for contravention of provisions of the Act since 2010. The court asked for the total number of “officers” appointed under provisions of the Act.The court said, “The recent crisis which the country has witnessed with respect to migrant workmen shows that for the effective enforcement and implementation of the Act, there is an immediate need for proper data to be always available so as to ensure that steps can be taken in a timely and adequate manner, especially in times of a pandemic such as Covid-19 or in any other form of emergent situation”.It said the collection of data should be vertically integrated so that data relating to migrant workmen, from the Centre and the states is collected, cross-checked, maintained and is readily available, without any time lag. In order for any measures to be taken for migrant workmen, such data is of prime importance,” it added.Appearing for the Delhi government, its standing counsel Ramesh Singh, told the court that the registering officers, licensing officers,appellate officers and inspectors had been appointed by the Delhi government. He said the Rules under this Act had been notified.The Central government standing counsel, Kirtiman Singh, sought time from the court to produce information on the appointment of these officials.The court, while passing the order, said “prima facie”, in order to have a proper, streamlined regulation of migrant workmen and their conditions of service, the first and the foremost significant measure would be the collection of actual data and its integration between the central and the state governments.The matter would be now heard on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-seeks-data-on-migrant-workers/story-lndauHuCf4UmrB0pG5wzFN.html
02-06-2020||City||Ludhiana gold dacoity: Mastermind’s aide trying to mislead probe, say police||Following the arrest of gangster-terrorist, Tejinder Singh, alias Teja, the mastermind behind the 2-kg gold dacoity in Ludhiana’s Ghumar Mandi, police are working on getting more information from his accomplice.Vishnu Soni, alias Sam, of Ganesh Nagar, Ludhiana, who had allegedly helped Teja execute the January robbery, is already in the custody of Ludhiana police. He was arrested by the Khanna police on May 21 for possessing an illegal pistol.He was produced in a local court on Tuesday in connection with the dacoity and sent to two-day police remand. His accomplice, Bhushan, is lodged in jail in judicial custody.Soni, however, is not cooperating in the investigation and trying to mislead them by frequently changing his statement, said police.“He has been trying to mislead the police investigation. We will bring Bhushan on production warrant for questioning again,” said inspector Jarnail Singh, station house officer (SHO), Division Number 8 police station.The Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) that arrested Teja, of Mehadpur in Balachaur of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, from Mohali on Tuesday, claims that the gangster committed robberies to mobilise funds for carrying out targeted killings as part of a pro-Khalistan agenda to disturb the state’s peace and communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-gold-dacoity-mastermind-s-aide-trying-to-mislead-probe-say-police/story-oG9NEuQ4TIa00NMMGiLPwM.html
02-06-2020||Gurugram||Residents arrange transport for nearly 800 migrants stranded at Tau Devi Lal Stadium||Ibrahim, an ageing contract labourer, said he came to find work in Gurugram from Bihar’s Araria district not too long before the lockdown. While heating tar for construction and road work, he began to lose his eyesight. “Now I am blind. One of the contractors who employed me took me to a doctor, but I have no money for the treatment. I have been out of work because I can’t see. I came here because I had no other option of going home,” Ibrahim said. Ibrahim is one of nearly 800 migrant workers from Bihar who began their journey back home on Tuesday, after being stranded at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 38 for over 36 hours since Monday morning. Ibrahim added that, out of hesitation of having to ask for a stranger’s help to find a bathroom, he has been avoiding eating and drinking. “All day yesterday I just sat here waiting to board a train. I am scared,” he said, crying.As news of the stranded migrants’ plight began circulating on social media, civil society groups and citizens came together to arrange at least 20 private buses which left for Bihar on Tuesday.According to official rolls, at least 774 migrants spent the night at Tau Devi Lal Stadium under two large, makeshift tents after they were denied seats on a Shramik Special train bound for the east Indian states of Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha, which left at around 6pm on Monday. “There were several migrants outside the gate who had to be brought in as we were trying to prevent a law and order situation,” Hitender Singh, sub-divisional magistrate, Badshahpur, and nodal officer for train movement within the district, said. From late Monday until Tuesday afternoon, the stadium was in chaos with several volunteers from the Civil Defence, and civil society groups such as the Gurugram Nagrik Ekta Manch, assisting stranded migrants with food and water and scrambling to answer their questions about their return home. Social distancing was scarcely followed, with many migrants clamouring around volunteers, who were creating an inventory of those left behind (for use during medical screenings later). The migrant workers could finally leave for their homes when seven buses, organised by a private citizen, arrived at Tau Devi Lal Stadium on Tuesday morning. By afternoon, 10 more buses had arrived and the medical screening of the passengers had begun. A Hindustan Times team saw at least three buses leaving the stadium bound for Bihar. Manas Fuloria, CEO, Nagarro, said, “We have contributed a small amount for hiring private buses to ferry back the migrants, as have other residents and corporates in Gurugram. Majority of the effort has been put in by Puneeta, though.” Puneeta Chadha Khanna, a city resident who was instrumental in organising relief efforts, was unable to take calls on Tuesday and did not respond to messages. Singh said, “The Shramik Special train which left on Monday was intended only for those travelling to West Bengal and Odisha. However, as the train would be passing through Bihar and Jharkhand, several migrants from these states came to Gurugram in hopes of catching the train. We did not publish any communication saying that Bihar residents should come to Tau Devi Lal Stadium.”However, migrants received an SMS about the travel arrangement around 10.30pm on Sunday. “This message is from the Gurugram district administration. Based on your registration on the E-Disha website, arrangements have been made for your travel from GURUGRAM to BIHAR via train. Kindly take efforts to reach Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Rajeev Chowk, Gurugram, at the 10am on 1.6.20,” read the SMS, which multiple migrants and NGO workers showed HT on Tuesday. “We packed up our belongings, settled accounts with our landlords, and came to the stadium. After coming here, we were told that there is no place on the train for us,” Chandresh, a migrant from Bihar’s Kishanganj district who was travelling with his wife and infant daughter, said. Ram Kumar Tiwari, from Bihar’s Gopalganj district, who spent the night at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, said, “We found out late on Monday that there is no arrangement for us. I called up my landlord to ask if he could let me stay one more night, as we were promised buses the next day, but he refused. So we had no choice but to sleep over here.” While Chandresh and Kumar, who were residing in Gurugram, were able to make their way back home on Tuesday, several other migrants from other districts were not so lucky. A senior official in Haryana Roadways’ Gurugram division, seeking anonymity, also confirmed that at least 10 state buses were sent to at least four districts—Rewari, Sirsa, Karnal and Narnaul—to ferry migrants from Bihar to Gurugram on Monday. “Close to 500 migrants were brought to Tau Devi Lal Stadium, but the buses were sent back as there was some confusion at the site,” said the Roadways official. Yet another five buses, organised by the NGO Safe in India to bring 150 Bihar migrants from Manesar to Gurugram, were also turned back from the stadium.The migrants who were sent to their original destinations are currently being put up in government shelters. “In Rewari, about 400 migrants from Bihar have been kept in a school which is being used as a makeshift shelter. There are close to 30 people in a room,” an NGO worker who has been on-site at Tau Devi Lal Stadium since Monday evening said. “When we realised that migrants have collected in large numbers, we requested the railways to increase the capacity of the train to accommodate more passengers, but coaches were not available. Finally, we could repatriate about 1,600 migrants from West Bengal, Orissa and Jharkhand,” Singh said. “For Bihar migrants who have been sent back to Rewari and other districts, we will be making arrangements either by train or bus by the end of the week,” he added. Chinar Chahal, SDM, Sohna, and nodal officer for bus movement in the district, said, “We took all care to keep the migrants fed. We distributed hand sanitiser, food, water and ORS packets and even slippers for those who were barefoot. I am not the right person to comment on why the situation arose, but buses were arranged the next day for Bihar migrants.” Gurugram deputy commissioner could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-arrange-transport-for-nearly-800-migrants-stranded-at-tau-devi-lal-stadium/story-nqcrThzdiNRqzSzy3xHxMO.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College planning to reopen labs for final-year MTech students||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) is planning to reopen research labs for its final-year MTech students, the proposal for which is currently under consideration.The institute suspended classes on March 14 amid the Covid-19 outbreak, and all ongoing research work has been halted since then.The reopening of the labs is being planned as many of the final-year students have already placed in different companies and have their joining in July. PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We are trying to assess if it will be safe to allow some of the students to attend labs. We are planning this only for final-year MTech students because they need to get their degrees so they can join the companies where they have been placed. We want to help them so they can keep their jobs. The final decision will be made next week”As many as 30 students will attend labs if the institute allows it. The labs will be sanitised if the decision to open them is made, officials said.As per sources, PEC is also to let PhD students attend labs if a final decision on this is made.No late fee on thesis submissionPEC has decided that there will be no late fee imposed on submission of thesis for MTech students. The deadline for this has also been extended to September 15 for the 2018-20 batch.“The project work has been delayed, so, we have extended the last date for submission of thesis also,” a PEC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-planning-to-reopen-labs-for-final-year-mtech-students/story-F3Ni8ouoItwtMcmqH8wogO.html
02-06-2020||Gurugram||Lockdown delays heritage conservation projects in Haryana||Two and a half months of lockdown have further slowed heritage conservation projects in Haryana. Officials from the state’s department of museum and archaeology said that they were planning to initiate site visits and prepare a report on the status of projects with the easing of restrictions.Banani Bhattacharyya, deputy director, directorate of archaeology and museums, said that the lockdown had affected the timelines of various projects.“Many projects are now pending because routine work could not be carried out. Site visits required people to travel from Chandigarh to different locations and stay over. That was not happening,” said Bhattacharyya.Due to various factors such as shortage of staff and budget, the process of taking up heritage sites for conservation is slow and tedious in the state. The lockdown has further pushed back this process. In Nuh district, the department had initiated the process of taking Chuhimal’s complex under its protection last year. Tauru tomb complex is also on the table for conservation. Other monuments such as the Qutab Khan ki Masjid in Bhondsi and Lal Gumbad tomb have been taken under protection on paper, while groundwork is yet to resume.While the department is unsure by when it will be able to resume site inspections, administrative and paperwork involving different administrations were being carried out. Bhattacharyya also said that the department was working towards putting in place a plan of action for heritage conservation that could be implemented as the situation improves. “As the lockdown restrictions lift, we aim to go on a tour of various sites and create an assessment report. Our technical team can at least start preparing a report on the basis of which we could plan ahead. The pandemic has impacted both tourism and conservation but we will have to carry on with efforts,” said Bhattacharyya, adding that new measures would need to be adopted for future conservation activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lockdown-delays-heritage-conservation-projects-in-haryana/story-D4yO3r30e2ZMP6t2OqGbXI.html
02-06-2020||City||12 children among 93 new cases in Navi Mumbai||A total of 93 new Covid cases were reported in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 2,377. Three deaths were also reported.Twelve children were among the new cases, which include a one-year-old boy from Ghansoli and a six-month-old girl from Rabale.Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Tuesday reported 23 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total in the region to 565. Panvel also reported four Covid deaths.A 66-year-old woman, a resident of Kamothe, is among the four who died. She was suffering from blood pressure, thyroid and kidney ailment. A 49-year-old woman from Kalamboli passed away. She had been suffering from diabetes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-children-among-93-new-cases-in-navi-mumbai/story-8E7jecr73MiQTLaMk6EkFN.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||23-year-old dental student ends life in Rohtak||A 23-year-old bachelor of dental surgery (BDS) intern committed suicide at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), here on Tuesday evening.The deceased has been identified as Kunika Sethi, a resident of Panipat.According to the details, at around 5pm, when Sethi’s friends failed to get a response after knocking on her door, they informed the hostel warden. Following which, they broke the door open and found her hanging from the ceiling fan.PGIMS station house officer (SHO) Kaptan Singh said that the hostel authorities had informed him that a dental intern had ended her life by hanging herself from a fan in her room.“Following which we reached the spot and informed Kunika’s parents about the incident. We have sent the victim’s body to PGIMS for post-mortem, which will be done tomorrow”, the SHO added.A police officer, privy to the investigation, said that they had recovered a suicide note from the spot in which she had not blamed anyone.“She was depressed since February this year but the reason behind the same is yet to be ascertained”, he said.The department has initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/23-year-old-dental-student-ends-life-in-rohtak/story-nKYb2AVyT2qlO8LM0xmoFL.html
02-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram MLA announces ₹25 lakh reward for best- performing govt employee||To motivate government employees and encourage them to perform better while serving the city, Badshapur MLA Rakesh Daultabad, on Monday, announced a ₹25 lakh reward for the best public servant in the district. The MLA, however, said that he is also compiling a list of non-performing government employees based on the feedback from city residents. “We have received a lot of response regarding non-performance of employees. We are compiling the data and preparing the list. This would be shared with the chief minister within a month,” he said. Referring to the reward, Daultabad said that his team has created a system through which the public will give rating based on the service provided by the government employees. The rating system, he said, is similar to how customers of food delivery companies or cab aggregators rate their services while utilising their apps.The rating would done by city residents both on the phone and also through a WhatsApp questionnaire that would be sent to them, he said. Daultabad, who won the assembly election as an independent candidate, said that the reward would given in June 2021 and that he will be spending money from his own pocket.“Right now, employees of departments related to electricity, road and water will be assessed for the reward. A separate reward will be announced for other departments,” he said, adding that the idea behind the move is to motivate employees so that they offer their best services to the public.When asked about non-performers, the MLA said that there is a long list submitted by the public but his team is scrutinising the data to ensure that there is no innocent person included in the list. “There is a lot of corruption and lack of delivery at the lower level in government departments. It is my firm belief that Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will initiate action against those who are not delivering the goods,” he said. Daultabad said that his objective was to ensure that services affecting common citizens are given due importance. The local BJP leaders, however, criticised the move and described it as a populist announcement. “This money should have been used for poor workers who have been trying to reach their homes during the lockdown. This is a move to hide non-performance,” said Kamal Yadav, a leader of Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mla-announces-25-lakh-reward-for-best-performing-govt-employee/story-hVvBTdPZD0r8aj1M6KmJeK.html
02-06-2020||City||Gurugram: Covid-19 positive nurse who attempted suicide succumbs to injuries||Gurugram: Four days after a 24-year-old nurse of a private hospital allegedly attempted suicide at her house after she tested positive for Covid-19, she succumbed to injuries at a city hospital on Monday night. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of code of criminal procedure.According to the police, the incident was reported around 3.30pm on May 28. The police said the victim, a native of Kerala, was staying in a rented accommodation with two roommates in Sector 38. She was working in the emergency ward of a private hospital and the health department officials had collected samples of the victim and her two roommates last week, said the police.Naveen Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sadar police station, said, “The nurse had tested positive for coronavirus disease. She was informed by the administration on Thursday morning, following which she informed her mother over the phone and then disconnected the call. When she did not respond to subsequent calls, her mother called one of her neighbours and asked some of her colleagues to check on her.”The police said one of the neighbours, who stays in the same building, rushed to her room and found her hanging. The nurse was immediately rushed to a private hospital for treatment and was reported critical, they said.A police official, requesting anonymity, said, “Her statement could not be recorded as she was declared unfit. She had suffered injuries on her neck. On Monday night, she succumbed to the injuries. The post-mortem would be conducted on Wednesday as her parents could not travel to Gurugram. They have given their consent for her body to be released to her relatives, who are on their way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-covid-19-positive-nurse-who-attempted-suicide-succumbs-to-injuries/story-naUXn2OlwFAhIVIXVl3oMM.html
02-06-2020||Gurugram||Two local residents beat up MCG officials during stray cattle drive||Two officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) were allegedly beaten up by two local residents in Sector 52 during a stray animal capturing drive on Monday.MCG’s assistant sanitary office Baljeet Singh, who was leading the drive, in his complaint to the police, said the two officials were part of a team that was capturing stray animals in Sectors 52 and 53. The alleged incident took place around 10.45 am near an empty plot in Sector 52. The two MCG workers were at a small distance from the rest of the team and were allegedly approached by the two locals who started thrashing them.Singh said in his complaint that by the time the team reached the spot to rescue their colleagues, the suspects had fled from the spot. He further said as they were fleeing the two suspects threatened to kill MCG workers if they tried to capture their animals in the future again. As per MCG, the two workers sustained some bruises, but their injuries were not serious. Following the alleged incident, the MCG approached the Sector 53 police station and a case under sections 186, 332, 353, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions, voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant, assaulting public servant, and punishment for criminal intimidation was registered against the suspects.“Any kind of physical violence against MCG officials is regarded as a serious offence. There is no leniency shown for such acts. We have initiated all proceedings against the suspects as per the law and an FIR has been registered with the Gurugram police in the matter,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG. Gurugram police are yet to make any arrests in the matter. “We have received inputs from the MCG in the matter and our investigation is ongoing. We expect to make the arrests soon,” said inspector Deepak Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 53 police station.MCG has been capturing stray animals ever since the national lockdown was enforced to combat the spread of coronavirus. In the last two months, MCG has captured over 366 stray animals.According to the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, animal owners cannot leave their pets in the open or let them roam around in public places, roads, or vacant areas. Owners are only allowed to keep pets within their own boundary walls, and the failure to the norm can result in MCG transporting animals to their shelters and also initiating action against the animal owners. It is not the first time that MCG officials have suffered injuries during a stray animal capturing drive. In July 2017, four MCG sanitation workers were thrashed allegedly by villagers with batons, and sticks during a similar drive in Nathupur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-local-residents-beat-up-mcg-officials-during-stray-cattle-drive/story-jKbGJTJ94bcc6Vlwtdxj8M.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘We must take the lockdown as an opportunity to develop ourselves’||Panjab University’s interdisciplinary centre for Swami Vivekananda studies organised a webinar on revitalising the education system on Tuesday.The online event was organised under the theme “Blending of conventional and progressive education structures for revitalising present education system for emergence of Bharat as global leader”.Academicians including Raja Ram Shukla, vice-chancellor, Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, Varanasi, BK Kuthiala, chairperson, Haryana State Higher Education Council; Nageshwar Rao, vice-chancellor of Indira Gandhi National Open University and Manoj Dixit, vice-chancellor of RML Avadh University, Faizabad, participated.Mukul Kanitkar, national organising secretary of Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal said, “University Grants Commission has given autonomy to universities to decide the delivery of content and organisation of examinations but universities have to take the opportunity with accountability to fulfil national and global needs.”“To maintain mental health, Indians have to consider the Covid-19 lockdown as an opportunity to develop themselves, the society and nation. Due to pandemic, the standard definitions of health, humanity and education have changed considerably,” he added.“It is the time dwell upon procedures of education to develop learner centric pedagogy for their holistic development. New structures of education have to evolve to develop accountability on the part of teachers and students for character building, educational enhancement and development of employability skills among learners. Curriculum at all levels need to be revised to cater to local and global needs” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/we-must-take-the-lockdown-as-an-opportunity-to-develop-ourselves/story-mv0MFrr4eLGXdNk8UmLCPO.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 20 lakh withdrawn illegally from travel agent’s bank account||Panchkula Rs 20 lakh was withdrawn illegally within the course of a few hours from 12 midnight to early morning on June 1 from the bank account of a Panchkula based travel agent , police said here on Tuesday.Interestingly though cash was withdrawn through 29 transactions, the victim said he did not receive any messages seeking one-time password (OTP) from his bank to authorise the payment .In his complaint to the police, 40-year-old Manish Bhasin, a resident of Sector 5, Panchkula, and owner of Grace Travels in Sector 11, said he had an account with a private bank in the same sector. “Someone fraudulently withdrew Rs 19,9236 lakh from our account from 12 midnight to early morning (June1). The withdrawal was made online through 29 entries.”Bhasin says had he received the request for the OTP when the first transaction was made he would have alerted the bank and not lost such a huge sum. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 5 police station on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-20-lakh-withdrawn-illegally-from-travel-agent-s-bank-account/story-Z53bdEUpG3cTmWXRf83HoN.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: Vij sets up 7-member probe panel||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Tuesday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the cases of illegal immigration and fraud registered across the state. As per an official statement, inspector general of police (IGP) (Karnal Range) Bharti Arora will head the seven-member panel comprising Naazneen Bhasin, Lokender Singh, Rahul Sharma, Himanshu Garg, Shashank Kumar and Mohit Handa. Vij said the US had recently deported nearly 135 illegal immigrants and 73 of them were from Haryana.On their complaints, FIRs were registered against several travel agents, four of whom have also been arrested, the statement read. Though Vij tweeted about the development on his official Twitter handle, IGP Arora said she was yet to receive a copy of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/immigration-fraud-vij-sets-up-7-member-probe-panel/story-NvNbRZChHlro4Mbp9zfSbL.html
02-06-2020||City||Kalyan records highest single-day spike with 71 new Covid cases||Kalyan-Dombivli recorded the highest single-day jump of 71 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday.The total number of positive cases in the city is 1,167. Among the 71 new cases are five children, all below 17 years. Two Covid deaths were also reported on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 33. A 65-year-old woman from Kolsewadi, Kalyan, and a 50-year-old man from Subhash Road, Dombivli, died after being infected. A health officer from Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation said, “The 50-year-old man was working in the fire department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. He was admitted to Shastrinagar civil hospital. He died on May 30 and his test report came on Monday. The woman was admitted to hospital with fever on May 28 and died on May 30. Her test report came last night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-71-new-covid-cases/story-AqdbukqMZOVmNk4fjVocoO.html
02-06-2020||City||Constable assaulted in Dhankavadi, search on for 2 accused||Two men were booked by Pune police on Monday for chasing a police constable and beating him up after he pointed out their failure to wear a mask in public. The police are on a lookout for the two accused.The injured police officer was identified as constable Amit Jadhav of the motor vehicle department of Pune city police. He submitted a complaint at Sahakar nagar police station on Monday.Around 8:30pm on Sunday, Jadhav claims to have come across two men without masks outside their house in Dhankawadi. The two were disposing of garbage from their house in the area outside their house.The complainant claims to have shouted at them for doing so and told them that appropriate action will be taken against them when the two allegedly charged at him. The complainant then claims to have started on his motorbike to go to the police station to seek help. However, the two allegedly followed him and stopped his vehicle mid-way before assaulting him for threatening them with police action.A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 504 (insult with the intention to provoke breach of peace), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station against the two. Assistant police inspector SP Patil of Sahakarnagar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/constable-assaulted-in-dhankavadi-search-on-for-2-accused/story-3UzaPMTxQHXMUmsKsrh8NM.html
02-06-2020||City||Man booked for threatening teen with acid attack||A man was booked by Pune police for threatening an 18-year-old woman with an acid attack for not answering his phone calls.A complaint was lodged by the girl at Chaturshringi police station on Tuesday.The man was identified as Akshay Pawar suspected to be around 25-years old.“He slapped her 2-3 times and warned her against ignoring his calls. The girl was scared and approached the police yesterday. We are on a lookout for him,” said police sub-inspector (PSI) Rakesh Sarde of Chaturshringi police station who is investigating the case.According to the complaint, the man approached her in a rickshaw while she was walking and stopped her. He then allegedly slapped her and threatened her with an acid attack if she didn’t answer his calls.“One of the complainant’s friends knew him. She said he had been following and calling her for the past few months but she had not complained earlier,” said PSI Sarde.A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-threatening-teen-with-acid-attack/story-7ePQyH3Nqrg8qwZgcNZ6CJ.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Runaway couple found without mask at wedding, court imposes Rs 10,000 fine||The Punjab and Haryana high court imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on a runaway couple for not wearing masks at their wedding. Some of the attendees too were found not wearing masks by the court, in the photographs submitted by the couple as proof of marriage.The fine was imposed by HC bench of justice Hari Pal Verma during a hearing on the plea of the couple seeking protection as they got married against their parents’ will. The man belongs to Gurdaspur and the woman to Hoshiarpur.When the court was hearing the plea, they found from the photographs attached that the couple and some others were not wearing masks. “Perusal of the photographs attached with the petition, Annexure P-4 shows that at the time of marriage, the petitioners and others were not wearing masks which are otherwise necessary in view of Covid-19. The petitioners are burdened with Rs 10,000 as costs to be deposited with Hoshiarpur DC within a period of 15 days from Tuesday. The amount so deposited will be utilised for the purpose of providing masks for people in Hoshiarpur,” the bench ordered.The court disposed of the petition with a direction to Gurdaspur SSP to ensure that no harm is caused to the couple’s life and liberty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/runaway-couple-found-without-mask-at-wedding-court-imposes-rs-10-000-fine/story-3IFMukMB61kEfxbci8oMpK.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gang of fuel thieves busted in Haryana, 7 arrested||With the arrest of seven people from Rohtak district, Haryana Police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a gang involved in fuel theft from Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) pipeline. Those arrested are Sachin (kingpin of the gang), Joginder, Aarti, Satbir, Prashant, Anil and Karambir alias Kala, a police spokesperson said. Prashant and Anil run petrol pumps in Rohtak and Jhajjar where they used to sell the stolen oil. The police said that Sachin and one of his accomplices Ashok, who is at large, had suffered losses in a business. Later, the duo hatched a plan to steal oil from Rewari-Panipat pipeline that passes through Sampla area. In November 2019, Sachin and Ashok, along with other accused, started stealing oil from another pipeline passing through Pakasma fields. When the oil company detected the theft in December 2019, the accused absconded. In January- February this year, they again surfaced and this time targeted the pipeline passing through Naunand village. After noticing a fall in pressure, the oil company approached police following which an FIR was registered and a probe was launched. The investigation reportedly revealed that owner of a farm, through which the oil pipeline passed, was also involved in this crime.“Sachin and Ashok sold the stolen oil to Prashant, Anil and Karambir at cheap prices, who further sold it to others,” the police spokesperson said. “Prashant has a petrol pump on Sonepat Road in Rohtak, while Anil runs a rented pump in Jhajjar. Sachin and Ashok have stolen oil worth lakhs from the pipeline,” the spokesperson added. The police are now trying to nab the absconding gang members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gang-of-fuel-thieves-busted-in-haryana-7-arrested/story-FhwbffDKNPZ1ETIzsuWHUP.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman bank staffer commits suicide in Chandigarh||A 22-year-old woman working with a private bank hanged herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Ram Darbar, Phase 2, Chandigarh, police said on Tuesday.The woman hailing from Kangra in Himachal Pradesh had returned to Chandigarh about five days back and was advised home quarantine. She took the extreme step on Monday evening. No suicide note was found. Police have initiated inquest proceedings. Her samples have been sent for Covid-19 testing.Ragpicker found handing from ceiling fanA 24-year-old ragpicker from Rajiv Colony, Panchkula, allegedly committed suicide at his house on Tuesday. A neighbour informed police around 4:30pm on seeing his body hanging from a ceiling fan. Police are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-bank-staffer-commits-suicide-in-chandigarh/story-Xau6HgKrlFsKhuxUSncw4J.html
02-06-2020||City||Elderly woman dies as couple self-immolates in Ludhiana||A 60-year-old woman died due to burn injuries after she and her husband self-immolated using kerosene at their residence in Haibowal on Tuesday afternoon.The couple took the horrific measure following a verbal spat with their daughter-in-law.The victims suffered 80% burns and were rushed to the hospital where Chanchal Jain succumbed to her injuries, while her husband Sunil Jain (65) is said to be critical.The Haibowal police have initiated an investigation in the matter would take further action after recording Sunil’s statement.According to the neighbours, they saw flames emitting from the couple’s first-floor room on Tuesday afternoon. Some of them rushed to their house and doused the flames. They then took the couple to the hospital and informed the police.Jagatpuri police post in-charge ASI Malkit Singh said they were investigating if the elderly victims set themselves on fire themselves or there was some conspiracy. “Things will be clear after recording the husband’s statement,” the ASI said.The neighbours added that spats between the daughter-in-law and the couple were a routine affair. They quarrelled on Tuesday morning as well, following which the police were called.The ASI confirmed that cops had visited the house, following the said dispute. As it was a family matter, the police left after issuing them a warning and the three members promised to stay peacefully, the ASI added.Sunil is retired from the Railway and his younger son is a station master, while the elder one works in a private firm in Dhandhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-woman-dies-as-couple-self-immolates-in-ludhiana/story-PsVGKQXPHROkNeGp0YqoJL.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parents up in arms against reopening of schools in Chandigarh||Many parents are strongly opposing the phase-wise reopening of schools as suggested by the guidelines for Unlock 1.0. They have left no stone unturned to make their voices heard and said they won’t send their children to school unless it’s safe. In fact, social media is filled with posts opposing reopening of schools and the Chandigarh Parents’ Association has taken a strict stand against it.Nitin Goyal, president of Chandigarh Parents Association said, “Social media is flooded with requests to not reopen schools. So many parents are calling and showing their concern regarding this daily.”A petition started by an anonymous parents’ association on Change.org claims to have gathered over 4 lakh signatories within 24 hours against the reopening. The petition addressed to Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, human resource and development minister, states, “Reopening schools in July will be the worst decision by the government. The current academic session should continue online.”A Tik-Tok video is also doing the rounds on social media in which parents appealed that Parliament should open before schools as their “Kids are not test samples”.Suresh Bhura, a parent said, “Currently, kids are at home and that is definitely an academic loss. However, I am against the reopening of schools amid surging cases of Covid-19. Crowded classrooms and lack of basic hygiene is the main concern.”Harvinder Singh, another parent said, “Government will do a trial-run on higher secondary classes only, whereas everything (otherwise) will be up to ‘god’.” Yuvraj Singh shared similar views and said it seems like children are being used as test samples.“Despite all norms pertaining to social distancing and sanitisation, controlling and managing children in schools is a problem. The schools needs detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs),” another parent, Ashwinder Singh said.Rubinder Kaur, another parent said, “I am not going to send my precious child to school. We can think after a vaccine is formulated or there are zero cases in Chandigarh.”Anita Karwal, secretary of school education and literacy, ministry of human resource development (MHRD), will hold a video conference with representatives of all states and UTs on reopening of schools, on Tuesday. Based on the meeting, the feedback of stakeholders will be taken into account, as per sources. Director of school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We have the month of June and we will have wide deliberations with every stakeholder.”HS Mamik, president of independent schools’ association said, “Private schools will follow safety norms and procedures as per recommendation of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-up-in-arms-against-reopening-of-schools-in-chandigarh/story-f2U7F8FwfKbTprjBzrYd7J.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||INLD holds protest against delay in payment to farmers in Haryana||The Indian National Lok Dal party (INLD), led by Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala, staged a dharna outside Sirsa deputy commissioner’s office against delay in payment to wheat and mustard growers on Tuesday.Addressing the protesters, Chautala alleged that the BJP- JJP government’s claim of providing payment to farmers within 72 hours of procurement had fallen flat.“The government is yet to give payment of ₹700 crore out of the total payment of Rs 3,600 crore to the mustard growers. The wheat farmers have only been paid ₹1,600 crore out of the total payment for wheat procurement amounting to ₹16,000 crore. Around 60% of farmers who sold their wheat crop in the mandis have been waiting for their payment for the last 25 days”, the MLA added.He also alleged that the government had procured only 75 lakh metric tonnes of wheat as against last year’s 95 lakh metric tonnes.“The contractors are charging ₹5 per bag from the commission agents for lifting the procured wheat and mustard which is a scam worth ₹800 crore. Farmers are being forced to sell their produce at a deduction of two to three kilograms per quintal in the name of moisture content. If the government will not make payment to them in the next seven days, we will hold a dharna again to voice their concern,” Abhay added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inld-holds-protest-against-delay-in-payment-to-farmers-in-haryana/story-13JQREsuHvcVi7nOE25ELO.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s offices can operate with 100% staff members from June 8||The Panjab University administration has allowed its offices to operate with 100% their staff members from June 8 onwards, if required.PU officials said 75% staffers can attend offices from Wednesday. The decision has been taken after receiving instructions from the UT administration and director of higher education, Chandigarh.The university had allowed 33% staff members of its administrative offices to attend duty on rotational basis from May 13. PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “We have taken this step keeping in mind the guidelines of the UT administration. We want to prepare the university for the future and carry out all student-related functions”PU is currently on a month long summer break which will end on June 15 after which teaching staff is also expected to attend work. However, classes will remain suspended.Staff members have been directed to follow all precautionary measures issued by the Union health ministry, including maintaining social distancing and proper hygiene during duty hours.Timings changedThe university has also decided to change timings of employees from 9.30 am to 5.00 pm with lunch break from 1.30 pm to 2.00 pm from Wednesday. Earlier, the University administration has allowed their offices to open from 10.30 am to 4.30 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-offices-can-operate-with-100-staff-members-from-june-8/story-J9jGb3765De78pdu6Nh2IP.html
02-06-2020||City||Covid patients being discharged as per ICMR protocol: Punjab to HC||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday asked Punjab government to look into the demand made in a public interest litigation (PIL) that the Covid-19 patients be mandatorily tested before being discharged.The matter was brought before the high court by one Chetan Bansal from Amritsar, submitting that test is necessary else the person being discharged may act as a Covid-19 carrier.The government had told the court that patients are being discharged as per the protocol of Indian Council for Medical Research. The court disposed of the petition in view of the submissions but said that, if petitioner approaches the government with material based on medical reports and opinion of the experts, it be examined and a decision taken accordingly.Meanwhile, the Punjab and Haryana governments told high court that they would simplify process of registration of migrant labourers to be sent back to their home states. The assurance was given during hearing of a PIL filed by an Adilabad resident.The high court also disposed of another PIL seeking directions to Centre that alcohol-based hand sanitiser should be under ‘Schedule K’ of Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940. The court asked petitioner to approach the Centre on the issue. Under the Section 5 of ‘Schedule K’ of Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, a registered medical practitioner is allowed to stock and dispense medicines to his patients without obtaining a drug selling licence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patients-being-discharged-as-per-icmr-protocol-punjab-to-hc/story-i3rxhgUGJKanUJ5dElUM5J.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||With 1,298 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi records another highest single-day spike, total past 22k||Delhi recorded yet another highest single-day spike in its Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total count pass 22,000-mark. There were 1,298 new coronavirus infections in the national capital, according to the Delhi State Health Bulletin. With this, the overall Covid-19 count in Delhi now stands at 22,132. The previous single-day spurt -1,295 cases - was reported on May 31.  Delhi’s #COVID19 case count rises to 22132, with 1298 new cases in the last 24 hrs; total death toll is 556: Delhi Health Department pic.twitter.com/kx3icCP9QiEleven more deaths reported in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll in the city to 556. The record spike came on a day when at least 13 people at Delhi Lieutenant Governor ‘s office were reported to have tested positive for the coronavirus disease. According to reports, the first case came from the extended branch of the Lieutenant Governor’s office following which 13 people were found positive for coronavirus.Expressing concern about those who tested positive, L-G Anil Baijal said that the health of all of them is stable and is being closely monitored. “Deeply concerned about health of officials of my secretariat who tested positive for COVID-19 Health of all officials is stable & is being closely monitored. All of these officials were working tirelessly in these difficult times shoulder to shoulder with other frontline workers,” his office said in tweet . Deeply concerned about health of officials of my secretariat who tested positive for COVID-19 Health of all officials is stable & is being closely monitored All of these officials were working tirelessly in these difficult times shoulder to shoulder with other frontline workersAlso on Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-launches-app-to-help-track-hospital-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-hXqAkjGqze28mQIVPcGZTM.html to help people know how many beds are lying vacant in which hospital in the national capital.“We have been telling you that the Delhi government has made adequate arrangement for Covid-19 patients - in terms of number of hospitals, beds in there, the ICU facility in those hospitals and how many ventilators are there,” Kejriwal said while addressing a press conference.The national capital has the fourth highest number of Covid-19 cases among the states after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-1-298-new-covid-19-cases-delhi-records-another-highest-single-day-spike/story-fMX4AHXi8fe6tcHUbK1ThN.html
02-06-2020||City||Renowned veterinarian Kirti Dua passes away at 59 in Ludhiana||Renowned veterinarian and university professor Dr Kirti Dua (59) passed away due to a cardiac arrest here on June 1. Dua was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital three days ago after he complained of chest pain. He had undergone a bypass surgery a few years ago.Dua had joined the services of Punjab Agricultural University as an assistant professor in the veterinary medicine department on July 23, 1987, and was due to retire on 31st October this year from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University. He was awarded the Commonwealth Fellowship by the UK government to pursue PhD study at the University of Wales. He was a very good teacher and scientist of national repute.As part of his professional accomplishments, he had received the Young Scientist Award, DC Blood Gold Medal in bovine medicine and fellowships of National Academy of Veterinary Sciences and Indian Society of Veterinary Medicine. He authored three books on veterinary medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/renowned-veterinarian-kirti-dua-passes-away-at-59-in-ludhiana/story-P8b18fAxVC3itDac8sFG6L.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kaithal man held for manufacturing fake hand sanitisers||Police on Tuesday raided a house in Kaithal’s main bazaar where spurious hand sanitisers were being manufactured and arrested its owner. Kaithal DSP (headquarters) said accused Kishore Kumar was producing fake hand sanitisers in the name of a Japanese company. “Following a tip-off, a team led by CIA-1 in-charge Anoop Singh raided his house and seized 2,000 litre sanitiser, 5,600 litre ethyl alcohol, 100 litre glycerin and thousands of packed and empty bottles,” he added. The accused has been charged under sections of Indian Penal Code and sent in six-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kaithal-man-held-for-manufacturing-fake-hand-sanitisers/story-rscfVBhoT1PimOfBsTVb7N.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||HP Cong wants probe by HC judge into ‘corruption’ in medical supplies purchase||Himachal Pradesh Congress functionaries on Tuesday demanded an investigation by a sitting judge into the alleged “high level corruption” in the department of health services in a memorandum submitted to governor Bandaru Dattatreya through the Shimla deputy commissioner.Members of the District Congress Committee Shimla (Rural) , the Congress legislator from Kasumpti Anirudh Singh, Shimla (Rural) legislator Vikramaditya Singh, Rohru legislator Mohan Lal Bragta said recent developments regarding the purchase of safety equipment during the Covid-19 pandemic had tarnished the image the state.District Congress Committee president Yashwant Chhajta said “we do not trust vigilance investigation because there is a possibility of involvement of many prominent leaders of the ruling the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Resignation of Dr Rajiv Bindal from the post of state BJP president has made this matter more serious and there is possibility of the state government using its influence in the case.”He said the Congress will launch a mass movement against the state government if investigations are not conducted by a sitting HC judge.The director of health services was last month arrested on corruption charges by the state vigilance bureau after audio clops surfaced of money being demanded for purchase of medical supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-cong-wants-probe-by-hc-judge-into-corruption-in-medical-supplies-purchase/story-rKDtceCsmZ8DrCaVUHE9rO.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Effect of Covid-19 on teaching, learning in focus during webinar at Panjab University||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) organised a webinar on social distancing and intellectual proximity, on Tuesday.The online event, titled “Social distancing and intellectual proximity: What teachers and students need to unlearn and relearn”, was conducted by Sandeep Goyal, an advertising and media veteran based in Mumbai, who is an alumnus of PU and Havard Business School.Goyal spoke about discomforts being faced by teachers and students in higher education in the Indian context. He said they both need to develop their “copability” to deal with the changed situation.“While teachers need to enhance their accessibility to students through social media and existing online platforms, students also need to make use of online study material to keep moving on,” Goyal said.As many as 300 participants joined the webinar. Goyal gave them several tips on getting equipped with the ‘new normal’ and using this situation as an opportunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/effect-of-covid-19-on-teaching-learning-in-focus-during-webinar-at-panjab-university/story-1XXnBMvplUvvK8SIUbMlUM.html
02-06-2020||City||Paddy seed scam: Jagraon farmer arrested for mass producing PAU seeds||A Jagraon-based farmer, who is one of the key members of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Kisan Club, has been arrested in connection with the paddy seed scam.The accused, identified as Baljinder Singh Bhundri, was provided the newly developed PR 128 and PR 129 varieties of paddy seeds last year by PAU to assess the results as part of a trial.However, he used the resultant crop to mass produce more seeds and sold them to Brar Seeds Store in Ludhiana without authorisation, the police said.Confirming the arrest, commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal said the accused owned 34 acres in Bhundari village, Jagraon. The accused is a member of the farmers association formed by PAU to share information about new seeds and techniques.“Him selling the seeds further is illegal as seeds cannot be sold in the open market unless certified by the Central Seed Notified Committee,” said Narinder Singh Benipal, chief agriculture officer, Ludhiana.The officer said the accused multiplied Truthfully Labelled (TL) seeds by cultivating the crop in South India and then supplied the seeds of PR 128 and PR 129 varieties to Brar Seed Store owner Harwinder Singh, alias Kaka Brar, 56, for Rs 80 per kg. He also sold the seeds to M/S Karnal Agri Seeds.“Taking advantage of the Covid-19 situation, Harwinder sold the seeds to farmers for anywhere between Rs 200 and 250 per kg, nearly three times more than the actual price. He even home delivered the seeds to farmers,” Benipal said.Bhundri has been booked under Sections 3, 8 and 9 of the Seed Control Order Act, Sections 2, 3 and 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.Harwinder was already arrested on May 31 after the paddy seeds sold by his store failed the germination test conducted by PAU. He was sent to two-day police remand on June 1.BLACKLISTED BY PAUAs per the protocol, TS Riar, associate director, Skill Development Centre, PAU, said the farmer will be blacklisted, banning his entry in the university. PAU on Tuesday also issued an advisory, urging farmers to safeguard bills of their seed, fertiliser and pesticide purchases.STATE-LEVEL SIT FORMEDPunjab DGP Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to get to the bottom of the racket across all districts in the state.This SIT, headed by headed by ADGP Punjab Bureau of Investigation (PBI) and State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB) Naresh Arora, will take over the investigations conducted by the Ludhiana SIT so far, and will also look into any similar complaints in future.1,900 STORES INSPECTEDAdditional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna said following inspections at 1,900 seed dealerships, 12 were found selling seeds without authorisation, and their licences had been revoked. Their stores have also been sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paddy-seed-scam-jagraon-farmer-arrested-for-mass-producing-seeds-provided-by-pau/story-kuC100vjifEsqrPyLstt2N.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||J&K students’ body writes to Punjab CM seeking extension on date for submitting fees||The Jammu and Kashmir students’ association (JKSA) has written to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh seeking extension on dates for submitting fees to educational institutes in the state.“Many colleges and universities are coaxing Kashmiri students to submit fees despite the Covid-19 crisis. Due to the ban on high speed internet connectivity (4G service), Kashmiri students cannot attend online classes or take examinations,” the letter states.JKSA member Nasir Khuehami said, “We have received hundreds of distress calls from students saying they have been asked to pay fees by their educational institutions. Due to ban on high speed internet, students are not being able take online classes, which affects their education, and they won’t be able to compete with students from other states.”The students’ body has requested the Punjab CM for his intervention on humanitarian grounds and asked him to direct educational institutions to extend the date for submitting fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-students-body-writes-to-punjab-cm-seeking-extension-on-date-for-submitting-fees/story-3IlWphHpfeaC3XD0lpxKRJ.html
02-06-2020||City||Bangladesh national held trying to cross border wanted to meet ‘lover’: Amritsar Police||A Bangladesh national, who was arrested by the BSF troops while trying to cross the Indo-Pak border illegally on Sunday, told police that he was trying to go to Pakistan to meet his ‘lover’.Nain Mian alias Abdullah, 25, of Shariatpur in Bangladesh, was arrested near the Attari checkpost without a passport. He was then handed over to the Gharinda police in Amritsar rural district.Abdullah had entered India through Kolkata and then come to Attari, said Gharinda SHO Amandeep Singh.During questioning, the accused failed to produce his passport and visa. “He said that he is in love with one Sufia of Karachi. He had been in contact with her through social media. She told him that her family has fixed her marriage with someone. After this, he entered India and planned to go to Pakistan via Attari,” police said.Nothing suspicious was found from the accused’s possessions and further investigation is on to ascertain if there was any other motive behind his visit.Talking to media in police custody, Abdullah said he crossed Bangladesh border 10 days ago. “I paid Rs 10,000 to cross the Bangladesh border. I reached Kolkata, and then travelled to Amritsar via Agra. After reaching Amritsar, I enquired from people regarding crossing the border to reach Pakistan. I learnt that the Indian government is allowing those stuck here to reach Pakistan via Attari. So, I reached Attari but was arrested. I’m in love with a girl from Karachi and she would have married me if I had reached there. For past seven months, we are in touch. If I don’t reach there, her parents will get her married to someone else.”He said that he was aware of the risk of being caught and has appealed to the Indian government to allow him to visit Pakistan once.Police have registered a case under Section 14 of the Foreign Act against the accused. On Monday, the local court had granted four-day police remand of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bangladesh-national-held-trying-to-cross-border-wanted-to-meet-lover-amritsar-police/story-n85HYdMFEu9xXmSf1EQ9KN.html
02-06-2020||City||Five more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally now 345||Five more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 346.Three cases were reported from Kangra and two from Mandi, said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal.At present active cases in the state stand at 200 and 136 people have been cured of the disease. DELHI POLICE COP, EX-SOLDIER TEST POSITIVE IN KANGRAThree people, including a woman, have tested positive in Kangra district.Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said among the new cases is a 56-year-old man, a Delhi police employee, who returned to his native village in a private car on May 27.The Covid-19 test of a 22-year-old woman, who flew back in a Spicejet flight on May 26 also came out positive. She was asymptomatic when screened at the Kangra Airport.Both were under home quarantine and have been shifted to Covid-care centre at Baijnath.Besides, a 57-year-old ex-serviceman, who works in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and returned on May 30 also tested positive. He was under home quarantine. Due to co-morbidity, he has been shifted to Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala.TWO CASES IN MANDITwo cases were reported in Jogindernagar of Mandi district. One of the patients returned from Indore on May 23 and the other from Pune on May 19. Both were under institutional quarantine. There first sample had tested negative. However, the report of the second sample turned out to be positive, said Mandi CMO, Dr Jeevanand Chuahan.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases since May 4 with 305 persons testing positive for the virus.Fourteen cases have been reported in the first two days of June.So far, the state’s tally is 345 cases with five fatalities, including three men and two women.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 112 cases followed by Kangra with 90 cases. A total of 39 cases have been reported in Una, 32 in Solan, 24 in Chamba, 18 in Bilaspur, 15 in Mandi, nine in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and two in Kullu.As many as 124 people have recovered in the state, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-now-345/story-PS43pDdB7A6XLz8gKufF2O.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||₹500 fine for not wearing mask in Chandigarh||Venturing out of your house without wearing a mask will now attract a fine ₹500 in Chandigarh. The UT administration on Tuesday imposed the fine on anyone found violating the rule in public places, such as streets, hospitals, offices and markets. Non-payment of the fine will attract proceedings under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.Wearing of a three-ply mask or cloth mask was made compulsory in the city on April 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/500-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-in-chandigarh/story-5hnVnLkbLRiM8tX7ILE05K.html
02-06-2020||City||No irregularities in purchase of ventilators by health department: Himachal government||The Himachal Pradesh government on Tuesday clarified that there were no irregularities in the purchase of ventilators by the health department.A government spokesperson in a press release here today said that director health services informed that these ventilators were purchased to strengthen the health services in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and the severely affected patients could be saved. The health department was intended to purchase the ventilators, in order to strengthen all health centres of the department. In this regard, on March 28, a committee was constituted under the chairmanship of deputy director health services to suggest technical standards for purchasing the ventilators and on the basis recommendation the purchase of ventilators was made.The spokesperson said that the committee constituted at the directorate level under the chairpersonship of joint director health services and the process for purchasing the ventilators was started and the rates and standards of ventilators available on GeM Portal were also studied. It was found by the committee that on March 29 the rate of ventilator mentioned was ₹9.9 lakh.Meanwhile, the committee also studied the process of purchase of ventilators adopted by other states and it was observed that the Odisha Medical Supplies Corporation, which is an enterprise of the Odisha government, had purchased the 20 joint ventilators on March 20 at the cost of ₹1.83 crore, which excluded GST.Keeping the value of time in mind and with the view to strengthen the health centres, the committee directed for purchase of 10 ventilators keeping the rate and technical standards into consideration, out of which seven ventilators were received by the department on April 15, which were sent to health institutions with immediately. Director health services in his report stated that after that Haryana Medical Supplies Corporation purchased the above-mentioned ventilators on April 16, and the amount spent on each ventilator was ₹10.29 lakh, which is equal to the amount spent on the purchase of entire lot by directorate of health services. Director Health Services in his report submitted that the cost of these ventilators on GeM Portal was ₹10.30 lakh to date.Health directorate has primarily found that there are no irregularities in the purchase of ventilators. He said that for making the whole process more transparent it has been decided a high-level investigation committee would be constituted under the chairmanship director industries and controller of stores. Director medical education, principal IGMC and deputy controller finance and accounts, directorate of medical education would be other members of the committee. The committee would submit its report within 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-irregularities-in-purchase-of-ventilators-by-health-department-himachal-government/story-D29hwAOY7o6D7DiWJkFz7O.html
02-06-2020||City||Ludhiana private school found operating in lockdown, probe ordered||Defying state government orders, a private school here was found operational on Tuesday.The district education officer (Secondary) has marked an inquiry in the matter after the video of an ongoing class at the school surfaced online on Tuesday.In the video, students of Navyug Public Senior Secondary School, Haibowal, are seen doing their class work. Teachers have been captured giving instructions to the pupils.Locals said they were shocked to see students entering the school with bags and books. Concerned about the virus spread, a local said though some pupils were wearing face masks, no social distancing was being maintained in the classroom.The Punjab government has order schools, colleges and educational institutions to remain closed till June 15 due to the coronavirus pandemic.When contacted, school principal Meenakshi Sharma denied the allegations and said, “We have called the staff for checking notebooks and plan the homework to be assigned to the students for summer vacations. No student was asked to come, but some parents who had come to deposit the textbooks brought their kids along. As majority of the parents are uneducated, the teachers decided to show these students how to complete their summer break homework.”District education officer Swaranjit Kaur said, “We will issue a show-cause notice to the school for violating the state government orders. They opened the school without permission. They have also flouted social distancing norms as students were sitting close to each other in the classrooms. We will also write to the Punjab school education board to take action against the school.”Earlier on March 20, the Dugri Police had lodged an FIR under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger¬ous to life) and 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC against Col Naresh Ghai, director of Gaurav Ghai Public School for opened the school in lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-private-school-found-operating-in-lockdown-probe-ordered/story-3w5mlP5BlDJDCtflGZfsUK.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis raises stink over BMC nominating PFI for Covid-19 related burials||Leader of Opposition and former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis criticised the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for nominating Popular Front India to facilitate the burial of deceased Covid-19 Muslim patients. Fadnavis has alleged that PFI is known for anti-national and anti-social activities and is likely to face a ban in states like Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Jharkhand.“Why is the BMC giving legitimacy to this tainted organisation? Is chief minister Uddhav Thackeray aware of it? PFI has faced allegations of anti-national and anti-social activities including its role in fanning the Citizen Amendment Act (CAA) protests. The Enforcement Directorate is investigating this organization and its funding sources,’’ said Fadnavis. He also tweeted, “How did the alleged anti national and anti social organization PFI get work in BMC ?”He added that the civic body is endorsing the organisation by giving them work.The former CM circulated a BMC circular dated May 18 by its public health department in the media that says that PFI task force’s four coordinators have to be informed about Covid-19 deaths or suspected Covid-19 deaths of Muslim patients. “Task force team from Popular Front India will facilitate the burial of Muslim bodies, in case of a dispute,’’ states the circular. It also names the four co-ordinators (Saeed Choudhary, Iqbal Khan, Saeed Ahmad, Sadique Quereshi) from PFI. The circular was signed by executive health officer Padmaja Keskar.BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal said, “I am getting a report from the commissioner of police and then will act. Let’s all focus on the cyclone for now.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-raises-stink-over-bmc-nominating-pfi-for-covid-19-related-burials/story-tFw31gSl5xdbr8zGlykpFP.html
02-06-2020||City||Ludhiana commissioner of police reinforces various ban orders||Exercising his powers under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal on Tuesday issued several ban orders for areas falling under the Ludhiana police commissionerate.All hotels, dharamshalas, sarais, guest houses, paying guest accommodations and palace owners have been directed to get their businesses registered as keepers under the Sarai Act, 1867.He also banned pasting of black films on windows of all vehicles, as the films make it difficult to identify the people sitting inside the vehicle, and sometimes, criminals use this to their advantage.Consumption of alcohol in open at roadside carts, dhabas, shops and other public places has been banned, as people indulge in fights in inebriated condition, which leads to law and order problem.The commissioner also banned use of footpaths to install carts or stalls of eatables, and shopkeepers can also not use this space to display their goods outside their premises. Violation of these orders will invite legal action.The orders will remain in force for the next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-commissioner-of-police-reinforces-various-ban-orders/story-YksNZGTQqX1wvTIOdliNBI.html
02-06-2020||City||At ₹16,400 cr, power subsidy bill stands at 10% of Punjab budget||Even as the covid-19 pandemic has dried up the Punjab government’s coffers, the power subsidy bill has crossed ₹16,400 crore, which is 10% of state’s budget for the current fiscal.Even fiscal, the Punjab government had failed to compensate the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) with the full subsidy amount and it fell short by ₹5,759 crore. The state government has failed to pay PSPCL the full subsidy amount in last five fiscals.In the revised tariff order, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has calculated ₹10,621 crore against the subsidy bill for free power to the agricultural sector, industry and other consumers. The PSERC calculated the accumulated subsidy payable by Punjab government at ₹16,400.3, including ₹5,779.05 crore due for the previous fiscal.Of ₹10,621 crore subsidy calculated by the PSERC for 2020-21 fiscal, ₹7,180 crore account for agricultural sector,₹1,927 crore for industry, and ₹1,512 crore for domestic consumers belonging to Schedule Castes, Backward Classes and below poverty line (BPL) families.Free power to farmers is the fulcrum of Punjab politics and political party is willing to bite the bullet of doing away with this freebie. Last week, the Punjab government first agreed to implement the central government’s direction on paying subsidy amount directly to the farmer, but it took a U-turn after strong opposition.The PSERC has ordered the Punjab government to pay ₹1,268.6 crore subsidy amount each for April and May 2020. After the implementation of new tariff rates from June 1, the balance subsidy amount of ₹13,863.1 crore is required to be paid in advance in 10 monthly instalments of ₹1,386.31 crore for the period from June to March 2021.Meanwhile, as per the budgetary estimates, the Punjab government has only earmarked ₹12,246 crore in its budget for power subsidy, but now it has to pay ₹4,000 crore more as per the final order of the PSERC for 2020-21 tariff.The government has paid only ₹1,041 crore subsidy amount in advance to the PSPCL for the first two month of the current fiscal.“Punjab government and PSPCL are caught in a vicious circle due to power subsidy. The government can’t back out from its promise, while it has not enough money to pay full subsidy amount to the power corporation. This is happening for five years. PSPCL then takes loan to meet its budget and burden of interest is passed on to the consumers,” said VK Gupta, spokesman of All India Power Employees’ Federation.Blurb: State government has failed to pay PSPCL the full subsidy amount in last five fiscals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-16-400-cr-power-subsidy-bill-stands-at-10-of-punjab-budget/story-4UMZtdEepmvDLtxviKrrhL.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong govt used lockdown to loot state exchequer: Punjab BJP chief||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma on Tuesday alleged that the Congress government in the state miserably failed to provide relief to people during the lockdown and its ministers and officers instead used the period to loot the state exchequer by selling illicit liquor.Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Sharma said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has proved to be a failure. “Rather than leading from the front in a war-like situation, the CM was seen making formal appearances through the media by chairing meetings of officials in seven-star facilities at his residence.”Unlike other states where the CMs were hitting the ground, Amarinder was seen nowhere in the fight against Covid-19, he claimed.Citing the recent impasse between the cabinet ministers and chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh on the state excise policy, Sharma said the incident reflected how greed has seeped into the functioning of the government.“The bureaucrats and the ministers were competing with each other in a race of looting the people of Punjab,” he alleged.“The ministers claimed that the chief secretary’s son had interest in liquor business while the bureaucrats said the Congress leaders were involved in illegal sale of liquor,” he said.He also demanded a CBI probe into the seed scam recently busted by state vigilance bureau. “Since the main accused is a close associate of a Congress minister, the government machinery will go to any extent to save the main accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-govt-used-lockdown-to-loot-state-exchequer-punjab-bjp-chief/story-fOKgzRkob4ZJotcmeIcr0O.html
02-06-2020||City||UK gurdwara gets Queen’s Award for Voluntary Service||The Guru Nanak Gurdwara in Smethwick, near Birmingham, is among 230 organisations across the UK selected for the Queen’s Award for Voluntary Service, the highest award in the voluntary sector, officials announced on Tuesday.Established in 1961, the gurdwara is one of the oldest and largest in the UK, providing a range of services to the community, including nurturing Sikh practitioners; capacity building of individuals, families and communities; and environmental enhancement and heritage conservation in Sikh and British heritage.The gurdwara representatives will receive the award from John Crabtree, Lord Lieutenant of the West Midlands, later in the summer. Two volunteers from the gurdwara will also attend a garden party at Buckingham Palace in May 2021.Jaswinder Singh, gurdwara president, said in a statement: “We are absolutely delighted with this wonderful award, it serves as great recognition of the amazing work of all the volunteers (Sevadars) at Guru Nanak Gurdwara Smethwick. The gurdwara provides a high standard of diverse services to meet the needs of the local community.”“On behalf of the management committee, I want to say a huge thank you to all involved since the establishment of Guru Nanak Gurdwara for making it so welcoming, engaging and impactful for the diverse communities we serve in the name of Guru Nanak Dev Ji,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uk-gurdwara-gets-queen-s-award-for-voluntary-service/story-StoA3bupVNkxjJhIXleJeP.html
02-06-2020||City||Fresh Covid-19 guidelines: Only arrested people with symptoms will be tested before being sent to jail||Only the arrested people with Covid-19 symptoms will be tested for the disease before being sent to jail, say the fresh guidelines issued by the Punjab health and family welfare department.Earlier, all those arrested were being tested for the coronavirus. In a letter to the civil surgeons and deputy commissioners, the health department says Covid-19 testing of the symptomatic accused will be done at a designated healthcare facility. But the police department will arrange for isolation of those symptomatic till test results arrive, it says.A copy of the letter was also marked to the state home department and the director general of police.Sawaranjit Singh, a leader of the Paramedical and Health Employees Front, Punjab, said, “The government should arrange for tests of all arrested people. If asymptomatic patients are sent to jails, they will expose the inmates, especially the elderly besides the jail staff. The government should not escape from its responsibility.”Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Raj Kumar said they will follow the government’s guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-covid-19-guidelines-only-arrested-people-with-symptoms-will-be-tested-before-being-sent-to-jail/story-3kLex4WaMHOJn1fs5EFjZP.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Eyeing sole profits of tea stall, Nayagaon resident murders 60-year-old Nepalese man||A Nayagaon man has been arrested for murdering a 60-year-old Nepalese man at a saw mill in Manimajra, police said on Tuesday.The accused, Karan, allegedly strangled to death the victim, Bhulawan Rawat, as he didn’t want to split the profits of a tea stall that the latter had helped him set up.Rawat was found dead at the Praveen Saw Mill in Pipli Wala Town in Manimajra, where he had worked for 30 years. His nephew, Rajan, 24, was the first to spot the body as he visited the mill on Tuesday morning in search of his uncle.A resident of Shanti Nagar, Manimajra, Rajan sounded the police, and told them that a Nayagaon man had threatened to kill his uncle.AADHAAR CARD, CCTV FOOTAGE NAILED ACCUSED On searching the crime scene, police found Karan’s Aadhaar card on the spot. The mill’s CCTV footage also showed him arguing with Rawat, while holding a liquor bottle, which led to his arrest, police said.They said Karan was earlier working at Chunni Lal Dabha at Aare Wali Gali near the saw mill. After Karan left this job, Rawat helped him open up a tea stall near the electricity office in Motor Market, Manimajra. On Monday, Karan visited the saw mill and offered liquor to Rawat, who turned it down. There, Rawat asked Karan to share the profits of the tea stall with his son, which enraged Karan and he attacked the Nepalese man with the liquor bottle before strangling him with his safa (head scarf), a police official said.To pass it off as an accident, he moved the body to near the stairs at the small entry gate of the saw mill.Karan has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code as the Manimajra police station. If proven guilty, the charge entails death penalty or imprisonment for life, with fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eyeing-sole-profits-of-tea-stall-nayagaon-resident-murders-60-year-old-nepalese-man/story-AC9RsQ8cLnLw9DJgs76sYK.html
02-06-2020||City||Gadkari green-lights Delhi-Katra expressway with Amritsar link||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday announced development of a new connectivity to Amritsar from Nakodar via Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib as part of Delhi-Amritsar Expressway, fulfilling a long-pending demand of the people of Punjab. With this expressway, travel time from Amritsar to Delhi international airport would be reduced to about four hours from the present nearly eight hours, the road, transport and highways minister said adding that the first phase of expressway would involve investment of about Rs 25,000 crore. “The proposed expressway will connect the holy cities of five gurus of Sikhism,” Gadkari said after finalising the alignment in a review meeting attended by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and others.The road from Amritsar to Gurdaspur will also be fully developed and made completely signal-free, Gadkari said, adding that the greenfield alignment will not only provide shortest and alternative express connectivity to Amritsar but also to other religious centres of Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib as well as the recently developed Dera Baba Nanak/Kartarpur Sahib international corridor in Punjab.With this, there will be two options to travel to Gurdaspur onwards from Nakodar, i.e. via Amritsar or via Kartarpur (Jalandhar district). With the new development, the alignment, which was finalised earlier and bypassed Amritsar district, will remain intact.The ministry of road transport and highways said it has taken up development of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway under Bharatmala Pariyojana. The alignment of the expressway was firmed up in January 2019 and the process of land acquisition was initiated. Recently, the issue of alignment of the expressway to Amritsar has been taken up by minister of food processing industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal, civil aviation and housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri with Gadkari, the ministry statement said.In order to discuss and resolve issue of alignment to Amritsar, a video-conferencing was held with Gadkari which was attended by the Punjab CM, Harsimrat, Hardeep Singh Puri, union minister of state Jitender Singh, union minister of state Gen V K Singh (retd), Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik, Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, former Punjab minister Anil Joshi, officials of the NHAI and other senior officers.The Jammu and Kashmir government had initially proposed the Delhi-Katra Expressway. However, Gadkari had envisaged that the proposed expressway would pass through Amritsar looking at religious importance of the city, where over four million tourists visit every year, and hence conceived Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway under Bharatmala.Union minister Jitendra Singh said project will be ready in three years and was likely to become functional by 2023. This will reduce the road travel time from Katra to Delhi to around six-and-half hours and from Jammu to Delhi to about six hours, he said in a statement.The ministry statement reiterated that Amritsar was always an integral part of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway. From beginning, the expressway was proposed as combination of greenfield and brownfield alignment in two phases. A completely new projects is termed greenfield project, whereas the projects which are modified or upgraded are called brownfield projects.Gadkari also requested the Punjab government to provide requisite support to the NHAI to expedite land acquisition for the proposed expressway in the state.(With inputs from Jammu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadkari-green-lights-delhi-katra-expressway-with-amritsar-link/story-wmPlbyvkOBWsbcjoFHW0rL.html
02-06-2020||City||2 deaths, 30 new Covid-19cases surface in Punjab||Amritsar/Jalandhar/Ludhiana A 60-year-old arhtiya from Pathankot and an octogenarian ex-serviceman lost their battle with the Covid-19 infection, even as 30 fresh coronovirus cases were recorded in Punjab on Tuesday. With this the state’s tally of total Covid-19 cases has gone up to 2,412 and number of deaths to 47.Ten people tested positive in Defence Colony of Jalandhar, eight of them family members of a Covid-19 patient.Nine Covid-19 cases were reported in Majha region — two in Amritsar and seven in Pathankot — on Tuesday. A 55-year-old anganwadi worker was among the three people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Sangrur.An undertrial who was out on bail tested postive for coronavirus in Hoshiarpur, while two women who had returned from Ahmedabad were found infected from the virus in Moga.A 35-year-old man who returned from Kuwait last week and was lodged at a quarantine facility in Faridkot tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.In Patiala, a 22-year-old Rajpura resident, who had returned from Kuwait on May 27, was found infected. He was quarantined at a gurdwara in Bahadurgarh since his return.In Fatehgarh Sahib district, a 28-year-old Mandi Gobindgarh resident also tested positive.Also, two inmates from Kapurthala, who were released on parole from Ludhiana jail recently, tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-deaths-30-new-covid-19cases-surface-in-punjab/story-C9iz5btrL48dlEcAupilvJ.html
02-06-2020||City||Amritsar medical college lab ramps up Covid testing capacity by half||The Covid-19 testing capacity at the viral research and diagnostic laboratory of Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, has been increased by 50%, with the installation of a new automatic RNA (ribonucleic acid) extraction machine. The laboratory so far had the daily capacity of conducting 2,000 tests. The testing capacity at the lab has increased by 2,900% in the last two months as it could only process 100 samples a day till April 8. Punjab medical research and education minister OP Soni, who inaugurated the equipment on Tuesday, said, “Since coronavirus cases in the state are increasing by the day, the government purchased three such machines of which one was installed at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, on May 22 after which its daily testing capacity was increased from 400 to 3,000. The remaining machine will be installed at GMC Patiala in the coming days.” He added, “The total testing capacity at the three GMCs in Punjab will be over 9,000 tests a day. We have enough kits available at the labs where doctors are working round the clock. Despite having increased the testing capacity, the daily sample collection across the state is relatively slow. The GMC, Amritsar, was sent only 1,200-1,500 samples daily by the health department even as it had the capacity to conduct 2,000 tests.” Also, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) is going to set up more testing labs in the state. Two new labs will be established in Mohali, while one each in Jalandhar and Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-medical-college-lab-ramps-up-covid-testing-capacity-by-half/story-jYWwtBxYg2WjWzXkva8b0H.html
02-06-2020||City||Mission Fateh: Registration camps to be set up in Mohali on June 3 to sent migrants home||Deputy commissioner of Mohali Girish Dayalan has directed all sub-divisional magistrates in the district to set up special helpdesk-cum registration camps for the stranded migrants in their respective areas of jurisdiction.He said under Mission Fateh, that relocation of all migrant workers desirous of going back to their native districts should be facilitated.The camps will be organised from 10am to 5pm on Wednesday, June 3, at Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan, adjacent D Mart, Zirakpur; Sports Complex, Sector 78; near Gurudwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana; and Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Nijjer Chowk, Kharar. One member per family/group can reach the camp and register for the group.Around 27,000 laborers from the district have already been sent home on 24 special Shramik trains. A lot of registered people, however, declined to go back and some who have gone back are reportedly contacting their employers to arrange for their returning to work.POLICE CHALLAN 1,452 FOR NOT WEARING MASKSBetween May 20 and 31, the police have issued 1,452 challans for not wearing masks and maintaining social distance, and collected ₹3.16 lakh in fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mission-fateh-registration-camps-to-be-set-up-in-mohali-on-june-3-to-sent-migrants-home/story-yhGSFhni3ZNSPceCV5lSZL.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula ready for antibody tests for Covid-19||Panchkula To understand the proportion of population exposed to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or SARS-CoV-2 (which causes Covid-19) the Panchkula health department will soon start serosurveillance or monitoring of the presence or absence of specific substances in the blood serum of a population, as advised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Antibody serum immunoglobulin (IGg) ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) kits, will be used to detect and quantify proteins and antigens from various samples.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday asked states and union territories to start the serosurveillance.“We have approvals to conduct the tests . On Monday, we sent the demand to the state health department and as soon as we receive the IGg ELISA kits, we will start the tests,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.To check if people have developed antibodies to the virus, ICMR has specified that those who should be tested include immuno-compromised patients, healthcare workers, police, municipal workers, drivers, vendors, migrant labourers, people working at airports, industrial workers, prisoners, bankers, mediapersons and others.“Serosurveillance of particular groups such as policemen and healthcare workers will start as soon as we receive the kits. From the immunoglobulin levels of asymptomatic people exposed (to SARS-CoV-2) and cured we will find out if they are part of the self-cured population,” Kaur added.The testing will enable health authorities to work out public health strategies for people exposed and not exposed to the virus as it will help us find out what percentage of the population has been exposed to the virus and does not require treatment, which in future will help in the prevention and control of the disease, Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-ready-for-antibody-tests-for-covid-19/story-Tev7QowH1sMJgCsALl5tII.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 arrested for assault on Ambala resident||chandigarh@hindustantimes.comAmbala: Two men were arrested on Tuesday for assaulting a man identified as Gaurav Gera from the Kajiwara area of Ambala city on Monday.Aman and Kirti Maan were held after a police complaint was lodged by Gera on Monday, but other men involved in the assault, including Kushank, a man not on good terms with Gera’s neighbour, were absconding.Gera also alleged that the windshield of his car had been broken by the group and that the men had returned later and fired a shot from his weapon.The accused were produced in court and remanded to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-assault-on-ambala-resident/story-TkcQAQAeUPggRr6oxwM2EL.html
02-06-2020||City||Wanted by police in attempt to murder case, Ludhiana realtor held with illegal weapon||The anti-narcotic cell of the Ludhiana police arrested a realtor and recovered an illegal pistol from his possession near Gopal Nagar chowk here on Monday.The accused, identified as Bunny Chopra, 29 of Shera Colony, Tibba road, is also wanted in an attempt to murder case and is facing trial in a drug-peddling case. Chopra told police that he procured the weapon, a .32 bore pistol, and live cartridges from Maharashtra for ₹55,000.On March 9, Chopra and his accomplices had opened fire at a friend living in LIG flats. One bullet had hit the friend. An FIR under Section of 307 (attempt to murder) was lodged against Chopra and his accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wanted-by-police-in-attempt-to-murder-case-ludhiana-realtor-held-with-illegal-weapon/story-8QbQaGJRS4dKnQjWQlaL3L.html
02-06-2020||City||117 fresh Covid-19 infections take J&K tally to 2,718||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded two deaths and 117 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of infected people to 2,718 in the Union territory, officials said.Of the new cases, 40 are from Jammu division and 77 from Kashmir. Among the positive cases is Kashmir’s leading pulmonologist working at a prominent government hospital. “I am overwhelmed and deeply humbled by the wishes of all my known and unknown well wishers praying for my recovery, (I have) tested positive, followed protocol and got admitted. Thank you everyone, (do) remember me in prayers,” the doctor tweeted. “I request the administration to preparing a scientific SoP for duties and testing of all frontline workers to safeguard all,” he said.The highest jump of 15 cases was recorded in Srinagar followed by Pulwama at 14, Kulgam at 11 and Kupwara 10. There were single digit jumps in other districts of the Valley.“44 samples tested positive at the Chest Diseases Hospital. Among the positive cases, 14 are pregnant women, one is a healthcare worker and another a staff member of a quarantine centre,” J&K nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Salim Khan.In Jammu division, the highest jump of 13 cases was recorded in Jammu followed by Ramban at 9.Also, seven more patients were discharged–four from Jammu division and three from Kashmir, officials said. At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 1,229 and 503 in Jammu.Two more die in Kashmir, death toll 33Two more people have died due to the virus in Kashmir. With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 33. The samples of an elderly woman from Baramulla, who had died on Monday, tested positive on Tuesday. She was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.The other deceased was a 27-year-old man from Lolab area in Kupwara. “He was admitted at SMHS Hospital in Srinagar on Monday with bilateral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). He died within an hour after admission. His samples tested positive for COVID-19,” said J&K nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Salim Khan.So far, 33 people have died due to the disease in the UT.Till date, 1.85 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 43,635 in home quarantine, 43 in hospital quarantine and 50,220 under home surveillance. Besides these, 89,456 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.Jammu agri varsity shut after two employees test positive The Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (SKUAST) here was shut for a week after two employees tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “Two employees of the university, including one Junior Research Fellow (JRF) of entomology division, have tested positive for the virus. The university will remain shut till June 7 for a sanitisation and awareness drive,” vice-chancellor RK Gupta said. “Officials, administrative staff, head of departments, heads of various units and those involved in essential services and the COVID-19 team will continue to perform urgent and essential duties along with volunteers,” the V-C said, adding that the situation will be reassessed before opening the university on June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/117-fresh-covid-19-infections-take-j-k-tally-to-2-718/story-txEnSGhGTOwTjOeXyDv2vN.html
02-06-2020||City||Worker falls to death at Chakan factory, labour contractor booked||A labour contractor was booked after a worker at a Chakan factory died after he fell off a roof and into a shut furnace. The deceased man was identified as Shrimant Balasaheb Gaikwad, 27, a resident of Hadapsar.The labour contractor was booked but was not arrested immediately, according to the police.The incident occurred at 7:30am on Monday when the man climbed up the roof of the shed to change a transparent sheet that was laid on the roof. His foot slipped and he fell into a furnace. The furnace machine was shut, however, the man is suspected to have died due to injuries caused on impact, according to the complaint in the matter.“The roof is a little over 35 feet above ground level. The furnace was shut. However, he fell straight down. He was awake till he was rushed to the hospital. Around 9am, he was declared dead. The doctor said it was due to internal injuries,” said assistant police inspector Praveen Sampange of Chakan police station who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Hanumant Balasaheb Gaikwad, 29, brother of the deceased man and a resident of Gosavi Vasti in Hadapsar.The shed is located in Kharabwadi area of Khed. The company that the shed belongs to manufactures auto parts for cars, trucks and other vehicles.A case under sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/worker-falls-to-death-at-chakan-factory-labour-contractor-booked/story-KXBpl4MUFpLRlTLbWG7ZeJ.html
02-06-2020||City||Katra-Delhi express corridor to be ready in three years: Union minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said that the first-of-its-kind Katra-Delhi Express Road Corridor will be ready in three years and was likely to become functional by 2023. This will reduce the road travel time from Katra to Delhi to around six and a half hours, and from Jammu to Delhi to just about six hours, he said in a statement issued here.After a meeting with Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari, Singh said, the 575km-long express road corridor will cost over ₹35,000 crore and it will connect Katra to Delhi via Amritsar. Enroute, the other important cities that it will touch include Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana in Punjab and, Kathua and Jammu.It is pertinent to mention that Singh, who is a member of parliament (Lok Sabha) representing Katra Vaishno Devi, had been pursuing this project since 2015 and had for the first time about three and half years ago announced during a programme at Katra that he had submitted a proposal to this effect which had been accepted by the Gadkari but it would take time because of procedural issues like survey, land acquisition, forest clearance, etc.However, Singh said that after the completion of the survey by M/S Feedback Consultants Ltd, the process of acquisition of land is nearly complete in the Haryana part of the corridor and will now be taken up in the Punjab area and thereafter in the Jammu and Kashmir segment.The formal approval of the proposal had already been obtained from the Jammu and Kashmir administration and now it has also been obtained from the Punjab government.The unique feature of this road corridor is that it will connect the two holy cities of Katra and Amritsar, and at the same time also offer connectivity for some of the important religious shrines between the two destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/katra-delhi-express-corridor-to-be-ready-in-three-years-union-minister-jitendra-singh/story-XS6dH5vkYoi7RIUZcZdU1I.html
02-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s non-containment areas now barricade-free||Residents in non-containment areas with the assistance of police officials and traffic branch have begun removing barricades on several arterial and main roads in the city.The bamboo and iron barricades were erected by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and traffic police at various places to block residents of nearby and adjoining areas from entering the zones during the lockdown period to prevent the spread of Covid-19 contagion in the respective areas. Both the eastern and western regions of the city had a large number of barricades on roads.According to citizen activists, around 200 barricades were operational in the city during the past two months. However, most of the barricades on internal roads and other connecting roads were removed by residents without permission of the civic body and traffic branch.Hussain Khan, a resident of Kondhwa who had demanded the removal of a major barrier on the main Kondhwa road at Jyoti hotel chowk said that the barricade might cause an accident in view of the increasing vehicular traffic. Police officials and civic authorities removed the barricade at the said intersection on Tuesday morning. Similarly, other barricades in the area have been removed as they were causing inconvenience to the citizens, he said.Amit Bhaduri, a resident of Bhavani peth said, “The containment areas must have barricades and citizens must not remove them as it is there to protect them. The police and PMC must keep a tab on those who try to remove the barricades in such areas,” he said.Kondhwa police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad said that based on the request of the citizens, the barricades have been removed in accordance with the guidelines issued by the administration.However, the police have issued an advisory to the citizens to ensure that the curfew guidelines are followed during the night.Additional CP traffic, Sanjay Shinde said that the barricades have been removed as the city was being opened during the day.“We have kept the barricades at the roadside as according to the new guidelines we have to discharge nakabandi operations at night. However barricades are still there in containment zones as part of the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-non-containment-areas-now-barricade-free/story-51P9AdZN5ygoL26hGbeXFI.html
02-06-2020||City||Landlady booked for forcing MPSC aspirant to pay rent||A woman was booked for charging house rent during lockdown from a state civil service aspirant living in Pune.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Megha Ashok Bothre, 30, who is preparing to appear for Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination. She lives in Navi Peth area in a room owned by Shreya Liman and pays a rent of Rs 1,700 according to a statement issued by the police.During the first lockdown announced on March 23, the state government had directed homeowners to not collect rent from their tenants for the next three months.In light of the state government directions, the landlady allegedly asked the complainant to pay rent. The complainant also submitted that the landlady was asking her to leave the room during lockdown citing repair work as a reason, according to the police statement.“An offence under Section 188 was registered against one landlord for charging rent from MPSC student in violation of guideline issued by the ministry of housing, state government,” said DCP Bachchan Singh.The complainant approached DCP Singh who directed officials of the crime branch to investigate. Subsequently, a case under Sections 188, 506(1) of Indian Penal Code, Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act and Section 2, 3, 4 of Epidemic Diseases Act was registered at Vishrambaug police station against Liman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landlady-booked-for-forcing-mpsc-aspirant-to-pay-rent/story-xLIQki1uPA1fzjSIDTsZtM.html
02-06-2020||City||Rs 500 fine for not wearing a mask in public: Pune civic chief||PUNE: Citizens in Pune will pay a fine of Rs500 if found in public not using a mask.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “In principle, it is approved that masks will be compulsory in Pune city and those who are not using it would need to have to pay the Rs500 fine.”Ajoy Mehta, chief secretary of Maharashtra, took a review meeting in Pune, attended by senior officers involved in the fight against Covid-19. It was decided at the meeting to impose a fine for not using a mask, Gaikwad said.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) falls under the red zone with a steady daily rate of increasing Covid-19 positive cases.Gaikwad said that a special notification for the fine would be published soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-500-fine-for-not-wearing-a-mask-in-public-pune-civic-chief/story-hZBBlQvj7mqkBgRFuXCguK.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||GoAir extends leave without pay for its staff till June 30||Low-cost carrier GoAir on Monday extended leave without pay (LWP) for its employees till June 30. In a letter to its employees on June 1, the human resource (HR) department of the airline stated that they might further extend the LWP if needed. The letter read, “It is our expectation that GoAir will increase flying as the demand for air travel returns...Under these circumstances, we are constrained to extend your leave without pay until June 30. We may, however, have to extend the period leave without pay for a further term, if required so.” It further read, ‘We are painfully aware that these sacrifices put an immense burden on you and your family, but we see no other viable option for our long term survival and sustainability.” Exempting its lowest-paid workers, earlier this year, GoAir had announced pay cuts to most of its employees. On March 17, the airline had initiated a short term and temporary LWP program in which around 35% of its employees (from each department) were asked to go on LWP.Workers involved in cargo operations (including ground staff and crew members) received their salaries for the number of days they worked in March. However, with lockdown being extended from mid-April to till May 3, the Mumbai-based airline had announced an extension of leave without pay on April 18. GoAir is also facing issues with its pilots who have not received their salaries since March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/goair-extends-leave-without-pay-for-its-staff-till-june-30/story-fK0DE0IzeEUtRPVDE7STfL.html
02-06-2020||City||Day-old infant’s body found at Dahanu coast||The body of a day-old male infant was found on the seashore in Dahanu on Tuesday morning. We have registered a case under Section 317 (abandonment of child) of the IPC against unknown persons, said a police officer. We suspect that the baby may have been dumped by the mother, said a police officer. “We are also checking the nearby private maternity and government hospitals for new deliveries in the past week to get some clues,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-old-infant-s-body-found-at-dahanu-coast/story-5XkhvCorZekMoL3B9oarqI.html
02-06-2020||City||Covid-19 claims 86-year-old ex-serviceman’s life in Ludhiana||An octogenarian ex-serviceman, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a hospital here since May 28, lost his battle with the infection on Tuesday.Confirming this, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said Ujagar Singh (86) of Fauji Mohalla near Millar Gunj died due to multi-organ failure in the morning.Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital director Dr NK Chaudhary said the patient had arrived here for treatment at a very later stage. He was suffering from comorbidities, including renal failure, chronic heart disease and respiratory issues, Chaudhary said.The doctor couple who had treated upon the patient have been isolated in the hospital along with their two-year-old daughter. Their reports are yet to arrive, said Dr Bagga.The health department has sealed the doctor’s house and clinic located in Khanna.So far, six staff members who had come in contact with the couple and four other doctors have been asked to remain under self-isolation. Their samples will be collected as per the protocol, the civil surgeon said.Meanwhile, two women and a 64-year-old man hailing from Jalandhar tested positive in Ludhiana on Tuesday, taking the tally to 203.Dr Bagga stated that till date, total 8,097 samples were collected, out of which reports of 7,621 was received. Of these, 7,324 samples turned out negative. The report of 478 samples was still pending, he said. Around 156 patients related to the district have been discharged after treatment. Of them, six railway protection force jawans were discharged from a hospital here on Tuesday.He informed that at present, the number of persons in home quarantine in the district is 1,600. Around 70 persons were told to isolate at home on Tuesday.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said as soon as the district administration and health department learn of any infected or suspected person, their samples are immediately sent for testing.Similarly, 409 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Tuesday, and their results are expected shortly. The DC appealed to the residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government to keep themselves and others safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-claims-86-year-old-ex-serviceman-s-life-in-ludhiana/story-7AAqBkNGbNQkGDgMTEyjgP.html
02-06-2020||City||Bhama Askhed dam work resumes under police cover||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) restarted the work of laying a water pipeline near Bhama Askhed dam with the help of police protection on Monday. The project was halted by farmers’ protests several times, including on Monday.Pravin Gedam, PMC officer incharge of the project, said, “PMC resumed water pipeline laying work on Monday even as farmers staged protest. Sub-divisional officer and police immediately reached the spot and handled the situation. The farmers’ issues are related to the district collector and state government, not PMC. We resumed work on Monday evening and continued on Tuesday under police cover.”As soon as PMC restarted the work, farmers under the leadership of Satyavan Navale and Devidas Bandal staged protest on Monday. Sub- divisional officer Sanjay Teli negotiated with farmers and requested them to resume the work. Telang asked farmers that both the state government and PMC would keep their promise and provide necessary compensation.Gedam said, “We had planned to complete the work before monsoon, but now it will be delayed due to coronavirus lockdown. Some pumping related works near the dam is yet to be carried out as 80 per cent project is completed.”According to the official, the project has entered the last stage and only a few kilometres of the 42-km pipeline work remains to connect the dam and city’s water network.The Bhama Askhed water pipeline project was designed to meet the drinking water needs of 14.5 lakh residents of eastern Pune. However, agitations by farmers and issues of rightful compensation for land acquired is causing a hindrance to the project.The project work was stopped several times since 2015 by a local political leaders and farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhama-askhed-dam-work-resumes-under-police-cover/story-UQ16tLPNzm5nRDUbMlU1eP.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Industries struggle, Mohali authorities plan to get back migrant workers||After making mammoth efforts to help migrant workers in the district return to their home states by buses and Shramik Express trains, the district administration is now trying to reverse the exodus as industries struggle because of shortage of hands after easing of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions.“Requests have been made to us from several companies and now we are working on modalities to bring back the workers. We plan to send buses to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and are even talking to the respective state governments to find out if they can send workers on train,” said Girish Dayalan, Mohali deputy commissioner, on Tuesday.Various industries, currently working with just 40% labour, have claimed only 15% production after opening on May 4.‘Workers say they want to come back’“We have requested the authorities concerned to help us bring back the workers; and we are also getting calls from them (workers) saying they want to come back. The industry has been hit badly after the unskilled workers left. The district administration has assured us of help,” said Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association.The district has around 13,000 micro, small and medium enterprises and 49 major units located in Mohali, Dera Bassi, Chanalon in Kurali and Chapper Chiri, employing around 30 lakh workers, of whom around 78,000 are estimated to have left.  The administration has in the last month spent around Rs 2.16 crore to send 27,000 workers home to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal in 24 Shramik Express trains.Mahindra and Mahindra (Swaraj) Mohali is one company that has got its workers back from Ambala and Panchukula even as 10 others have asked the administration for help.Rs 2.16 crore spent to send workers backThe district administration has spent around Rs 1.5 crore in ferrying 27,000 migrants back home in May in 24 trains. About Rs 9 lakh was spent on a single Shramik Special train, with Rs 7.5 lakh for tickets and the rest on ferrying workers on buses to the railway station, for refreshments and water.The district administration is spending the money from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/industries-struggle-mohali-authorities-plan-to-get-back-migrant-workers/story-NVqYJ3evv1RTCf4TFHdtsN.html
02-06-2020||City||Youth booked for raping, impregnating 16-year-old Chandigarh girl||Zirakpur police have booked a local youth for allegedly raping and impregnating a 16-year-old Chandigarh girl. The case came to light when the minor was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, with abdominal pain, and was found pregnant on Monday. The victim told the police that she met a youth named Kuldeep in October 2019. Kuldeep took her to a room in Baltana where he raped her and dropped her back in Chandigarh. She never revealed the matter to anyone out of fear.Chandigarh Police referred the case to Zirakpur police, who registered a case under Section 376 (rape) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Zirakpur SHO Gurwant Singh said they had started investigation and were conducting raids to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-booked-for-raping-impregnating-16-year-old-chandigarh-girl/story-mT2sjMzeh8wSBPMGUhppxK.html
02-06-2020||City||Family of Covid-19 victim flees with half-burnt body after mob attacks them in J&K||A mob on Tuesday disrupted the last rites of a Covid-19 victim and forced his family members to flee with the half-burnt body in Jammu. A 72-year-old man, hailing from Doda district, became the fourth victim of coronavirus to die in the Jammu region. He breathed his last at the Government Medical College (GMC) hospital on Monday. “We had set out for the funeral and had lit the pyre at a cremation ground in Domana area when a large group of local residents disrupted the last rites,” nephew of the deceased said. The man was suffering from various ailments, especially lungs and heart diseases. Only close relatives of the deceased, including his wife and two sons, were present during the cremation. Another nephew of the deceased said that they had to flee with the half-burnt body in an ambulance to save their skin from the mob which pelted stones at them.He added that within no time around 300 locals assembled at the scene and objected to cremate the body. “Some of them even had guns. We would have been lynched,” he said.“Some police officials, who were present at the spot, also intimidated us and we were forced to take the body off the pyre. Later, the body was taken to a cremation ground at the Belicharana area of the city, where it was consigned to flames in presence of police officials,” he added.However, a senior police officer denied any stone-pelting incident. “Neither the body was half burnt nor there was any stone pelting but the body was certainly brought back to mortuary and then it was cremated at another place,” he said.The family members including the 65-year-old wife of the deceased have now been quarantined in the Roop Nagar area.A senior doctor said that the administration should have come out with a better plan to conduct the last rites of coronavirus victims.“Two months on, the administration is yet to come up with clear directions as to how to deal with Covid-19 deaths, the doctor said.ADC Ghan Shyam Singh said, “The administration is in the process of identifying places for cremating Covid-19 victims.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-of-covid-19-victim-flees-with-half-burnt-body-after-mob-attacks-them-in-j-k/story-fCesNsGgS45htXkW24qkTN.html
02-06-2020||City||Mohali trader commits suicide||A 37-year-old trader committed suicide at his house in Dera Bassi on Tuesday.His father, who is an office-bearer of the Baltana Furniture Market Association, attributed it to his son’s mounting losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown. A father of two, the victim had gone to the washroom around 8:30am, but did not come out for long. Upon checking on him, his wife found him hanging from the ceiling, said police. On his father’s statement, police initiated inquest proceedings. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-trader-commits-suicide/story-VRkH1v1rdBWK4InM3cRUSP.html
02-06-2020||City||Taxi driver held with 1kg heroin in Ludhiana||The Sadar police have arrested a taxi driver for drug peddling and recovered 1kg opium from his possession.The accused, a taxi driver, has been identified as Shingara Singh (35) of Dhandhran village here.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP City-2) Jaskitranjit Singh Teja said they arrested the scooter-borne accused during a special checking near Green City in Dhandhran.The accused claimed to have procured the contraband from a Patiala-based drug supplier whom he was in contact with over the phone, police said.“Shingara has no criminal record, but we are trying to ascertain for how many years he has been peddling drugs,” the ADCP said.A case under sections 18, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against at the Sadar police station. The accused was produced in the court on Tuesday and remanded to one-day police custody, the ADCP added.The police are also trying to trace the main drug supplier.THREE BUSTED WITH CONTRABAND IN KHANNAThe Khanna police on Tuesday arrested three drug peddlers and seized 280gm heroin from them.The accused have been identified as Vajinder of Katha village in Uttar Pradesh, Sachin Kasyap of Bhagwant district in Uttar Pradesh and Ninder of Dhakka Colony in Jalandhar.Khanna senior superintendent of police Harpreet Singh said the accused, who were coming from Mandi Gobindgarh side in a car, were nabbed during a special checking near Alaur villageA case under sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the trio at Khanna City-2 police station. Investigation in the case is ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taxi-driver-held-with-1kg-heroin-in-ludhiana/story-TqT2mkSvrUT0KAyZn64aBN.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lift gang back at it: CBI staffer loses gold bangle after accepting car ride in Zirakpur||A gold bangle of a senior private secretary working with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Chandigarh, was stolen after she accepted a car ride to reach work on Monday. In her complaint to the police, V Sharda, a resident of Zirakpur, said she was on waiting to hail an auto in Zirakpur around 9am to travel to Chandigarh for work, but auto-rickshaws were asking for exorbitant fares. Meanwhile, a white Maruti Swift car stopped near her and the three car occupants, two women and a man, offered to drop her at Chandigarh in exchange for Rs 50.She said she sat in the back seat, where one of the women was sitting. When the vehicle crossed ITBP Complex in Chandigarh, the woman sitting in the front seat also came in the back, making her sit in the middle. She alleged that the women kept pushing her from both sides, making her uncomfortable, so she asked the driver to stop and she got off the car. Soon after, she realised that her gold bangle weighing about 10 grams, costing Rs 45,000, which she was wearing on her right wrist, was missing. She informed the police, who registered a case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 31 police station in Chandigarh, and started investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lift-gang-back-at-it-cbi-staffer-loses-gold-bangle-after-accepting-car-ride-in-zirakpur/story-a3p71L2UqNbV1xeKUGndaI.html
02-06-2020||City||Data shows 8% of 100 heart patients in Himachal are younger than 40 years||At least eight out of 100 persons in the state who suffer from a heart attack are younger than 40 years and smoking is a major risk factor. This was revealed in data gathered in Himachal Pradesh Heart Attack Registry.About 36 hospitals in the state both in government and private sectors participated in collecting data on heart patients admitted in these hospitals to make the registry.The data also revealed that heart attack is about two-fold more common in men than women and on average annually 70 per one lakh population were getting a heart attack in the state and Hamirpur had the highest incidence of heart attacks. A heart attack is equally common in rural and urban populations.There was an average delay of about 13 hours from symptom onset to reporting in the hospitals. Only about 30% received life-saving medicine (thrombolytic drug), while rest of the 70% could not receive this medicine due to late reporting. About 8% of patients died during the index heart attack. The major reasons for late reporting were ignorance about symptoms of heart attack and long travelling time. In some of the cases even if patients reached the hospital in time the drug was not given as the attending medical officer on duty was not confident of the diagnosis.Head of cardiology PC Negi said that the data has been uploaded in a web-based data recording system designed by the IT cell of IGMC Shimla. The department of cardiology was the project coordinating centre where data received from these hospitals was analysed to provide information related to age and gender distribution of heart attack patients, district wise and rural-urban distribution of patients, those consuming tobacco, time delay from symptom onset to reporting hospital, treatment received during hospitalisation and death rates during index heart attack event.Taking this valuable information gathered in the registry the study has been designed to address the barriers in the implementation of lifesaving drugs in heart patients. The project was submitted to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for funding and has been approved, he added.He said that the STEMI care project has been started in the Shimla district from April and is being funded by ICMR New Delhi. This project is essentially designed to address the shortcoming seen at the patient level and at the system level in delivering care to patients as observed in the state heart attack registry.The project aims to overcome these barriers through community education about the symptoms of heart attack and the importance of seeking medical attention immediately without wasting precious time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/data-shows-8-of-100-heart-patients-in-himachal-are-younger-than-40-years/story-9TBo24pT22kYcnTeqiXxhI.html
02-06-2020||City||Charred body of Ayodhya doc’s brother found in abandoned factory||LUCKNOW A doctor’s 60-year-old brother was allegedly murdered and his charred body was found on Tuesday morning in an abandoned factory in Ayodhya nearly 15 hours after his disappearance. The deceased was identified as Atul Khare, brother of Arvind Khare, a renowned doctor of Ayodhya, said police.Arvind had lodged an FIR of Atul’s disappearance with city kotwali of Ayodhya on Monday night, after the victim’s family couldn’t trace him for around seven hours.Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ayodhya, Ashish Tewari said preliminary investigation hinted at the involvement of four people who were in a land dispute with the victim. He said two of the suspects were already in police custody and further interrogation was on.Atul Khare went missing after he left his house near Dilli Darwaza locality around 3pm on Monday and soon after his mobile phone was switched off. His brother Dr Arvind Khare and other family members staying in Lucknow kept trying to contact him, said the SSP. Later in the night, Dr Khare approached the police and informed about his brother’s disappearance.The SSP said the victim’s mobile phone was tracked and recovered from a labourer who found it lying in a garbage dump near the abandoned biscuit factory where his charred body was found near Hasan Katra Mirza locality at around 7 am on Tuesday.Spot examination suggested that the victim’s limbs were tied and he was tortured by the assailants before being murdered. The body was later burnt on the factory campus on Monday/Tuesday midnight, said another official privy to the investigation. The victim’s daughter, Charu Khare, too forwarded an application to the police accusing three persons of murder. These included a Lucknow-based property dealer, Nizam Ashraf Khan, and two local residents, Kallu and Shanu. Kallu’s residence was barely 250 metres from the factory from where the charred body was found, said police.She said the trio wanted to seal a land deal (family property) with his father at a very less price. They were mounting pressure on him when he turned down their proposal. The accused had even threatened her father with dire consequences a few months ago, alleged Charu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/charred-body-of-ayodhya-doc-s-brother-found-in-abandoned-factory/story-9jH8VMd5cd8eFkH4nxGBnK.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two juveniles among 4 held for burglary attempt at PNB branch in Chandigarh||Police have arrested a mechanic and a waiter, along with two juveniles, for the burglary attempt at the Kishangarh branch of Punjab and National Bank (PNB) on the night of May 30.Though the group had managed to enter the branch by breaking the shutter’s lock, they had left empty-handed.Those arrested were identified as Arjun, alias Pappu, 18, of Mariwala town in Manimajra, and Gaurav Chand, alias Fauji,19, of Khumar Wali Gali in Manimajra. The two juveniles are school dropouts.They were arrested from the forest area adjoining Janta Colony near the Manimajra railway line. The iron rod used to break the locks was recovered from Arjun.Police said Arjun, an auto mechanic, had six cases of theft registered against him in Manimajra. His accomplice, Gaurav, who works as a waiter, has no criminal history.They were booked under Section 511 (attempting to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of bank’s deputy manager Priyanka, who stated that she was informed about the bank’s broken locks on the morning of May 31, though nothing was stolen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-juveniles-among-4-held-for-burglary-attempt-at-pnb-branch-in-chandigarh/story-uT2nKpzGtEWz8gmueb9YWM.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Ahead of cyclone Nisarga, MMRDA shifts 150 Covid-19 patients at BKC to safer place||Town planning authority MMRDA on Tuesday said that nearly 150 patients at its Covid facility in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC)have been shifted to another location as a precaution in the wake of the Nisarga Cyclone which is expected to make a landfall close to the city tomorrow.According to the meteorological department, the cyclonic storm ‘Nisarga’ over the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm in the next 12 hours.The Chief Minister’s Office has also issued an alert for districts including Mumbai city and suburbs, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg for the impact of the storm.“The impending threat of Nisarga Cyclone is upon Mumbai. Although the Covid-19 hospital can sustain strong winds of up to 80-100 km per hour, however, with human lives at stake, as a precautionary measure, all the patients (about 150) from the hospital are being shifted by BMC,” the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) said in a tweet.As per the Met Department’s forecast, the cyclonic storm will cross north Maharashtra and adjoining south Gujarat coast between Harihareshwar and Daman, close to Alibaug (in Maharashtras Raigad), on June 3 as a severe cyclonic storm with a maximum sustained wind 100-110 gusting to 120 kmph. The MMRDA has set up a 1,008-bed facility, where nearly 150 patients are taking treatment.It is also setting up another 1,000-bed Covid hospital at BKC.“MMRDA is taking extra measures like more strengthening of pillars with sand bags, doing bracing of structure of Covid facility at BKC, switching of electricity, AC and oxygen facility during cyclone to prevent fire incidents. All project sites are also being protected,” it said.MMRDA is currently implementing large infrastructure projects in the megapolis including the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link and all of the metro projects except Colaba-Bandra-Seepz metro 3 corridor. The authority also tweeted, “Although we continue adaptive steps towards strengthening the facility, we hope that Nisarga cyclone hits its weekend mode before it reaches Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahead-of-cyclone-nisarga-mmrda-shifts-150-covid-19-patients-at-bkc-to-safer-place/story-PQlZkwf6hsw1eriThyNslO.html
02-06-2020||City||Ludhiana traders to meet cabinet minister to press for six-day week mandi||With the district administration not allowing the main vegetable market to operate six days a week, traders’ bodies have decided to take up the matter with cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in the coming days.Faced with losses, the arhtiya associations are also contemplating agitation if their concerns are not addressed by the government.During a meeting conducted here on Tuesday, fruit mandi arhtiya association general secretary Charanjt Singh Shera said, “Our office-bearers raised the matter before Ashu a few days ago, but we have not received any reply from the minister till now. We have decided to meet him again and if he still fails to provide a solution, the association will chalk out further plan of action.”Following the complaints of huge gatherings at the vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass, the district administration had on April 3 restricted the sale of vegetables and fruits at the mandi to three days a week – Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Only listed suppliers who sell vegetables to street vendors in the city’s 95 wards were issued passes to enter the market.Besides a six-day week mandi, the traders have also demanded that their customers, other than the vendors, should be allowed to enter the vegetable market.Working on their demands, the deputy commissioner had formed a three-member committee led by sub-divisional magistrate (West) Amrinder Malhi, but that too recommended not to allow mandi operations for six days a week till the lockdown is in effect.A market committee official said the administration is already struggling to manage the rush of visitors to the market and it has also failed to stop illegal entry of vendors and customers, resulting in huge gatherings amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-traders-to-meet-cabinet-minister-to-press-for-six-day-week-mandi/story-phVaTHXi8EhCkXJ3nXbJAO.html
02-06-2020||City||Katraj lake discharge work begins to prevent Ambil Odha flood situation||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) began the process of water discharge from Katraj lake as part of the pre-monsoon exercise.PMC is also taking pre-emptive steps to prevent a flood situation faced by Ambil Odha last year because of heavy discharge from Katraj lake following heavy rainfall.Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and city engineer Prashant Waghmare visited the lake last week.Gaikwad said, “Areas located on the banks of Ambil Odha suffered damage during the heavy rainfall last year. We have released water from Katral lake so as to increase its storage capacity during the rainy season. As the lake hardly gets dry during the year, we are yet to ascertain its depth.”The authorities claim to have completed all pre-monsoon works related to Ambil Odha areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/katraj-lake-discharge-work-begins-to-prevent-ambil-odha-flood-situation/story-uxlx7PvQrM1tpp32KqLL9K.html
02-06-2020||City||CPI(M) blames Himachal government’s ‘reckless behaviour’ for rising Covid-19 cases||Communist Party of India (Marxist) has accused the BJP-led state government of recklessly handling the Covid-19 cases and demanded an unbiased investigation regarding this matter.Party leaders have also demanded the state government publicise and issue white paper of purchases made under the Disaster Management Act in the name of Covid-19CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that two coronavirus patients were referred to Shimla from Solan even when a private hospital Maharishi Markandeshwar Medical College and Hospital has been been made a Covid-19 dedicated hospital in Solan.He said that another Covid-19 dedicated hospital Deen Dayal Upadhaya (DDU) Shimla does not have enough ventilators, ECG, lab and other facilities and because of this, a coronavirus patient was referred to IGMC, Shimla when his health deteriorated.He said that his party has been demanding the state government to come up with a concrete strategy to battle coronavirus but the government has failed to take effective steps.“At least 68 days have passed since the lockdown and a statewide curfew was imposed but Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly and carelessness in treatment of these patients has exposed the government’s poor arrangements,” said Sanjay.CPI(M) has also demanded an unbiased investigation by a sitting judge of the high court of all the scams and into poor arrangements by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-blames-himachal-government-s-reckless-behaviour-for-rising-covid-19-cases/story-DSvJzSxVVkspKdE9C1ND7N.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||HC asks Centre to furnish data on Vande Bharat passengers who tested positive after disembarking||The Bombay high court (HC) directed the Centre on Tuesday to provide data on international evacuee passengers who were Covid-negative when they boarded the Vande Bharat special flights but tested positive after de-boarding in India. The query was raised while hearing a petition by an Air India pilot who complained that the airline had violated social distancing norms while bringing back those stranded abroad on the special flights. The court also directed all parties to the petition to file their written arguments by Wednesday evening and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday. A division bench of justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade, while hearing a petition filed by pilot Deven Kanani on Tuesday through video conferencing, was informed by senior advocate Tushar Mehta appearing for the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Air India that the special flights followed all safety norms to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus.Mehta submitted that Air India, DGCA and the ministry of civil aviation had taken all necessary precautions for passengers who were seated in the middle seat. He said that apart from the three-layered face masks provided to all passengers, the middle seat passengers were provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) like a face shield for the entire duration of the flights. Mehta added that an expert committee constituted to review social distancing norms on special flights had also expressed its satisfaction on the measures adopted, and hence the petitioner’s apprehensions were unfounded and the petition must be dismissed.In an earlier hearing, advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud, who along with advocates Arsh Misra and Kavita Anchan represented Air India, had submitted that the DGCA circular on social distancing norms was not applicable for unscheduled commercial flights and hence the petition was invalid.The Central government, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh, informed the court that though it was represented in the petition by the DGCA, it wants the ministry of civil aviation also to be impleaded in the petition, which the court said it would decide after hearing the application by the ministry.After hearing the submissions, HC sought to know from the Centre whether there was any data on evacuated passengers who were Covid-negative when they boarded the flight but were tested positive after disembarking. The court said that such data, if any, should be placed before it in the next hearing on Thursday morning. The HC also directed all parties to submit their written arguments by Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-centre-to-furnish-data-on-air-india-passengers-who-tested-positive-after-disembarking/story-ZljuHxLpIbRtmEy1wC5hYI.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gold dacoity mastermind arrested with police uniform, fake IDs||Punjab Police have arrested the mastermind behind the recent 2-kg gold dacoity in Ludhiana, which he had committed to mobilise funds for carrying out a spate of targeted killings as part of a pro-Khalistan agenda to disturb peace in the state.A special team of the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) arrested the most wanted gangster-terrorist, Tejinder Singh, alias Teja, of Mehadpur in Balachaur of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar from Mohali on Monday, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said in a statement.The DGP said that a set of Punjab Police uniform, along with an ID card of Seema Suraksha Bal (SSB) were seized from Tejinder, who was also the prime accused in the January 2020 car-jacking incident of a Toyota Fortuner from Kharar in Mohali. The accused planned to use the uniform and card to gain access to restricted areas for committing crimes, including terrorist activities, he said.The police have also recovered a Chinese 30 caliber pistol, 10 cartridges and a car. Tejinder had prepared fake ID cards such as an Aadhar card and driving licence from Noida (Uttar Pradesh) to evade arrest. While being on the run, he stayed at different locations in Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana.WAS PLANNING TO LOOT BANK CASH VANTejinder, who had been arrested earlier too for involvement in more than 25 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, car-jacking, and dacoity, said that he was radicalised and motivated to carry out targeted killings by hardcore terrorists in whose contact he came during his stints in various prisons.“During questioning, Tejinder said that he and his accomplice Rachpal Singh, alias Daula, of Bhuchar Kalan in Tarn Taran, were planning to loot a bank cash van that transported currency from branches of State Bank of India to ATMs in Maur and Talwandi Sabo,” Gupta said. “They had checked the route and conducted a recce.”After his release from prison in December 2019, Tejinder and Rachpal, who was earlier in jail for drug and weapon smuggling and is now absconding for a murder in Tarn Taran, procured sophisticated weapons from across the border.They were expecting a fresh consignment of automatic weapons/drugs.A criminal case has been registered against Tejinder and his accomplices at the state special operation cell (SSOC), Mohali, under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-gold-dacoity-mastermind-arrested-with-police-uniform-fake-ids/story-FLFlMdStXSbr9O4oCe36NK.html
02-06-2020||Pune||In Pune, curfew timings now from 9pm to 5am||The Pune police have reduced the night curfew hours from 7pm-7am, to 9pm-5am in the city. The new timings will be in effect from Monday mid-night till the end of June. An order to that effect was issued by Ravindra Shisve, Joint Commissioner of Pune Police.As per the order, no citizen of Pune city will be allowed to roam, cycle, ride, or drive on city roads or in-roads between these hours.The order also restricts walking, standing, and sitting in public spaces between these hours. The order was issued under Section 144(1)(3) of Code of Criminal Procedure.The violators of the order can face action under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, the orders issued by Khadki and Pune Cantonment Boards, and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in their respective jurisdictions, will remain in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/in-pune-curfew-timings-now-from-9pm-to-5am/story-gidLBtrMKM6YeSW6fb1mlJ.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man shoots 2 elder brothers dead in Tarn Taran village||A man, accompanied by two aides, allegedly shot his two elder brothers dead over a dispute over cutting trees on their father’s agricultural land in Kot Dharam Chand village, 10 kilometers from the district headquarters, on Tuesday.The victims are Dilbagh Singh, 45, and Lal Singh, 40, of Kot Dharam Chand village while the accused are the victims’ younger brother Manjinder Singh, and Gajjan Singh and Diyal Singh of the same village.The incident took place around 7am when the victims’ father Bahal Singh was cutting trees in his field, police said. His youngest son, Manjinder, reprimanded Bahal for cutting the trees and a quarrel ensued, which turned fatal after Dilbagh and Lal Singh intervened, police said. VICTIMS HIT BY THREE BULLETS EACH Dilbagh’s 18-year-old son Gurpreet Singh, who was present on the spot, said, “My uncle, Manjinder, quarrelled with my grandfather because he wanted to cut the trees himself. My father and uncle Lal tried to placate him but to no avail. The three men, were carrying pistols and opened fire at my father and uncle. They were both hit by three bullets each. The accused tried to follow me,too, but I managed to escape.” The victims were married to sisters Baljit Kaur and Harjit Kaur of Kang village and had a son each. The victims had been living together with their parents while Manjinder lived separately in the same village.The victims’ brother-in-law Satnam Singh of Kang village said, “Bahal owns 10 acres of agriculture land in the village. He had divided the land into three parts for his three sons. On Tuesday, Bahal had been cutting trees from the land given to Dilbagh and Lal but Manjinder said he wanted to cut the trees.”ACCUSED ARE ABSCONDING Station house officer (SHO) of Chabhal police station Harinder Singh said, “Dilbagh and Lal were taken to the Tarn Taran civil hospital, but they succumbed to their injuries on the way. The accused are absconding. Raids are carried out to arrest them.”A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 341 (wrongful restraint), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-shoots-2-elder-brothers-dead-in-tarn-taran-village/story-RzqlhW6sNMJaNnh1pdYlqJ.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Vigilance questions technical, purchase committees in Himachal medical equipment scam||SHIMLA: The state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau has expanded its probe into the irregularities in the purchase of medical equipments in the health department.The special investigation unit, led by superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri, is looking into the role of the technical and purchase committees constituted by the health department for making purchases during the tenure of former director, health services, Dr Ajay Kumar Gupta.Gupta was arrested on May 20 after an audio clip of his conversation with a dealer surfaced on social media in which he was heard seeking a bribe of Rs 5 lakh. The vigilance verified the authenticity of the clip and a preliminary probe suggested Gupta was involved in irregularities in the purchase of medical supplies and equipment.The vigilance has taken into possession documents pertaining to purchases made by the department since January 2020. “But the focus is on purchases made in March, particularly after the Covid-19 outbreak,” an investigator said, requesting anonymity.In April, the directorate of health services bought personal protective equipment (PPE), the safety gear required to protect health workers from exposure to novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19.PPE KITS BOUGHT IN TWO PHASESUnlike other states, Himachal Pradesh does not have a specialised medical purchase corporation. A technical committee headed by Gupta was assigned the task of buying medical equipment for health workers on frontline duty. Usually, the equipment is bought by medical officers at the district level but the government authorised the health directorate to make purchases.In view of the health emergency due to the pandemic, the department bought PPE kits in two phases. The first set of 6,000 PPE kits was bought from a Chandigarh-based company for Rs 84 lakh. Each kit was bought for Rs 1,400.The state bought another 7,000 PPE kits from a Kurukshetra-based corporation for Rs 1,050 per piece and the total order amounted to Rs 73.5 lakh.The state had released an expression of interest letter on April 21 only to scrap it.FORENSIC REPORT IN THREE DAYSThe technical committee comprises four members, including the heads of departments from medical colleges, while the purchase committee includes four experts from the health department.“The vigilance department has questioned the members,” a health department official said.The vigilance department seized the mobile phones of Dr Ajay Gupta and liaison officer Prithvi Singh of a Punjab-based medical supplier. Prithvi Singh had worked for a diagnostic laboratory in Solan, owned by relatives of former state BJP president Rajeev Bindal.Bindal stepped down after his name was dragged into the scam. The vigilance is awaiting the report from the forensic laboratory on the voice samples of the both Ajay Gupta and Prithvi Singh. The state forensic science laboratory in Junga is likely to submit its report within three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vigilance-questions-technical-purchase-committees-in-himachal-medical-equipment-scam/story-bKPPBXPB7lRvCpR6lsiNIP.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Mumbai civic body BEST prepares to deal with power supply||In preparation to deal with the impact of cyclonic storm Nisarga, authorities in Mumbai are putting together a team to deal with the power situation in the city.The Brihanmumbai Electricity and Transport (BEST) Undertaking, which supplies power to Maharashtra’s capital , is creating a team of “stand-by engineers” who will ensure supply restoration in case of a power failure, especially for hospitals and centres dealing with Covid-19 pandemic. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has declared Nisarga as a cyclonic storm. It said that the tropical storm which started as a low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea, turned into a cyclone on Tuesday afternoon. It is expected to make a landfall very close to Alibagh, 94 km south of Mumbai, on the afternoon of June 3. Scientist said the cyclone could inundate low-lying areas especially in cities like Mumbai and cause damage from falling trees and power poles. This had raised concerns about how Mumbai, among the worst-affected in the country by the coronavirus disease, will cope. Mumbai’s civic body, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has also advised people to stay away from the sea and not stand under trees and power poles. The civic body’s advisory has also asked Mumbaikars not to step out of their houses.The BMC’s official handle tweeted, “A cyclone is expected to hit western coast of Maharashtra on June 3. All precautions are being taken to ensure zero casualty, including relocating people from unsafe localities. In view of the situation, the main control room and ward control rooms of BMC have been equipped with adequate manpower. Citizens are requested to stay away from the sea and not stand under tree or pillar.”The civic agency has further directed all hospitals in the city to ensure that their generators are in working order and there is an uninterrupted power supply so that the treatment of patients is not affected in any manner. A senior health official said that Cyclone Nisarga is a major challenge for the health facilities while they are dealing with the coronavirus pandemic.(With inputs from HTC, Mumbai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-mumbai-civic-body-best-prepares-to-deal-with-power-supply-in-covid-hospitals/story-7kqg8Zukx2YIcDfsoRzpUJ.html
02-06-2020||City||Health, cremation ground workers honoured||Hoshiarpur: Fifteen persons from the health department and the local cremation ground were honoured with the Principal Bagga Sewa Award on the 36th death anniversary of socialist leader and former MLA, ‘Principal’ Om Parkash Bagga.The awards were in appreciation of the role played by health employees in providing frontline health services and that of the cremation ground workers in cremating bodies of coronavirus patients without fear of stigma.Each award comprised a memento, a corona prevention kit and cash worth Rs 2000. Principal Bagga’s son Ajay Bagga said that it was a way to express gratitude to the corona warriors and inspire others to fight the pandemic with courage and determination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-cremation-ground-workers-honoured/story-BjAmrsxQ3GpavE4UP0vsyI.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Adesh Kumar Gupta appointed Delhi BJP chief, takes over from Manoj Tiwari||The Delhi BJP got its new president in Adesh Kumar Gupta on Tuesday. He will take over from actor-turned-politician Manoj Tiwari.Other than Delhi, the BJP effected change in leadership in Chhattisgarh and Manipur party units too. Vishnu Deo Sai and S Tikendra Singh were named as state party presidents of Chhattisgarh and Manipur, respectively.Gupta is a former mayor of north Delhi municipal corporation. Manoj Tiwari, an MP, had offered to quit after the BJP lost to the Aam Aadmi Party in the Delhi assembly polls. Incidentally, Tiwari’s term was also over. Sai was a Union minister in the first Modi government but could not contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after the BJP decided to not repeat any of its sitting MPs in Chhattisgarh after losing to the Congress in the assembly polls. He replaces Vikram Usendi. The country is presently in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, with all political action limited to virtual announcements, meetings. The development signals, to some extent, a return of regular political activities as lockdown restrictions across the country are relaxed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/adesh-kumar-gupta-appointed-delhi-bjp-chief-takes-over-from-manoj-tiwari/story-5p56SVaXGIsO9mjUMoxKRL.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Revised MSPs fail to offer succour to farmers in Punjab||The Centre on Monday announced revised minimum support prices (MSPs) for Kharif crops, however, farmers, who were anticipating a financial bailout from the government, were let down by the paltry increments as the agricultural sector grapples with acute shortage of labour.The central ministry of agriculture announced the MSP for different crops on the recommendations of the commission for agricultural costs and prices (CACP). With an increase of Rs 53, the MSP of paddy (common) has been revised from Rs 1,815 to Rs 1,868, while Grade-A paddy will be bought for Rs 1,888 as compared to last year’s Rs 1,835.Effecting an increase of Rs 90, the MSP for maize has been increased from Rs 1,760 to Rs 1,850,The MSP of cotton (medium staple) has been increased by Rs 260. Now, cottons MSP is Rs 5,515 as compared to last year’s Rs 5,255.Economists, too, are of the opinion that the increase is too insufficient to offer any succour to the ailing agricultural sector.Noted economist Sardara Singh Johl says though he had observed that the concept of MSP hardly favours 84% of the small and marginal farmers, there should be a consistent increase in the crop pricing as the cost of the production has been increasing every year.MANIFOLD INCREASE IN INPUT COST “There will be manifold increase in the input cost of paddy sowing due to shortage of labour. The government should either further increase the MSP or provide some other assistance to farmers,” Johl said, adding that usually the commission adopts a scientific approach while proposing pricing, however this year it was not the case. “Farmers will have to depend on machines for paddy sowing or hire local labour, who are charging double than migrants, for manual sowing of the crop,” Johl said.Professor Kesar Singh Bhangoo, an economist at Punjabi university, said in the present scenario, the marginal increase in MSP will not serve any purpose. “With an increase of Rs 53 in paddy MSP, farmers should have an additional earning of Rs 1,560 by selling 30 quintals of production from an acre. However, this year, the cost of labour has doubled to almost Rs 5,500 from Rs 2,800 per acre (an increase of Rs 2,700),” Bhangoo said.Government intervention is crucial for agricultural labour and farmers at this juncture, he added.INCREASED MSP A ‘JOKE’: BKUFarmers say the government remains indifferent to the challenges being faced by the farming community due to the coronavirus crisis.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugarahan) state president Joginder Singh dismissed the Rs 53 hike in paddy MSP as a ‘joke’.“We reject the increased MSP as it will not help farmers at all. The government has failed to calculate input cost of paddy cultivation and other expenses while tabulating the MSP,” he said.Farmers expect labour costs to double this year as while migrant workers charge Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per acre for sowing paddy, local labour in Punjab demands Rs 5,000-Rs 5,500 per acre.BKU general secretary (Dakaunda) Jagmohan Singh said the commission adopts an outdated method to determine MSP.“There is no check on inflation due to the Covid-19 crisis,” he said.Farmers have been asking the Centre to adopt the formula recommended by National Commission on Farmers chairperson MS Swaminathan, under which farmers will be provided an MSP which accounts for the basic costs incurred on production and an additional 50% profit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/revised-msps-fail-to-offer-succour-to-farmers-in-punjab/story-Dsa9LTZM1MBNEEkvSZHxiI.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Deep depression in Arabian Sea intensifies into cyclonic storm, IMD officially declares it Cyclone Nisarga||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday declared Nisarga as a cyclonic storm. It said that the tropical storm which started as a low-pressure area, turned into a cyclone on Tuesday afternoon.It had earlier said that Nisarga will turn into a severe cyclonic storm by 5.30 pm on June 2.The storm is currently packing in winds upto 90-100 kmph. The wind speed is expected to be 105-115 kmph gusting to 125 kmph when it nears landfall. Scientists said that Nisarga could inundate low-lying areas especially in cities like Mumbai and cause structural damage from falling trees and power poles. This has raised concern over how the city, already strained for healthcare resources on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, will cope.Also read: Cyclone Nisarga approaches Maharashtra amid health crisisThe weather department has advised fishermen to not venture into the southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep area and along and off Kerala coast during next 48 hours.Alert has been sounded in Mumbai, its suburban districts, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts in view of Nisarga. The IMD on Monday issued a red alert for these districts for June 3 and 4. A red alert - which indicates the possibility of extremely heavy rain of more than 204.5 mm - is a warning for residents to take action and keep safe from adverse impact.Cyclone Nisarga is expected to make landfall very close to Alibag, 94 km south of Mumbai, on the afternoon of June 3.“The landfall location will be very close to Alibag but extensive damage can be expected in Mumbai also,” said Sunita Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD.Also read: Cyclone Nisarga will make landfall close to Alibag; parts of Mumbai likely to be inundatedThe cyclone is likely to cross the north Maharashtra and adjoining south Gujarat coast between Harihareshwar (Maharashtra) and Daman during the afternoon of June 3.The storm surge is expected to be one to two metres above the astronomical tide and is very likely to inundate low-lying areas of Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts at the time of landfall. It is also expected to be about 0.5 to one metre above the astronomical tide and likely to inundate low-lying areas of Ratnagiri district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/deep-depression-in-arabian-sea-intensifies-into-cyclonic-storm-imd-officially-declares-it-cyclone-nisarga/story-qVQDwGKfAf92sVBHzbqeGL.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Capital gets its first AI-enabled thermal Corona Mobile Testing Clinic Bus by Delhi Government and Sun Foundation||To fight against COVID-19, a well-equipped Corona Mobile Testing Clinic Bus supported by philanthropist Vikramjit Singh Sahney, chairman, Sun Foundation was launched by Chief Secretary of Delhi, Vijay Dev, in the August presence of BM Mishra, DC, South District.The mobile clinic has artificial intelligence enabled thermal testing, airtight separate cabins for doctors and technicians, contactless testing of patients including both nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs, and rapid testing. The fully air-conditioned mobile unit also has a separate ambulance zone to evacuate critical patients and separate entry gates for doctors and patients. While addressing the media, Sahney emphasised on the need to curb the spread of coronavirus. “The key to arrest this pandemic is 4Ts — Tracking, Testing, Tracing and Treatment — as fast as we can. As the country continues to grapple with COVID-19 and its far-reaching implications, we need to adopt swift and innovative means to conduct as many tests as possible to save people from this deadly virus,” he says. He further thanked the Delhi Government to give him this opportunity to contribute his bit in this noble cause and would continue to support as a step ahead in the larger efforts. This is a joint effort and initiative made by various stakeholders, including Delhi South District, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Vikramjit Sahney and Sonalika to convert the bus into a brand-new Corona Testing and Ambulance with zero cost to government. This ambulance has the potential to do doorstep sampling of 15000+ people per month. Follow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/capital-gets-its-first-ai-enabled-thermal-corona-mobile-testing-clinic-bus-by-delhi-government-and-sun-foundation/story-julSP6BJc2smb2EQn4RI1N.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||60-year-old Pathankot man succumbs to Covid-19 in Amritsar||A 60-year-old Pathankot resident succumbed to Covid-19 at Government Medical College (GMCH) in Amritsar on Tuesday.The patient, a commission agent, was posted at the border of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab and contracted the virus while at work from an unidentified source.The victim’s two brothers, daughter, wife and two sons, one of whom is disabled, have also tested positive.Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Bhupinder Singh said the deceased man’s 30-year-old son is critical and is undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College (CMC), Ludhiana.“The body is being brought to Pathankot and will be cremated in the presence of district administration officials,” the SMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/60-year-old-pathankot-man-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-amritsar/story-jCFzofMg9WCPfzFgJzURDJ.html
02-06-2020||Noida||Man killed on Greater Noida road in hit-and-run case||A 40-year-old man was killed allegedly by a speeding auto-rickshaw in Greater Noida in a hit-and-run case, police said on Monday.The driver of the auto-rickshaw has been taken in police custody and booked for causing death due to negligence and rash driving, the officials said.The body of Sanjeev was found with injuries on the neck on a road in Pi 3 sector in the morning after which the local police were alerted about the incident, they said.“Some parts of an auto-rickshaw were found near the incident site and an investigation was taken up which led the police to the driver who lives in Kasna,” an official from Beta II police station said.“During inquiry, the driver confessed that he had gone to Pi 3 area the previous night to drop a passenger off. While returning he was driving at a high speed when he suddenly hit Sanjeev on the road. He said that he ran away from the spot because of fear,” the official added.The police said prima facie it appears to be a case of accident and an FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) following a complaint by the deceased’s brother.The accused, Mohit (20), has been taken into custody and his vehicle impounded, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-killed-on-greater-noida-road-in-hit-and-run-case/story-pRPZYgcBkXYrbzXo3wgvxO.html
02-06-2020||Ranchi||Service centres, garages, motor workshops, jewellery shops can reopen in Jharkhand||The Jharkhand government on Monday permitted some additional activities like opening of service centres, call centres of private companies and jewellery shops outside containment zones, in a bid to restart economic activities that have been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic.The new set of guidelines came through a notification issued by Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh and will remain in force until June 30.Click here for full Covd-19 coverageThe guidelines said there was a need to take a cautious approach as many migrant labourers returned from states and countries severely affected by Covid-19. It was felt necessary to open up economic activities to ease hardships being faced by the people, the notification said.As per a Ministry of Home Affairs order dated May 30, service centres of mobiles, watches, consumer electronics like TV/IT-related products like computers and consumer electrical products like refrigerators/air conditioners/air coolers are permitted to open in municipal-corporation areas, the state notification said. It also allowed the opening of the jewellery shops and call centres of private companies in district headquarters and urban areas.The state government allowed only home delivery and take-away from restaurants in district headquarters and urban areas.Permission was also granted for intra-district public transport by auto-rickshaw, tempo, e-rickshaw and manual rickshaw.Shops selling items such as furniture, kitchenware, utensils, crockery, watches and clocks, auto accessories, batteries, automobile, cycles, tractors, capital goods, heavy machinery, generators and electrical products like wire, switchgear, lights, fans, air coolers, geysers and inverters are allowed to open in district headquarter urban areas.Garages and motor workshops are also permitted in district headquarter and urban areas, the state notification said.All activities allowed prior to this order shall remain permitted, the notification said, adding the order shall come in force from June 1 and will remain effective till June 30.Meanwhile, taking to Twitter, Chief Minister Hemant Soren renewed his request to the people to wear masks, strictly follow social distancing and take special care of the elders.“Wash hands with water soap for at least 20 seconds. The relaxation has been given in lockdown but not in these precautionary measures. Follow these rules strictly,” Soren tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/service-centres-garages-motor-workshops-jewellery-shops-can-reopen-in-jharkhand/story-tnJql6CDnJhxkffiGYISXP.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly woman is fifth Covid-19 casualty as Chandigarh crosses 300 mark in 76 days||An 80-year-old woman from the containment zone of Sector 30 in Chandigarh who was declared brought dead at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Monday tested positive for coronavirus disease posthumously on Tuesday.She is the city’s fifth fatality linked to Covid-19.The development comes on the day the city crossed the mark of 300 infections, with three new cases being reported from the containment zone in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26.Out of the total 301 cases reported so far, 82 are active. Of these 225, ie 74%, are from Bapu Dham alone. The three fresh cases are related to a woman who tested positive after delivering a baby at the Manimajra civil hospital recently. The family members include three males, aged 15, 35 and 40.Tested after deathThe Sector-30 woman’s samples were sent for testing after her death.Doctors, who attended her, said she fell at her house on Monday after complaining of giddiness. This was followed by a bout of vomiting. “Subsequently she was shifted to GMSH, Sector 16, in an ambulance. The deceased had co-morbid conditions of renal and liver disease, for which she took treatment at GMSH and the Kharar civil hospital in January 2020. She has two family contacts: her daughter-in-law and grandson. Both are asymptomatic and have been sampled,” said the UT spokesperson .The house had also been surveyed by a team of health workers during a special drive in the area on May 31. At that time, the woman along with her two family members were found asymptomatic, said officials, adding that her samples have been sent again for testing for reconfirmation of her positive status. Source of infection a mysteryOf the five Covid-19 fatalities in the city, four were confirmed positive after the patient’s death. The source of infection has not been known in any of these cases, expect of a 62-year-old man of Bapu Dham Colony who tested positive posthumously at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, on May 9. He was a community contact of another patient in his locality.Chandigarh reported its first death linked to the virus on May 3 when an 82-year-old woman, who was a resident of Sector 18 and was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Panchkula, died. On May 8, a man from Hallomajra tested positive for Covid-19, two days after his death at GMSH.A three-day-old girl became the fourth fatality linked to the virus. After her birth at the civil hospital in Sector 22, she was reported to be brought dead at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on May 23. She was found to be Covid-19 positive the next day. However, her parents, who belong to Dadumajra, tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-year-old-woman-is-fifth-covid-19-casualty-in-chandigarh-city-s-positive-case-count-reaches-299/story-pJTJcTgs8pMobDcJj9Y94I.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||HT Explainer: Battle Royale for the riches||The high court on Monday ruled in favour of two daughters in the three-decade-long legal battle for the assets between members of Faridkot royal family. It also gave share to descendents of Maharaja’s brother. Surender Sharma dissects the issue to know what is at stake, the claimants and the road aheadThe dispute Faridkot’s last Maharaja Harinder Singh had three daughters — Amrit Kaur, Deepinder Kaur and Mahip Inder Kaur and one son, Harmohinder Singh. His son died in a road accident in 1981. Maharaja died in 1989 and soon after, a will purportedly signed by him surfaced in 1982, entrusting properties to a trust. His wife Narinder Kaur, mother Mohinder Kaur and Amrit Kaur feigned ignorance about the will. It had Deepinder Kaur and Mahip Inder Kaur as trust chairperson and vice-chairperson. Mahip Inder, a spinster, died in Shimla in 2001. Amrit Kaur had reportedly married against the wishes of Maharaja to a police officer, a reason cited for her exclusion.She filed a civil suit in 1992, challenging the will of her father. Her contention was that her father could not have legally bequeathed his entire estate to the trust because it was ancestral property governed by Hindu joint family law. Manjit Inder Singh, Harinder Singh’s brother, argued that as Maharaja’s son had died, the property should have been granted to the eldest living male blood relative.What is at stakeAs per lawyers, the properties are valued at more than ₹20,000 crore. It include Rajmahal in Faridkot, which is spread over 14 acres; Qila Mubarak built by Raja Mokulsi and reconstructed by Raja Hamir Singh around 1775; and Faridkot House on Copernicus Marg in New Delhi. Other properties include Manimajra Fort, Chandigarh, spread over four acres, Faridkot House in Mashobra (Shimla, a 260-bigha estate); 18 vintage cars; aerodrome in Faridkot, which is spread over 200 acres, and gold and jewels valued at ₹1,000 crore in Standard Chartered Bank’s custody in Mumbai.The will and the verdict The will which entrusted properties of Maharaja was purportedly signed in 1982 but surfaced in 1989 after his death. It had Deepinder and Mahip Inder Kaur at the helm, and a large number of employees as custodians. The court observed that the locker from where the will was recovered was operated by the Raja personally then how an employee of Raja opened the same without informing others. Also it was natural for him to inform his near and dear ones about such an important document, but none knew about it. Also, why the executors did not make any inventory of movable and immovable properties of Raja, nor they performed any obligation mandatorily required under Indian Succession Act. Another aspect noted by court is that why Raja would disinherit his unmarried daughter, his wife and mother in the will.Now what As per lawyers, 37.5% of share goes to both the daughters and 25% to Bharat Inder Singh. The appeal against the dispute, which started in 1992, lies in Supreme Court now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-explainer-battle-royale-for-the-riches/story-bWvYZGuW4hlLgDty8q5g6O.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC verdict on Faridkot Royals’ property dispute: Daughters to get lion’s share in property||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday upheld a Chandigarh court’s order awarding majority share in ₹20,000-crore property of Maharaja Faridkot Harinder Singh Brar to his two daughters —Amrit Kaur and Deepinder Kaur. The court also held that descendents of Manjit Inder Singh, brother of the Maharaja, would get their mother Mohinder Kaur’s share.Crowned at the age of three in 1918, Harinder was the last ruler of the Faridkot estate and was married to Narinder Kaur. The royal couple had three daughters, Amrit Kaur, Deepinder Kaur and Maheepinder Kaur and one son, Harmohinder Singh. The son died in a road accident in 1981. One of the Maharajas of seven Sikh princely, Harinder died in 1989 and left behind prime properties in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana and Chandigarh.Maharawal Khewaji Trust explore legal optionsAfter facing a second setback in a 28-year-long fight for the royal inheritance of the property, the Maharawal Khewaji Trust will look for options to challenge the Punjab and Haryana high court order.Maharawal Khewaji Trust chief executive Jagir Singh Saran said: “We have received the copy of the order and a team of advocates is looking into it and a decision will be taken accordingly.Two lawyers associated with the case, senior advocate MS Khaira and Vivek Bhandari said the properties are worth over ₹20, 000 crore. As per the judgment, 37.5% share would go to each of the two daughters and 25% to the family of Bharat Inder Singh.Maheepinder Kaur died a spinster, Deepinder Kaur died while this legal battle was on. Amrit Kaur lives in Chandigarh.The property dispute started soon after Maharaja died in October 1989 after a ‘will’ surfaced, in which he had bequeathed his properties to the trust, Maharwal Khewaji Trust, with his daughter Deepinder Kaur as its head.As of high court, the matter had reached in 2018 after a Chandigarh court declared trust as void and gave property to the daughters.The asset tussleOct 1989: Maharaja Harinder Singh dies. ‘Will’ bequeathing his properties to a trust surfacesOct 1992: Daughter Amrit Kaur files civil suit demanding 1/3 of share in propertyJuly 2013: A Chandigarh court rules that 1982 will was forged. Says as per Hindu Succession Act, properties would go to both the sisters, appeals filed against the orderFeb 2018: An additional sessions court upholds civil court order, appeals filed in HC by all partiesThe high court bench of justice Raj Mohan Singh held that property would be inherited as per Hindu Succession Act— by both the daughters and their mother. Since mother Mohinder Kaur was alive at the time of death of Maharaja, she would also inherit the property and now would go to family of Manjit Inder Singh as per her will.Amrit Kaur had staked claim on the entire estate on the basis of The Raja of Faridkot’s Estate Act, 1948. Bharat Inder Singh had staked claim on inheritance on the basis of rule of Primogeniture according to which property rights are granted to first born son or eldest living male blood relative. Deepinder Kaur had staked claim on the basis of validity of the will and trust created.The court held that Estate Act, 1948 was not a valid enactment after commencement of Constitution of India and is not applicable for succession to the estate. As of rule of primogeniture, the court said, the succession has to be governed by the personal law of succession. Even rights and privileges conferred upon the ruler, came to an end with his death, being purely personal in character, it said.As of the will in dispute, the court observed, trustees conspired to create the will to take over the property. “The will is proved to be forged, fictitious, fabricated and shrouded with suspicious circumstances..,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-verdict-on-faridkot-royals-property-dispute-daughters-to-get-lion-s-share-in-property/story-JFlrckoupQRjRcTQ7OqTAM.html
02-06-2020||Kolkata||With Covid-19 tests rising in Bengal, results getting delayed: Officials||As the number of tests to confirm whether one is infected by novel coronavirus has increased manifold in West Bengal, results are also getting delayed under pressure, raising the chances of its transmission, officials of state health department said on Monday.Sample tests have been conducted in the state on war footing and with migrant labourers returning to West Bengal, such clinical examinations have been expedited, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageCurrently, there are 41 laboratories in West Bengal involved in conducting tests of samples to determine Covid-19 infection.“The number of tests to determine Covid-19 infection has gone up manifold in laboratories across the state. Tests are conducted on symptomatic as well as asymptomatic people.Besides, tests are conducted on migrant labourers who are returning in large numbers, an official said.After the results come, they are matched with the lists of people on whom the tests were conducted and then submitted to the state health department, the official said.“As a large number of tests are conducted, many cases could not be matched and uploaded by the data entry operators.And this has led to delay in getting the results of the tests, thereby raising the chances of transmission of the virus,” he said.In May alone, samples of over 1.8 lakh have been conducted in West Bengal.Instructions have been sent to the laboratories to give the data entry operators a daily target of uploading the test results to cut down on the number of cases, the results of which are not uploaded, the official added.West Bengal till Monday has a total of 5,772 confirmed Covid-19 cases, the health department bulletin said.At the moment, there are 17,037 people in government quarantine centres and the total number of people in home quarantine is 1,44,678, it added.The death toll due to coronavirus infection in the state is 253. Seventy-two patients have also died due to comorbid conditions, and Covid- 19 in those cases was “incidental”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/with-covid-19-tests-rising-in-bengal-results-getting-delayed-officials/story-Po9cvs77DRca9FGDzjabnI.html
02-06-2020||City||Odisha reports highest single-day spike of 156 fresh Covid-19 cases||Odisha registered its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases on Monday with 156 new infections, taking the state’s tally to 2,104, a Health Department official said.As many as 119 patients also recovered from the disease during the day, the highest in a single day in the state. Of the total 2,104 cases, 1,245 patients have recovered so far.With fresh cases and recoveries, the number of active cases dipped to 850 from 969, the official said.Of the 156 fresh cases, 153 were reported from quarantine centres while three others were found positive during Covid-19 contact tracing. The new cases were reported from 19 of the state’s 30 districts.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMost of the new cases were reported from Kendrapara (50), followed by Cuttack (20), Ganjam (17), Jagatsinghpur (14), Jajpur (11), Kandhamal (9), Bhadrak (7).Three cases each were reported from Khurda, Nayagarh Sundergarh, Nuapada, Mayurbhanj, Bargarh and Sonepur.Two cases each were reported from Bolangir and Sambalpur, while one case each was reported from Boudh, Kenojhar and Malkangiri districts.Of the 119 recovered people, the highest of 60 are from Jajpur, followed by 13 from Cuttack, 12 from Kendrapara, nine from Gajapati, six from Nayagarh, five from Sundargarh, three each from Balasore, Puri and Khurda, two each from Ganjam and Bolangir, and one from Sambalpur, the official said.The state Health Department has so far tested 1,55,690 samples, he said, adding that Covid-19 testing has also started at state-run medical colleges in Balasore and Baripada.The opening of new facilities will help in ramping up the Covid-19 testing capacity in the state, the official said.Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said returnees from outside the state have been housed in 16,648 temporary medical centres in 6,798 gram panchayats.Around 2.49 lakh people are in quarantine centres while 2.87 lakh have been released following completion of the stipulated isolation period, he said.The districts which have reported more than 100 Covid-19 cases are Ganjam (431), Jajpur (280), Balasore (152), Khurda (141), Bhadrak and Cuttack (120 each) and Kendrapara (139).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-156-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-BRZOzKKQ5ZYsxanJKPwxcI.html
02-06-2020||Jaipur||Former IAS Ashok Singhvi officer surrenders in court||Former IAS officer Ashok Singhvi on Monday surrendered before a special court in Jaipur in connection with a money laundering case registered against him by the enforcement directorate (ED).Additional solicitor general RD Rastogi, who represented the ED in the court, said: “Singhvi surrendered today (Monday) in a court that sent him to judicial custody till June 15.”On February 19 this year, four accused in the case had surrendered before the court. The case relates to a corruption scandal in the Rajasthan mines department in which the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested a senior bureaucrat, considered close to then chief minister Vasundhara Raje, along with seven others, in September 2015.The ED registered a complaint under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the eight in July 2018. The accused include then principal secretary of mines Singhvi, then additional director of mines Pankaj Gehlot, then senior mining engineer Pushkar Raj Ameta and five others.They had all been absconding after a special PMLA court in Jaipur issued non-bailable warrants against them in January 2019.Four of them – chartered accountant Shyam Sunder Singhvi, Ameta, Gehlot and Dhirenda alias Chintu – surrendered in the court on February 19 and currently in judicial custody.Another accused Mohd Rashid Sheikh and his wife Tamanna Begum are on the run. Sanjay Sethi, who was the middleman brokering deals between mines owners and the officials of the department, is said to be admitted to a hospital.Earlier, Sheikh and Sethi filed anticipatory bail applications in the PMLA court. These were rejected on October 11, 2019, for Sheikh, and on October 14, 2019 for Sethi. On January 24 this year, the Rajasthan high court dismissed all petitions for converting non-bailable warrants into bailable. Additional solicitor general Rastogi said after this, the accused had moved an SLP in the Supreme Court. The SLP was dismissed by the apex court on February 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/former-ias-ashok-singhvi-officer-surrenders-in-court/story-PyyIBA7IZLoISecsR1A2DL.html
02-06-2020||Jaipur||149 new Covid-19 cases reported in Rajasthan, state tally nears 9,000-mark||One hundred and forty-nine 149 new Covid-19 cases were recorded on Monday, taking the state total to 8,980. Four deaths were also reported. The total number of deaths is 198.As per the state health department Covid bulleting, 149 new positive cases were reported till 10.30 am. Additional chief secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said two deaths were reported from Jaipur and one each from Baran and Bikaner. Details were not immediately available.A spurt in cases was recorded in Bharatpur district which reported 44 cases. The total cases in the district number 297, of which 159 are active cases.Jaipur district reported 32 cases, while Baran district reported 27 cases and Pali had 21 cases.Kota district recorded 10 cases and Jhalawar district, which had seen a sudden spike in cases last week, seems to have managed to contain the spread of the virus and reported five cases.The number of migrants testing positive is rising with 2,543 testing positive so far. The total recoveries stand at 6,040 while the active cases are 2,742.Health minister Raghu Sharma said SMS hospital in Jaipur has been declared Covid-free and is open to the general public from Monday. “We had made it designated Covid hospital when Jaipur saw a spike in the cases in Ramganj. At that time we asked doctors to put-off all non-emergency surgeries as our priority then was to treat Covid patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/149-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-rajasthan-state-tally-nears-9-000-mark/story-Fdacver6zYeCia1SZ95MHM.html
02-06-2020||Lucknow||Man tied to tree and burnt alive over affair in UP’s Pratapgarh||A 25-year-old man was tied to a tree and set afire by the family of a woman with whom he was allegedly having an affair in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh district late on Monday night, police said.The man, a resident of Bhujauni under Fatanpur police station, died on the spot.Upset over his death, his family and locals turned violent and set two police vehicles on fire, police said. The situation was brought under control by additional force from nearby police stations led by senior officers, they added.Abhishek Singh, Pratapgarh’s superintendent of police, said as per reports some people barged into the house of Ambika Patel and dragged him away. They then tied Patel to a tree some distance away and set him on fire after sprinkling petrol on him before fleeing the spot. Soon, his family members and villagers assembled at the site and turned violent demanding immediate arrest and action against the perpetrators.They also set a 112 police response vehicle (PRV) and another police jeep on fire. This also forced the far outnumbered policemen to flee. Singh rushed to the village with an additional police force and brought the situation under control.Police said that Patel’s relatives claimed that he was having an affair with the woman from his village and this had resulted in many face-offs between the families.Patel had reportedly shared a video clip of the woman on social media a few months ago further increasing tension between the families. The woman had been recently selected as a police constable and was posted to Kanpur. The woman’s family members registered a police complaint against Patel in this connection at the Fatanpur police station resulting in his arrest. He was released from jail recently, police added.Singh said a first information report (FIR) had been registered on the complaint of the victim’s family and efforts were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/man-tied-to-tree-and-burnt-alive-over-affair-in-up-s-pratapgarh/story-fme43wJajZtyuuuMQC6cPM.html
02-06-2020||Dehradun||On Day 1, confusion prevails in state over curbs, relaxations||The first day on Unlock 1.0 witnessed mixed reactions from people across the state as districts in red and orange zones were confused on what was allowed, while people from districts in green zone said that the relaxations are the same as Lockdown 4.0Nainital district was declared as red zone by Uttarakhand government on Sunday which led to confusion among people regarding the relaxations available and restrictions for the red zone on the first day of Unlock 1.0.Locals had hoped that business activity will be increased but with the district being categorized as the red zone, shops were allowed to stay open till 4 pm only.Most people were confused about moving from one district to another and were sceptical about travelling by car.Rohit Pandey, a drug trader, said “We need to supply goods to the hilly areas but due being in the red zone, we are not able to decide whether to go or not. The district administration should tell the public in detail about all the restrictions and exemptions of red zones.”Kundan Bisht, an employee with a private firm, said “I have to go to Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar district for my job, but as Nainital district is under red zone I am confused whether to go to my job or not.”In Dehradun, the city roads were full of traffic and most markets witnessed a good rush of customers.“We are happy that finally, life seems to be returning to some normalcy here. We are hoping that now the economy here stabilizes and people attend to their life as usual”, said Dheerinder Sharma, a private employee from Dehradun’s DalanwalaIn Haridwar , locals were seen thronging the Ganga ghats on the pious festive occasion of Ganga Saptami but the markets in the city remained deserted with many shopkeepers closing their establishments by late afternoon as fewer customers were seen in the markets.Vipin Gupta, president of City Trader Division, Jwalapur said that markets in suburban Jwalapur did not witness a major change as far rush is concerned, with fewer non-essential buyers arriving at markets.In Udham Singh Nagar district, the only green zone district in the state, people said that Unlock 1.0 was like an illusion.“Unlock-1.0 is just like an illusion for me, because there is no relief either for industries or trade. Industries are not on the priority list of the state government. All guidelines that are to be followed are the same as Lockdown-4.0. Earlier, we did not need e-passes to go to other districts but now we have to obtain that,” said Ashok Bansal, an industrialist from Rudrapur.Markets of Khatima, Sitarganj, Kichha, Gadarpur, Bazpur, Kashipur and Jaspur witnessed customers as usual.In Pithoragarh district markets closed around 2 pm despite administration allowing shops to remain open from 7 am-7 pm.Pithoragarh Vyapar Sangh, the traders’ union in the district, asked traders to close shops after 2 pm.“As the migrants who reached the district are roaming around the district headquarter markets, we cannot afford our shopkeepers to get affected by the deadly virus. Therefore, we have suggested the traders to shut down their shops by 2 pm and continue the practice till the pandemic situation improves,” said Shamsher Singh Mahar, president of Vyapar Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/on-day-1-confusion-prevails-in-state-over-curbs-relaxations/story-BHAGIYyG8t5jAvFvFCc7ON.html
02-06-2020||Ranchi||Religious places not to open for now: Jharkhand CM||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday said a decision on opening religious places for the public would only be taken after an order on the final lockdown as the number of Covid-19 cases was rising in the state.He said the gradual process of opening could be reviewed, depending upon the Covid-19 situation.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Religious places will not be opened now. A decision on opening religious places will only be taken after a decision on the final lockdown,” Soren said.He was speaking to reporters after the government issued a fresh list of relaxations for lockdown 5.0 till June 30.In the fresh guidelines issued on May 30, the Centre allowed opening of religious places or places of worship for the public from June 8 with a limited number of devotees.Karnataka, West Bengal and many other states have also allowed the shrines to open their doors for the devotees.Jharkhand is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases following an influx of migrants.More than 430 of the over 650 coronavirus cases in the state are migrants, who started entering Jharkhand from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/religious-places-not-to-open-for-now-jharkhand-cm/story-r0apAd16tlc7iHnjl5HJgK.html
02-06-2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar reports 138 fresh cases, 2 more deaths||With 138 fresh cases, the Covid-19 tally reached 3,945 in Bihar on Monday while two persons died of the disease, taking the death toll to 23, the state health department said.A statement issued by the department said a casualty each was reported from Madhepura and Begusarai districts.It did not provide details such as age, sex and travel history of the two deceased.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOf the 23 deaths, Khagaria district accounts for three, followed by two each in Patna, Vaishali, Begusarai, Siwan and Bhojpur, and one each in Munger, Rohtas, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Nalanda, Samastipur, Saran, Bhagalpur, Jehanabad and Madhepura.The districts leading the chart in terms of Covid-19 cases are Patna (252), Begusarai (245), Rohtas (206) and Madhubani (190).Covid-19 cases have been reported from all 38 districts of the state and in 14 of those, the tally is in three digits. With nine cases, Sheohar has reported the least number of infections so far.Although the state had reported its first couple of cases in March, more than 3,000 people tested positive in May, the spike attributed mainly to the massive influx of migrants by special trains and other modes of transport.According to data released by the health department, the number of migrants who have tested positive for the disease since May 3 is 2,743.Although the migrants testing positive include returnees from 24 states, a majority of them have come back from Maharashtra (677), Delhi (628), Gujarat (405), Haryana (237), Uttar Pradesh (149), Rajasthan (126), West Bengal (107), Telangana (104) and Punjab (81).Altogether 1,741 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the state so far while the number of samples tested till date is 78,090.Anupam Kumar, Secretary in the Information and Public Relations Department, told a media briefing that the process of bringing back migrants was “almost complete”, a reason why there has been a drop in the number of Shramik Special trains.Winding up of the quarantine centres at the block level is proposed by June 15, he said.The official said with most of the lockdown restrictions being relaxed, the state will now keep an eye on observance of social distancing at public places.Additional Director General of Police (Headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the people of the state coughed up a staggering Rs 20.42 crore towards fines imposed for violating the lockdown, which ended on Sunday. The number of arrests made was 2,442, while 2,260 FIRs were registered.As many as 85,345 vehicles were seized during the 67-day period for plying without observing the lockdown guidelines, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-bihar-reports-138-fresh-cases-2-more-deaths/story-RdhHEVIJyGkBm5bG02TdHJ.html
02-06-2020||Jaipur||New swarm of locusts invades Rajasthan, fifth to enter state in 4 days||A new swarm of locusts entered Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer on Sunday, officials said Monday. This is the fifth swarm to enter the state in four days from its western border with Pakistan. Since the first locust swarm invaded the state’s Sriganganagar district from Pakistan’s Baluchistan on April 11, as many as 25 swarms have entered Rajasthan, said Locust Warning Office deputy director L K Gurjar.“It was a small swarm, and spread across 1km-by-1km,” Suwa Lal Jat, joint director of plant protection in Rajasthan’s agriculture department said on Monday. “On May 30, three swarms came from Pakistan into Ganganagar, Bikaner and Jodhpur; earlier, a swarm entered Hanumangarh on May 26,” he said.On Sunday evening, a swarm also entered two villages of Chhattisgarh in Koriya district bordering Madhya Pradesh after which agriculture departments in Jharkhand and Odisha issued advisories to farmers asking them to be in high alert.Koriya district collector DM Rathore said, “On Sunday, it was small swarm and we managed to contain their movement by spraying chemicals and using sirens of fire brigades. Most of them have died. We have not been affected till now.”On May 27, the Chhattisgarh agriculture department and farmers in districts bordering Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were alerted after swarms of locusts attacked crops in the neighbouring states.“Every bordering district of Chhattisgarh is on alert,” said Principal Secretary Agriculture Maninder Kaur Dwivedi. “Earlier Bhandara (Maharashtra) locust swarm was expected to arrive in Kawadha district but the wind changed direction so it went towards Nagpur. On Friday, a swarm of locust which was reported in Balaghat and Mandla districts of (Madhya Pradesh) and it went towards Mirzapur (Uttar Pradesh). On Sunday one of swarms reached Koriya,” he said.According to the agriculture ministry, locusts have so far damaged crops in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Another 12 states have been asked to be on alert and prepare for locust control measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/new-swarm-of-locusts-invades-rajasthan-fifth-to-enter-state-in-4-days/story-1TfVuYww0ecNFlrYKjkLuI.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Woman among four held for job racket in Delhi||Four people, including a 33-year-old woman, were arrested by Delhi Police on Sunday for cheating hundreds of people by offering them various government jobs through a website called “Ayushman Yojna, Arogya Mission” that portrayed a false association with the Union government’s flagship Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme and the Aarogya Setu app to track Covid-19 cases.According to Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police in the cyber crime unit, the scam promised jobs under the “Ayushman Yojna” for a registration free of Rs 300 to Rs 500 per person. “The gang advertised for 5,116 vacancies across six states – Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi and Bihar. They collected Rs 300 to Rs 500 from each of the 4,200 job aspirants whose data we have linked, so far. This fake website – https://ayushman-yojana.org/ -- has been active for almost two and a half months,” Roy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-among-four-held-for-job-racket-in-delhi/story-5xFfZmWYjwLCrfbYUoIptO.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Over 2k new Covid cases recorded as Maharashtra tally crosses 70k-mark||A total of 2,361 new cases of coronavirus and 76 deaths were reported in Maharashtra on Monday. The State Health Department said that Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count has gone up to 70,013. “After 76 more people succumbed to the disease today, the toll has increased to 2,362,” it said. Mumbai crossed the 40,000-mark for Covid cases on Monday, with 1,413 new cases taking the tally to 41,099. The toll stood at 1,319, with 40 new deaths. Also, the G-North ward, which covers areas such as Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim, became the first of the 24 wards in the city to cross the 3,000-case mark with 79 new cases.The jump from 30,000 to 40,000 cases came within eight days and the city is expected to cross the case count of 50,000 next week, said civic officials. So far, 16,985 people have been discharged, putting the city’s recovery rate at 42%.Civic officers said while the cases are rising on a daily basis, the doubling rate, too, has improved. Suresh Kakani additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “We have managed to improve our doubling rate to 14 days, which was four-five days in the initial stages of the outbreak. A lot of positive cases are from among those in quarantine, which has helped contain the spread, as these people cannot come in contact with anyone in the community.”According to BMC’s ward-wise break-up of cases, as of June 1, while G-North ward topped the list, L ward (Kurla) was second with 2,668 cases. In F-South ward (Parel), the tally jumped from 2,572 on May 31 to 2,622. The sharpest spike was in N ward (Ghatkopar), from 1,804 cases on May 31 to 1,892 cases on June 1.In terms of ward-wise growth rate for a week, R-North ward (Dahisar) topped the list with 7.5%, followed by P-North ward (Malad) at 7% and S (Bhandup) ward at 6.8%. Wards such as E (Byculla), F-North (Matunga) and G- South (Worli and Prabhadevi) recorded lowest growth rate at 2.1%, 2.4% and 2.6%, respectively. Mumbai’s average growth rate stood at 3.85% on Monday, lower than Sunday’s 4.26% Meanwhile, Dharavi reported 34 cases on Monday, pushing its tally to 1,805. A total of 2.5 lakh from the area have been screened. The India’s largest slum cluster houses 8.50 lakh people.Dadar reported seven new cases, taking the total to 326. Mahim saw 17 new cases (total: 524).State health minister Rajesh Tope and additional municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal on Monday visited the Covid Care Centre in Dharavi, a 200-bed facility set up within 14 days.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G-North ward, said, “This centre will exclusively have 200 beds with oxygen facility for moderate symptomatic patients. All medical and paramedical staff will start working in three shifts from Tuesday.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-2k-new-covid-cases-recorded-as-maharashtra-tally-crosses-70k-mark/story-Pa8VA1kZTzsv1vvHiYS0YP.html
02-06-2020||Business||Paytm Mall shifts ops from Noida to Bengaluru, to hire 300 new members||E-commerce platform Paytm Mall, owned by Paytm Ecommerce Private Ltd, on Monday announced to move its operations from Noida to Bengaluru and hire over 300 new members for product and technology roles.The company also appointed Abhishek Rajan as chief operating officer (COO) who, during the last four years, has built and scaled up Paytm’s Travel business driving large revenues for the company at a positive contribution margin.Paytm Mall said in a statement that the move would help it tap into the rich talent pool available in Bengaluru’s consumer internet and startup ecosystem. “In the post-COVID world, we want to bring commerce to even more customers and serve the SMEs across the country. We are well-capitalized, have a great team, and a massive network of customers to make our O2O model penetrate further in India,” said Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Founder and CEO, Paytm.The existing workforce has the flexibility to either shift to Bengaluru or continue working from their current location in various roles. Additionally, Srinivas Mothey has been elevated to Senior Vice President Merchants Solutions at Paytm who would be working on innovative retail solutions for merchants in his new role.In his new role as COO, Rajan will set the vision for Mall and oversee the operations across categories, products, technology, supply chain, marketing and finance. He will specifically focus on strengthening the commerce customer experience and expanding the hyperlocal merchant base, thereby enabling more Kirana stores to be part of the digital commerce journey“We would like to think of Paytm’s e-commerce business as a Series A startup with $200 million cash in the bank, where key technology and operations components required for running a commerce business have already been built,” said Rajan.With a sharp focus on profitability, Paytm Mall has significantly reduced its quarterly cash burn from $17 million to $2 million during the last financial year. Paytm Mall recently partnered with BigBasket for the supply of groceries on its platform.In February, the e-commerce platform ventured into exports with the aim of becoming India’s largest trading house for “Made in India” products, while targeting Rs 500 crore gross merchandise value (GMV) in the first two years of operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/paytm-mall-shifts-ops-from-noida-to-bengaluru-to-hire-300-new-members/story-niUT6KxUUe80BU0lJRsgBJ.html
02-06-2020||City||Khanna doctor couple, 34 more test positive in Punjab||Thirty-six people, including a Khanna-based doctor couple and four undertrials, were tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Monday, taking the tally of those infected by the disease in the state to 2,382. Besides the doctor couple (one a cardiologist and the other an oncologist) and the four undertrials lodged in the Borstal Jail, a 31-year-old pregnant woman, a four-month- old baby, and a 20- year-old youth who returned from Gurugram were tested positive in Ludhiana district. One of the doctors is suspected to have contracted the infection while treating an 80-year-old patient. In Hoshiarpur district, Nangli Jalapur village recorded eight fresh cases and was declared a containment zone. Till date, 25 residents of the village have tested positive. Nine adjoining villages have come under the prohibited zone. 9 new cases, Amritsar crosses 400-markWith nine fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, Amritsar became the first district in the state to cross the 400-mark.Two fresh community spread cases were reported after two men from the city were tested positive. Besides, a man, who returned from New Delhi, was found infected. Six others were also tested positive in the district.In Gurdaspur, a resident of Kothe Majhithi village, who recently returned from Mumbai, tested positive.ASHA worker, 2 NRIs infected in PatialaFour persons, including an accredited social health activist (ASHA) worker (36) and two Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), tested positive for the coronavirus in Patiala on Monday. The two NRIs, aged 24 and 26, who returned from Kuwait, were quarantined. A 40-year-old woman of Shimbro village who returned from New Delhi was also infected.In Bathinda, two more were tested positive, taking the number of active cases in the district to seven.Also, one case each surfaced in Jalandhar and SBS Nagar districts. (Inputs from Jalandhar and SBS Nagar and Bathinda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-doctor-couple-34-more-test-positive-in-punjab/story-Ffx0PBTPSU9zdpCgyVA2QI.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Finally, Punjab set to start mobile sample collection this week||After a delay of nearly one month, the Punjab government is finally set to launch the RT-PCR mobile sample collection facility for Covid-19 this week. The 26 mobile vans the state health department had hired for the purpose a month back were not deployed for testing due to a decision taken by the high-ups. “The vans will have technical staff and will move in areas like marketplaces, vegetable markets, and villages to collect samples of all symptomatic people. Nothing will be charged for this. We are going to launch the facility in a couple of days,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state health department’s nodal officer for Covid-19. The vans will collect nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs that will be sent to a testing facility.“It will help the staff collecting samples save time. Initially, the vans will operate for eight hours but the duration can be increased or decreased as per the requirement,” said the nodal officer.For now, one van will be deployed in each district.Why the delay?Even as many states launched RT-PCR mobile testing in the last week of April, Punjab delayed it on the recommendations of a high-powered committee.“We initially wanted to test the targeted population only. But with opening up of the lockdown, chances are that community spread will increase. It is the right time to launch this facility. There are chances of large-scale mutation of the virus now,” a senior health department official said.Lack of trained technical staff is also said to be one of the reasons behind holding back the launch of the facility. “Temporary staff has been hired for the purpose. Technicians and laboratories are not an issue,” the official said. 195 cases in past one weekAfter a thaw for a few days, Punjab has once again started seeing rise in the number of coronavirus cases with 195 people found infected in the past one week.Of the new patients, around 100 are those who came from other states or abroad and were in institutional quarantine.On a positive note, the state continues to have the best recovery rate in the country at 87%. As per official figures, Punjab had 257 active cases on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/finally-punjab-set-to-start-mobile-sample-collection-this-week/story-32OFuwOsn11pQh5SsNQoxL.html
02-06-2020||City||2 NDRF teams in Palghar near Mumbai, 100 boats stranded||Even as the Cyclone Nisarga is projected to make a landfall in Palghar on Wednesday, two teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Andheri, each comprising 35 personnel, have been stationed at Palghar and Dahanu cyclone, said Palghar district collector Dr Kailas Shinde. The district has been issued a red alert, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting extremely heavy rain in the district on Wednesday.“Despite warning, 577 boats from Palghar district had ventured into the sea, of which 477 have returned to the base. Around 100 boats, with 1,000 khalasis (fisherfolk) are stranded in the sea and we are coordinating with the Coast Guard to ensure their safety,” said Shinde. He said that the authorities have been unable to establish contact with the stranded fishermen. “The wireless systems are not working and the Coast Guard are using satellite phones to contact the fishermen stranded at sea,” said Shinde. For the next four days, fishermen from Dahanu, Palghar,Vasai and Talasari have been warned against venturing into the seas owing to the cyclone. “We have invoked section 144 of IPC in the district. We have also asked commercial establishments to remain closed for a day. Our priority is to ensure minimum loss of lives,” Shinde added.The district authorities are coordinating with Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), public works, fisheries, police and other departments to avert any major mishap. “We are conducting a survey of all kutcha (thatched) houses in the district and are shifting the elderly, pregnant women and children to shelter homes in government schools in the district,” Shinde said. The district authority has also requested locals to remain prepared for a power outage. A low pressure area has been formed over the southeast and east central Arabian Sea and the IMD has predicted that the cyclone will intensify by 2 June. The cyclonic storm will move towards South Gujarat and North Maharashtra by 3 June. The district could receive rainfall of 150-200 mm on 3 June, alongwith Srivardhan, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad districts in the Konkan. Parts of Gujarat such as Anand, Surat, Bharuch,Valsad, till Daman will also receive heavy rainfall,said Dr Shinde.“We are also preparing for a possible threat of landslides, as due the first rains, the soil becomes lose,resulting in the landslides,” Shinde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-ndrf-teams-in-palghar-100-boats-stranded/story-8YxdaLCo98aI0aXacmYoaM.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Expect heavy rain in Mumbai, Thane on Wednesday||Cyclone Nisarga, a developing tropical cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea, is likely to make landfall south of Mumbai, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday evening. While a ‘red alert’ has been issued for Mumbai and Thane districts for June 3, IMD said the conditions may change over the next 48 hours. On Monday, the depression lay 310 km southwest of Panjim in Goa, 570 km south-southwest of Mumbai in Maharashtra and 800 km south-southwest of Surat in Gujarat.According to IMD’s updated bulletin, the approaching weather system is expected to become a cyclonic storm by 5.30am today and a severe cyclonic storm by 5.30pm. Maximum winds are expected to range between 105-115 kilometres per hour (kmph), gusting to 125kmph around the point of landfall as the weather system moves over east-central and northeast Arabian Sea, along and off the Maharashtra coast (Raigad, Mumbai, Palghar, Thane). It is expected to make landfall by Wednesday afternoon. Earlier on Monday, IMD had predicted the cyclone would make landfall north of the city, in Palghar district, but revised its forecast in the evening. “Landfall is expected towards the south of Mumbai. Since the Arabian Sea system is dynamic, there are a few predictability issues. There might be further changes in the coming 48 hours,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD. “As of now we are keeping the area under impact of the cyclone from Daman in the north to Harihareshwar in Raigad in the south. It will pass over this region as a severe cyclone, but there is a marginal reduction in wind speed expected. Mumbai is likely to experience high speed winds as the cyclone makes landfall south of the city,” she said.IMD Mumbai on Monday issued a red alert (rainfall of more than 204.5mm) for Mumbai, Thane, and Raigad for June 3 (Wednesday). A red alert has been issued for Palghar for June 3 and 4. People in the areas under red alert are directed to take action to keep safe from adverse impacts of predicted weather. While a yellow alert (light to moderate rain) was issued for all four districts for Tuesday, an orange alert (be prepared — heavy rain warning) may be issued for Mumbai, Thane and Raigad for June 4 (Thursday). A red alert has been issued for Dhule, Nandurbar and Nashik for June 3.Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, said, “Palghar, Thane, Mumbai and Raigad are the most important districts that will be affected by this severe cyclonic storm where we are expecting tree fall or property damage. A more detailed list of expected damages will be shared soon..”Mahesh Narvekar, chief officer, disaster management cell, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, “Based on continuous updates being received from IMD, our preparation to handle the situation is underway.” Another BMC officer said warnings have been issued to the fishing community and officers were checking on Covid-19 care centres.Independent meteorologists also said the system is expected to cross south of Mumbai on the morning of June 3, around 9am. “The wind speed along with rough sea conditions in the landfall region will be capable of damaging weak structures (such as huts), affecting poor people and fishermen who live at the coastline,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and researcher at University of Reading.Meanwhile, even as Maharashtra braced for the impact of a cyclone within 48 hours, the IMD’s Doppler weather radar was dysfunctional throughout Monday morning. The radar located at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Colaba can carry out weather surveillance at distance of 300 km radius from its location. The radar provides long-range weather surveillance, detection and forecast for rainfall, cloud formation, thunderstorms and other weather conditions such as tropical storms. “There was maintenance work underway on the roof where the Doppler radar is located on Monday. However the work was completed by afternoon and the radar was working from 5pm onwards,” said a senior IMD official. The Doppler radar was down on December 4, 2017 when Cyclone Ockhi brushed past the Mumbai coast. During June and July last year, when the city witnessed extremely heavy rain, the Doppler radar was dysfunctional on both days due to technical difficulties. The radar is very useful for better monitoring of cloud developments, thunderstorms and rainfall on a real-time basis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/expect-heavy-rain-in-mumbai-thane-on-wednesday-imd/story-SlY081vMB5upu0vFg01P3O.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Rise in sea temperatures could lead to more pre-rain cyclonic storms, say experts||With the formation of Cyclone Amphan in Bay of Bengal, followed by the likely formation of Cyclone Nisarga in Arabian Sea within two weeks, scientists have warned about the possibility of more pre-monsoon cyclonic storms in coming years due to warmer ocean temperatures.Dr Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), said, “We are aware that post-monsoon cyclones have increased, but climate models and projections are indicating the likelihood of more cyclones before the onset of the southwest monsoon in the Arabian Sea.”Sea surface temperatures in the Arabian Sea were plotted on a map, showing the difference between long-term average temperatures and temperatures on May 30, even as the weather system that is yet to intensify into Cyclone Nisarga developed.“While the temperatures in the Bay of Bengal, were between 30-33 degrees Celsius prior to Amphan, surface temperatures over the Arabian Sea recorded 30-32 degrees Celsius prior to the depression which is now evolving as cyclone Nisarga. Such high temperatures aid rapid intensification of these cyclonic systems, which many weather models fail to capture,” Koll said.According to IITM, sea surface temperatures between 24 and 26 degrees Celsius are normal.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), however, said that higher ocean temperatures were not a factor for the intensification of Cyclone Nisarga.“During Amphan, warmer oceans allowed the system to reach a super cyclone status but not in this case so far,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Warmer ocean temperatures are not the only parameter for rapid intensification of cyclones, said Mohapatra. “We need to consider other parameters, such as relative humidity in middle troposphere and instability in the atmosphere, allowing moist air to form aiding cloud formation through the help of convection. There are also other dynamic parameters to be considered. However, the frequency of cyclones has been abnormally high in the Arabian Sea from the past one year and it is a fact that this zone is witnessing an increase in cyclones,” said Mohapatra.Owing to rising sea surface temperatures, rapid intensification of these weather systems are being observed, added Dr Koll.“What is more surprising is that the models are unable to pick up the rapid intensification of these systems. In case of Amphan and Nisarga, we saw that atmospheric conditions were not that favourable and may not develop into a cyclone, but warm ocean conditions are helping convection and allowing these systems to intensify faster into full-blown cyclones even during pre-monsoon period,” he said, adding that these were not conclusive results but indications were clear.Last year, the Arabian Sea had recorded five cyclones, equalling a 117-year-old record, according to data from IMD. Cyclone Vayu, a very severe cyclonic storm, was witnessed from June 10-17 last year, while Cyclone Hikka, a very severe cyclonic storm, was seen in September 22-25. In October and November, India had witnessed twin cyclones Kyarr and Maha, which was a rare event according to IMD, while Cyclone Pawan was formed in December. Flooding inevitable in low-lying areas: Ex-IMD DGFormer IMD director general (DGG) Dr KJ Ramesh said the predicted landfall dates of June 3 by IMD is in close proximity to the full moon date of June 6. “Three to four days before the full moon, the gravitational effect of moon and earth will be high, which means the wave action will be at the high- tide level. The storm surge will be over, resulting in large-scale flooding across several low-lying areas, up to the high-tide line. Wind speed of 80 kilometre per hour (kmph) and above will be more than enough to cause massive damage. This will be applicable from south Gujarat up to Raigad, and efforts to safeguard infrastructure have to be considered,” he said.Mumbai at highest risk as cyclones become the new normal: Climate scientistOne of the authors of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) special report on Ocean and Cryosphere pointed out that warming of oceans is the main factor for increasing the intensity and occurrence of tropical cyclones, especially in the Arabian Sea. “The most-affected city is Mumbai,” said Dr Anjal Prakash, research director and adjunct associate professor, Bharti Institute of Public Policy, Indian School of Business, Hyderabad Campus. He highlighted concerns raised by the Madhav Chitale committee after the July 2005 deluge. “The committee reiterated the reasons of the flooding which was known earlier – inadequate drainage system, rapid developments and loss of ponds that used to hold water, encroachment by the slums on and over the existing drainage systems, and reduction in the coastal mangrove areas. These are the adaptation measures which Mumbai must focus on,” he said, adding that the combination of the pandemic and extreme weather events could be dangerous, especially for slum residents living in low-lying areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rise-in-temperatures-could-lead-to-more-pre-rain-cyclonic-storms/story-gKxzlFjPHXsCXVowTk9FWI.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||3 Army men step in to help transgenders, sex workers||Three army officers from the city have come forward to help the beleaguered communities of transgenders and sex workers in the city. The officers of the Indian Territorial Army are helping the people with ration and hygiene kits during lockdown. Till date, they have distributed 4,500 kits in areas such as Kamathipura, Falkland road and other areas like Sion Agripada, Cotton Green, Charni Road and Kandivli.Captain Neil Shaji, Major Sanjay Raole and Major Pradeep Arya belong to the Indian Territorial Army, which is a part of the regular Indian Army but consists of civilians who apart from their regular jobs work for the Indian Army for a few months every year.“As we belong to the Army, I think it is our duty to provide help in areas which are difficult for civilians to reach to,” said Captain Shaji, who was undertaking a distribution drive in Dharavi on Friday. He is also a strategy consultant and works in the army for two months every year.The officers have provided hygiene and ration kits which they say will suffice a family of four for more than 10-15 days. The ration kit consists of 5 kg of wheat flour, 5 kg of rice, 2 kg of tur dal, 200 grams of turmeric powder, and chilli powder. The hygiene kits consist of three soaps, two soaps for washing clothes, hand wash and sanitary napkins.“These are communities which are largely ignored by the society, so we wanted to help them in our best way possible,” said Major Raole, who also owns a company.The officers took help from NGOs like Prerna Foundation, Apne Aap Collective, Rescue Foundation for their work for the sex workers and Arzoo Foundation to provide assistance to the transgender community. They also got funding from the Nasscom Foundation for the kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-army-men-step-in-to-help-transgenders-sex-workers/story-HakE0gaOtzf10VfUxzNEgN.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: 16 NDRF teams on alert in Maharashtra||Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Thane, Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban and Palghar districts are on alert following warnings of cyclone Nisarga issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The tropical cyclone is expected to make landfall south of Mumbai on June 3.Sixteen teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), comprising 45 jawans each, are on alert in the state. While 10 teams have been deployed, six are on standby. Three teams have been deployed in Mumbai, two in Palghar, two in Raigad and one each in Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and Thane, a state official confirmed.Kishor Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation, said, “We are taking all measures and precautions to tackle the situation. There is no need to worry. The districts along the coast have been put on alert and we have also alerted NDRF.”A state official, on condition of anonymity, said, “We might deploy more by Tuesday afternoon. We will also get a clearer picture about the intensity and landfall by Tuesday afternoon.”Collectors in the seven districts have been instructed to shift all informal settlements as well as people living in homes with thatched roofs along the shoreline. The state has also said that those shifted to relief centres must adhere to physical distancing norms, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.While Maharashtra government on Sunday had said beaches may open from June 3, the official said it is standard operating procedure (SOP) to close down beaches during a cyclone. The state may issue an order to close down beaches on Wednesday, owing to the cyclone.He also said that though 90% of fishermen have returned to base, many from Palghar are still out at sea. While 577 boats from Palghar district had ventured out, only 477 have returned, collector Kailash Shinde said. The collector has asked fishermen from Dahanu, Palghar, Vasai, and Talasari to not venture out. Industries, shops and commercial establishments have also been shut for a day.Palghar collector Kailash Shinde said, “We have started making announcements near the shoreline. We have also asked power stations to be on alert in case of an emergency. All beaches will also be closed and we are also considering imposing section 144 to prevent any sort of crowding near beaches.”Each district already has a disaster management plan to tackle natural or man-made disasters. The district-wise disaster management plan has detailed information about the geography of the area, the demographics and SOPs to be put in place with regard to major disasters like floods and other natural calamities. It also has details on the number of fire brigades, police stations, hospitals and health centres that need to be alerted in case of emergencies. The collectors are expected to modify the disaster management plan as per the latest developments in order to respond to the situation most effectively, and activate the plans. Collectors are expected to activate these plans this morning.In Mumbai city and suburbs, 11 teams that are adept at flood response in low-lying areas, 94 lifeguards at different beaches, and three NDRF teams are on alert. PS Rahangdale, chief fire officer of Mumbai Fire Brigade and deputy municipal commissioner of the city’s department of disaster management, said, “Altogether a team of 200 people are on high alert. We have also been undertaking periodic maintenance of equipment for a smoother response.”In his live address to the state on Sunday night, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had also asked fishermen along the stretch between Sindhudurg and Mumbai to not venture close to the shore. The state has an outlay of Rs 1,611 crore under its State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), from which funds are drawn for natural calamities such as cyclones. The Central government is expected to take up a share of 75% of the outlay. According to an official from the relief and rehabilitation department, district collectors are delegated power to use these funds in case of calamities.“Every district has its own fund reserved for natural calamities with collectors given standing powers to draw money [from it]. The district disaster management authorities headed by collectors follow SOPs prepared for evacuation and rehabilitation in case of calamities,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarg-16-ndrf-teams-on-alert-in-state/story-ylsyWWJlvpjGW73C5uBPfP.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Was there a cyclone in Mumbai in 1882?||Cyclone Nisarga, which is expected to make landfall on June 3, is an unprecedented weather event for Mumbai. The last time a cyclone hit the city, according to newspaper articles, was back on June 6, 1882, when the Great Bombay Cyclone reportedly led to the loss of 1 lakh people. However, experts have questioned the accuracy of those old reports. A May 2019 study by America’s Columbia University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) concluded that the 1882 cyclone was a hoax.“The India Meteorological Department (IMD) maintains archives of cyclone tracks as well as daily weather summaries from 1877-1970 for both the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. Maps are available in particular for all cyclones … during the period 1877-1883. The map for June shows no cyclone originating in the Arabian Sea that year,” read the peer-reviewed research paper.Dr Parthasarathi Mukhopadhyay from IITM, one of the contributing authors, said, “After Columbia University professor Adam Sobel raised the query about the authenticity of the Great Bombay Cyclone, which found its way into various research papers, books etc. internationally, we decided to investigate the source. After extensive research, we found that the entire thing was a hoax.”However, former director general of IMD LS Rathore maintains the Great Bombay Cyclone did happen in 1882. “This is not a hoax. Owing to improper dissemination of information at the time, the true facts were never published or recorded. Even if they were, they have been lost through time.” Rathore said that the cyclone impacted the city’s port. “One would have to speak to a historian for more detailed description about the impact,” he said.City historian Deepak Rao said that geographically and demographically, contemporary Mumbai is much larger than Bombay of 1882. “Extension of Greater Mumbai, including the suburbs of Mumbai started from Mahim, which was added only in 1945. In 1882, the seven islands were not seen together as Greater Mumbai and the population would have been devastated completely if a cyclone had taken place,” he said.Dr Mukhopadhyay added that if over 1 lakh people had died in Bombay, the British administration would have documented this. “But we found nothing,” he said.Dr Mukhopadhyay said while Mumbai may never have witnessed a cyclone landfall (hit by a cyclone), the closest it came to was when Cyclone Phyan crossed the Konkan coast and the Mumbai region in November 2009. “The impact of cyclones in the Arabian Sea that may not make landfall near Mumbai have an increased impact on rainfall and wind speed over the years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/was-there-a-cyclone-in-the-city-in-1882/story-6zfPfVHuFsrfzSoP3WJCtN.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||‘First 2 weeks of June crucial for Mumbai’||The first 15 days of June, which will mark 11 days of relaxation of lockdown rules as part of the state’s Mission Begin Again, will prove to be crucial to determine the curve and peak of Covid-19 cases, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) analysis.The state on Sunday announced lifting of curbs with a three-phased plan, following 2.5 months of lockdown owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The relaxations will come into effect from June 3, June 5 and June 8, and will allow plying of taxis, cabs, auto-rickshaws for essential use, and opening up of garages and workshops, restarting services such as plumbers and electricians and permitting outdoor activities such as cycling and jogging, barring containment zones.BMC has considered the 11-day period, as it is the approximate maximum incubation period for the virus before symptoms develop in any patient or the average maximum time taken for an asymptomatic positive patient to recover.The cases are expected to rise during this time. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the public health department in BMC, said, “If an unidentified asymptomatic positive person takes public transport, which is possible during relaxation, he is likely to infect more people than he would while sitting at home during lockdown. So the number of cases in the first 11-12 days after the relaxations will help BMC estimate the surge – the extent to which the virus can spread without the lockdown. This needs to be studied.” “It is difficult to determine the exact time period of the peak for Covid-cases to Mumbai. But I believe we are nearing the peak now.”“This period will definitely give some clues about how the disease will spread after the lockdown is lifted,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.During the lockdown, isolating the high-risk population is easier through contact-tracing, fever clinics and screening of random pool of citizens. “It helped in stopping Covid-19 suspects from socialising in the community and ensured timely medical help. However, post relaxations, the initial trend will help the government realise if the cases are stabilising, or the situation is getting worse. If figures go up during this time, we will have to scale up the resources further,” Kakani said.Kakani pointed out the government has two options. “No lockdown, so that more people interact, leading to a surge in cases. The numbers will stabilise and begin to reduce quickly, after the maximum number of people are affected. The second strategy is lockdown, where there are small jumps initially and a longer stabilising phase. BMC is prepared to handle the surge using the first strategy. This can also lead to herd immunity,” he said.Mumbai has been doing better than the earlier projections of BMC. Mumbai’s doubling rate has gone up to 16-17 days. The two worst-hit wards of G-South (Worli and Prabhadevi) and G-North (Dharavi, Dadar, and Mahim) are showing doubling rates of 25 or 26 days, according to Kakani. “Taking the multiplication factor of the virus into consideration, this is pretty good.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-2-weeks-of-june-crucial-for-mumbai/story-ACBdBaXVE4yVtegzZWrztO.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||City crosses 40,000-case mark||The city crossed the 40,000-mark for Covid cases on Monday, with 1,413 new cases taking the tally to 41,099. The toll stood at 1,319, with 40 new deaths. Also, the G-North ward, which covers areas such as Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim, became the first of the 24 wards in the city to cross the 3,000-case mark with 79 new cases.The jump from 30,000 to 40,000 cases came within eight days and the city is expected to cross the case count of 50,000 next week, said civic officials. So far, 16,985 people have been discharged, putting the city’s recovery rate at 42%.Civic officials said while the cases are rising on a daily basis, the doubling rate, too, has improved. Suresh Kakani additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “We have managed to improve our doubling rate to 14 days, which was four-five days in the initial stages of the outbreak. A lot of positive cases are from among those in quarantine, which has helped contain the spread, as these people cannot come in contact with anyone in the community.”According to BMC’s ward-wise break-up of cases, as of June 1, while G-North ward topped the list, L ward (Kurla) was second with 2,668 cases. In F-South ward (Parel), the tally jumped from 2,572 on May 31 to 2,622. The sharpest spike was in N ward (Ghatkopar), from 1,804 cases on May 31 to 1,892 cases on June 1.In terms of ward-wise growth rate for a week, R-North ward (Dahisar) topped the list with 7.5%, followed by P-North ward (Malad) at 7% and S (Bhandup) ward at 6.8%. Wards such as E (Byculla), F-North (Matunga) and G- South (Worli and Prabhadevi) recorded lowest growth rate at 2.1%, 2.4% and 2.6%, respectively. Mumbai’s average growth rate stood at 3.85% on Monday, lower than Sunday’s 4.26% Meanwhile, Dharavi reported 34 cases on Monday, pushing its tally to 1,805. A total of 2.5 lakh from the area have been screened. The India’s largest slum cluster houses 8.50 lakh people.Dadar reported seven new cases, taking the total to 326. Mahim saw 17 new cases (total: 524).State health minister Rajesh Tope and additional municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal on Monday visited the Covid Care Centre in Dharavi, a 200-bed facility set up within 14 days.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G-North ward, said, “This centre will exclusively have 200 beds with oxygen facility for moderate symptomatic patients. All medical and paramedical staff will start working in three shifts from Tuesday.”Civic body takes up sanitisation programme Along with upgrading a number of medical facilities for Covid-19 patients, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has taken up a sanitisation programme as per the guidelines issued by the government. The civic body is carrying out the work of sanitisation through three of its departments — insecticide, fire brigade and solid waste management (SWM) departments.Till date, a total of 7,764 government and semi-government buildings including BMC headquarters, municipal ward offices, private and civic hospitals, bus depots, markets, police station, railway station were sanitised. A total of 31,056 square kilometre area was sanitised by the fire brigade department while 97,306 square metre was sanitised by the insecticide department.The civic body has also taken up the work of sanitising public toilets. A total of 7,500 toilet blocks in 24 wards, where Covid positive patients were found, are being sanitised by the solid waste management department on a regular basis.The insecticide department of the civic body has also sanitised 1,08,240 houses of Covid positive patients along with the common areas and inside areas such as lifts.The civic body is using 17 quick response vehicles and 15 mist blower machines for the purpose of sanitisation of buildings and public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-crosses-40-000-case-mark/story-YKpQUWWIMEllyAgFQFboiO.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Cop discharged without test, dies few hours later||A Mumbai Police head constable, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died on May 29, a day after he was discharged from the National Sports Club of India (NSCI) Covid care centre at Worli in Mumbai.The 53-year-old reported symptoms of cough and fever on May 16 and was admitted to the centre on May 18 after he was found to have been infected. He was discharged 10 days later on May 28 without being tested again as per the new guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The new norms, which were issued on May 8, allow for patients with mild symptoms, very-mild symptoms and those who have been pre-symptomatic to be discharged without additional testing, 10 days after the onset of symptoms, and with no fever for three days. Also, patients with moderate symptoms can be discharged after 10 days of onset of symptoms if the symptoms resolve within three days and they maintain saturation above 95% for the next four days.In the case of the head constable, who was dropped off near his home by an ambulance on May 28 night, he experienced breathing issues a few hours after being discharged and his condition deteriorated. He was rushed to BYL Nair Hospital where he died before admission on May 29.Two days after his death, on Sunday, the constable’s 20-year-old son and 19-year-old daughter, too, tested positive for the virus. They have been admitted to SevenHills Hospital in Andheri.Dr Neeta Varti, in-charge of the NSCI facility, said, “The constable was admitted with a cough and fever. We followed the discharge process as per the ICMR guidelines and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) discharge policy, which states that a patient can be discharged after 10 days without a test.”Assistant municipal commissioner of G-South ward, Sharad Ughade, said, “It’s not in our hands. We follow the policy of the government.”BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cop-discharged-without-test-dies-few-hours-later/story-GFhtvDv8naNs6QkeLt94ZM.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams cancelled: City colleges seek more clarity||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that all final-year students will be promoted based on their performance in previous semesters, colleges and students are confused. While some are unsure about how this will affect their future higher education plans, colleges too are unsure about how the decision will be applied in the coming weeks.“The government or university needs to clarify how this decision will affect students with backlog of papers from previous semesters which they need to clear in order to graduate. We are also unsure if the decision is applicable to post-graduate students as well,” said a senior professor from a south Mumbai college.Students of autonomous institutes, some of which already conducted exams for two or more papers of the final semester, are also in confusion about their situation. “How will the college grade us? We’ve already appeared for two papers for the current semester. With so many new decisions coming from the government regarding status of exams and promotion of students, we are confused about our status,” said a student.Students of Mithibai Autonomous College, Vile Parle, are also unsure about their status. Not only have students raised objection to the institute’s decision last year of introducing a new grading formula which many said lowered their scores in the previous semester, more than a hundred final-year students of the institute were also debarred by the administration for defaulting on attendance. “We had also taken this matter to court but the high court had upheld the institute’s decision. Since the Union and state government have made it clear that all students have to be promoted, regardless of attendance, we are still waiting to hear from the institute about our status. We haven’t got any help from the institute,” said a student of Mithibai Autonomous College. Principal Rajpal Hande was not available for comments.While clarity on aggregate marks in order to promote students is still unclear, many institutions are happy with the government’s decision to avoid exams and instead promote all students. “Many employers are requesting that students be relieved so that they can join the work force at the earliest. An exam for students in such large numbers is not possible anymore, so I’m glad the chief minister took the right call,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra. He added that many students might opt for the exam session in October-November in case they don’t get grades as per their expectations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-cancelled-city-colleges-seek-more-clarity/story-HkBK7JIXYDD2keaAUFH2UO.html
02-06-2020||City||Seed scam: Accused sent to two-day police remand||The owner of Brar Seeds, the store from where spurious paddy seeds were recovered during a raid, was sent to two-day police remand on Monday.Ludhiana police had sought the custody of the accused, identified as Harwinder Singh alias Kaka Brar, 56, to gather more information.His counsel, Bikram Singh Sidhu said, “My client has been implicated in the case. The seeds are genuine and were purchased from M/S Karnal Agri Seeds and Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). My client is innocent and we have full faith in the justice system.”Meanwhile, Richa Rani, Division Number 5 station house officer, who is a member of the special investigation team (SIT) formed by the commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal, said all angles of the case are being looked into.Chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal said, “The store was selling seeds at inflated rates by branding these as high-yielding varieties of PR-128 and PR-129. The store owner’s licence has been cancelled. The seeds recovered from the store have also failed the germination test.”PAU had launched PR-128 and PR-129 seeds, both improved versions of 201 variety of PAU, in February. Agriculture department officials claim that the seeds fell into the hands of accused even before it was officially launched by PAU.“It is not possible to create the seeds of the newly launched variety within a month. The company needs at least a year to produce such a huge quality of seeds. So somewhere, either during the trial period or from some other source, the Truthfully Labelled (TL) seed landed in to the hands of the manufacturers who multiplied these seeds. However, we have sent the seed samples to PAU for gene testing,” said chief agricultural officer Benipal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seed-scam-accused-sent-to-two-day-police-remand/story-zKLZsknbqP25nERajRzTxH.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh liquor baron gives names of ‘disgruntled associates’ to police day after firing at brother’s Sector-33 bungalow||A day after four to five men fired 17 shots at the house of liquor baron Arvind Singla’s brother in Sector 33, police have said it could be a case of business rivalry.The shots were fired from 9mm and .32 bore pistols at the bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla on Sunday evening.Though the police are yet to make any arrests, Arvind has given them names of four to five “disgruntled associates” who are now being questioned. It is suspected that the attack could be linked to the recent raids on illegal liquor factories in Punjab during the lockdown.Arvind Singla who owns around 500 liquor vends in Chandigarh and Punjab in his statement to the police said, “Four persons on Sunday evening had walked up to my private security guard asking to meet me, just a few minutes prior to the firing at Rakesh’s house.” The security cover provided to him by Punjab Police had been instructed to turn away anyone coming to his house. On Sunday, the security guard did exactly that, after which the accused walked to Rakesh’s house and fired 17 shots, police said.VEHICLE USED IN CRIME TRACEDAfter firing, the accused had fled in a car bearing a Punjab registration number. The police in a statement on Monday said the vehicle that was identified in the CCTV footage had been recovered from a village in Patiala. They added that the number of the vehicle was fake, and that the accused, too, had been caught on camera installed in the area.Teams had been dispatched to three different places in Punjab where the accused were likely to be traced to. Mobile dump data of the scene of crime is being obtained, they said.Chandigarh Police have said adequate security has been provided round the clock to the brothers in wake of the incident.As part of the Dhillon-Singla group, Arvind’s father Pawan Singla used to have a monopoly in liquor business in Punjab. But later the Singla group started operating separately. Arvind had even launched a beer brand recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-liquor-baron-gives-names-of-disgruntled-associates-to-police-day-after-firing-at-brother-s-sector-33-bungalow/story-f2we8CefGwEFf1uGeUVdUL.html
02-06-2020||City||Cidco’s new portal gives online facility for all services||Residents living in areas under City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) can pay all bills through its newly launched portal.Sanwaad Citizen Portal, a one stop portal for all Cidco’s online services, will save residents time and effort.Cidco vice-chairman and managing director Lokesh Chandra said, “Previously, citizens had to login separately for availing various services. But through Sanwaad Citizen Portal, they will have to register only at the beginning for login and can access all the online services. Facilities such as tracking status of the application, online bill payment, which were previously available through separate online services, are also included in the portal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cidco-s-new-portal-gives-online-facility-for-all-services/story-rKBmLvw19xpYmKFsTApovN.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||State law making Marathi a must in all schools to be introduced this year||The state education department on Monday announced the implementation of the government’s rule of making Marathi a compulsory subject in schools across all education boards in Maharashtra. This academic year, the rule will be introduced for Classes one and six.In a government resolution(GR) on Monday, the department said that schools across the state, which are running different boards and offering various mediums of instructions, will have to teach Marathi as a compulsory subject starting from the academic year of 2020-21. “The rule will be implemented in phases. In the first year, it will be implemented for Classes 1 and 6. Every year, it will be extended further, in Classes 2 and 7 in 2021-22, Classes 3 and 8 in 2022-23 and likewise, until it is implemented unto Class 10,” read the GR.The mandate is a part of the Maharashtra Compulsory Teaching and Learning of Marathi Language in Schools Bill, 2020, which was passed in both the houses of the state legislature in the last budget session.Schools that follow boards other than the state boards — ICSE, CBSE, IB, among others — would have to adhere to the syllabus and teaching plan for the language as prescribed by the state education department from time to time.While most CBSE and ICSE schools have started their new academic year from April, some will begin their academic year in June. Currently, all learning across boards is happening online as schools have not reopened in the state yet. Like all other subjects, Marathi will also be taught remotely for now.Meanwhile, teachers said that it is a good step that the department has decided to implement the decision in a phase-wise manner.“Especially with the Covid-19 crisis, implementing a new decision like this is a challenge for schools because it means training teachers, making learning material available, etc. But it should not be too difficult as many schools already teach the language and those who don’t only have to introduce it for two classes this year,” said a teacher at an IGCSE school in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-law-making-marathi-a-must-in-all-schools-to-be-introduced-this-year/story-pRr3wIQFdMhdj9gPHrEU2O.html
02-06-2020||City||Now, Ludhiana residents can submit applications at suwidha kendras for getting TS1 certificate||With the municipal corporation (MC) having started public dealing in its offices from Monday, a new system has been started to get the TS1 certificate (no dues certificate) and for changing ownership of property to avoid rush of visitors at MC offices.A resident will have to submit an application along with the receipt of property tax and water-sewer user charges at suwidha kendras. If authorities find anomalies in the application or there are any pending dues, the applicant would be apprised of the same over phone.Officials said work at all the branches has not been initiated properly as many staff members were still deputed to transport migrant labourers to the railway station. The staff members, who remained in direct contact of the labourers, are also being tested for Covid-19 before they join duty. Meanwhile, a low footfall of people was witnessed at MC offices on Monday. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said the new system aimed at avoiding rush of visitors and maintain social distancing. “The residents will not have to visit offices for availing TS1 certificate and change of ownership service. People are also being provided hand sanitisers at the entry points of the offices and suwidha kendras.”REBATE ON PROPERTY TAXThe fund-starved MC has urged residents to avail 10% rebate on payment of property tax by June 30. No penalty and interest would be charged on payment of water-sewer charges by June 30. The payment of taxes can be made at suwidha kendras till 3pm and TS1 certificate can be had till 1.30 pm.FINANCE PANEL MEETING ON THURSDAYMayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the meeting of the Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) of the MC would be held on Thursday (June 4) and emphasis would be given on approval of the resolutions pertaining to work orders for different development works pending for long. The mayor said that the meeting would be held in the park of his camp office to maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-ludhiana-residents-can-submit-applications-at-suwidha-kendras-for-getting-ts1-certificate/story-DqZ7apofiwd4El8GBXFpXP.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha ready to ease curbs as tally passes 70K||Maharashtra on Monday reported 2,361 new coronavirus cases, taking its tally past 70,000 to 70,013, even as the state looks set to start easing lockdown restrictions. On the difference of three cases after adding the new cases to Sunday’s total, Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate of Health Services, said, “Reconciliation of cases with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal is in process. That’s a reason there is a difference in the total cases.” State health officials are expecting the Covid-19 pandemic to reach its peak in the coming days as cases will surge in the post-lockdown scenario. The state is already experiencing a rise in infections in districts where there were no cases or comparatively fewer cases before curbs were relaxed from May 20.Of the total cases in state, 37,534 are active ones, accounting for 53.61% of the total, according to the state health department.On Monday, the state also reported 76 deaths, taking the toll to 2,362. Of them, 54 deaths are from the past two days, while the rest are between May 14 to 28, clarified the health department.Last Friday, the state had recorded 116 fatalities, its highest single-day figure so far. However, the government had clarified that 70 of them were from the previous 13 days. Meanwhile, Mumbai also breached the 40,000 case mark after 1,413 new cases were reported on Monday, taking its count to 41,099 cases. Of them, 22,789 are active cases. Of the 76 fatalities, 40 were in Mumbai, eight were in Pune, six each in Navi Mumbai and Mira-Bhayander, three in Vasai-Virar and Aurangabad , two each in Kalyan-Dombivli and Raigad, and one each in Thane, Nashik, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Jalna, Beed and Nagpur. The city’s toll stands at 1,319.Of the total deaths, 37 were of above 60 years of age, while 36 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining three were below the age of 40 years. Of the deceased, 51 had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, health officials said.However, the rapidly rising graph of Maharashtra’s cases can pose a challenge; data shows that 84.72% of the state’s total 67,655 cases till Sunday, which is 57,323 cases, were reported in May — an average of 1,850 cases daily. Since the past 15 days, the state has recorded over 2,000 cases every day except on May 24, when it shot up to 3,041, which was the highest single-day spike at the time. In comparison, only 10,201 cases were registered in the state in April. To put the steep hike in further perspective, one should consider that the state’s first coronavirus case was reported on March 9 and it took 30 days for the figure to cross the 1,000 mark.State health Rajesh Tope on Monday said the recovery rate has improved by over three per centage points and so is the doubling rate of the cases. “The state government is trying to improve the situation. It is with effort that the recovery rate has improved by 3.5% points and is currently at 43.35%. The doubling rate has also increased to 17.5 days from 11 days,” he said.“We are trying our best to further improve the recovery rate and doubling rate of cases,” he added.Officials, however, believe there will be a surge in cases in the next few days and the pandemic will reach its peak as more people will be exposed to the virus, following the ease in restrictions. “Our concern is the rise in cases as more people will come out in red zones owing to the relaxations. It also means, more people will be exposed to the virus and hence, there will be more cases at the same time. This also could be the peak and that is the reason we have augmented the health facilities to deal with any situation,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity. The state has augmented the bed capacity to 25,000 in 2,576 hospitals, while the isolation bed capacity has been ramped up to 2.5 lakh beds.The state is already experiencing a rise in cases in districts where there were no cases or were minimal in number before fresh relaxations were given in the state on May 20. “We can take Gadchiroli as an example. Till May 18, the district didn’t have a single case, but after relaxations were given and migrant workers were also allowed to go back to their native villages, 35 people have been found infected with the coronavirus there so far,” he stated.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his live address on Sunday night, also indicated a rise in cases. He also said the lifting of curbs was being done very cautiously as the state was at a turning point. “We have either reached the peak of the curve or are about to reach. There will be a downward trend starting in the next eight-15 days,” Thackeray said.Last week, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta had clearly stated that the state expects cases to surge after lockdown curbs are lifted and are planning relaxations accordingly. “There will be a surge in cases after relaxations are given. We are planning to ease out the restrictions in phases and in a calibrated manner to avoid a sudden surge. The lifting of curbs will be announced in stages. Health infrastructure is being ramped up to ensure that cases can be handled effectively,” said Mehta.On Monday, the state also completed 70 days of lockdown, which was imposed from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in the areas where there are no cases or minimal cases.On Sunday, the state has announced extending the lockdown to June 30, but at the same time extended more relaxations that will be applicable in three phases starting from June 3. From Wednesday, it is allowing outdoor activities like jogging, running and cycling and from June 8, private offices in red zones (excluding containment zones) will be allowed to operate.According to the state’s notification, physical activities, including walking, running, exercising, cycling, can begin from June 3 in sports complexes, stadia, playgrounds, beaches and open spaces. Shops, market places can be open (on odd-even basis) from June 5 and private offices (up to 10 per cent of staff) can start operating from June 8. These relaxations are applicable for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) [the areas governed by nine municipal corporations], Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur — the 19 corporations that have been earmarked as red zones. All the containment zones within the red zones remain excluded from the relaxations.All markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, have now been allowed to open on a P1-P2 basis between 9am and 5pm. Shops on one lane will be allowed to open on odd dates, while another lane will be opened on even dates.The non-red zone areas, which include the remaining eight municipal corporations and rest of Maharashra, mostly covering the rural areas, have already been given greater relaxations.Thackeray said, “We are easing it out in a phased manner, so that we will not have to withdraw relaxations like how a few countries were forced to do so. In some countries, the lockdown curbs were reimposed because of the surge, while in some others, schools had to be shut down after they were opened.The health department declared to have conducted 4,71,573 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 4,01,560 people tested negative, said an official.State currently has 3,294 active containment zones. A total of 18,674 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 70.69 lakh people.So far, 36,189 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,67,552 people have been put under home quarantine.With the rise in fresh cases, the number of deaths has also started rising in the past few days. In the past 15 days, the state has recorded 1,164 deaths in the past 15 days, which is 49.28% of the total deaths recorded thus far.The mortality rate has also slightly increased to 3.38% (2,287 deaths on May 31) from 3.27% (1,792 deaths on May 26). It is also more than the national mortality rate, which is 2.83%, with 5,394 deaths till Sunday, stated the data from the state medical education department. However, the state has also succeeded in bringing down the mortality rate significantly from last month. On April 13, the mortality rate of the state was 7.41%. (148 deaths). This indicates improvement of 4.4%, the data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-ready-to-ease-curbs-as-tally-passes-70k/story-8AD634ZJwd9Bg2fF97ztqO.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Once international flights commence, Raikot to be developed as business hub: MP Amar Singh||Fatehgarh Sahib member of Parliament (MP) Amar Singh took stock of arrangements for construction of the international civil terminal at Halwara Airport and issued necessary directions to officials, during his visit to Aitiana village, on Monday.He said that with the start of international flights from the airport, Raikot assembly constituency would develop as a business hub and boost the economy of the state. He added that with the start of the airport, investments by NRIs, and other corporate houses would increase, that would generate thousands of employment avenues for the youth. Singh said they would also make efforts to ensure that the area also develops as a tourism hub, for which he would hold a meeting with the tourism department soon.The 161.2 acre land required for the construction of the civil terminal has already been acquired and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has taken possession of the said land. The MP said that they would try to get the construction of runway completed on priority, along with the terminal building, so that international flights can start operating soon.He said that in lieu of the acquired land, farmers have been paid a compensation of ₹20.6 lakh per acre. Besides this, each eligible family will be paid ₹5.5 lakh as rehabilitation and resettlement amount, he added.The Punjab government and Airport Authority of India had signed the agreement for a joint venture to set up the new civil and cargo international air terminal at the Aitiana village in Tehsil Raikot at IAF Station, Halwara, Ludhiana. The MP said the Punjab government is making efforts to ensure that the airport becomes operational in the next two and a half years. The first phase of the project will include the development of a new international civil terminal over an area of 135.54 acre for full-fledged operations up to Code-4C type aircrafts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/once-international-flights-commence-raikot-to-be-developed-as-business-hub-mp-amar-singh/story-jQOgssvXPaHThlpTYbkHzN.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||First pre-monsoon thundershowers of the year in Mumbai||The city woke up on Monday morning, day one of lockdown 5.0, to its first spell of the year’s pre-monsoon thundershowers, bringing some respite from the record May temperatures.The showers arrived eight days earlier than last year, when the city recorded its first spell on June 9. Light rain with lightning flashes and thunder were witnessed across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from 4am onwards. Between 4.30am and 8.30am, the Mumbai suburbs recorded 0.2mm rain, 2mm was recorded in south Mumbai. The rain intensity reduced considerably post 7am in most parts of the city that witnessed drizzling. Traces of rain were recorded through the day in the city and suburbs. The minimum night temperature in the suburbs dropped from 29.2 degrees Celsius over the weekend to 26.8 degrees Celsius, and 24 degrees Celsius in south Mumbai, which reported 27 degrees Celsius during the weekend. The maximum temperature too, fell closer to the normal mark as the suburbs recorded 34 degrees Celsius, while 31 degrees Celsius was recorded in south Mumbai. Humidity levels were 98% in south Mumbai on Monday morning, which fell to 79% by the evening, while it was 82% and 66% during the day and evening in the suburbs. The weather bureau has predicted a cloudy sky with moderate rain or thundershowers for Tuesday morning, with the possibility of heavy rain by the evening. HT had reported on Sunday that the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted rain and thundershowers for Mumbai from June 1 onwards.“Pre-monsoon showers over the city are under the influence of the low-pressure weather system over Arabian Sea, which is moving steadily closer to the west coast and is likely to intensify into a (weather) depression soon. It has brought relief to Mumbaiites from the high humidity experienced over the past week,” said an IMD official. Under the influence of the prevailing weather systems in Arabian Sea, the Maharashtra coast, especially north Konkan, is very likely to experience an active wet spell between June 1 and 4, the official added.The IMD will be releasing information later on Monday on further intensification of the weather system and where it may make landfall between north Maharashtra and south Gujarat. The Maharashtra government on Sunday said it was prepared to deal with the tropical cyclone if it made landfall along the coastline. “A cyclone may land on our western coast in a couple of days. Though I feel this may not happen and the cyclone may change its direction, we are prepared. I am telling people from Sindhudurg to Mumbai, to be prepared. I urge our fishermen from going to the sea for four to five days,” said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address to the state on Sunday.Meanwhile, if the weather system in Arabian Sea intensifies into a tropical cyclone, it will be the first cyclonic storm to make landfall along the Maharashtra coast during June since 1891. Only two weather depressions, one in 1948 and the other in 1980, came close to the coastline, but did not intensify into a cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-pre-monsoon-thundershowers-of-the-year-in-mumbai/story-xr8ELp95wGisMD6wKUVnYI.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||From rediscovering classics to exploring non-fiction, Chandigarh warms up to book-reading during Covid lockdown||With more time at hand during the lockdown, both children and adults are turning to books to help pass time constructively.Along with the usual top-selling genres like fiction and thrillers, books about the economy and self-help are selling the most. Children have started rediscovering classic sagas like the Harry Potter series and the musings of Enid Blyton.Dev Pahuja, proprietor of Mohindras Book Shop in Sector 32, said that children’s books were starting to sell well again. “Even books on art are selling well. Art supplies and colouring books have surprisingly become one of our best-selling items as many children not interested in art previously are trying their hand at it,” he said.SELF-HELP BOOKS CATCHING PEOPLE’S FANCYAs per the proprietor of Sector-17 based English Book Shop, Rajiv Chaudhary, self-help is the genre catching people’s fancy most. “We are selling more self-help books now. Other genres like fiction and biography continue to remain popular, too.” However, the absence of tourists, who formed a large part of their clientele, was being felt during the lockdown, he added.Located on the other end of the Sector 17 market, business at the Capital Book Depot is also starting to pick up. Manager Anurag Gupta said, “People are asking for the latest books. Non-fiction is in demand and books on economics like Montek Singh Ahluwalia’s Backstage, which was published in February 2019, have become our bestsellers. People are starting to get more invested in learning about the economy during the Covid-19 crisis.”The Browser Library and Bookstore in Sector 8 has also opened its doors both for library members as well as book lovers. Chief executive officer Pankaj P Singh agreed that the interest in reading had gone up and inquiries kept pouring in: “Many of our loyal customers visited us as soon as we opened up our stores on May 4. Books for children of all ages are the current bestsellers.”Many people, however, were still cautious about coming to the store due to which they are developing a home-delivery system, Singh added.Meanwhile, schoolbooks and textbook sales continued to remain unaffected even during the lockdown. Vivek Manchanda of Manchanda Books and Stationery Store in Sector 19 said that parents had flocked the shop for the first few days after they had reopened, and even now textbooks were selling like hot cakes. “Since kids are confined to their homes, parents want them to utilise their time constructively and are, therefore, buying textbooks for them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-rediscovering-classics-to-exploring-non-fiction-chandigarh-warms-up-to-book-reading-during-covid-lockdown/story-TOVN4l75OidK8LrF5mCYeN.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Our message to our officers is don’t fear the numbers, chase the case: Aaditya Thackeray||Amid the rising Covid-19 case count in Maharashtra and Mumbai, state minister Aaditya Thackeray explains the logic behind ‘Mission Begin Again’, health infrastructure and the steps the government is taking to contain the pandemic. Edited excerpts:Various states are emerging from the lockdown. Maharashtra is also facing the additional threat of a cyclone. How do you view the situation?We have been on top of the situation and fortunately people have been very cooperative and patient. No one in the world has been able to predict how long the Covid scenario will go on. We just started the mission ‘Begin Again’ yesterday as the lockdown has been in place for 2.5-3 months. But it has to be very, very slow, staggered and carefully planned. The important parameter here is the medical response, because it is life over livelihood. We went into lockdown in a measured manner starting March 8, and so the likewise has to be done while coming out of it.You have decided to open shops, but not malls? What was the thought process?There have been several deliberations – from observations from the WHO to what other countries are doing. For instance, is single-air circulation more detrimental than not having air-conditioning? Footfall was another factor to see how spacing out and social distancing could be implemented. From June 2 or 3, we’ve made it possible for people to at least step out and get into a little bit of physical exercise, but not go indoors [gyms], or touch surfaces. From June 5, shops on alternate sides of roads will open, and offices will open with 10% staff from the 8th. It is always going to be a trial-and-error method. It is a two-way process which needs cooperation of citizens. The slower we go the better.How does the government plan to open schools?June 10-13 is the time around which schools open. Most schools, especially in red zones, are quarantine facilities and we can’t open them right now. We’ve begun a process of speaking to people in the sector on how education can continue. Can we do it offline in green zones? What does social distancing mean? We are deliberating on it. The CM held an hour-long meeting yesterday on education and technology. We can’t let the academic year pass without education. Our school’s ratio is one teacher to 45 kids, so how do we do physical distancing there?The figures for the state look....Scary, yes. The principle we have to use as a government is not to fear the numbers, especially when you have a pandemic. In all cities such as New York and those in Brazil, the density of population is very different from Mumbai. One feature is Mumbai’s community toilets and the way our houses are planned and the number of people living in them…The chawls?Exactly. This is a vast difference from any other city…In comparison, we have done far better. There’s nobody to blame because the virus is an invisible enemy and there’s no point fighting it. High numbers don’t necessarily only mean more infection. They also mean the government has been more successful in identifying the carriers and isolating them. You will probably have a peak sooner rather than later. We have told all our officers on the ground to not fear the numbers, just chase the case. Why aren’t you testing asymptomatic people?We are going by the ICMR guidelines. World over, asymptomatic people don’t need any intervention. They can self-isolate. The guidelines say you have to test high-risk group between fifth and tenth day, and we are going by that. When you speak of hospital beds, we recall images from KEM hospital of patients lying amid dead bodies...We have said this before – there are a few things that have to be set in process once someone dies of Covid. You have to seal the body, wait for someone to claim it, but apart from that, we are also clearing a lot more space for the mortuary. The medical system is facing tremendous pressure across the world, as no one has seen so many patients in one place at one time. No matter what you do, you will have a shortage, as you have more people than the hospital or ICU beds. We’ve moved into creating more hospital and medical facilities. We had only 400 beds for isolation wards initially, but in the past 15 days, we’ve gone to 5,000. There has been some tension between Union and state ministers, say the exchange between CM Uddhav Thackeray and railway minister Piyush Goyal. Are you getting all help and cooperation from the Centre?I feel if you have two different parties or coalitions ruling the state and Centre, those tussles will always happen. Most importantly, there has been great cooperation within the parties in the state and with the Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the Chief Minister. They have been coordinating with each other. That, by far, has kept politics aside during this time. I don’t think this is the right time for any minister to speak about any politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/our-message-to-our-officers-is-don-t-fear-the-numbers-chase-the-case-aaditya-thackeray/story-etDt8YXx687P2noXmolvJK.html
02-06-2020||City||Ludhiana administration issues new guidelines for unlock 1.0||District magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal issued guidelines for lockdown 5.0/unlock 1.0 from June 1 to 30 on Monday and urged the people to adhere to them as their violation would invite action under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).MOVEMENT OF INDIVIDUALSHe said the movement of individuals would remain prohibited in the district from 9pm to 5am and appealed to the people above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below 10 to stay home. They should come out only in case of emergency, he said.He said cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places would remain closed. He said social, political, sports, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations would also not be allowed during unlock 1.0.The DC said spitting in public places, consumption of liquor, pan, gutka, tobacco, etc in public places was prohibited. However, there would be no restriction on the sale of these items.GUESTS AT WEDDINGSThe deputy commissioner said the number of guests would not exceed 50 at weddings and not more than 20 at funerals/last rites.He said religious places would remain closed till June 7 along with hotels and other hospitality services and shopping malls.He said restaurants could be opened for take-home or home delivery services, but in-dine services are banned till June 7.INTER-STATE MOVEMENT OF PEOPLEHe said the inter-state movement of people by domestic flights/trains/buses/cars etc has been allowed subject to the condition that incoming passengers would follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) of the health department and passengers would be required to either download Cova-app and get self-generated ‘e-pass’ or declare their particulars at the airport/railway station/bus stand/inter-state border as the case may be.MOVEMENT OF INTER-STATE BUSESHe said the inter-state buses would be allowed with mutual consent of the states and the inter-state movement of passenger vehicles such as taxis, cabs, stage carriers, tempo-travellers and cars would be permitted against self-generated e-pass.He said two-wheelers (1+1) passengers and four wheelers (1+2) passengers would be allowed and added no pass would be required for activities such as shopping, going to the office and workplace.He said shopping malls would remain closed, but all shops. including shops in main bazaars in both urban and rural areas, have been allowed to open from 7am to 7pm.He said liquor vends would, however, remain open from 8 am to 8 pm and barber shops, hair-cut saloons, beauty parlours and spas would be allowed to operate from 7am to 7pm.Agrawal said sports complexes and stadiums would be allowed without spectators.CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIESHe said construction activities were allowed without any restriction in both urban and rural areas and agricultural, horticultural, animal husbandry, veterinary services and others were also allowed without any restriction.The DC said social distancing should always be maintained for all the activities. He said now no separate permission would be required by industries and other establishments to resume their operations.He said all employees, government and private, would be allowed to move without passes from 5am to 9pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-administration-issues-new-guidelines-for-unlock-1-0/story-3KknUi3cwTUsDojijx8f9K.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||60 days later, 75% of Worli Koliwada is decontained||Sixty days since the first Covid-19 case was detected, Worli Koliwada, which became the city’s first containment zone, has been partially decontained and is now free of restrictions. Officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said only parts of Worli Koliwada where there are active cases, which account for 25% of the area, have been sealed.The area was declared a containment zone on March 29, after four cases were reported. It was also the first area in Mumbai where local transmission was reported as the reason behind the spread. Worli Koliwada comes under G-South ward, which covers Worli, Prabhadevi and Lower Parel. The ward has reported more than 2,008 cases, with 999 of the patients recovered.Shiv Sena MLA Aaditya Thackeray took to Twitter to thank residents: “Worli Koliwada where many patients were found and a containment zone was created, has now been decontained. Only places with active patients are sealed. Since this is the first containment zone, we encountered the problems we were experiencing for the first time. It became a model for fighting Covid-19. I thank the residents for their cooperation.”BMC has marked 12 clusters in Worli Koliwada and seven clusters in Janata Colony where the containment zone restrictions will stay. Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G-South ward, said, “General lockdown conditions will stay and social distancing norms need to be followed. Containment clusters in Worli Koliwada and Janata Colony will have strict conditions. This was decided in a meeting between the police, BMC and community leaders.”A BMC official said, “Except the 19 clusters, the remaining parts will have to follow the restrictions and relaxations given by the state, Mumbai Police and BMC. Citizens will have to follow social distancing and stick to the opening hours of shops and offices.”The 12 clusters in Worli Koliwada cover Achanak Krida Mandal, Sonapur lane, Amar Prem Chowk, Tare House, Arun Prakas Sangh, Lawrence Kini House, Thomas Kini House, Omkar Niwas, Dominic Kini Chawl, Pakhaari Lane, Navjeevan Colony, Worli Fort and Sukur Master Chawl. In case of Janata Colony, the seven clusters include Saikrupa Seva Mandal, Amar Sandesh Sports Club, behind Building Number 42, Sagar Darshan, Sai Baba Mandir, Udar Krida Mandal and Golden Krida Mandal.According to BMC data, of the 717 containment zones in the city, Worli has eight, including Worli Koliwada-Janata Colony, Worli Police camp, Motilal Nehru Nagar, Mariama Nagar, Prem Nagar, Siddarth Nagar, VP Nagar and Worli BDD Chawl. Of the 3,336 sealed buildings across the city, 40 are in Worli.Meanwhile, in the first week of May, BMC had also allowed fishermen from Worli Koliwada to venture out into the sea for fishing, ahead of the onset of the monsoon. A maximum of five boats from each of the three jetties were to be allowed to be out at a time. However, there were not many takers as fishermen were not allowed to sell their catch in the market. They were asked to stock it and sell it later as dry fish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/60-days-later-75-of-worli-koliwada-is-decontained/story-GToLEyxn7bVqGuxX6hswuK.html
02-06-2020||Mumbai||PIL seeks more Covid duties for corporators, HC seeks BMC’s reply||The Bombay high court has taken on record a list of suggestions by a petitioner in public interest litigation (PIL) and directed the BMC to respond to the same by Tuesday. The PIL was filed with the grievance that a private hospital had refused to admit a Covid-infected police constable as he was unable to deposit the huge amount demanded by the hospital and hence, there should be a cap on the charges.One of the suggestions seeks to assign more duties to the corporator of each ward in the city in the fight against the Covid-19 outbreak. The petitioner has contended that as corporators have not been assigned any specific duty or responsibility for his/her ward, and the ward officer is singlehandedly entrusted with the job of combating the outbreak. The involvement of the corporator would not only aid the ward officer, but also ensure that problems faced by Covid and non-Covid patients are addressed expeditiously.According to advocate Varsha Jagdale after the PIL was heard she was approached by many persons who wanted to join the petition, she however refused and asked them to share their inputs which they wished to be addressed through the PIL. She said that after receiving the same she made a list of suggestions and submitted them before the HC bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta. The bench accepted the suggestions and directed the BMC to respond to the same.The suggestions include providing PPE kits to all frontline workers as it has come to light that some health workers refuse to join duty fearing their safety. Another suggestion is to provide treatment on a priority basis to cops and health workers infected with Covid-19 infection and to permit all private clinics, small hospitals and nursing homes to start functioning.The suggestion to assign duties and responsibilities to corporators of each ward include monitoring and facilitating arrangements for Covid-19 patients and ensure implementation of government guidelines and norms in his/her respective ward. The corporator may also be assigned the responsibility to arrange for essentials services like groceries, medicines, etc in their respective wards and to provide information of Covid-19 hospitals and availability of beds therein through display boards in their wards.Jagdale said, the suggestions regarding corporators were made to relieve the burden on government and civic staff involved in the battle against the Covid outbreak and, if implemented, will go a long way in combating the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-seeks-more-covid-duties-for-corporators-hc-seeks-bmc-s-reply/story-b2vZ4NI5WblSRk8WtZQMsJ.html
02-06-2020||City||Televised classes: 90% teachers found present during checking in Ludhiana||Deputy district education officer (elementary) Kuldeep Singh conducted a random checking through video calls on Monday to find out if primary school teachers were attending television lectures or not.Last month, the state education department had tied up with Doordarshan and DTH channels to telecast lectures for students of primary classes from 9am to 11am. Along with students, teachers were also asked to attend the lectures so that they could clear any queries that students had. The deputy DEO’s team called 10 teachers and found that only one of them was not attending the class. On enquiry, the teacher told the officials that she was unable to attend the class today as there was a power cut in her area.Singh said, “Our team will call teachers everyday to confirm if the topics covered that day have been taught to students. If teachers go through the lectures on television everyday, only then will they be able to resolve the issues faced by their students. We are receiving feedback from students that they enjoy attending online classes and many of them have sent pictures while attending classes too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/televised-classes-90-teachers-found-present-during-checking-in-ludhiana/story-fKaXschEdLsD6cWOkGSPiN.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rajinder Kaur appointed new director of Panjab University’s UILS||Rajinder Kaur joined as the new director of University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS), Panjab University, on Monday.Kaur completed her LLB, LLM and PhD from Panjab University and has been appointed director for a three-year term. She will replace Ratan Singh.Kaur is heading UILS’ centre for trade laws and dispute resolution (CTDR) and is also a visiting faculty at the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Delhi, and Institute of Management and Technology, Ghaziabad.She said her main focus will be to take UILS to greater heights by imparting knowledge, skills, and values necessary to not only serve the Bar, but also to serve the nation and society at large, and to provide leadership at local, national and global levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rajinder-kaur-appointed-new-director-of-panjab-university-s-uils/story-nKG2sUqo2CNB7aLsExpfgK.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi seals its borders, decision to be reviewed after a week||The Delhi government on Monday imposed stringent curbs on inter-state travel by deciding to seal the city’s borders for a week. While the move, according to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, is aimed at ensuring that hospital beds are not crowded by people coming from outside Delhi, it left many confused as to how they would go to work or board a train or flight. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal sought suggestions from the public till Friday 5 pm on whether to keep the borders sealed beyond the stipulated one week. “For the time being, our government is sealing the borders of Delhi for one week. Essential services will remain functional and government officers can travel on their identity cards. Based on the suggestions received from you, we will talk to experts and decide on our future course of action on the opening of borders,” he said.A senior government official said that those who have been issued passes from the city administrations of Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad will be allowed as per the lockdown relaxation order.“Residents of Delhi who go for work to neighbouring cities will have to collect e-passes from their respective district magistrates. Since we have opened all private and government offices, it will be wrong to prevent employees from travelling to other cities. The passes can be taken from any neighbouring district as well. The idea is to restrict the unnecessary movement of people between NCR cities, an exercise that even the UP and Haryana administrations have undertaken,” said a senior government official. A media advisor to the chief minister said those coming from NCR cities and headed to the Indira Gandhi International Airport or any of the railway stations, the tickets would suffice as passes. “For the return of the driver to the NCR city, it is recommended that he is given a copy of the ticket. For ex-servicemen living in NCR cities and having medical appointments in their designated hospitals (army, Central government, railways, etc), their government ID card will suffice,” the spokesperson said.Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava said that the city police were yet to receive the Delhi government’s order regarding sealing of the city’s borders. “We are awaiting the DDMA guidelines on the Unlock-1. Once they are received, we will devise ways to implement the same. We will do what is best suited for the people of Delhi,” said the police commissioner.The chief minister further said the decision to open Delhi borders “can be challenging” because of the “large influx” of people from across the country for medical treatment in the Capital. He said it would lead to Covid beds getting filled in “just 2-3 days”. Kejriwal said Delhi would have 9,500 beds by Friday and currently 2,748 of the 4,456 beds are occupied. As per government’s plan, by June 15, it will have 10,000 beds ready for serious patients with 450 beds in the newly constructed Burari hospital and more private hospitals reserving their beds for Covid patients. On Monday, Delhi recorded 990 fresh cases taking the total to 20,834. The cases in the city also crossed the 20,000-mark, even as the number of active cases was 11,565 as on Monday. The Delhi government order sealing the city’s borders read: “In view of the current public health situation in the NCT of Delhi, inter-state movement of non-residents of Delhi, into the territory of Delhi shall be allowed only on the production of e-passes issued for essential services or in case of emergent circumstances, by authorities of respective state/UT and/or district magistrates of NCT of Delhi. However, government employees shall be allowed on the production of government ID card.” The order further stated that the movement of vehicles and individuals within Delhi is allowed and will not require any passes. Inter-state movement of good or cargo trucks will be allowed, it stated. The decision to seal the borders came a day after Haryana decided to lift similar restrictions on its side, assuring those travelling to and from Gurugram of a smooth commute after at least two weeks. The administrations in Noida and Ghaziabad, however, said that curbs on their borders will continue, notwithstanding the May 30 central order that eased restrictions on inter-state travel.Delhi residents who work in cities such as Gurugram and Noida were left puzzled if they will be allowed to travel to their offices or not. “Why did the government allow to open private offices if I had to restrict the movement of people. Now I will have to take an e-pass which will have a long pendency again. Last time, I got my pass after four days of application,” said Darshini Sinha, a resident of Vasant Kunj, D Block. The Delhi government’s decision was also criticised by the BJP and the Congress with the leader of the opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, saying Kejriwal was trying to divert people’s attention from the failure of his government in handling the Corona crisis. “Delhi also has large central government hospitals like All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Ram Manohar Lohia and Safdarjung. How can Kejriwal decide that no patient from other states will come to these hospitals for the treatment. The chief minister is arguing that if borders remain open, there will be a danger of beds fixed for Corona patients being taken up by those from outside the city. But, the fact is that the increasing number of Covid patients has exposed the poor preparedness of the Kejriwal government,” he said. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said when economic activities and vehicular movement has been restored in Delhi, there was no point in shutting off the city for neighbouring cities. “This will only create chaos on the borders. The government has not given any thought before making this announcement,” Chaudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-seals-its-borders-decision-to-be-reviewed-after-a-week/story-UiwdE0LGBEIkAFcILodq7I.html
02-06-2020||Gurugram||As Delhi shuts its borders with Gurugram, commuters face difficulties travelling||Just as the Haryana government decided to lift restrictions on the Gurugram border, the Delhi governments has shut it on its side. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who chaired a meeting in Chandigarh on Sunday evening, had said that the curbs should be eased even though the administration was yet to issue a written order.However, the Delhi government on Monday announced closing its borders with the neighbouring states to control the influx of Covid patients since thousands in other states depend on Delhi hospitals for treatment. The Gurugram administration has maintained restrictions on entry from Delhi side with varying degree of curbs for the past two months. The two conflicting orders on Monday evoked sharp reactions from the commuters and businessmen in the Millennium City. Nidhi Sharma, a South Delhi resident who travels to Gurugram daily for work, said the two orders have only added to the confusion. “I have been carrying my stuff in my car for the last one month. I had already shifted to Gurugram twice and returned after the relaxations were announced. This is sheer harassment,” she said.Another daily commuter, Gurugram resident Gaurav Gupta, expressed frustration over the confusion prevailing at the border connecting the two cities. “Its becoming very difficult to manage work and home with the current border situation. Every morning I leave for office thinking that what if I am not allowed to return what if cops ask me to stay back in Delhi. My family members are equally worried, “ he said.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, said on Monday that checking at all the 11 border crossings of the state that connect Gurugram with Delhi has been relaxed during the day. Intense checking is being carried out only during the rush hours. “We have not received any fresh orders regarding any changes at the borders. Our teams are deployed and have been directed to check the vehicles without movement passes. We are also allowing people without passes who are visiting the city for medical or personal reasons. But they need to establish their reason,” he said.There was not much congestion at the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on Monday unlike last week, when the border was sealed again for a day. However, movement was restricted to three lanes on either side. The police personnel deployed at the border on Monday evening said that many commuters were stopping there to ask them about the situation at the Delhi border but they couldn’t help them with any information because of the lack of clarity.Several commuters who could enter Gurugram without any checks on Monday from Delhi said the governments may have taken such decisions in the wake of rising Covid cases, but for them it is a question of livelihood. Many of them have now resorted to find alternative routes. Thousands of industrial workers who stay in Delhi are now reaching their factories in Gururam through unpaved pathways in the Rajokri forest area, entering near Kapashera area and coming out near the Sirhaul border after jumping a small canal.Ram Dev, a worker of a spice factory in Udyog Vihar said that they started using the irregular paths to escape the police screening. “Coming through the main road was wastage of time as cops used to stop us and used to ask for passes, which were not provided by our employers,” he said.Shahja, a factory worker commuting from Kapashera to Udyog Vihar, said that the forest route is a short cut and more than 300 labourers travel together to reach their workplace. “Earlier we used to cross the border walking but now for the past 10 days, the police are not allowing us. So we have decided to cross the border via an irregular stretch, which is not manned by the police,” she said.The industry owners of Gurugram have also expressed surprise at the decision by the Delhi government. Shamsher Singh, a Udyog Vihar factory owner, said that how can the factories operate without labourers. There is no relaxation for the factories and, on the other hand, the labourers are facing issues in commuting. There is no transport facility for them and they have no other choice but to cycle or walk,” he said.The Union home ministry on Saturday had stated in its fresh guidelines that governments should allow free intrastate movement. However, the state governments are free to frame their own rules based on the Centre’s recommendations. Haryana government is yet to issue any formal guidelines for unlocking the city.Meanwhile a senior Delhi Police officer, requesting anonymity, said, “We are yet to receive a new notification from the Delhi government. The order will be implemented as and when we get it. Until then, existing border picket-checking will continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/as-delhi-shuts-its-borders-with-gurugram-commuters-face-difficulties-travelling/story-sg9t3WcXkUIztcVNvEgIBP.html
02-06-2020||City||Unlock 1.0: P’kula goes beyond Centre’s guidelines to prevent Covid-19 surge||With the first phase of the country’s unlocking plan kicking in, Panchkula authorities are going beyond the central government’s guidelines to ensure that the number of cases in the district don’t surge.This includes mandatory testing of all those coming to the district from red zone states like Gujarat, Delhi and Mumbai, where the number of cases are high. The central government guidelines only advise 14-day self monitoring for such travellers.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur says, “With the lockdown beginning to be eased and people coming from far off places, especially those returning from abroad, we are worried there is likely to be a surge in cases. Our first experience-- 27 of the 73 US deportees who reached here were found positive-- has shown this. So now, we are gearing up to deal with the influx.”She said that the plan is “quite streamlined”. “People are coming back through three modes-- air, rail and road. For international travellers, the system will be as per the central government’s guidelines – seven days’ facility quarantine and seven days’ home quarantine. As soon as they reach, they will be placed in four designated hotels in Panchkula, their sampling will be done and if they are negative after seven days, they will be sent for home quarantine of seven days.”For domestic travellers coming from red zones, the district will conduct mandatory testing even though the central government guidelines don’t recommend this. “For others, it will be 14-days self-health monitoring but they all will have to download an app developed by the Panchkula administration to help in tracking,” the civil surgeon said.Arrangements have also been made for extensive screening of passengers at Panchkula and Kalka railway stations. “We will conduct thermal scanning of every passenger exiting from the station and those with symptoms will be sent to the mobile medical unit stationed nearby. They will take a call on whether to put a person in isolation or not,” she said.Besides, the authorities will also be reaching out to the residents’ welfare associations to help keep tabs on those coming in their personal vehicles. “The idea is not to scare them, but rather to motivate and educate them to report promptly if they develop any symptoms,” she said.So far, with 26 positive cases and zero deaths, Panchkula has managed to fare much better than its neighbouring cities Chandigarh and Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-1-0-p-kula-goes-beyond-centre-s-guidelines-to-prevent-covid-19-surge/story-dBEhwVXk8vBq9vW6rz1CKJ.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Unlock 1: Malls, restaurants, religious places in Delhi to stay shut||In its order charting out guidelines for further relaxations during the ongoing nationwide lockdown, the Delhi government Monday said shopping malls, places of religious worship and restaurants would remain closed for now, even though the guidelines issued by the Centre on Saturday provides room for states to allow these to open from June 8.While senior officials in the Delhi government maintained that a review meeting is likely on June 7, following which a fresh order concerning malls, restaurants and places of religious worship may be issued, several prominent malls, restaurants and religious places in the city have their plans ready for resuming regular functioning after remaining shut or partially functioning for more than two months.“Shopping malls, restaurants and places of religious worship see large gatherings and they are places with a high risk of disease transmission. It is good that the government did not prioritise them in their relaxation strategy. But shopping malls and restaurants also employ thousands of people. One has to be very careful about policies concerning such enterprises and institutes considering the spike in Covid-19 cases that Delhi is currently witnessing,” Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said.RELIGIOUS WORSHIPSeveral religious places have worked out their own rules to ensure social distancing on the premises if and when gatherings are allowed.Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, said, “The government must have taken the decision after careful consultation with experts. We respect the decision.” Close to 10,000 people offer Friday prayers at the Jama Masjid in Old Delhi during summer and the number goes up to 22,000 in winter. But post-Covid, Bukhari said the numbers are going to be much fewer.Temples such as Jhandelwalan Mandir and Gauri Shankar temple in Chandni Chowk have worked out measures to control the crowd inside the complex. Jhandewalan temple authorities have decided to do away with the system of puja thalis and are doing a virtual aarti since the lockdown started. “We will continue with the online aarti even after the temple complex is allowed to open,” a member of the temple management committee said.At Sacred Heart Cathedral, Savarimuthu Shankar, the spokesperson of Delhi Catholic Archdiocese, said a plan for social distancing inside the church will be prepared only when the Delhi government gives the go-ahead.Manjinder Singh Sirsa, chairperson, Gurdwara Prabhandhak Committee, said, “We are hopeful that gurdwaras will be allowed to be opened from June 8. We are yet to receive guidelines regarding the opening from the government. However, we have made our own rules for when the gurdwaras are opened.”“We will increase the number of entry and exit points at gurdwara so that human interactions are kept to a minimum and to ensure crowd control. Hand sanitisers will be kept at a different points on the premises and central ACs will remain off. We are still unclear if devotees would be allowed to sit and pray,” Sirsa said.MALLS AND RESTAURANTSThe major city shopping malls too are ready to reopen with a long list of self-regulations from requesting shoppers to download the Aarogya Setu app, to full personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for staff and special demarcated spaces for visitors. “The shopping experience will be different from before, as safety and hygiene will be our top priority. Tweaks in design and markings will help visitors and retail outlets maintain the necessary social distancing of six feet, as per government norms. There will also be proper marking at counters and cash registers to stop crowding, fixing plexiglass shields at all checkout points are also being looked into,” a spokesperson of Select City Walk Mall, in south Delhi’s Saket, said.The spokesperson said the public areas will be sanitised every 60 minutes. An isolation room has also been identified in case a Covid-19 positive visitor is found. Besides, various retail outlets are formulating guidelines on trials and return/exchange of products. Also, parking will be restricted and will be kept to 50% of the total capacity.” Dinaz Madhukar, executive vice president, DLF, retail luxury and hospitality, said, “Masks, sanitizers, gloves, PPE kit and face shields will be stocked in every retail store. The number of visitors will be limited. We are also working on touch-less parking experience and encouraging digital payment. Valet service will not be available and there will be a strict protocol on the movement of cabs and personal drivers in the basement,” she said.Praveen Khandelwal, secretary-general, Confederation of All India Traders, said, “Covid-19 cases are increasing every day so it is advisable that malls not be opened as maintaining social distancing would be a tough task. Malls have a central AC system and the virus spread is more quicker in such environments. However, restaurants should be allowed to open from June 8 with all necessary guidelines.”Priyank Sukhija, member, National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said, “So far, there is no clarity if restaurants with bars will be allowed to open or not. Also, if we are asked to shut by 9pm, it will not help all kinds of outlets. We are waiting for the association to come up with a set of guidelines based on which we will prepare for opening shop eventually.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/malls-restaurants-religious-places-to-stay-shut/story-6dEnJurU3qLou7HWQK9aOP.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Unlock 1: Markets in Delhi to open fully from today||With markets in the national capital opening at full strength from Tuesday, market associations said they are yet to decide on a strategy that would facilitate full-scale operations while ensuring the safety of both shoppers and shopkeepers. This includes creating protocols for return and exchange of purchased items, trials of clothes, shoes, accessories, gadgets, electronic goods and utensils and all such activities where “touch” would be a necessity. Traders say the situation is tricky as they need to balance both sales and the safety of staff and customers.On Monday, the Delhi government announced Delhi-specific guidelines for the phased reopening of the city after the fourth phase of lockdown ended on May 31. Shops in markets were allowed to reopen from May 18 alternately open through the week, on an odd-even numbering system devised by the government. With store owners across markets opting different strategies to regulate entry of visitors and the “try and buy” system to minimise contact, customers are in for a different shopping experience. All shops are required to maintain social distancing and cannot have more than five persons inside a unit at a time.Most store owners across major markets including Connaught Place, Khan Market, South Extension, Chandni Chowk and Greater Kailash said they will urge customers to try on clothes only if it’s absolutely essential and avoid doing so if they are familiar with the sizes and fit of a particular brand.Others said they will experiment with sanitising products after each trial using a mild spray so that fabrics don’t get spoiled. Jewellery items can be tried and sanitised later, which is the case with bags and other such accessories.Also read: Unlock 1 - States differ on travel, quarantine protocolsTraders at the South Extension-1 and 2 markets, which have a large number stores selling apparel, jewellery, and accessories said they will hold a meeting with all shop owners to decide on a common protocol before relaunching full-scale operations. “So far, the footfall at the market has been too low. Now with markets allowed to open every day, we expect more customers to arrive. A common strategy has to be devised for all stores. We have already instructed all stores to hand over a pair of disposable gloves to customers upon entry. We are yet to take a decision on trials and exchanges,” Vijay Kheterpal, member, South Extension-1 market association, said.Store owners in Connaught Place and Khan Market said most of them are running franchises of various international brands, and they will wait for instructions from the brand head offices.Shopkeepers in markets such as Janpath and Sarojini Nagar, who mainly deal in accessories, footwear and clothing, said it will be tough for them to manage sales in this scenario, as items are on open display and are touched multiple times by customers. Most shops in these markets do not have trial rooms. “We plan to sanitise the items after it is touched by a customer. There was no trial policy earlier as well and now we will give a 10-day window to customers for exchanging/returning items,” Ashok Randhawa, president, Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association, said. Traders in the Chandni Chowk market, who had voluntarily shut shop till May 31, said they were apprehensive that given the dingy lanes and crowding in Old Delhi, maintaining social distancing would be a huge challenge. The market houses all kinds of goods from clothes and daily use items to electronics.Besides, most of the electronic goods stores said that they were allowing customers to touch only select products. For instance, appliances such as television sets, and mixers and blenders, do not require the customer to touch it and a demonstration can be given by the staff wearing masks and gloves.“Many of our standalone stores are already open. We allow customers to handle only mobile phones and laptops where touch is a necessity for purchase. The gadgets are sanitised after each such use. For the rest of the products, the customers will not be allowed to handle them,” Ritesh Ghosal, chief marketing officer, Croma, an electronics appliances and gadgets retailing chain, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/markets-in-delhi-to-open-fully-from-tuesday/story-coFT6Scw4K6okP1TIbWTKP.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Sadar Bazar traders want area to be desealed, write to CM Arvind Kejriwal||Traders in Sadar Bazar — one of Delhi’s largest wholesale market — have approached the Delhi government with a plea to de-contain their area so that they can resume business as usual. The market has been shut for almost two months since the entire area was declared a containment zone to prevent the spread of Covid-19. On Monday, the Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders Associations wrote to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal seeking permission to reopen their shops. The traders said they have been hit hard because of the continuing lockdown in their area and have now started living of their savings. The association in the letter to the CM demanded segregating the residential area from the commercial one so that shops could be reopened. Paramjeet Singh Pamma, a member of the association said, “Over 4,500 shops in Sadar Bazar have remained shut, as the whole area — including both commercial and residential — has been deemed as a containment zone. More than 70% of the area is purely commercial and has not seen any cases. It is different from the residential area, from where cases were being reported. We have suffered heavy losses and are finding it difficult to even run our houses now.” Nidhi Srivastava, district magistrate (Central district), said that the area is contained as per protocol. “Cases are still being reported from the area. The market falls in the containment zone, which has been sealed following orders of the Union home ministry,” she said. Meanwhile, Brajesh Goyal,convenor, AAP’s trade and industry wing, said, “We received their letter on Monday, which has been forwarded to the CM. A decision in the matter will be taken by appropriate authorities.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sadar-bazar-traders-want-area-to-be-desealed-write-to-cm/story-sUNaa1XXPqeeCfDWsFsYNL.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||‘Delhi Corona’ app to launch today||The ‘Delhi Corona’ app, created by the Delhi government, will be launched on Tuesday on Android and iOS. However, Android users started downloading the app on Monday itself.“You can check how many beds and ventilators are free, and in which hospitals, using an app now. We will launch the app tomorrow (Tuesday). If anyone in your family gets Covid-19, you will know where to go,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press briefing on Monday.The app has been created for both Android and iOS. The app provides the number of beds available for the treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in government and private hospitals. According to government officials, the information is updated once a day.“The information will be updated on the app once every day,” a senior official from Delhi government confirmed. The app was last updated at 9am on Monday.On Monday morning, there were 6,670 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the city—2,116 in government hospitals and the rest in private, according to the app. Of these, 2,692 beds are currently occupied. Apart from these, there are a total of 302 beds with the ventilator facility available in the city—of this, 229 are in government hospitals and the rest in private hospitals. A total of 38 ventilators are occupied across the city, according to the app.By mid-June, the Delhi government plans to expand the number of beds up to 9,846. Of these 1,900 will be in three of its hospitals—1,500 beds in Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Dilshad Garden, 200 beds in Deep Chand Bandhu hospital in Ashok Vihar, and 200 beds in Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital in Narela.In addition to the information about the availability of beds, the app can be used to check all the containment zones declared by the government on Google Maps. Maps of all the Covid Testing Centres, Covid Care Centres, and Covid Health Centres are also available on the app. There is also a questionnaire to help people calculate their infection risk.A link to the government’s WhatsApp helpline is also provided in the app.Apart from that, the app also has daily updates on the number of cases recorded and the number of people tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-corona-app-to-launch-today/story-ONN6tA16yT6KduiwO0cfmN.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Office-goers relieved as Delhi govt lifts restrictions on number of passengers in vehicles||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal lifted restrictions on the number of passengers in auto rickshaws, cabs and private cars, as the government moved towards “unlocking” the city on Monday. These relaxations come as a major relief to office-goers across the city who now have more options to commute to and from their workplaces. However, following the central government’s guidelines, the Delhi government has decided not to reopen the Delhi Metro services. “In light of the guidelines issued by the government, Metro services will remain closed for commuters until further notice. Our helpline services 155370 shall also not be available. You may reach us at helpline@dmrc.org,” read a Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) statement, following the government’s order on Monday.A senior Metro official, requesting anonymity, said that even though the DMRC is ready to restart operations while adhering to the norms of social distancing, they will abide by the government order. “This is a call that both the governments will have to take. If they ask us to restart services, we are in a position to do that on short notice too,” the official said. Meanwhile, commuters in the city heaved a sigh of relief at the government’s announcement on lifting passenger restrictions in auto-rickshaws, cabs, private cars, e-rickshaws and gramin sewas. Public buses will continue to operate with a passenger limit of 20 in each bus. However, with other modes of transport allowed to operate at full capacity, the load on public buses will probably be eased. “We were told that people from the same family wanting to travel in an auto-rickshaw were facing difficulties because of the one-passenger limit. Since the central government has not limited the number of passengers now, we are also removing these restrictions,” Kejriwal said, while lifting the restrictions.During the fourth round of the lockdown, the Delhi government had capped the passenger limit to one in auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws. On two-wheelers, no pillion rider was allowed, and in private cars and cabs, only two passengers and the driver were allowed. Rajender Soni, the general secretary of Delhi Autorickshaw Sangh, said that the removal of the single passenger limit from auto-rickshaws has come as a breather to drivers. “There were barely any passengers, and we were forced to deny a ride to more than one person. Many drivers will benefit from this relaxation. Thousands of drivers were facing a major financial crisis during the lockdown,” Soni said.He also said that even though these relaxations have been issued, drivers are being instructed by unions to take all requisite precautions, such as wearing masks all the time, washing hands whenever possible and keeping a bottle of hand sanitiser in the vehicle, for their and the passengers’ safety. Cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber are also preparing a safety plan to normalise services. The Delhi government order did not specifically state if shared rides in cabs/taxis will be prohibited as was the case in the last four phases of the lockdown. A spokesperson of cab aggregator Ola said they will continue to restrict the number of passengers in their cabs to two and that they won’t restart shared rides in the Capital till there is clarity on the issue from the government. “Only two passengers per ride will be allowed in the cab. They will also be urged to sit by the windows in the rear of the car,” the company said.“All driver-partners have been asked to wear masks at all times. Before the start of each ride, they will have to upload a picture of themselves wearing their masks to authenticate the ride. They will also be provided with a hygiene kit with masks, sanitiser and disinfectants. Air conditioning will be switched off to avoid cross ventilation,” Ola cabs said in a statement on Monday. Many officer-goers said on Monday that travelling around the city had become tedious with the restrictions on transport. Tripti Yadav, who works in a private firm in Nehru Place, said she travels with a colleague, and because of the passenger limit in autos, they were being forced to take cabs to work, which was costing them a lot. “One or two days is fine, but if you have to take the cab everyday, then it starts to pinch your pocket. Even though the Metro is not operational, we will now be able to take the auto at a much lesser cost than the cabs,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/office-goers-relieved-as-delhi-govt-lifts-restrictions-on-number-of-passengers-in-vehicles/story-alWQO1gpxyGfO0nfNMkkxL.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Kidney patient who tested positive for Covid-19 hangs himself at hospital||A 63-year-old man who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hung himself at Batra Hospital in south Delhi on Sunday evening, the police said. The man lived in Meethapur and was admitted to the hospital on May 20 for dialysis as he was being treated for kidney-related ailments there. He had tested positive for Covid-19 last week, the DCP said. “Around 4pm on Sunday, he hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his hospital room,” the DCP said. The police did not find a suicide note, but the DCP said that he suspected that the elderly man killed himself because of his ailments. Inquest proceedings are underway in the case, the officer said. This is the second known case of a Covid-19 patient killing themselves in the national Capital. Earlier last month, an army jawan had hanged himself from a tree at the Army Hospital after testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kidney-patient-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-hangs-himself-at-hospital/story-UuajeuMq49YD7bomOhyb4N.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three fresh Covid-19 cases in hotspot Bapu Dham take Chandigarh’s total to 297||Three fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, on Monday, taking the total count of infections in Chandigarh to 297.The cases pertain to two women, aged 18 and 19, and a 42-year-old man. They are all family contacts of a positive case reported the previous night.Meanwhile, 15 people were discharged from hospital on Monday, taking the total number of recoveries to 214. The count of active cases in the city stands at 79.Officials said a 28-year-old woman from the colony who was tested positive on Sunday had delivered a baby at the Manimajra civil hospital on May 31. She is a community contact of a patient from the same locality. Her 10 family contacts have been sampled. Meanwhile, with resumption of Jan Shatabdi train services in the city, as 443 passengers reached the Chandigarh railway station on Monday, one passenger was found to have Covid-like symptoms upon screening. The person, who had boarded the train from Delhi, was taken to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, for further testing.Protest in containment areaResidents protested after an elderly woman died of non-Covid complications at the containment zone in Sector 30, Chandigarh, on Monday. One of the protesters was booked for obstructing and assaulting public servants, even as people alleged police apathy for delay in ambulance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-hotspot-bapu-dham-take-chandigarh-s-total-to-297/story-h55JtpctTYXnyXkBBepYoN.html
02-06-2020||Pune||Pune district admin forms panel to address complaints against private hospitals||Pune The district administration, on Monday, constituted a health committee to address complaints of refusal of admission in private hospitals, or disputes over hospital fees.The committee, formed under district collector Naval Kishore Ram, will have powers to recommend action against private hospitals, as mentioned in the state government order issued on May 21, empowering the administration to take control of 80 beds across private hospitals in the city.Although currently there are various methods to register complaints with the district collector or Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the committee will seek to ensure patients are protected during the coronavirus pandemic.Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, committee member, said, “The committee has been formed to not only look into complaints regarding Covid-19, but also non-Covid-19 patients. We have been asked to ensure that the recent state government order of cap prices on 80% of beds should be implemented properly. Also, we will look into any patient being asked to repeatedly shift from one hospital to another without any reason. In case discrepancies are found, we will take action accordingly.”Ram said, “We already have a system in place to address any complaints by patients, but in the wake of coronavirus we needed a dedicated committee for the same. This committee is not to harass private hospitals, but to seek better cooperation. Many private hospitals are doing a great job to ensure smooth treatment of patients and so we have not got many complaints in Pune. We will decide if we need a toll-free number or any other address mechanism on Tuesday and accordingly inform the public.”Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Sahyadri Hospital, said, “We had a meeting with the administration on Monday wherein we were informed about the committee. We have already admitted patients and are charging as per the new norms - 80% of the beds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panel-formed-to-address-complaints-against-private-hospitals-in-pune/story-A08s4IQ8HV8VWCgm7F9vuJ.html
02-06-2020||Pune||Under lockdown, Deccan Queen’s 91st birthday is a quiet celebration||The Deccan Queen, the iconic Pune-Mumbai intercity express train, for the first time since its maiden journey in 1930, failed to show up on the tracks of the Pune railway station to mark the anniversary of its existence on Monday, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.However, Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group, ensured that the anniversary of the train was celebrated, sans its presence.“I tried asking the railway authorities to even get an empty coach of the Deccan Queen to the station for the celebration, but they did not agree. The train is stuck at the yard in Mumbai due to the lockdown,” said Shah.The train first ran the Pune-Mumbai route 91 years ago on June 1, 1930. Shah, herself, has been travelling on the train for the past 66 years.“I would accompany my father to the station and learned about the Deccan Queen when I was five years-old. It used to be a different colour when it started. The British who started the train called it the Blue Bird Baby. The Deccan Queen has never missed its anniversary until today (Monday). She maybe 182km away from me, but she is still in my mind,” said Shah.Shah conducted two celebrations - one at Laxmi road, Pune and one at the railway station with the railway authorities, including the station master officials.The train, known for its pantry car, is undergoing a facelift and will be painted a different colour. The train, which is instrumental in ferrying people in Pune and Mumbai working in either of the cities on daily basis, is not expected to be back on the tracks until June 30, said Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/deccan-queen-chugs-into-91st-year-of-its-reign-under-lockdown/story-qTD7D8McBv8LewYJFXEx1L.html
02-06-2020||Pune||Next to open up in Pune: Mandai, gardens; 1,415 cases from non-containment zones prompt new containment map||Pune’s gardens, mandai (city’s central market place) and several non-essential stores are likely to be opened under the city’s unlock 1.0 plan.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad was to issue order on Monday, though he delayed it by another day, citing a review meeting scheduled with the chief secretary on Tuesday.Gaikwad said the detailed order on the relaxation and Pune’s Cantonment area will be issued after review meeting with Maharashtra’s chief secretary Ajoy Mehta. Besides the relaxations, Pune’s Cantonment is also likely to undergo changes.The city has seen 1,415 Covid-19-positive cases from outside the containment zones in the past few days.“A large number of cases have come from outside containment zones. The PMC has therefore reworked the containment zone map, which will be released tomorrow,” said Gaikwad.These 1,415 cases are mostly from adjoining areas of already demarcated containment zones.On the possible easing of curbs, Gaikwad said several delegations met him in the past few days. “We have given permission for the opening of Mandai and Tulshibaug. The plan is also to open the gardens in non-containment zones,” said Gaikwad.According to a senior PMC official, 150 public gardens will be opened for people to walk and exercise in, with a limited time frame.The government has deputed four IAS officers to oversee the containment strategy in Pune.On Rural Pune, which is also witnessing cases, district collector Naval Kishore Ram said relaxations will be as per the guidelines issued by state government on Sunday.Changes in 65 containment zonesIn the last 15 days, 1,450 Covid-19 positive patients have come from non-containment areas.Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “A total of 1,450 Covid-19 positive cases have been found in non-containment zones in Pune. Considering the rate of new positive cases, definitely there would be a change in the existing containment zones. Some areas would get deleted and new areas would be added in. The containment zone areas will have only essential services operational. We are working on it and the orders for new containment zones would be issued on Tuesday.”Pune currently has 65 areas in the city marked out as containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/next-to-open-up-mandai-gardens-1-415-cases-from-non-containment-zones-prompt-new-containment-map/story-UiKe4xt7VFC7FQ1QeVPRFK.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||Liquor shops set to open all days from 9am till 8pm, orders Delhi govt||The excise department of Delhi government on Monday issued an order allowing operational liquor shops in the city to remain open all days a week, except dry days, from 9 am to 8 pm — a change from the current timings of 9.30am to 6.30pm, a senior government official said.Delhi has around 864 liquor shops, of which around 150 are located in shopping malls in the city that are still closed under lockdown orders. The rest are allowed to function. The city government had, on May 4, allowed standalone government-run liquor shops to open. By May 22, the order was extended to cover liquor shops located in markets — including those owned by private enterprises and individuals — on an odd-even basis. The timings of the shops were set between 9.30am and 6.30pm.ALSO WATCH | Delhi Unlocks: What next in the capital’s battle against Covid? All L6, L7 and L8 shops are allowed to open on daily basis (except dry days) from 9am to 8pm, said the order issued on Monday, which HT has seen.The L6, L7 and L8 categories of license cover liquor shops dealing with Indian manufactured foreign liquors, imported brands as well as country liquor. Currently, the order is applicable to shops that are not located in malls. Another government order issued earlier on Monday directed malls to continue remaining closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/liquor-shops-to-stay-open-till-8pm-orders-delhi-govt/story-ONJO6Pqv3vZGWSx9QeuTBJ.html
02-06-2020||City||Unlock 1.0: Odd-even rule for shops lifted in Mohali||Following the directions of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) regarding Unlock 1.0, the Mohali district administration has done away with the odd-even rule for opening shops and also extended the timings to close the shops to 7pm instead of 6pm.On Monday, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan issued a notification stating that as per the directives of the chief minister, effective June 1, shops in main markets will open between 7am and 7pm, and liquor vends can remain open from 8am to 8pm. Barber shops and salons were already open in Mohali. NIGHT CURFEW RELAXED“We have extended the curfew relaxation time by four hours. Now people are free to move between 5am to 9pm, instead of just 7am to 7pm,” he said, adding that employees of government as well as private establishments willbe allowed to move without any pass during this time, except the mandatory self-generated e-pass for interdistrict and interstate travel. As far as interstate travel is concerned, the DC said buses will ply with the consent of other states, as per SOPs to be issued by the state transport department. The department will also issue SOPs for intrastate movement of buses. However, interstate movement of essential goods will not be restricted.There are no restrictions on either interstate or intrastate movement of passenger vehicles, such as taxis, cabs, stage carriers, tempo-travellers and cars, but self-generated e-pass would be needed to be downloaded from COVA app. Bicycles, rickshaws and auto-rickshaws will be allowed, subject to compliance of the SOPs issued by the transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odd-even-rule-for-shops-lifted-in-mohali/story-Vzx7mcqEn0Ew6sVXZzRK0M.html
02-06-2020||Pune||Pune civic body to fill 97 medical posts to check Covid-19 spread||Pune Given the city’s current battle to contain the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has initiated its long pending process to recruit doctors.The civic body on Sunday floated tenders to fill 97 posts for 13 cadres in the class 1 and class 2 category which includes neurosurgeon, cardiologist, medical superintendent (Kamla Nehru Hospital), assistant medical officer, paediatrician, radiologists, neonatologist, chest specialists, residential physician, physician, paediatric surgeon, intensivist and residential medical officer.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal, who heads the health department, said that more such posts will be hired in a week’s time. “Draft Merit list declared on PMC website yesterday. 13 caders and 97 posts. It will help to strengthen PMC health dept. Thanks to hon DCM sir @AjitPawarSpeaks, who gave permission for recruitment. Rest posts draft list will publish in a week,” tweeted Agarwal.For the government-run Sassoon General Hospital too, the administration has decided to recruit doctors, besides upgrading infrastructure by adding more beds to intensive care units (ICU), and dialysis units, ventilators and other special cares.IAS officer S Chockalingam, who has been appointed as the nodal officer to look into the infrastructure needs of the hospital, said, “We will get 80 ICU beds and the unit will be ready by third week of June. Since Sassoon is a tertiary care centre, it is obvious that most patients who come here are referred for special care or require special care, but unfortunately some of them die. We will now also recruit specialists like intensivists and chest specialists to take care of critical patients.”Chockalingam said that more beds would mean more patients and more deaths with hospitals having a mortality rate of 2-3 per cent. Hence, the hospital has asked second year and third year students to attend to patients who are not critical.As of Sunday, the city had 173 critical patients out of which 42 were on ventilator and 131 were serious and in ICU. Although the government has capped the price on 80% of private hospital beds, the city would require special care for critical patients. The government has decided to take control of 80 per cent of private hospital beds. The hospitals will be allowed to charge their regular rates for the remaining 20 per cent beds. The capped charges are Rs 4,000 to Rs 9,000 for an ICU bed, including ventilator and isolation facility.In addition to adding equipment to the health infrastructure, the administration would also need specialist doctors to handle patients and equipment for which the civic body and Sassoon General hospital have floated tenders to hire specialist doctors, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spike-in-covid-19-cases-wakes-pmc-up-to-fill-97-medical-posts/story-ME7Zi7jag7nT8A1QVmNDbI.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||People can go for morning walks, but should avoid sitting on benches in parks: Ludhiana police chief||People can now go for a morning walk from 5am, but they should maintain social distancing and avoid sitting on benches in parks.This was stated by commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal while answering queries of residents about lockdown 5.0 during a live session on the Facebook on Monday.He said players have also been allowed to resume practice, but sports complexes and stadiums would open without spectators.The police chief added people have to take precautions to save themselves from coronavirus. He asked people to wear masks while going out and wash their hands repeatedly.“People coming from foreign countries and other states will be quarantined as per government instructions. While no pass is now required to go to any other district or state, but no movement has been allowed on roads from 9pm to 5am. Shops will remain open till 7pm,” said the police chief.“Fast food sellers have to wait for some more time to resume operations. Schools and other educational institutes can be opened for administration work only. Double riding on two-wheelers is allowed, but roaming around without reason will not be allowed,” he added.The police chief added cinemas, malls, gyms, swimming pools, amusement parks, assembly halls and religious places would also operate from June 8.He said inter-state movement of buses would be allowed with mutual consent of the states and that of taxis, cabs, stage carriers, tempo-travellers and cars would be permitted against self-generated e-passes without any restriction.He added liquor vends would, however, remain open from 8 am to 8 pm and barber shops, salons, beauty parlours and spas would be allowed from 7am to 7pm.Informing that all categories of industries had been allowed to operate in both rural and urban areas, he said construction activity was allowed without any restriction in both urban and rural areas and agricultural, horticultural, animal husbandry, veterinary services and others were also allowed without any restriction.The commissioner said social distancing of a minimum of six feet would always be maintained. He said no separate permission would be required by industries and other establishments to resume their operations, adding that all employees, whether government or private, would be allowed to move without passes from 5am to 9pm.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said any violation of lockdown guidelines would be punishable under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster management Act, 2005 and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).When Rajat Sharma, a Facebook user, asked if tuition centres have been allowed to open, the police chief said group tuitions have not been allowed, but home tuition to one student is allowed.On the complaint of Facebook users about overcharging by three-wheeler drivers, the police chief said appropriate action would be taken against defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/people-can-go-for-morning-walks-but-should-avoid-sitting-on-benches-in-parks-ludhiana-police-chief/story-ideXUEkI4dooys0OKPbO6J.html
02-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s IISER, Sassoon to study loss of smell as key virus symptom||PUNE Loss of smell has been recently identified as one of the symptoms for Covid-19 (coronavirus) and to further study the symptom, Pune’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and BJ Government Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) are collaborating on a study to assess if early detection of olfactory dysfunctions can be used as a screening method for Covid-19 patients.A team headed by Dr Nixon Abraham and a team from Sassoon will circulate a questionnaire with a test for the sense of smell. The test will be simple and can be done by anybody with simple substances around them.Since it is a diagnostic method, the questionnaire will be shared among people who could be possible suspects and based on a harmless test of smell, the study would be concluded.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Medical Education and Research, Maharashtra, which heads Sassoon, said, “Such a study is going on at many places, including Pune’s Sassoon and at Nagpur and Mumbai. However, it is too early to speak about it.” Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner, said, “It is globally known that losing the sense of smell is one of the first symptoms in any Covid-19 patient. At least 80 per cent of confirmed patients are known to lose their sense of smell first and then taste.” IISER is also researching on various other projects related to Covid-19 which include to develop a synthetic biology-based solution and diagnostic test, to make an ultra-sensitive nano biosensor platform for field-effect, transistor-based point-of-care detection, synthesis of oligonucleotide probes for Covid-19 detection, to develop peptide-based diagnostics, exploring S-protein epitopes for the detection of Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and to develop fluorescence-based peptide diagnostics without secondary antibodies.The institute also hopes to develop a carbon nanotube (CNT)-based surveillance diagnostic tool for detecting the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19, which is in the planning phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/smell-test-to-detect-covid-19-in-the-future/story-bba0VarfW68TtiaNqtM1kI.html
02-06-2020||Pune||Man, four others, held for murder of live-in partner’s brother in Pune||A minor boy was among five persons held by Pune police crime branch for the murder of a man in Vishrantwadi area of Pune early Monday morning.The deceased has been identified as Akshay Suresh Gagodekar, 24, a resident of Gokulnagar area in Dhanori, Pune.The accused have been identified as Indrajit Gulab Gaikwad, 23; Nilesh alias Akash Vishwanath Shigwan, 24, both residents of Gokulnagar in Dhanori; Vijay Kaluram Fund, 25, a resident of Khadki; Kunal Balu Chavan, 22, a resident of Bhopkel in Vishrantwadi, and a 17-year-old boy.“The deceased’s sister used to live with Indrajit for the past three years. Few days ago, they had gotten into a fight over Indrajit mistreating Akshay’s sister. Indrajit was sitting with his friends on an open ground when they saw Akshay and attacked him,” said police inspector Anjum Bagwan of Unit 4 crime branch who made the arrest. Police sub-inspector Vijay Zanjaad of Unit 4 of crime branch led the team that arrested the five men.The accused and deceased were sitting in an open ground in Gokulnagar around 1 am when the incident happened.While Indrajit and Akash alias Nilesh allegedly smashed Akshay’s head with stones, the others hit him with sticks, according to the complaint in the matter. A person, who tried to save Akshay was also injured in the case, alerted Akshay’s mother about the incident.A complaint was lodged by the deceased’s mother Mathura Suresh Gagodekar, 45.All five were found hiding at a cemetery near Holkar bridge in Khadki around 7am on Monday, according to crime branch officials. They were handed over to officials of Vishrantwadi police station who will investigate the case further.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered against them at Vishrantwadi police station. Police inspector (crime) Ravindra Kadam is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-four-others-held-for-murder-of-live-in-partner-s-brother/story-uvUDmsg8OchUagjPYPDTnO.html
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Doctor couple among 10 fresh cases, Ludhiana’s tally crosses 200||A doctor couple was among the 10 fresh Covid-19 cases detected in Ludhiana on Monday, taking the tally to 201.The couple-- man aged 34 and woman 29-- lives in Khanna town, and works at Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital.They are believed to have contracted the infection while treating an 80-year-old ex-serviceman from Miller Gunj, who had been admitted at the hospital’s cardiology ward, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. The other doctors and paramedical staff who were treating the ex-serviceman have also been isolated. Besides, the health department has started contact tracing of the doctor couple. Samples of their family members, including two-year-old daughter and elderly parents, have been taken for testing. The other patient, who is a 20-year-old youth, had returned from Manesar in Gurugram district on May 19. He is a resident of Manupur village near Khanna. He was rushed to civil hospital after he started showing mild symptoms of the virus. Test results revealed he is suffering from Covid-19. The youth has been quarantined and the health authorities have started the process of contact tracing.Later in the evening, seven fresh cases were detected in the district. The cases include a 31-year- old pregnant woman who lives in Prem Nagar, a four-month-old child and four undertrials lodged in Borstal Jail. The undertrials are not being counted in Ludhiana’s tally as they had been shifted here from Kapurthala and Gurdaspur jails.An employee of Allahabad Bank also tested positive following which health officials sealed the branch near Pratap Chowk on Link Road. The woman is a resident of Mohali, so she is not being counted in Ludhiana’s tally. According to civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, she had come to hand over some keys to one of the bank employees. Samples of other employees are being collected for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-doctors-test-positive-in-ludhiana-covid-19-count-climbs-to-197/story-NTX3dFlMQQwqGfkQJzPCML.html
02-06-2020||Delhi||As migrant workers return home, lack of workforce hits businesses in Delhi||With a large number of migrant workers returning to their hometowns amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown, a massive workforce shortage has hit the operations in industrial, transport and other sectors, which reopened after an almost two-month hiatus, according to various trade associations.Traders’ bodies estimate that nearly 60-70% of the labour force employed in Delhi left the city during the lockdown imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Delhi government is likely to conduct a study on how many migrants have left the Capital and the impact of their exodus on different sectors.The workers who have returned to their hometowns are from both skilled and unskilled sectors and include those engaged as machine operators in factories, loaders, drivers, housekeeping staff, as well as those involved in packaging, construction workers, hand-embroidery workers, salespersons and security guards, among others.Business owners from the industrial, wholesale and retail, and transport sectors, and those who run small eateries and restaurants say that with a large chunk of workforce gone, the lockdown-hit business that was slowly picking up has been adversely affected.“Over 70% of the total workforce has already left the city. Local workers and those who come from neighbouring NCR towns such as Sonepat, Ghaziabad, Ballabhgarh, and Noida account for just about 20% of the total workforce. Of the local workforce, many are facing movement issues given the restrictions on state borders and only 8-10% of the workforce has been able to rejoin work in the last few weeks. As a result, compared to pre-lockdown days, only 5-7% of the usual business activity has taken place given that there is already very low demand and supply,” Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said.He added that the government must conduct a study on this mass reverse migration and come up with a consolidated policy to ensure social security and health cover for migrant workers in the future. “We have written to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to look into the impact of the workers’ exodus on the economy and find ways to stabilise it,” he said. According to the data shared by the Delhi government, nearly three lakh migrant workers, who were stranded in the city after the nationwide lockdown came into force on March 25 rendering many jobless, have left Delhi in over 250 Shramik Special trains. According to government officials, at least 4.5 lakh people have requested the state government to send them back to their home towns and more trains are scheduled to leave Delhi in the next week. Delhi has not seen such a large-scale exodus of migrant workers in the last few decades. Soon after the lockdown was announced, a large number of migrant workers had started walking towards the city borders and the bus terminals to go back to their home states — mostly Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, and Odisha, among others. While several workers set out on foot, undertaking long, arduous journeys over several hundred kilometres, the Central and state governments later made arrangements to ferry workers home in the special trains.Due to the unprecedented manpower crunch, various factory units have also been hit. At Bawana industrial complex, around 6,000 factory units of the approximately 14,000 factories that are mostly involved in manufacturing plastic products, auto parts, and cardboard have resumed operations. “Earlier about 2 lakh people worked here. Now, there are only around 70,000 workers still around, which means that about 60% of workers have returned home. Our businesses have already been hit because of low demand, and not having enough people to work has just added to the challenge,” Rajeev Goyal, president, Bawana Manufacturers’ Industrial Welfare Association, said.Wholesale markets such as Khari Baoli and Naya Bazar where food grains and spices are sold are also feeling the heat of the migrants’ exodus. Naresh Gupta, president, Delhi Grain Merchants’ Association, said that even though shops in such markets deal in essential commodities and were open throughout the lockdown period, over 70% of the workers here left. “On average, of the 10 workers employed at one unit, only two or three workers are still here. From the supervising and management staff to those engaged in loading and unloading products, there are just a few workers. Now it takes us two to three days to clean, segregate and load stacks of grains, which used to be a day’s job earlier. We have also started receiving some interstate orders now, but with limited people, it has only added to the work pressure,” Gupta added.Daily operations at wholesale vegetable markets such as Azadpur Mandi have also suffered. Anil Malhotra, member, Agriculture Produce Market Committee, said most of the workers here left after some Covid-19 cases were reported at the mandi. “The workers were scared and left the city the first chance they got. Only about 35-40% of the workforce is left here now. Trucks stay lined up for hours as there are only a few men to unload the produce. This has added to the losses mounting already,” Malhotra said.According to the Delhi government, at least 25 cases have been reported from the mandi so far.Shop owners at retail markets are also trying to run their businesses smoothly even as many from the housekeeping staff, assisting salespersons, tailors, guards and even parking attendants have left town. “We will face a huge problem when more customers start pouring in. We haven’t been able to start proper parking arrangements at the market as there are no attendants, and hiring new people has also become difficult,” Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of traders’ association at Lajpat Nagar, said.Even the transport sector is not untouched. Pradeep Singhal, chairman, All India Transporters’ Welfare Association, said the transport business has suffered huge losses because of the labour shortage. “Since the initial lockdown, we have been working on 40% efficiency, and now with most labourers gone, we have come down to 30% efficiency. At times, when trucks with goods are ready to leave, there are no drivers available to transport them. The limited staff ends up doing multiple shifts often,” Singhal said.Brajesh Goyal, the convener of the traders and industries wing of the Aam Aadmi Party, confirmed that about 60%-70% of the total workforce has left the city. “The situation is becoming tough. Several migrants who remain in the city will also leave soon. We have been encouraging traders to ensure proper facilities for the available workers who are already demanding higher wages. The government is planning to set up a committee to address these issues.” A Delhi government spokesperson said the workers’ exodus will adversely impact the economy, and the government will soon conduct an assessment for the same. “The process of migration is continuing, and the lockdown has just been lifted. It will take a while to assess the impact on different sectors. The government will be undertaking a study in the matter eventually,” the spokesperson said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-migrant-workers-return-home-lack-of-workforce-hits-businesses-in-delhi/story-5I90E2zIUOSiWkpvIQaq6M.html
