03-06-2020||City||Panchkula DC appoints five incident commanders to take care of daily wage labourers||To ensure that vulnerable persons especially daily wage labourers are taken care of, the deputy commissioner of Panchkula has issued orders and appointed five officials who will daily visit the labour chowks.“It is essential to take care of all vulnerable persons especially the daily wage labourers at labour chowks situated in Panchkula district. Therefore, incident commanders have been appointed,” the order issued on June 1 mentioned.One official has been appointed for each of the five areas—Majri Chowk and Sector 20, near village Kundi; Sector 16/17 chowk near Budhanpur village; Gandhi Chowk, Kalka and Pinjore police station triangle; bus stand, Barwala; and Anaj Mandi, Raipur Rani.The incident commanders will check whether construction workers are registered with Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Welfare Board. If yes, then whether the fortnightly welfare amount has been credited to their account, and if no, then whether the construction worker has a yellow ration card issued by the Haryana government. If they don’t have a ration card, they will get a Distress Ration Token issued to them.The incident commanders have been directed to visit the labour chowks daily till all construction workers at these chowks are covered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-dc-appoints-five-incident-commanders-to-take-care-of-daily-wage-labourers/story-1BCN5FEHpfPOe9y9kfBdAJ.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mansa court employee charged with ‘scandalising judiciary’ on YouTube||CHANDIGARHA Mansa court employee will face a trial for allegedly scandalising judiciary by posting videos criticising judges on the social networking site YouTube. The high court bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Sant Prakash on Wednesday framed charges against Harmeet Singh, a clerk. The employee has been accused of making a page “Ugly face of Indian Judiciary, Ludhiana” and uploading videos lambasting the judicial officers by levelling “false allegations and conveying wrong message” to the public. In the charges framed, the bench said by uploading video clips on social media, he talked about his transfer and scandalised the names of sitting judges by concocting stories of corruption, bribery and nepotism prevailing in the district judiciary, which court termed “nothing but a figment of (his) imagination”.“Uploading such videos which scandalises the whole judicial institution and particularly the names of honourable judges of this court (HC) do not come under the purview of liberty of free expression,” the bench observed adding that the move was “certainly an attack on the Judges” integrity, besides it being offensive, intimidatory and malicious.It was also stated that he uploaded videos and made statements in the media without sanction of the competent authority. The content of charges were read out before him but he pleaded not guilty, the order said. As per the reference sent to the high court for taking action against him under Contempt of Courts Act, he joined in 2009 as a clerk at district and sessions division, Ludhiana. He was posted at Jargaon but kept on pressurising for transfer to Ludhiana. Later, he was transferred to Mansa. As the posting was not of his liking, he started filing RTIs and opened an account on YouTube criticising the judges and making allegations against them, the reference says. The contempt proceedings were initiated in 2013 and in 2016 he also faced stoppage of four annual grade increments for his conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mansa-court-employee-charged-with-scandalising-judiciary-on-youtube/story-Tgq6v9xPLKLZ4lPrgri7UJ.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD not to be party to centre’s move to dilute federalism: Chandumajra||Akali leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra on Wednesday said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) would not be party to any legislation brought by the central government that erodes the powers of the states.Reacting to the centre’s announcement to virtually do away with the state agricultural marketing produce legislation, Chadumajra said the SAD was the only party in the country that consistently fought for state autonomy and made sacrifices. He added every action of the party on this sensitive issue would be dictated by that glorious history. “Any intervention by the centre will tantamount to encroachment on the rights of the states,” he said in a release.Chandumajra’s statement signals that the SAD may be upping the ante against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), of which it is one of the oldest partners, on the issue of federalism and farmers. He said the move was skewed against the farmers in general, and Punjab in particular, whose contribution to the country’s food security continued to be the highest.The Akali leader said the governance model being implemented by the centre was exhibiting tendency towards centralisation and weakening the powers of the states vis-a-vis the centre, with the move to amend the marketing produce act its latest manifestation. “No sacrifice will be too big for the party in its endeavour to protect the rights of the state in accordance with the past struggles of the Akali Dal,” he claimed. Chandumajra added that minimum support price (MSP) system would not be allowed to be tinkered to permit unhindered operationalisation of the market forces and that would destroy the farm economy and the farmers, adding that it protected the farmers from the vagaries of the exploitative market forces.He said yet another move by the centre in this regard was interfering in the functioning of the state electricity boards with special reference to the powers of the states to sign power purchase agreements. “The centre’s move would dilute these powers. Moreover, making direct transfer of subsidy will directly harm interests of the farmers in Punjab where power is supplied free to tubewells for farm operations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-not-to-be-party-to-centre-s-move-to-dilute-federalism-chandumajra/story-c2Qd8ZeU0qdfOcvP0mAoEO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai on edge as first cyclone in 72 years makes landfall; trains rescheduled, thousands evacuated||Mumbai and neighbouring areas on Wednesday braced for Cyclone Nisarga as it slammed the coast with wind speeds of up to 120 kmph after tens of thousands of people in its path were evacuated, trains rescheduled, flights cancelled, fishermen ordered out of the seas and rescue workers put on standby.Nisarga blew in from the Arabian Sea, making landfall at the coastal town Alibag at around 12.30 pm and the process will finish by 4 pm, officials said. Already down on its knees from the raging Covid-19 pandemic, Mumabi will be hit by a cyclone for the first time in 72 years, Adam Soebel, a professor of atmospheric science at Columbia University in New York, tweeted. Earlier, Soebel had said the last severe cyclone to hit Mumbai was 1891 but on Wednesday corrected to say the city was hit by a cyclone in 1948. “It is likely to cross with an intensity of a severe cyclonic storm close to south of Alibag,” India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai’s deputy director general of meteorology K S Hosalikar said.“At that time, its speed is likely to be 100 kmph to 110 kmph, he added.Steeped in colonial history, Alibag is a quaint little town located about 110 km from Mumbai, and is dotted with sandy beaches, unpolluted air and several forts and temples. A speedboat from Mumbai to Mandwa jetty near Alibag takes 20 minutes and is an easy option for those wishing to avoid the arduous road journey. It is also home to many Bollywood stars and other rich people. Nisarga, which is also expected to pummel the coastline of Gujarat besides Maharashtra, comes a week after Cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc in West Bengal.Hosalikar said Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar will be hit with winds of up to 100 kmph to 110 kmph. The IMD said the storm may also gust to 120 kmph. The winds will be accompanied by heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of the state.The department has forecast the storm will have an impact on areas in North Maharashtra, Pune, Ahmednagar.The department has said kuccha houses, trees, electric poles may fall as they may not be able to withstand the speed of the storm. Pune-based Sucheta Nadkarny, 81, who lived in Mumbai suburb Vile Parle in 1948 said, “I remember huge trees in our area were uprooted and plants in our garden destroyed.“I was 10 years old then and remember this because my mother was heartbroken as the plants she had lovingly nurtured were destroyed,” Nadkarny told PTI.The state government authorities have already asked people in vulnerable areas to shift to safer places.Bracing for the impact of what is being billed as the most severe cyclone to hit Mumbai, the Central Railway (CR) rescheduled special trains and many airlines also cancelled their Mumbai operations.The CR has rescheduled, diverted and regulated some trains on Wednesday, an official said. These include five special trains departing from Mumbai. Three special trains will be either diverted or regulated enroute, he added.Maharashtra and Gujarat activated their disaster response mechanism, deploying NDRF teams and evacuating people from areas likely to be hit.As a precautionary measure, the NDRF has evacuated around 1500 people staying in a shelter at Thal near Alibag, an official said. The teams also evacuated people from Uttan and Mira Bhayandar, he added.The teams conducted a reconnaissance of Palghar and Raigad coasts early on Wednesday, the official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra and Gujarat chief ministers on Tuesday and assured them all possible help from the Centre.Nearly 43,000 people living near the coastline in Gujarat’s Valsad and Navsari districts have been shifted to safer places as the state prepares to face the approaching cyclonic storm, officials said.All fishing boats which were out in the sea off Palghar coast have returned, an official said.As many as 577 fishing boats from Palghar had gone out in the sea and till Monday evening, 564 came back.Later, help was sought from the Coast Guard, Navy and the fisheries department and the remaining 13 boats also returned to the shore late Tuesday evening, Palghar district disaster control chief Vivekanand Kadam said.Ten teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in parts of Maharashtra for rescue operations in view of the cyclonic storm, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said.An alert has been issued for Mumbai city and suburbs, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts.Town planning authority MMRDA said nearly 150 patients at its Covid facility in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai were shifted as a precaution ahead of the cyclone.The Navy has has kept five flood teams and three diving teams on stand-by in Mumbai, the official said.These teams, trained and equipped for rescue operations, are stationed at various naval areas across Mumbai and can provide early response over a larger area, he said.“We have evacuated more than 3,500 people from koliwadas (fishermen colonies) and temporary houses to safer structures like schools, community halls and government buildings,” superintendent of police Raigad, Anil Paraskar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-on-edge-as-first-cyclone-in-72-years-makes-landfall-trains-rescheduled-thousands-evacuated/story-DkoZn4igD9gLvL0FhUfm1J.html
03-06-2020||City||Gangster Sonu Kancha, aides hack rival to death in Ludhiana, injure another||Three years after a murderous attack on his brother, gangster Sonu Kancha, along with his accomplices, allegedly hacked his rival to death and injured another at Matharu Chowk in Shimlapuri on Monday night. Police have launched a manhunt after registering a case of murder against Sonu Kancha of Gobind Nagar and his accomplices, Sonu Kumar, Vijay Kumar, Jaswinder and Karan Manim Bina. Five other accomplices remain unidentified.The deceased, Ramandeep, 30, hailed from Bulara village in Ludhiana district. His friend Gagandeep Singh, 27, of Jujhar Nagar, Shimlapuri, told the police that they both were present at Matharu Chowk around 10pm on Monday night. Suddenly, several men arrived there on multiple motorcycles and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons without any provocation. Gagandeep said they raised the alarm, but no one came to their aid. It was only after the assailants left that onlookers rushed them to the local ESIC hospital, where Ramandeep succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused after the death of Ramandeep.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO, Shimlapuri police station, said both groups were old rivals.Gagandeep and Ramandeep were facing trial in various criminal cases. They had allegedly assaulted Kancha’s brother in 2017 and were booked for attempt to murder. While they were bailed out later, one of their accomplices remains behind bars.On August 11, 2018, the Sadar police had arrested two gangsters of Sonu Kancha gang and recovered weapons from their possession. The accused had then revealed their intention to attack members of rival gangs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-sonu-kancha-aides-hack-rival-to-death-in-ludhiana-injure-another/story-2X2XWTVdHmkM6OkxcUV0HM.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||53% MD, MS seats vacant in Punjab medical colleges as first round of counselling ends||As many as 53% MD (doctor of medicine) and MS (master of surgery) seats remained vacant in the seven medical colleges of Punjab following the first round of counselling for the admissions to the postgraduate (PG) courses. Of a total of 621 state quota of PG seats, including MD, MS, MDS (master of dental surgery) and diploma, in seven medical and 12 dental colleges in the state, 339 (54%) have been declared vacant by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot.The first round of online counselling for admissions was completed by the varsity on June 1.Of a total of 447 MD, MS seats in three government and four private colleges, 237 were declared vacant. Also, 24 out of 36 diploma seats were declared vacant in seven medical colleges.The total vacant seats for MD/MS and diploma for the second counselling in government medical colleges at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot is 85. The number of such seats is 176 in four private medical colleges — Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College (SGRDMC), Amritsar, Dayanand Medical College (DMC) and Christian Medical College (CMC), Ludhiana, and Adesh Medical College, Bathinda. Of the three PGDSM seats at Netaji Subash National Institute of Sports, Patiala, one is vacant. Seventy seven of a total of 135 MDS state quota seats are vacant in 12 dental colleges after the first round. Among all dental colleges, only Government Dental College, Amritsar, managed to fill all the six seats.15% NRI seats filledNearly 85% of the MD, MS and MDS seats under the NRI category are lying vacant after the first round. Of 36 MS, MD seats in three private medical colleges, only seven were filled. There was no taker for 11 MDS seats in eight dental colleges.Box:Security deposit to be forfeited for exiting allotted seats after 2nd roundThe Baba Farid University of Health Sciences has included a penalty clause according to which candidates will forfeit their refundable security deposit, if they exit the allotted seats after the second round of counseling.The candidates have to submit ₹25,000 deposit for submitting the preference for only government colleges, ₹2 lakh for submitting preference for government and private colleges as well as minority institutions and private universities.BFUHS registrar Dr GC Ahir said, “The decision was taken to stop the unethical practice of blocking of seats by the candidates. Once a candidate joins a seat allotted in the second round, they will not be eligible for exiting the seat or for any other round of counselling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/53-md-ms-seats-vacant-in-punjab-medical-colleges-as-first-round-of-counselling-ends/story-R3E4HvJuvsgnBb8tncUbIO.html
03-06-2020||City||Yeida allots land online amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has been allotting land to interested applicants via an online process as in-person meeting are not advised during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Until the end of April, Yeida had allotted 14 industrial and six institutional plots to different firms and earned ₹1,375 crore during the nationwide lockdown which began on March 25. Most businesses and commercial activities were shut down across the country due to the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The Yeida allotted around 50 acres of land to investors from March 25 to the end of April. “We were running an open-ended scheme that allows interested applicants to apply for and buy land to set up businesses without any restrictions of a deadline. We have examined the applications of several who applied and selected 14 industrial and six institutional applicants. All these units and institutional businesses will create 7,800 jobs in this region,” Arun Vir Singh, the chief executive officer of Yeida, said.The Yeida began the allotment after the Uttar Pradesh government directed all top officials to carry out the process online, instead of manually. The objective was to attract investments and create jobs in the region along the 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra.“We invited online applications for our plot schemes. The interested applicants sent us all their details, along with the required documents. We first examined their proposals and checked whether they would be able to set up their business within the stipulated time frame or not. And we also checked their financial status to ensure that they can create jobs in this region,” Singh said.The Yeida said that they were successful in selling because people wanted to buy land along the Yamuna Expressway as the Noida International Greenfield Airport will come up at Jewar. The work on the airport is likely to start by August 2020.“We could sell the land in this region because the airport project is coming up at Jewar. And the investors know that the airport project will boost the local economy and help set up their businesses,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yeida-allots-land-online-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-FheZJikvq2UJZJELqZ4LJJ.html
03-06-2020||City||Delhi-Meerut RRTS project: Tender for 33km stretch awarded||The NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is developing the Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project, said on Wednesday that modalities for taking up the civil construction work for another stretch of about 33km from Duhai in Ghaziabad to Shatabdipuram in Meerut have been finalised.The work for 17km priority stretch between Sahibabad and Duhai is already on, while the tender for another stretch of 33km has also been awarded, NCRTC officials said.“The civil construction work tender for 33km has been awarded to L&T and the works include viaduct and stations. The entire stretch will be elevated section with seven stations at Muradnagar, Modinagar (South), Modinagar (North), Meerut (South), Partapur, Rithani and Shatabdipuram in Meerut,” said Sudhir Sharma, chief public relation officer of NCRTC.“Now, the detailed planning and resource mobilization strategy is being worked out for commencement of work at the earliest,” Sharma said.With the award of work, the work of RRTS will now spread to about 50km. The 17km stretch between Sahibabad and Duhai is scheduled to get complete by March 2023.“The civil construction work on the 17km long priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai is in progress. The piers are already under progress and placing of segments will also start soon. Also, shifting of utilities like electricity lines, etc, is also in progress in Ghaziabad and Meerut,” said another officer from NCRTC.The entire RRTS stretch between Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut spans over a distance of about 82km with 24 stations, including 21 in the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh. The project cost is pegged at Rs 30,274 crore and scheduled for completion by March 2025.In May, the Ghaziabad district officials during lockdown 3.0 gave permission to NCRTC for resumption of work for the RRTS project. During the same time, the NCRTC also finalised the bids for procurement of rolling stock of the RRTS corridor under the Make in India initiative of the central government.Under the requirement of the rolling stock, 30 RRTS trains having six coaches each and another set of 10 trains having three coaches each, will be manufactured.The 30 trains will be used for the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor, while the rest 10 will be used for metro-like train services in Meerut. The operations of the 10 trains for local commuters are also part of the RRTS project, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-meerut-rrts-project-tender-for-33km-stretch-awarded/story-LWd9NsoRTC2LCbVRm7xlyI.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Second NDMC staffer dies of Covid-19; eight fresh cases||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has recorded a second death of an employee due to the coronavirus disease, municipal officials said on Wednesday.The dead man, who officials said was over 50 years old, was a peon at the NDMC’s accounts department in Palika Kendra, the civic body’s headquarter on Sansad Marg.According to NDMC officials, the man had tested Covid-19 positive on May 26 and had last attended office on May 22.“He had fever and got himself tested at a hospital in Dwarka. He died on Tuesday evening,” an NDMC official said.Eight more NDMC employees tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday taking the total count of NDMC employees who tested positive to 43. Out of the fresh cases, two are from IT department and one each from education, personnel, account, civil engineering, audit and electrical departments.Of these 43 cases, four have recovered and two died. On May 28, the NDMC had to seal its headquarter after six employees had tested Covid-19 positive there. The headquarter building was opened on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/second-ndmc-staffer-dies-of-covid-19-eight-fresh-cases/story-hxLLzexqmB5NNczvVr0ImM.html
03-06-2020||Noida||Security in-charges of Greater Noida west society held for harassing women, threatening residents||Two security in-charges of a society in Greater Noida West were arrested by the Bisrakh police Tuesday for allegedly brandishing a pistol at residents, threatening them and harassing women residents of the society.The incident was reported from Panchsheel Greens society Tuesday evening. Residents said the incident took place over the replacement of electricity meters in the society from pre-paid to post-paid, without any prior notice to the residents. Residents allege that the electricity issue in the society is an old one.“Some residents had filed a request with the power department for an audit of the builder’s (power) consumption and subsequent collection of dues from us. Due to this, people from the developer’s end had come to install 100 new post-paid meters last week but when we said that other electricity-related issues needed to be addressed as well, they left. They came back Tuesday with at least 10-12 armed goons. They misbehaved with women and threatened us. When we called the cops, they scattered while a few were rounded by the police,” Rajendra Kotnala, a resident of the society, alleged.In the complaint, filed by some women of the society, it has been alleged that the suspects misbehaved with them, pointed a pistol at them and threatened them.“Due to the lockdown, many residents were around to help us during the security threat. The whole thing happened at the behest of the CEO, after which the security in-charges threatened us,” said the complaint by the residents.The CEO did not respond to calls while the GM chose not to comment on the situation.However, Anuj Chaudhary, the director of the Panchsheel Group, said: “Certain flats did not have meters installed and our people had gone there for that purpose only. But the residents refused the installation, despite having used electricity. The CEO and GM were not even present at the spot and the residents blamed the security in-charge for pointing a pistol at them, even though that was not the case.The two arrested suspects were identified as Jitendra and Rahul.“Two other people, including the chief executive officer (CEO) and the general manager (construction) have been named in the FIR and a probe is on to verify their role in the incident, after which thorough action will be taken. Jitendra is former a CRPF personnel and also had a licensed pistol on him which has been seized, while the process to revoke the same is underway,” said Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida Zone 2.Based on it, a case was registered against the four under Indian Penal Code sections 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) and 120B (Punishment of criminal conspiracy) and relevant sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/security-in-charges-of-greater-noida-west-society-held-for-harassing-women-threatening-residents/story-qRU6ANi0W9kL28hjrei0NL.html
03-06-2020||City||Industrial units to shut only for 24 hours for sanitization if any staff test positive for Covid-19||In a major relief to industrial units, the Uttar Pradesh government has directed that a unit will be shut only for 24 hours in case any employee tests positive for Covid-19. Officials of the industries department said that earlier the premises of any such unit was to be shut for 14 days as a precautionary measure.“The directions have now come from the UP chief secretary that any industrial unit where an employee turns positive will now need to shut only for 24 hours, during which extensive sanitization and cleaning process will be taken up by the unit officials. The unit will bear the expenses. Previously, units were asked to shut for 14 days as a precautionary measure,” said Virendra Kumar, deputy commissioner (industries).The Ghaziabad district has presence of about 27,000 industrial units, including 5,024 small, 149 medium and 45 heavy industrial units. The rest are under micro category and also include those in service sectors like salons, beauty parlours, consultants and architects, among others.“We have about 17,000 units which have opened up after the lockdown relaxations were announced. Presently, there are about 3.5 lakh workers who have started working. So, the directions received from the government will help the units as they don’t need to shut down for long. On recommendation of the health department we have also asked the units to get tested their workers through the health department,” Kumar said.He further said Covid-19 positive cases have emerged from two units in Sahibabad Industrial Area so far.Owners of the industrial units in Ghaziabad have taken a sigh of relief and said that they are also taking every precautionary measures, such as sanitization of premises and thermal screening of workers.“The units have been able to open after a long time, and the unit owners are taking every precaution. The main entrance is sanitized, and workers are screened through infra red thermometers. Even inside the factory complex, social distancing norms are followed and bills highlighting precautions to be taken up have been pasted,” said Anil Gupta, general secretary of the Ghaziabad industries federation.Truenat machine to boost testing capability in GhaziabadDistrict health officials said that they will also scale up the testing as a team has been sent to Lucknow to take delivery of one Truenat machine. The UP government has already procured 41 such machines while 34 more will arrive in the next three-four days.“The machine will help us test samples and give report within an hour. We expect that testing operations with Truenat will start by the end of this week. If deployed for 24 hours in three shifts, we will be able to test in-house about 50-60 samples per day,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The Ghaziabad district at present has no testing facility and is dependent on labs in Noida, Meerut or Delhi. “Our daily average sampling capacity is about 250-300, while sampling done by private laboratories is about 75-100 samples per day. Since cases are rising and three major areas of Khoda, Loni and Vaishali are also under sealing, we need more testing to be taken up. The Truenat machine will be very helpful,” Gupta said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved the use of Truenat, which is used to test tuberculosis (TB), for conducting Covid-19 tests.According to official data till Tuesday night, the Ghaziabad district had taken 10,487 samples while reports of 467 were pending. The total samples taken up also include samples taken by private labs.UP government officials said that the chief minister has stressed on increasing the testing capabilities to 15,000 against 10,000 at presen. “Truenat machines have been procured. These machines will now be deployed at hospitals in all districts and we expect that testing will soon touch a figure of 15,000,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-units-to-shut-only-for-24-hours-for-sanitization-if-any-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-7kkSRepoI1hvzSwa5O8L6J.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Language dept forms new advisory board in Punjab||The Punjab government on Friday constituted a new state advisory board for the selection of Punjabi Sahitya Ratna and Shiromani Awards and formation of departmental schemes. The department of higher education and languages had submitted a proposal in this regard that the CM has approved. Punjab minister of higher education and languages Tript Rajinder Bajwa said the formation of the new board would bring more efficiency in the working of the Punjab languages department. As per the notification the minister would be the chairperson of the board, apart from other ex-officio members. The non-official members appointed in the advisory board related to Punjabi literature are Surjit Patar, Aatamjeet, S Waryaam Sandhu, Dr Joga Singh, Nahar Singh, Panjab University, Chandigarh, Jaswinder Singh, Punjabi University, Patiala, Manmohan Bawa and Jasbeer Singh Saabar, Amritsar.Apart from these, eminent singers Paramjit Singh (Pammi Bai), Balkar Sidhu and Hardeep Singh have been nominated as members in the category of folk singers. Among the writers related to Hindi language, Anil Dhiman, RSD College, Ferozepur, Chaman Lal Patiala and Mewa Singh, professor (retd) Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar have been made members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/language-dept-forms-new-advisory-board-in-punjab/story-YQanWXQon974KanW7dmihO.html
03-06-2020||City||Hours after UP minister met patients in Meerut hospital, three test positive for virus||The Ghaziabad health department is concerned after three patients in Meerut who met Uttar Pradesh minister for finance and medical education Suresh Khanna on Monday tested positive for the highly contagious coronavirus disease the next day. The minister had also met Ghaziabad officials on Monday and inspected a tertiary care facility in the district on Tuesday where he spoke to several patients, district and health officials, and doctors.Doctors from both Covid-19 tertiary care hospitals -- Meerut Medical College and Santosh Medical College, Ghaziabad -- say they had taken utmost precautions, including social distancing, during the minister’s visit. They, however, advised all those who were at the hospital at the time to quarantine themselves.The time between exposure to the virus and developing symptoms is usually five to six days but can range between one to 14 days as well. During this time, the infected person could infect others as well.“At the Meerut Medical College, The minister met people admitted in a holding area, which is a ward created for those who may have the virus and were awaiting test results. As per our knowledge, the minister was there for a couple of minutes. He later went to Ghaziabad. When the daily test reports arrived on Tuesday night, two persons from the same ward tested positive, while a third from a nearby ward also tested positive,” said Dr. Raj Kumar, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Meerut. He said that there were others along with the minister, including those from the media in the ward that had at least six people at the time.“There is little possibility of infection as we had asked all those who visited the ward to take precautions. They were asked to take precautions for 5-6 days in case they show any symptoms. They have been asked to stay in home quarantine. Officials from Lucknow also contacted the district authorities and have taken note about the minister’s visit,” Kumar said.The next day, Khanna headed to the Ghaziabad hospital near Old Bus Stand. He was accompanied by Ghaziabad district magistrate, the chief medical officer along with other officers and staff members of the hospital.“The minister stayed for about two hours at the hospital but every precaution was taken. After the issue at Meerut came to light on Wednesday, we are also cautious and keeping a tab on patients’ health. We have told those who were present at the hospital to report to us in case they show any symptom,” said Dr. NK Gupta, CMO of Ghaziabad. After this, Khanna left for Lucknow. PPE kits found dumped at DasnaOn Wednesday, the UP pollution control board (UPPCB) issued show cause to the officials of the Dasna Nagar Panchayat after personal protection equipment (PPE) were found dumped at an open dumping ground.“The teams of administration along with those from pollution board and the health department went for inspection. Normally, PPE kits come under the category of bio-medical waste and an outsourcing agency is already collecting from government and private establishments. So the reason of PPE kits lying dumped in Dasna is being inquired,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Following the inspection, the officials of the UPPCB said that they have decided to issue show cause to the executive officer of Dasna Nagar Panchayat.“During inspection we found two PPE kits which were disposed off at the dumping ground. Our teams went there for inspection. In the meantime we are issuing show cause,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.Dasna authorities said that the two PPE kits were found disposed near Usman Colony in Dasna and the area has no habitation.“The dumpinig ground is in isolated area. During inspection, I myself went to the location. There were two PPE kits but these were found to be unused ones. We suspect that these could be sampling kits thrown here by some unidentified persons. All biomedical waste and even those from the facility quarantine centres in Dasna is being collected by an agency and safely disposed of.The officials from the quarantine centres also inspected the site,” said Manoj Kumar Mishra, executive officer of Dasna Nagar Panchayat. “We will be replying to the show cause issued by the UPPCB. In the meantime we have disposed off the PPE kits, found in Dasna, as per norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hours-after-up-minister-met-patients-in-meerut-hospital-three-test-positive-for-virus/story-b4onnShkeZLyZOklhANz8L.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||120 eateries, guest houses, banquets in Delhi wait for fire dept clearance to operate||Around 120 establishments in Delhi — restaurants, guest houses and banquet halls — have run out of validity to operate as their no-objection certificates (NoC) have lapsed and the owners are not being able to renew their documents due to the Covid-19 lockdown.To get their NoCs renewed, the operators have approached the Delhi Fire Services, which says it cannot carry out a mandatory clearance inspection till all lockdown restrictions are lifted. The department advised people to make sure the banquet halls or guest houses they have booked had renewed permission to hold functions.All such facilities in Delhi are required to have basic firefighting norms to operate. After a detailed inspection, the Delhi Fire Services issues them a NoC , which is valid for three years.To ensure safety measures are in place, the fire department checks for a particular width of exit staircases, at least two entrances and exits in case of an emergency, restricted number of seating as per the space available, no blocked passages and arrangements for basic firefighting equipment, etc.A senior fire officer, who wished not to be named, said they get renewal requests throughout the year. “Many banquet halls and guest houses have said they have bookings for weddings and requested for the NoC. But since the lockdown was imposed in March, our department is not dealing in public services due to government restrictions and so no inspections have been conducted nor NoCs issued. 120 requests are pending with us,” the officer said. All these facilities are shut not at present because of the lockdown. “Once restrictions are lifted, they will have to stay shut till their NoCs are renewed. We advise people to make sure the places they are booking are valid permission to organise functions,” the officer said. Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Services, confirmed that 120 establishments could not be inspected due to the lockdown. “The number of requests for NoC renewal is expected to rise till the time lockdown is in force,” Garg said.Anshu Tandon, president of the Khan Market welfare association, said the New Delhi Municipal Council had two days ago told a few restaurants to obtain NoCs from the Delhi department or face action. Khan Market has 35 restaurants, out of which only four have valid NoCs at present.“It is a double whammy. Our restaurants are shut and the fire department is not issuing any clearance. The pendency is so much, it will be difficult for the fire department to give us our clearances on time,” he said.Tandon said this was harassment as restaurants with a seating capacity of less than 50 do not need a fire clearance. “This is why just four of our restaurants have NoCs from the fire department at present,, he said.Dinesh Arora, president of the Delhi restaurants association, suggested that NoCs can be issued online. “If government lifts restrictions tomorrow, many of us will still not be able to function because of pending NoCs. We have already suffered losses . The government should allow us to operate either without fire NoC or expedite the process of inspection by issuing NoCs online,” Arora said. In Connaught Place alone, Arora said, there are at least 70-80 restaurants that are waiting for the green light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/120-eateries-guest-houses-banquets-in-delhi-wait-for-fire-dept-clearance-to-operate/story-1LTJfBVIv0q9fT0Q5mHbjM.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Relief kits, food being provided irrespective of ration card status, Delhi tells HC||The Delhi government, in response to a plea, informed the high court that it is not discriminating between ration card holders and people without cards for providing relief kits and foodgrains during the Covid-19 lockdown.A bench of chief justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan, noting that several steps have been taken by the Delhi government to provide foodgrain and cooked food to the public at large, disposed of a plea by an NGO seeking directions to the authorities to provide help to all residents.The court said that no further directions were required to be passed at this stage. The bench said: “We expect from the respondents (Delhi government) that the schemes floated by them shall be scrupulously followed for the welfare of the public at large and may continue even after the lockdown period is over.”Nayee Soch Society, a non-governmental organisation, had filed the plea asking the court to direct authorities to provide same level of relief measures — coronavirus relief kit, foodgrain and food relief — to ration card holders and those without one, who could produce Aadhaar card and voter cards.The order, passed on Tuesday, was uploaded to the high court website on Wednesday.The court noted the submissions of the additional solicitor general (ASG), Sanjay Jain, and the Delhi government’s additional standing counsel, Anuj Aggarwal, who submitted that hunger relief centres are providing cooked food free of charge to all, irrespective of their ration card status.It also noted that a number of schemes have been floated by the central government and Delhi government, and that care has been taken by the authorities to provide foodgrains and cooked food to all residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/relief-kits-food-being-provided-irrespective-of-ration-card-status-delhi-tells-hc/story-b40ZFgOy5MVEr8mFAsNb2M.html
03-06-2020||City||Traffic crawls at Delhi-Ghaziabad border as cops screen all vehicles for passes||Ghaziabad: Thousands of commuters were caught in a long traffic jam at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border due to the strict checking by the police on Wednesday. The snarls, say commuters, began around 9am and led to long tailbacks that stretched to the internal roads of Ghaziabad.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said Delhi borders will be sealed for a week. Ghaziabad has put in similar restrictions since April 22, citing a rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district which were linked to city residents who travelled to Delhi.“I came to drop off my wife who goes to Delhi by carpool. But we got stuck as there is heavy jam from UP Gate up to Dabur crossing on the Link Road and also up to Gaur Green Avenue in Indirapuram on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. The police were checking every vehicle, which led to the snarls,” Jeevan Singh, a resident of Vasundhara, said.Dr Swati Sinha, a resident of Indirapuram, who works as a senior consultant with a hospital in Qutub Institutional Area in Delhi, said she was stuck up for about two and half hours and had to return home on Wednesday morning.“My patient was waiting at the hospital for a surgery scheduled at 11am. But I was stuck in the jam at the border till 11.30am. So I handed over the patient to another doctor and returned home. The jam on Wednesday took me by surprise as traffic was smooth on the other days. There was also some road work going on near the Hindon canal. I generally move out by 8am but today I left at 9am and got stuck,” she said.The Ghaziabad police said the checking of vehicles by the Delhi Police led to traffic jams on the UP side.“The Delhi Police are checking vehicles at the border and the traffic movement was slow. We had long queues on the Ghaziabad side. On our side, we are checking vehicles which are entering Ghaziabad from Delhi,” Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram), said.Delhi Police said they intensified checking on Wednesday after getting complaints that no checking was being done. “Initially, we were only checking vehicles intermittently to spare commuters the inconvenience. But when many complaints were received that no checking was being done at the border, we put up barricades and increased the checking. That caused long snarls. Later, we relaxed the checking to avoid further congestion,” deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said.Some of the commuters who left Ghaziabad for Delhi early morning said there were no checks around 7.30am.“I crossed the UP Gate border around 7.30m and there were no checks either on the Ghaziabad or the Delhi side. There was less traffic and I reached my office within 45 minutes. The National Highways Authority of India is also undertaking repair work on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) and this has also added to jams near UP Gate,” Kuldeep Saxena, Indirapuram resident, said.Among vehicles stranded in the gridlock were ambulances destined for Delhi.“I am carrying a critical patient to AIIMS from UP’s Sambhal. Our entire journey till Indirapuram was smooth. But from there onwards, the traffic was thick. We got stuck in the jam for more than 45 minutes,” the ambulance driver, who refused to share his name, said.The NHAI officials said the jams were not due to DME work but due to barricading at the border area of NH-9.“According to our estimates, there is about 80,000 PCUs (passenger car units) at UP Gate on Wednesday, which is just one fourth the traffic on a normal day. The volume is the same at our toll at Chhajarsi (at Pilkhuwa town in Hapur). Our road has full capacity to cater to the traffic and our works have not hampered movement of vehicles. It is because of barricading and checks taken up by the Delhi and UP police,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-crawls-at-delhi-ghaziabad-border-as-cops-screen-all-vehicles-for-passes/story-PQH1QRJ6gLZzGYcA9CLBPM.html
03-06-2020||Noida||Noida residents get together to cycle for a healthier lifestyle||A group of residents from various sectors of Noida came together on Wednesday morning to cycle over 30 kilometres in order to promote a healthier lifestyle even as the city enters the first phase of the unlock.The residents decided to spread the message of the benefits of physical exercise while ensuring social distancing on the occasion of world bicycle day.“Cycling is one of the best forms of exercise and it helps maintain social distancing. It’s much more efficient than walks in parks or gyms where it might not be possible to keep people at a distance. The idea was to highlight how important it is to stay healthy so that it boosts immunity while also ensuring ways to keep us safe from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19),” Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, a resident of Sector 34, who was a part of the cycling crew, said.The group started cycling from Sector 50 and rode all the way to the Sector 145 Metro station via the Noida-Greater Noida expressway and back, covering the 30-kilometre distance in an hour-and-a-half.“During these times, social distancing is the key to staying safe. Staying at home for more than two months has further highlighted the importance of health and fitness, and cycling is a sport which ensures both social distancing and fitness. It’s environment friendly and improves both lung and brain health, decreases stress and improves joint mobility,” Rajiva Singh, a resident of Sector 50, said.Residents said that even wearing a mask while cycling does not feel like a hindrance.The group said it hopes to get together repeatedly on weekends for similar outings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-get-together-to-cycle-for-a-healthier-lifestyle/story-KBImTWCh4PYEY8fIOtiNIM.html
03-06-2020||City||No water supply in Panvel nodes for 48 hours||Nodes such as Kalamboli, Karanjade, Kalundre and Panvel will not get water for 48 hours starting from June 4 and low pressure of water will be supplied on June 6.The electric feeder of the main water pump station at Bhokarpada was damaged after cyclone Nisarga hit Raigad district. According to a press note by City and Industrial Development and Corporation (Cidco), the main cable, supplying electricity to Bhokarpada substation, has been damaged after trees fell on it. A Cidco official said, “Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has said that repair work is in progress. The cable has been damaged at multiple places so it might take time to repair.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-water-supply-in-panvel-nodes-for-48-hours/story-z216zasLPkS9xw9bXUsH2K.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Online learning platform developed at Panjab University’s design and innovation centre||The Interns of Panjab University’s design and innovation centre have developed an online learning management system to help teachers and students get optimum utility from online classes.RootWorkz has been developed by Utkarsh Khandelwal and Shubham Narula under the guidance of Naveen Aggarwal. The online platform will play a vital role in the delivery of education in virtual classrooms and beyond. It has been developed keeping in mind the challenges being faced by the education system in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak which has resulted in the suspension of clases at educational institutes, PU officials said.The university in its official communication said that RootWorkz learning is a one stop solution to solve all online education hassles. It provides easy to use, economical and robust online learning portal which can cater to teaching requirements of all users.It enables teachers to conduct online assessments, tests and quizzes, share study material, take live online classes and grade assignments. “Students can access the system on any device including PCs, laptops, tablets, I-Pads and mobile phones which makes it accessible at any point of time,” the university said.It also helps parents to track the performance of their wards by sending them timely automated notifications and helps maintain continuity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-learning-platform-developed-at-panjab-university-s-design-and-innovation-centre/story-vicNBiPLPYpZ63KLcRMWFI.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Oppn targets govt over Covid app, govt calls it important tool||A day after the Delhi government launched a mobile application to provide information about the number of vacant hospital beds in the city, several users complained that hospitals denied them admission despite the application showing vacant beds.While the Congress and the BJP alleged that the government was misleading the people, a Delhi government spokesperson said that the hospitals were supposed to provide status of vacant beds. “If the hospitals do not admit patients despite beds being available, the government will take immediate action,” the spokesperson added. The spokesperson conceded “teething problems” in the application but termed it an “extremely useful tool for the citizens”. “Over the next few days, we aim to provide real-time information to everyone,” the spokesperson said. Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary released a video, showing a retired municipal worker being denied admission to Max Hospital, Patparganj, despite the mobile app showing available beds. “Angoori Devi is a retired municipal worker, who lives in Patparganj Village. The family took her to the hospital after checking bed availability on the app. When they reached there, they were told that no beds were available,” Chaudhary said.Shankar Mehrauliya, Devi’s nephew, said the hospital staff showed him a screen at the reception which showed that there were no beds for Covid-19 or even non-Covid patients. “We kept requesting for admission, but nothing happened,” Mehrauliya said.In an email response to HT regarding the allegation, Max Healthcare Institute said its Patparganj wing had commissioned 80 beds (29 in ICU and 51 ward beds) dedicated to treat Covid-19 patients on May 29.“... These beds were fully occupied within three days. Yesterday (Tuesday) night, all beds in the hospital were occupied. For the convenience of patients, we have installed screens at the hospital, reflecting the occupancy of Covid beds. We are trying our best to accommodate as many patients as possible in the hospital and are also appealing to patients with minor symptoms to self-quarantine at home,” the Institute said in the statement. In another instance, a Delhi-based journalist tweeted that his brother, who showed severe Covid symptoms, had to be shuttled between hospitals because the government portal showed bed availability but the hospitals said there were none. “My brother has severe Covid symptoms. We contacted Max, Apollo and Gangaram—all three said no beds. But your website shows they have beds. Please look into this,” tweeted the journalist, Vikas Pandey.A senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader responded to Pandey’s tweet, offering assistance, while another replied to the SOS and asked the journalist to report the hospital, denying admission to the government helpline 1031.Another Twitter user, Naman S Kedia, claimed in a tweet that while the government app showed 56 beds vacant on Tuesday afternoon, the hospital denied availability. “We have a Covid positive patient and we contacted Max Hospital, Shalimar Bagh, which, as per Delhi coronavirus app, had 56 beds vacant. But on calling them (the hospital) they said there were no beds vacant. What do we do?” Kedia tweeted.Max Healthcare Institute maintained that all the information on bed availability was being displayed in their hospitals. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Wednesday said that the party conducted a “reality check”, wherein four of the seven hospitals on the app were not admitting Covid-19 patients. The remaining three hospitals reported they were full.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/oppn-targets-govt-over-covid-app-govt-calls-it-important-tool/story-H289Oul6WM5E20yLTeQcmK.html
03-06-2020||City||Thane records 5 Covid deaths, 149 new cases||Five Covid deaths were reported in Thane on Wednesday, taking the total toll in the city to 103. The total positive cases in the city are 3,449, with 149 new cases recorded on Wednesday.Around 116 patients were also discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,544.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “Five people, including two women, died in the city after being infected. An 86-year-old woman from Khopat died at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa on May 19 while a 53-year-old woman from Kisannagar died in her home on May 28.”An 80-year-old man died in Kaushalya Hospital, a 76-year-old man from Mumbra died in Kalsekar Hospital and a 47-year-old man from Shanti Nagar in Thane died in Horizon Prime Hospital.The Thane Municipal Corporation has eased lockdown but the decision on what is allowed in the 280 containment zones will be taken by the assistant municipal commissioner of the respective zones. The TMC has allowed shops to open on alternate days. In Naupada and Kopri, easing of lockdown will be in a planned manner. Naupada is in old Thane and has wholesale and retail markets.An officer from Naupada ward said, “We have kept all shops shut till the midnight of June 4. We will ensure there is a proper system in place before these shops are allowed to open as the markets see a lot of crowd.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-5-covid-deaths-149-new-cases/story-rWTOGW7oTzewFvvuDMR48M.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three-member board set up to decide IAS officers’ transfers in Punjab||The Punjab government has constituted a three-member civil services board under the chief secretary to decide on IAS transfers and postings in the state.The board will have chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh as chairman with additional chief secretary, home, Satish Chandra and secretary, personnel, Nilkanth S Avhad as members, according to a notification issued by the state government on Tuesday. The board will guide and advise the state government on all service matters, especially transfers and postings of IAS officers. The Centre’s department of personnel and training (DoPT) had last year written to the state government to constitute the civil services board.1990-BATCH IAS OFFICERS GET ACS RANKThe state government has also promoted four IAS officers to the rank of additional chief secretary (ACS). The 1990-batch officers, who have been given ACS rank and promoted to the apex scale of IAS, are Anirudh Tewari, Vijoy Kumar Singh, Anurag Agarwal and R Venkat Ratnam, according to an order issued by the chief secretary on Wednesday. Vijoy Kumar Singh, who is presently on central deputation, has been given proforma promotion and will be designated as ACS on his return to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-member-board-set-up-to-decide-ias-officers-transfers-in-punjab/story-DYE3HpfDjOeSoHlePYxvlJ.html
03-06-2020||City||132 test Covid-19 positive, poor case reporting in past adding to figures: Health dept||Gurugram: The district on Tuesday registered 132 new Covid-19 cases, the second highest single-day spike in a week. The total count of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus has reached 1,195. Of these, 903 are active cases, health department officials said. The previous highest spike was reported on Tuesday when 160 new cases were confirmed.On Wednesday, four people were discharged, while the death toll stood at four, according to the state health bulletin. Official data shows that the district, which accounts for about 40% of Haryana’s total tally of 2,954 cases, has the highest Covid-19 burden in the state till now. The sudden spike in coronavirus cases in Gurugram started from May 28 when 68 cases were reported, taking the total count to 407. In the following six days, 790 cases were added, which has been the highest increase in a week till now. DATA INACCURACYThe state and district health officials initially claimed that the sudden spike in positive cases was due to ease in lockdown, leading to intermingling of infected and non-infected persons. On Tuesday, however, they raised the issue of data inaccuracy, with state home minister Anil Vij writing a letter to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.Vij in his letter said that the labs in Delhi, which are taking Covid-19 samples of Haryana residents, are not sharing reports properly with the authorities concerned, resulting in delay of contact tracing and surveillance activities, besides creating mismatch on website of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and state portal.At least nine to 10 labs in Delhi have taken samples of Gurugram residents, the officials said. On May 31, the Director General Health Services (DGHS), Haryana, issued notices to 18 private labs of Delhi, approved by ICMR for doing Covid-19 testing in the national capital, for taking samples of Haryana patients without keeping the Haryana health department in the loop. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “These labs were not conveying results to concerned district health authorities. In many cases, incomplete or wrong addresses or incorrect contact details were shared, which has a direct consequences on the surveillance activities. We have strongly taken up the issue of data inaccuracies.”The district health department also confirmed that at least 300 new cases reported last week are mostly the backlog cases which have been uploaded by the private labs in the last few days. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “Most of the private labs were doing incomplete entries in the portal or putting incomplete addresses. There are at least nine to 10 labs in Delhi which have taken samples of Gurugram residents and have not shared the test results timely. Now, they are putting up the data, which is adding up to the overall figure.”The state health department accepted that the delay in sharing test results has impacted contact tracing and surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/132-test-covid-19-positive-poor-case-reporting-in-past-adding-to-figures-health-dept/story-T6HhD9NJEK17Wt3FXjRYjM.html
03-06-2020||Gurugram||Private hospitals start homecare packages for Covid-19 patients||Private hospitals in the city are reaching out to Covid-19 patients to provide extensive care during their home isolation. As more than 54% such patients in the city are isolated at home at present, the hospitals have introduced homecare packages where patients are monitored 24x7 by nurses and doctors through video calls.The private hospitals are also offering to deliver medicines and safety gears at the doorstep of such patients, and if required sample collection too. Even how to wear and dispose of a personal protection equipment (PPE) kit is being taught to caregivers. For 14-17 days of isolation period, the health facilities are providing comprehensive medical care under these packages, which may cost anything between Rs 4,900 and Rs 25,000.As per the protocol, after a patient and the district health department receive the test results from a diagnostic lab, the local health team suggests home isolation if there are no or mild symptoms. Only after a written consent from the patient, he/she is allowed to be isolated at home. Such patient can depend upon the monitoring by the district health team or opt for the homecare packages introduced by various private hospitals. “Under our home isolation support programme, the patient who is asymptomatic can isolate themselves at home with complete training and education on ‘How to live in home isolation’ with information education system. The patient can avail doctor’s consultation through video or call who will monitor the patient’s medical needs,” said Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute.She said that their consultants are available 24x7 on call in case the symptoms vary, and the patient requires medical attention or hospitalization. Also, the hospital allows patients to consult a nutritionist or a psychologist and avail a tele-rehabilitation call. Earlier this week, Medanta hospital also started 17-day remote homecare package. At least 75 patients are availing the service under the package. It includes daily monitoring of patients by nurses trained in handling Covid-19 cases. Through video calls, doctors review patients on every fourth or fifth day. It starts on the 3rd day of the home isolation, then 7th day, followed by 12th and 17th day. Dr Sushila Katariya, who has been handling Covid-19 patients at Medanta hospital since March, said, “At least 75 patients are availing our package. A team of five doctors decide whether a patient can be isolated at home or not. Then we communicate with them, guiding them to take daily vitals and feeding it on our online system. We are available 24x7 for patients.”Adding that patients have anxiety issues while in home isolation, Katariya said, “Most of them report breathlessness due to anxiety issues. We ask specific questions like do they face difficulties in walking even 10 steps. Sometimes, they ask whether home isolation is legal or can two Covid-19 positive patients stay in a room. Even they ask how to dispose of the waste. Everyday queries are addressed so that patients do not panic.” According to her, home isolation is the best way to cure until patients show critical signs.On Wednesday, Artemis Hospital also shared a 14-day personal caregiver package on their website and social media account. A representative of the hospital said, “The services are starting from today. We are providing 24x7 dedicated care by doctors which includes medical advice and psychological support, monitoring of vital parameters and timely support for a quick recovery.”All these hospitals are guiding patients to use equipment like pulse oximetre to check pulse rate, blood pressure machine and glucometer. If required, these devices are provided at doorstep of the patient as a part of the package. They also provide masks, gloves, and PPE kits. Fortis hospital is providing disposable crockery and bio medical waste management bags on request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/private-hospitals-start-homecare-packages-for-covid-19-patients/story-7OxKfkconGpI0apL4vksdK.html
03-06-2020||Gurugram||Govt allows sports complexes, stadiums with safeguards||The state government on Wednesday allowed athletes to train and take part in other related activities in sports complexes and stadia across Haryana, while strictly adhering to the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Central government for the containment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.A spokesperson of the sports and youth affairs department said that trainees shall be allowed to train/practice between 5am and 9pm.“Gymnasiums and swimming pools at these complexes will not be allowed to reopen in any circumstances. Trainers and coaches need to take heat conditions into account when designing a training programme,” the spokesperson said. The spokesperson further said that neither spectators nor any event/function will be allowed in sports stadia/ complexes until further directions.The government also directed district sports and youth affairs officers to ensure that social distancing is followed at sports venues under their jurisdiction. Sanitiser should be made available at every place as per requirements and all officers, trainers and trainees should wear masks. The spokesperson further said that officers concerned have been asked to ensure strict compliance of these guidelines.Raj Yadav, district sports officer, Gurugram, said that the Nehru Sports Stadium in the city was reopened earlier on May 21 with restrictions. But a Covid-19 case was reported and the stadium had to be closed as a preventive measure. “The stadium will be opened next Monday. All measures pertaining to social distancing will be practised,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-allows-sports-complexes-stadiums-with-safeguards/story-Bv6R8welNUFrQ0l7mLy7YP.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab crosses 1 lakh test-mark, focus now on frontline warriors||With Punjab on Wednesday crossing the mark of 1 lakh Covid-19 tests since the pandemic outbreak in the state, the health department said its top priority now is to get all frontline workers tested as they are at higher risk of contracting the virus. Earlier, only symptomatic doctors, paramedics and ASHA workers besides pregnant health department staff members were being tested for the infection. Besides, sanitation workers and police personnel on frontline duties will also be tested in the coming days whether they are symptomatic or not.The state government is planning to carry out at least 6,000 tests a day as it now has a daily capacity of conducting 9,000 tests. “The main reason behind testing frontline workers is the amount of risk involved. In case anyone gets virus and is not tested, they can become super spreader as they come in contact with many people while performing their duties,” Punjab’s Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said. The health department is also planning to screen all aanganwadi workers and carry out tests of those with having history of serious ailments. These workers have been conducting door-to-door Covid-19 surveys.A senior health department official said 17 government departments have been asked to prepare lists of employees deployed on frontline duties as 4,000 daily tests, including pool tests, will be carried out of such workers.50,000 TESTS IN PAST 20 DAYSOf the more than 1.01 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in Punjab so far, 50,000 were done in the past 20 days, figures reveal. Maximum 4,327 tests were done in a single day on May 30.The neighboring Haryana, which on June 1 surpassed Punjab in the total number of positive cases, conducted 1.26 lakh tests till Wednesday morning. Till May 1, only 23,176 tests were conducted in the state, with the Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, being the first to start testing in the last week of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-crosses-1-lakh-test-mark-focus-now-on-frontline-warriors/story-3uCkEwUuOPnaVKalpCQz1O.html
03-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram officials to ascertain if workers received financial assistance, compile data||To ensure that financial assistance and other relief measures reach construction labourers and migrant workers, the Haryana government has asked the district administrations and labour departments in the state to form local committees and reach out to them. The government directed that in case these workers have not received help, then labour officials should register them at the earliest with the Construction Labour Welfare Board. It has also asked the local authorities to compile district-wise data in this regard. Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Monday, while presiding over a meeting of the crisis coordination committee, said that as per the instructions of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the local-level committees and respective deputy commissioners (DCs) should contact the labourers, who gather at labour chowks in search of work and find out whether they are registered with the Construction Labour Welfare Board. “If not, they should be registered under the unorganised sector and local committees to ensure ration is distributed to them,” Arora said, adding that the local administration should also inquire from the labourers whether they have received the state’s financial assistance (ranging between ₹2,000 and ₹5,000) during the last two months of the pandemic. Arora also asked the DCs to compile the data and upload the labourers’ latest mobile numbers on the portal of the labour department.The directions issued by the state government assume significance because Gurugram is one of the largest real estate and construction hubs not only in the state but across the national capital region.There were around 2.5 to 3 lakh construction workers in Gurugram before the lockdown, who worked on real estate projects. Of these, around 1.5 to 2 lakh have already left the city, local trade union leaders associated with the construction industry say. The city has around 11 large labour chowks where labourers would gather in large numbers in the morning to look for various kinds of construction and other civic works, but now the number of workers gathering there post-lockdown has gone down considerably. The prominent labour chowks in the city are at Railway Road Chowk, Bhuteshwar Mandir Chowk, sector 21/22 Crossing, Hero Honda Chowk, Bhardwaj Chowk near Qadipur, Sikanderpur Metro Station, Sector 56/57, Wazirabad and South City 1.“Around 1.5 to 2 lakh construction workers have already left for home as they did not have money to pay rent or buy essential items like food. I have not come across any worker who received financial help from the government. If they had got money, why would they leave?” Rajender Saroha, joint secretary, Bhawan Nirmaan Kamgar Union, said.Saroha, however, said that government should compile the data and release the names of workers who have received financial or any other kind of assistance from the construction welfare board so everyone would come to know who received money, if at all. “This is an exercise on paper and will remain hidden in the government files. We will see how many workers are actually contacted by officials,” he said.The district labour department, however, said that they are taking steps to help migrant workers. “We are taking several steps to help the labour and construction workers. Around 1.25 lakh workers are registered with the department and those eligible have been granted financial assistance of ₹5,000. The direct transfer of money takes place via a centralised system from Chandigarh,” Ravinder Malik, the deputy director, (IS&H) labour department, said.Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that labour committees are already in place and have now been activated to get information from the workers in this regard. “We will soon have feedback on the assistance given to workers and efforts will be made to register those workers who are still not covered by the welfare board,” he added.Additional labour commissioner Munish Sharma said that work on helping the labourers is going on and all steps are being taken to ensure that assistance reaches everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-officials-to-ascertain-if-workers-received-financial-assistance-compile-data/story-zgu14e3ecnLojaZ8SnbfrL.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man booked for killing wife, nephew in Rupnagar||A man has been booked for killing his wife and nephew with a sharp-edged weapon on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Alam, a resident of ward no 1 on Sugar Mill road, who consumed a poisonous substance after committing the crime and is currently admitted to the local government hospital, police said.The deceased have been identified as Kajal, 28, and Sahil, 12. Kajal’s younger sister Jaspreet alias Jassi and Sahil’s brother Bobby, 15, were also injured in the attack and referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.According to Kajal’s mother Babli, the accused was staying with them after marriage. She alleged that he and Kajal had a strained relationship and Alam used to quarrel with her over petty issues.She said that at around 1.30 am, Alam first killed his wife with a sharp-edged weapon and then attacked Jassi and Sahil and Bobby, the sons of her eldest daughter, Sweety, who was not at home.A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-booked-for-killing-wife-nephew-in-rupnagar/story-bSBVZb6G5CXzCVkTh8HcWN.html
03-06-2020||Gurugram||More than 54% Covid-19 patients in Gurugram under home isolation||Gurugram has seen a surge in number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the last six days, with the total number of cases breaching the 1,000 mark on June 2.Around, 54% of the active Covid-19 cases, according to data available with Gurugram administration, are under home isolation, and 9% patients are in government paid isolation facilities. According to the district health department, only 32% patients are under treatment at private and government hospitals.According to data available till June 2, of the 1,063 Covid-19 cases in the district, 775 were still active. Out of these, only 252 patients are hospitalized, while the remaining 523 are in home isolation or in government paid facilities — like hotels and guest houses. Health officials said that nearly 80% of the patients infected with Covid-19 are asymptomatic and therefore can stay in home isolation. The challenge, however, is inadequate public health infrastructure — with less than 300 beds being allocated for Covid-19 patients in the district at government hospitals — and dependency upon private hospitals, who in the past have shown reluctance in admitting patients afflicted with the virus. The private hospitals started admitting only a limited number Covid patients, after the district administration issued orders earlier this week stating they cannot turn away or refer Covid-19 patients. Currently, hospital beds in government and private hospitals are reserved only for patients who show symptoms of the virus and have underlining health issues. It is in the last five days, cases have rapidly increased in the city — by almost 235% according to the district health department’s estimate — as compared to last week. Though some of them are backlog cases, which have been updated in the last few days, Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer of the district, confirmed that the cases were increasing . “Cases are increasing by the hundreds every day. This will continue to be the new norm.”“As most of the patients are asymptomatic, we are advising home isolation. Hospital care is only for those who have symptoms and co-morbidity issues, like hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. At least 252 Covid-19 patients are admitted in 21 hospitals, including ESIC hospital,” said Punia.According to him, 25 teams in different primary health centres will contact those under home isolation in their areas to monitor their recovery. “On the first day of isolation, health workers — like an ASHA worker or a medical officer — will visit the house of the patient. Then on every third day, these health workers will visit or call the patient’s house to check if there is any deterioration of symptoms and to check if home isolation protocols are being followed,” he said.According to Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, teams will enquire about the patients’ health for at least 17 days through telephonic calls. The home isolation will be over if there is no onset of symptoms, like fever and cold, for 10 days. HOSPITAL FACILITY: A CHALLENGE In Gurugram, in the absence of proper public healthcare system, both the health department and the administration depend on private hospitals. According to the health department, at least 21 hospitals in the city have accommodated almost 100 patients, while remaining 150 are admitted in government’s ESIC Hospital and Medeor Hospital.In the government set up, there are 100 beds in ESIC hospital, 31 beds in Sector 31 polyclinic, almost 100 in Covid-19 care facility in Sector 9, which was earlier a quarantine centre and 60 beds in Medeor Hospital, Manesar. The administration and health department have been asked to reserve at least 1,000-bed for coronavirus patients in different hospitals, out of which 500 should have oxygen equipment and 100 must have ventilators. “We are coordinating with private hospitals for this,” said Punia.The decision to increase the hospital facility was taken on May 7, when the cases were just 117. The district administration roped in six private hospitals to add 600 beds to the existing capacity for the treatment of patients. But district health officials privy to the matter, said that hospitals were reluctant to take Covid-19 patients. On May 25, Gurugram deputy commissioner, Amit Khatri had issued a revised order making it mandatory for all private hospitals and nursing homes to treat Covid-19 patients who require critical health services. On May 28 and 29, notices were served to three private hospitals for flouting the order.“There are 21 private hospitals who have been asked to admit patients, while we are trying to increase the bed capacity of Medeor hospital to 120,” said Punia. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, last Thursday had issued an order for self-paid and government paid isolation facility. “People who do not have requisite space at home can opt for facilities such as hotels and guest houses,” reads the order. While those tested positive in containment zones and want to be treated at home will have to give a written consent.Ajay Gupta, vice president, Indian Medical Association (Gurugram) said, “Small hospitals and nursing homes should be exempted from taking Covid-19 patients as they lack infrastructure, equipment and safety gears. Chances of infection are more in such hospitals. Like Delhi, tertiary care hospitals in the city should reserve at least some percentage of their total bed capacity for infected persons. Currently, that is not happening. And, the capacity of the government designated Covid-19 hospital should be increased to 100-bed at least.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/more-than-54-covid-19-patients-in-gurugram-under-home-isolation/story-vyqC8BypmhFZJO3iekvFgL.html
03-06-2020||Gurugram||Monsoon preparation takes a hit as Covid-19 works given higher priority||Authorities are running out of time to make preparations for the upcoming monsoon, which may lead to waterlogging and subsequent traffic snarls at key points of the city. Tenders for desilting drains are pending in some areas while allocated works are going on at a slow pace due to labour shortage.Over the years, waterlogging has been a major problem for Gurugram due to overflow of drains and the city being located downhill from the Aravallis. In 2016, commuters were stuck on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway for 20 hours, with the incident since being referred to as Gurujam.The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is responsible for the maintenance of master drains, while the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) undertakes the maintenance of arterial drains. Master drains carry sewage or stormwater from two or more residential sectors, while arterial drains is a network within an area or sector.GMDA and MCG are facing issues to undertake the pre-monsoon preparations.From March 21 till April 15, MCG had directed its officials to concentrate solely on ensuring basic services, such as sanitation, water, sewage, and streetlights, due to the Covid-19 outbreak. An order had restricted officials from taking up other works until further notice.It was only on April 15 during a video conference between senior MCG officials and councillors that a decision was taken to start allocation of tenders, via e-tendering, for cleaning and desilting of drains.The first set of tenders was allotted by MCG to contractors in the first week of May. However, tenders for a few areas remain pending. Contractors who have been allotted tenders say that work is progressing at a slow pace due to lack of manpower, as a large number of migrant workers have returned to their home states.“We have identified critical waterlogging points across the city and have initiated remedial measures there. Our focus this year is to ensure that rainwater does not accumulate at any point for more than 30 minutes,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.A senior MCG official privy to the matter said that the period between March 21 and April 15, when no drainage work could be initiated, has severely impacted preparedness measures.“We cannot start desilting preparations in January or February as the drains may once again clog with silt. It is in the March-May period that the bulk of cleaning operations is initiated. We lost more than a month due to the concentration of resources for dealing with Covid-19 and ensuring basic municipal services continue. The best case scenario is that 40-45% of the total drains under MCG will be desilted before monsoon,” the official said.GMDA, on the other hand, has a bit more of a head start, as it had floated tenders for cleaning drains in key waterlogging-prone stretches — the Golf Course Road, Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), Golf Course Extension Road, Jwala Mill Road, Old Delhi-Road, and Shankar Chowk Marg — in January and allotted tenders in the first week of March.However, tenders for cleaning drains along a few key stretches remain in the works. Tenders for the Iffco Chowk-Rajiv Chowk stretch, located along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, was floated on May 19, while tenders for the Subhash Chowk-Vatika Chowk stretch on Sohna Road and the Bakhtawar Chowk-Subhash Chowk-Sector 34 marble market (located near Hero Honda Chowk) stretch were floated on May 27, with the opening of bids to be conducted on June 12.“Although we are better prepared than last year, we are not in the ideal position that we expected to be in. We had expected to clean some sewer lines and desilt a few stormwater drains before the arrival of monsoon in certain areas, which we will not be able to complete in time due to the lockdown and subsequent shortage of workers,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO), GMDA.Kundu said that GMDA is better prepared in comparison to last year as more critical waterlogging points have been identified. “Over the last three months, every time it rained, both the MCG and GMDA officials concerned, with flood control management, were asked to travel around the city and mark every single point where there was a heavy accumulation of rainwater and also identify the reason behind it. Hence, we have a larger database of critical waterlogging points in comparison to last year to concentrate our resources,” said Kundu.Similar to last year, GMDA and MCG have agreed to work together to clean drains across the city.On Friday, during a meeting at PWD rest house in Civil Lines, the two identified as many as 79 key waterlogging points across the city, each of which will be monitored by CCTV cameras by officials who will be fixed the responsibility.Last year, there were 44 key waterlogging-prone spots identified by GMDA and MCG.This year, the two have also formed a WhatsApp group to share information and send alerts to its respective officials about waterlogging points so that a rapid action team from GMDA’s flood control room can be sent to the spot immediately for resolution. The team will either unclog or channel accumulated rainwater towards a different path, said officials.GMDA’s flood control room is equipped with dewatering pump sets, tractor-mounted suction pumps, earthmovers, super sucker machines and gunny bags to resolve waterlogging-related problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/monsoon-preparation-takes-a-hit-as-covid-19-works-given-higher-priority/story-TyhOS1FZiDpyT6jzL3pcWO.html
03-06-2020||City||Scolded over gaming ‘addiction’, 24-yr-old ends life in Hisar||A 24-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Geeta Colony here after his parents scolded him playing too much PUBG, police said.A Hisar police spokesperson said Arvind Kumar took the extreme step when his family members scolded him spending too much time playing the online game.“Arvind ended his life by hanging from the ceiling in his first-floor room. His parents informed us about the incident,” the spokesperson added.PUBG is an online multiplayer game where about 100 players fight in free for all combat and the sole survivor becomes the winner.The police have handed over Arvind’s body to the family after conducting an autopsy. They have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scolded-over-gaming-addiction-24-yr-old-ends-life-in-hisar/story-NPdaHicoX3ZtoySu4v4tGN.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools in Chandigarh barred from hiking fee this year||Amid a series of protests by parents against collection of tuition fee, the Chandigarh administration on Wednesday invoked provisions of the Disaster Management Act to rein in private schools. Now, no private school in Chandigarh can increase the fee for the current academic year. Also, they can charge only tuition fee, at the same rates as in 2019-2020. The schools have also been told to display details of the fee structure, specifically tuition fee, as per provisions of the Fee Regulation Act, 2016, on their websites and intimate the administration by June 15. The orders have been issued by UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida under Section 39 (i) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The orders effect 77 private schools in the city, which have over 1 lakh students. Earlier, the principal education secretary had issued orders deferring collection of fee in view of the Covid-19 lockdown. After schools protested, schools were allowed to collect only tuition fee.Schools had been questioning the earlier two orders, arguing that only the fee regulatory authority can issue any such direction, that too if it finds any infirmity with the school’s decision. The matter is still pending in the Punjab and Haryana high court, where schools have challenged the UT’s decision to charge only tuition fee. Meanwhile, there has been a spurt in protests outside schools across the city.Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents Association, said: “We welcome the relief in form of reversal of fee hike. However, the term tuition fee continues to be the bone of contention since most schools merged all other heads under it in the recent years. So they will try to wriggle their way out.”‘DISASTROUS DECISION’However, HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh, said: “The order has put schools in a quandary as 90% of the fee has been received, and by June 10, entire fee will be collected under the previous model.” “It is a disastrous decision under the garb of the Disaster Management Act. We are totally confused. We will have to go to court to get our grievances addressed,” he said.In the fresh notification, the UT has reasoned that schools were asked to display their balance sheets on their website, which they failed to do. Also, the fee structure has not been uploaded. This was done despite the fact that schools have to comply with all directions of the administration under the land allotment policy. The UT has also reasoned that it was receiving a lot of complaints from parents about a hike in tuition fee and various funds being collected under its head.FEE REGULATORY BODY TO MEET ON JUNE 15As the seven-day deadline given to 51 schools to respond to show-cause notices issued to them lapsed on Wednesday, director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said district education officer Alka Mehta has been tasked with preparing a report of the replies.All private schools had been asked to upload their balance sheets on their respective websites. However, only a few complied with the orders. The remaining were put on notice. “The DEO will submit a report, which will be discussed in the meeting of the fee regulatory body on June 15,” said Brar.Also, as some schools that did upload the balance sheets showed surplus of funds, Brar said another committee under the accounts branch has been constituted to check for profiteering. He said the penalty on erring schools will be decided by the fee regulatory body in the upcoming meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-schools-in-chandigarh-barred-from-hiking-fee-this-year/story-fOeQ0izbo1K4nKDcdKZWLI.html
03-06-2020||City||HC asks Punjab to submit record of extension given to director prosecution||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday summoned the record pertaining to extension given to Vijay Singla as director prosecution by the Punjab government.The record was summoned by high court bench of justice Ritu Bahri on the petition of Satnam Singh Kaler, a joint director with the prosecution department.Kaler had told court that Singla, an additional director was holding the charge of director prosecution when he retired on January 31, but was called back after three days of his superannuation. The court was told that Singla had availed two optional extensions in service till January 31. But after retirement he was re-employed on February 3, on regular basis against a regular post without the approval of finance department and state cabinet, the court was told, adding that only two extensions can be granted to an employee as per rules. It was also submitted that the department initiated process of departmental promotion committee (DPC) for the appointment on January 23 and on January 25, Singla’s retirement orders were passed. The DPC met on February 10 and his name was recommended for promotion. But by that time Singla had joined. Despite him being the only eligible person in the department for promotion to the post of additional director, he was not considered, Kaler had told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-asks-punjab-to-submit-record-of-extension-given-to-director-prosecution/story-iVQaEA1f33gBwpp0MWRRpN.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||14.5% increase in enrolment of students in Ludhiana’s primary schools||As many as 16,000 new students between the age of 3 and 10 have been enrolled in government primary schools of the district in pre-primary to Class 5 till Tuesday, registering an increase of 14.5% over that of last year. Last year, the total students were 1,09,000 and this year, the number has risen to 1,24,000.Out of the total, 10,064 new students in the pre-primary class have been registered till date. The education department started the enrolment process for these classes in December 2019 and in the last five months, a large number of students from private schools have got admission in Classes 1 to 5.There are over 1.25 lakh students studying in pre-primary classes to Class 5 in 994 government primary schools of the district.In the enrolment progress list, released by the state education department, among the top ten, seven schools are from Ludhiana.As per the list, over 728 new students have been enrolled in the Government Primary School, Giaspura, which tops in Punjab in enrolment as compared to that of last year. The school had 2,497 students admitted in the previous academic session and, in the last few months, the number reached 3,225.School head Nisha Rani said, “We conducted the admissions online after the school was closed due to lockdown. The teachers are conducting online classes and many students are studying through television. After the school re-opens, we have sufficient rooms to accommodate the students.”Next in the list is Government Primary School, Haibowal Khurd, where 338 new students have been enrolled, out of which 214 have enrolled in Class 1 alone. The school head teacher, Shivani Sood, said, “During lockdown, I contacted a few students of the school, who had informed their friends regarding the facilities available in our schools such as free education and textbooks, smart classrooms, mid-day meal etc. I received frequent calls from the parents who have admitted their children in primary classes. Now, the strength of the school has reached up to 1,032.”According to the list, Government Primary School, Lohara, ranked third in the list, where the school has enrolled 323 new students in different classes. Now the school has a total strength of 1,195 students now.District education officer, elementary, Rajinder Kaur, said, “All the school heads and teachers have made a lot of efforts to increase enrolment. We also held meetings through Zoom with school heads to motivate them to enhance enrolment in their schools, which resulted in more new students opting for government schools. Deputy district education officer Kuldeep Singh also made efforts and encouraged school heads to enhance enrolment in government primary schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/14-5-increase-in-enrolment-of-students-in-ludhiana-s-primary-schools/story-xf2vt7qnW94NA8LyrlmMNJ.html
03-06-2020||City||15- year-old boy among eight deaths reported in Pune||Pune: The city reported 294 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the count of progressive positive cases to 7,089.Also, eight deaths were reported, putting the total number of fatalities in the city related to Covid-19 at 352.These eight fatalities include two deaths of residents of rural Pune.The total number of Pune residents who have died due to the virus stands at 350.Also, 229 virus-infected persons have been cured and discharged, putting the total count of cured cases at 4,384.On Wednesday, of the eight deaths reported, four were from the Deenanath Mangeskar Hospital, two from KEM hospital and one each from Ruby Hall and Kashibai Navale hospital.The youngest Covid-19 casualty on Wednesday was a 15-year-old resident of Ashti taluka in Beed, who died on Wednesday at 2.45 am at KEM hospital.The cause of death was recorded as systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) with lupus and nephritis with acute kidney injury (AKI). He was undergoing treatment since May 16 and had severe pneumonia and cardio pulmonary arrest with Covid-19. The second deceased from KEM hospital, was a 60-year-old female resident of Yerwada, who died on Tuesday at 4.45pm due to severe ARDS and pneumonia. She was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension.The four deaths reported at Deenanth Mangeshkar hospital include a 70-year-old female residing at Khadki; a 44-year-old female residing at Ganj peth; a 49-year-old female residing at Mangalwar peth; and an 80-year female, a resident of Mumbai, who died on Tuesday.The other fatalities include a 65-year-old female from Laxmi nagar, Parvati, at Kashibai Navale hospital on Wednesday at 1.38 am, due to pneumonitis with Ischemic heart disease (ISH). A 77-year-old male was reported dead at Ruby Hall Clinic on Wednesday due to type 1 respiratory failure with severe ARDS. The patient was suffering from bilateral pneumonia, diabetes, hypertension and autonomic neuropathy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-year-old-boy-among-eight-deaths-reported-in-pune/story-R3q3t7drSXV38qPjjcsjaK.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||All coming to Delhi by flights, trains or buses to undergo 7-day home quarantine||All asymptomatic travellers arriving in Delhi will now have to undergo only seven days of home quarantine, as against the earlier requirement of 14 days. According to a notification by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday, all asymptomatic passengers who enter / de-board in the NCT of Delhi shall home quarantine themselves for seven days.The order further said that the airport, railway and transport departments will submit passenger manifests to the office of the principal secretary of revenue department on daily basis. It added that the district magistrates shall ensure that the passengers residing in their jurisdiction remain in home quarantine for seven days.The notification came on a day when the national capital recorded yet another highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases. A total of 1,513 new coronavirus cases were reported, taking the tally to 23, 645 including 13,497 active cases.With nine more deaths, the toll has climbed to 606.Two hundred and ninety -nine corona patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday , taking the count of those cured / discharged to 9,542. Delhi follows Karanataka which, too, has reduced the mandatory period of quarantine from 14 to seven days for asymptomatic travellers coming to the state except for those coming from Maharashtra.Uttarakhand, on the other hand, has increased the mandatory quarantine period for people coming from 75 “high load Covid-19 cities” including Delhi from 14 to 21 days amid a rise in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus in the state.The government on Wednesday issued a fresh standard operating procedure (SOP) for people coming to the state by any mode of transport from the list of 75 cities designated as high load Covid-19 ones which include major cities like, Chennai, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Noida, Varanasi, Jaipur, Indore, Pune, Ahmedabad, Agra, Lucknow, Jaipur and Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/asymptomatic-passengers-entering-delhi-to-undergo-home-quarantine-for-a-week/story-BjyyTT2HgmNzjK26jyf9vN.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police crack Sector 33 firing case, but get the stick from Governor||Even as the Chandigarh Police arrested the main suspect in the Sector 33 firing on Wednesday, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore came down heavily on the police, expressing his displeasure over two firing incidents in the city within three days.Chairing a crime review meeting, Badnore expressed concern over the two firings— one in Sector 33 on May 31 and another in Sector 9 on June 2, and asked the police department to fix accountability of the police officials found complacent.The administrator pointed out that the firing incidents took place despite restrictions in place, and directed the police to be more proactive to avoid such incidents that instilled fear in residents.Pulling up the police, he asked them to ensure intensive patrolling, more nakas and enhance police visibility on the streets of Chandigarh. The administrator also asked the police to act tough against active criminals.DGP Sanjay Baniwal apprised Badnore of the inter-state coordination meeting between Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana scheduled on Thursday. Besides the recent shooting incidents, on focus at the meeting will be various issues of crime, security and sharing of criminal intelligence, Baniwal said.ZIRAKPUR GYM OWNER ARRESTEDThe police on Wednesday arrested Sewak, alias Guri, 25, resident of Shivalik Vihar, Zirakpur, as the prime suspect in the firing at the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla because of his rivalry with his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla.As many as 17 shots we fired from two .30 and .32 bore weapons. Police said Sewak ran a gym in Zirakpur and had been working for jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi for the past two years. He aided the gangster by supplying vehicles. Sewak was arrested from the traffic lights near DT Mall at Chandigarh IT Park. A countrymade pistol and eight live cartridges, besides a Hyundai Creta, bearing a Mohali registration number and used as a getaway vehicle by Sewak after the firing, was recovered from him. Police said he will be produced before the court on Thursday for his remand, following which he will be interrogated about his accomplices and the motive behind the crime.Sewak’s arrest came on the statement of Gurdeep Singh, alias Babbu, hailing from Banur, Punjab. “The accused had borrowed Gurdeep’s Ford Ikon, which he used in the crime. The car was captured in the CCTV cameras, which led us to Gurdeep and then to Sewak. The vehicle has been recovered,” said a police official, privy to the case.NO HEADWAY IN SECTOR 9 FIRINGMeanwhile, the police have failed to make any headway in the firing at a liquor shop in Sector 9 on Tuesday evening. Two masked men had opened fired at the shop, leaving four people injured. Ram Avtar Batra, 69, who is running the shop since April 2018, revealed the names of some people, who he had a monetary dispute with, in his statement to the police.A case was registered on the complaint of Akbar Khan, hailing from Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, who works at the wine shop. Different teams from the crime branch, operations cell and Sector 3 police station are working to trace the two shooters, who had arrived in a white Honda Amaze car and fired 10 rounds from .22 bore and .32 pistols..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-crack-sector-33-firing-case-but-get-the-stick-from-governor/story-iZ6SobcMbYS0Ns6OVt7J4K.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bookings for community centres begin in Chandigarh; events allowed from June 8||The Chandigarh municipal corporation will restart bookings for community centres under its jurisdiction from Thursday.According to the UT administration’s order on Unlock 1, beginning June 8, select community centres will be permitted to hold marriage functions (maximum attendance of 50 people) and last rite ceremonies (20 people).Out of 45 community centres, seven have been reserved for setting up quarantine facilities. The remaining will be available for booking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bookings-for-community-centres-begin-in-chandigarh-events-allowed-from-june-8/story-VPR0IlYrkmb6YnAGOKfFQJ.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||World Bicycle Day: Industry sees a gloomy future in absence of government support||The city’s bicycle industry, which sees a gloomy future in the absence of governmental support, observed World Bicycle Day here on Wednesday and urged the government to help the industry in grabbing a major international market share amid the anti-China sentiment across the world. The city, known as industrial hub, produces over one crore cycles every year, but is lagging behind in terms of technology, needed to manufacture high-end bicycles.Expressing concern over the closure of Atlas Cycles in Haryana, publicity secretary of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) RS Sarhali said, “The government needs to pay heed to the problems of the industry, as many other units are at the verge of closure. If not provided any relief soon, the bicycle industry will not be able to survive.” Senior vice-president, Wholesale Bicycle Dealers Association, Achhru Ram Gupta, said, “The Union government is making tall claims regarding ‘Made In India’ drive, but no support package has been announced at a time when the industry is burdened with power bills, salaries, bank loans, etc and even the GST refunds are pending with the government.” Members of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) observed the day by organising a cycle rally in association with the Cyclists’ Club, Janta Nagar. President, FICO, Gurmeet Singh Kular, said, “The industry is facing a gloomy future with no support from the state or the Union government.”UCPMA president DS Chawla, however, pointed out the opportunity for the bicycle industry in the international market if the government helps industry in upgrading technology.“India produces around 2 crore cycles and caters to up to 40% of the world’s demand. However, its production is around 10% in comparison to that of China, which leads in terms of technology. If the government supports the industry at this time, the industry will surely grab a major share in the international market,” said Chawla, while adding cycling habit should also be inculcated among the students in schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/world-bicycle-day-industry-sees-a-gloomy-future-in-absence-of-government-support/story-Gv4oonEqvTobtxtDIGgZRJ.html
03-06-2020||City||J&K co-op bank ex-chairman held in ₹223-cr loan fraud||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Wednesday arrested former chairman of J&K Cooperative Bank Limited in connection with the ₹223-crore loan scam.A preliminary probe was conducted by the ACB on the allegations that Mohd Shafi Dar, in connivance with some officials, had sanctioned ₹223 crore fraudulently in favour of a non-existent ‘River Jhelum Co-operative House Colony’ at Shivpora, Srinagar, portrayed to be run by one Hilal Ahmad Mir of Magarmal Bagh in Srinagar.Dar was evading his arrest since the registration of the case against him and he was taken into custody after his arrest on Wednesday.In the preliminary inquiry, it was revealed that the chairman of the said society had moved an application to secretary cooperatives, administration department of co-operative societies, seeking directions to the J&K Cooperative Bank Ltd for grant of financial assistance to the tune of ₹300 crore for taking over possession of 300 kanals of land located in the outskirts of Srinagar for construction of a satellite township.The application was endorsed by J&K cooperative societies registrar for taking up the matter with the bank. Accordingly, J&K Cooperative Bank, Srinagar, sanctioned a loan of ₹223 crore without adhering to any codal formalities, including obtaining details of the society such as balance sheet, profit and loss account business, activities being done by the Society, PAN number, income tax return, details of construction of the board resolutions, etc.It also surfaced that the said housing society was not even registered with J&K co-operative societies registrar. Hilal Ahmad Mir had prepared fake documents and managed to get the loan.A case under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and sections 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Ranbir Penal Code has been registered against Dar, Mir and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-co-op-bank-ex-chairman-held-in-223-cr-loan-fraud/story-vAPV2PlaPuBPeQFnVcDsiJ.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||District-level flood control room set up in Ludhiana||In view of the upcoming monsoon season, the administration has set up a district-level flood control room and directions have also been issued for setting up of control rooms at sub-divisional and tehsil levels.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, in a letter to all sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and the Executive Engineer Drainage Division, has said the flood control rooms should become operational 24X7 from June 15 onwards.He said the district-level control room (phone number 0161-2433100) would operate as usual even during holidays.He directed officials to ensure that daily reports are sent at drabranch115@yahoo.com in a pro forma prepared by the Union government without fail by 9:30 am every day.He said the officials deputed for flood control measures would not leave stations without prior permission.He has directed all SDMs to set up control rooms in their respective subdivisions and intimate the district office regarding phone and fax numbers so that they can be contacted in case of emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/district-level-flood-control-room-set-up-in-ludhiana/story-sc7tZBRB4LllQbuFGaGZPO.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Spurious seed scam: SIT takes over probe; accused sent to police remand in Ludhiana||The state-level special investigation team (SIT), constituted by director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday, visited the city on Wednesday to probe the spurious paddy seed scam case. The team was formed after the arrest of Jagraon-based farmer Baljinder Singh Bhundri, one of the key members of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Kisan Club, and allegedly involved in the scam.The SIT, headed by ADGP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation (PBI) & State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB) Naresh Arora, and comprising IGP crime Nageshwar Rao, city police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, joint director agriculture Sukhdev Singh and Ludhiana DCP (law & order) Ashwani Kapoor, held a meeting and reportedly discussed the progress made in the case by chief agricultural officer Narinder Singh Benipal.“The SIT was here to investigate the matter. The team took the status report of the case. That is all, I can say about the meeting,” said Benipal.Meanwhile, Harwinder Singh Kaka Brar and his aide Baljinder Singh Bhundri from Jagraon, were produced before the court and were sent to two-day police remand for further investigating the matter. Sources said later, during the day, the SIT grilled both the accused separately. While the main accused, Kaka Brar, was arrested on May 31, Bhudri was arrested on Tuesday.Both the accused have been booked under sections 3, 8 and 9 of the Seed Control Order Act, sections 2, 3 and 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjit Singh has demanded a cap on the prices of seed to end the exploitation of farmers.He said the seed dealers took advantage of the emergency situation in the state and sold the spurious seed at thrice the price. He demanded a stringent action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spurious-seed-scam-sit-takes-over-probe-accused-sent-to-police-remand-in-ludhiana/story-ksB3BIyCmy2nA2BKjoKvRO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||12 rescued, one fireman injured in Cuffe Parade high-rise fire||Twelve persons including two children were rescued on Wednesday, as a level-one fire was reported on 11th floor of a 20-storeyed building in Cuffe Parade. Additionally, one fireman was reported to be injured during firefighting and was rushed to the nearest hospital, Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said.The fire was reported at 7.20pm at Jal Kiran building on GD Somani Road in Cuffe Parade and was extinguished by 7.50pm. No injuries were reported in the incident.According to MFB, all residents were evacuated, and the fire was confined to one flat on the 11th floor of the building.P Rahangdale, a chief fire officer said, “Due to smoke-logged condition in the building, some residents were stuck on the 13th and 14th floor. A total of 10 persons and two children were rescued safely.”“One fireman sustained a minor injury to his right-hand thumb during the ventilation process and he was moved to the nearest hospital,” Rahangdale said.According to MFB, the cause of the fire will be known after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-rescued-one-fireman-injured-in-cuffe-parade-high-rise-fire/story-VvbvNg4pDgRg6VA2MDMKeI.html
03-06-2020||City||Man posing as army officer arrested in Mohali||Police on Wednesday arrested a man for posing as an officer of the Indian Army by using a fake army identity card.The accused, Deepak, 32, is a resident of Jalalabad, Punjab, and works at an electronics shop here.Police said Deepak was stopped for checking at a naka laid near Franco Hotel, Phase 1, following a tip-off. On checking his vehicle, cops recovered fake army identity card.He was booked under Section 474 (having possession of document described in Sections 466 or 467, knowing it to be forged and intending to use it as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 1 police station. The accused was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-posing-as-army-officer-arrested-in-mohali/story-AqNtzyDwXxZ68aAxdZgcTO.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||THE Asia University Rankings 2020: Panjab University slips 13 notches, improves on scores||Panjab University has slipped 13 notches in the eighth edition of Times Higher Education (THE) Asia University Rankings 2020, yet again missing a spot in the top 100.Ranked 136 in 2019, this year PU has settled at the 149th position among 489 institutions from 30 countries and regions in Asia. In the rankings released on Wednesday, PU shares its position with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Hyderabad. In 2018, the varsity was 114th in the list.As many as 56 Indian institutions qualified for the rankings, an increase of seven from 2019, with eight in the top 100. Indian Institute of Science, Bengalaru, ranked highest in the country at 36.At 47, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Ropar also made it to the top 50.PU was placed higher than University of Delhi, which is at the 155th spot. It is also ahead of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Delhi; Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Varanasi; Thapar University, Patiala; and Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI), Delhi.The varsity has also improved on the overall score from 32.1 in 2019 to 34.2 in 2020 (see box). “These international rankings compare technical institutes with traditional universities, which is not an apt comparison. Yet, we have a reason to cheer. This year we have made a substantial jump in research and citation scores,” said Ashish Jain, director, inter quality assurance cell (IQAC), PU.Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “Ever since I joined the university in August 2019, it has been my endeavour to imbibe the culture of research and industry linkages among the faculty and students.”Rajat Sandhir, professor at department of biochemistry, who is also a senator at PU, said, “Other universities have much better student-to-teacher ratio, which affected our ranking. We need to urgently fill vacant faculty positions to do better in future.” The number of students per faculty was 21.5 in 2019, which increased to 23.4 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/the-asia-university-rankings-2020-panjab-university-slips-13-notches-improves-on-scores/story-4cI3sWHLphnp98MqghKdrO.html
03-06-2020||City||J&K L-G reviews Rajouri-based varsity’s preparedness for resuming academic activities||Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Wednesday held a video-conference with the vice-chancellor of Rajouri-based Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah University to review the latter’s preparedness for resumption of academic activities.The L-G sought a detailed report on the precautionary measures taken by the university and its post-lockdown preparations. He asked the VC to plan comprehensively for ensuring smooth conduct of the academic session and examinations post-lockdown, besides complete sanitisation of campus and hostels, and upgradation of the overall infrastructure to facilitate the students with an enhanced e-learning mode.He also stressed on strict adherence of social distancing norms and other administrative guidelines after the resumption of the academic activities on campus. He advised the VC to ensure proper testing and scanning of the students coming from red zones.On being apprised by the VC about the filling up of the vacant teaching and non-teaching posts at the university, the L-G asked the VC to expedite the recruitment process in accordance with the UGC norms and also adhere to the reservation policy of the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-l-g-reviews-rajouri-based-varsity-s-preparedness-for-resuming-academic-activities/story-nw9zcXQbyPtnFhn5GnDVHI.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Uttarakhand man tests positive in Chandigarh, 5 contacts quarantined||Five people were quarantined and sampled in Sector 21 on Wednesday after a 25-year-old man from Uttarakhand, who has been working in Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19 while visiting his family in Chandigarh. The case will not be added to Chandigarh’s tally, which so far has reported 301 infections.A UT spokesperson said that the man had reached the city on May 22 to visit his mother, who works as a domestic help at a house in Sector 21. Upon developing fever and sore throat on June 1, he visited Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, the next day and was sampled. His two family contacts living in the domestic help quarters and three members of the owner’s family have been sampled. Their reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/uttarakhand-man-tests-positive-in-chandigarh-5-contacts-quarantined/story-3M3yDlv8lXVKm4XAMSiGbI.html
03-06-2020||City||Four rape cases reported in Shimla dist||As many as four rape cases, with two involving minor victims, have been reported in Shimla district, said police.In the first case, a 15-year-old girl was raped in Rohru on Sunday. The accused has lured the girl on pretext of marriage, took her to his rented room and committed the crime. A case has now been registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Another woman was raped in Rohru by her cousin while she had gone with him to learn driving on May 27. The accused had threatened her of dire consequences if she informed police. On June 2, she filed a complaint after which police arrested the accused. A case was registered under Section 376 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The Rohru SHO has confirmed the reports and said police are conducting investigation in both cases.In yet another incident, a 43-year-old woman was raped by a 35-year-old man on Tuesday at a village in Kotkhai, Shimla. The woman was returning home from Kotla village when she was raped by the accused in a field. The accused has been arrested and booked under Section 376 of the IPC.In the fourth incident, a 25-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for raping a four-year-old girl at Jhakri, Rampur Bushahr. The accused is the victim’s uncle. The girl’s parents had filed a complaint after which the accused was booked under the POCSO Act. The Rampur Bushahr deputy superintendent of police (DSP) said police are conducting the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-rape-cases-reported-in-shimla-dist/story-8IjIfGwmWjUyHLi5zvDJSN.html
03-06-2020||City||Students seek mass promotion, but Central University of Kashmir in doubt over assessment mode||The students of Central University of Kashmir (CUK) are in stress as the varsity authorities have been indecisive about their examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The students have demanded that they should be given mass promotion in their previous semesters as per the UGC guidelines, so they could concentrate on their current semester.“The university is not taking any decision despite the UGC guidelines. Our two semesters are pending. We want them to mass promote us in our previous semester and give relaxation in the current semester because we have faced a lot of problems due to the continuous Covid-19 lockdown,” said Gazi Ahmad Khan, president of CUK Students’ Federation.The students claimed that they were ready to appear in exams for the current semester.“Many are in their final semester and need to go for research or further studies. Their exams should be held immediately with some leniency in the syllabus and their backlogs cleared,” he said.Owing to the pandemic, the UGC had recommended that universities should conduct exams for final semesters only in July, while the students in intermediate semesters should be graded based on an internal assessment or in states where the Covid-19 situation has normalised, exams should be conducted in July only.“Since August 5, 2019 (when restrictions were imposed in J&K after revocation of its special status) up to March and then amid this lockdown, the students couldn’t attend their classes. Even online classes couldn’t be attended by the most of the students due to the non-availability of high-speed internet,” said Nadiya Rashid, spokesperson of the students’ federation.“Students are suffering from depression and seeing psychiatrists. It is our request to higher authorities of the varsity to give us mass promotion along with clearing our backlog subjects. Do justice to us and don’t force us to come on the streets,” she said.Varsity’s controller of examination Prof Parveen Pandit said the students have already been promoted to their next semesters, though they were yet to decide the mode of assessment.“We are yet to decide whether we will go for internal assessment or any other mode, keeping the UGC recommendations in mind,” she said.Last week, the University of Kashmir had announced that there will be no end-term exams for the current and previous semesters, wherever due, during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-seek-mass-promotion-but-central-university-of-kashmir-in-doubt-over-assessment-mode/story-lHjy9ftvF8yrzBayeQcGeP.html
03-06-2020||City||Jalandhar resident succumbs to Covid-19 in Ludhiana’s DMCH||A day after an octogenarian ex-serviceman succumbed to Covid-19 in Ludhiana, a 64-year-old Jalandhar resident lost his battle to the virus at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).The deceased, identified as Mohainder Pal, a resident of Jalandhar’s Tagore Nagar, had been brought to DMCH on June 1 following complaints of respiratory obstruction.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said he was suffering from Type-2 diabetes and died of a heart attack on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.With this, Ludhiana has seen 16 Covid-19 deaths, which include nine patients belonging to the district and seven who had come here from other districts for treatment.Meanwhile, two patients from the district who recently tested positive for the virus -- a 27-year-old resident of SAS Nagar behind Sangeet Cinema who has been admitted to Patiala’s Government Medical College and Hospital and a 52-year-old woman of Ishwar Nagar Gill Road admitted to DMCH-- are stated to be in a stable condition.44 ACTIVE CASESDr Bagga said the district currently has 44 active cases, not including the patients from other districts and states who are undergoing treatment here. Ludhiana’s tally is currently at 203, out of which 150 patients have been discharged after recovery while nine died during treatment.The civil surgeon said that so far, 8,650 samples have been sent for testing, out of which 7,731 have been found negative while reports of 621 are still pending. Currently, there are 1,626 persons in home quarantine in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-resident-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana-s-dmch/story-XQXRvS52YdelyI8rQT3xbN.html
03-06-2020||City||Soon, online appointments to visit Mansa Devi shrine||With relaxations being introduced under the Centre’s Unlock 1 plan, Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board will soon be introducing online registration for 15-second “darshan” at the historical temple in Panchkula.Nestled in the Shivalik foothills, the temple complex is spread over 100 acres. Constructed during the early 19th century by Maharaja Gopal Singh, it is one of the most renowned Shakti temples in North India.However, its doors have remained closed for devotees since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19.Now, the board has prepared standard operating procedures for reopening the shrine.“While we are awaiting the government guidelines on reopening temples, we have prepared the SOPs,” said MS Yadav, chief executive officer of the board.He said once the temple opens, only those with online registration will be allowed to visit it. To begin with, only 6,000 people will be registered daily to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing.“The form will be made available on the temple’s website (www.mansadevi.org.in). People will have to fill in their basic details, such as name, address, age, contact number and the number of visitors. Once registered, they will get a message on their mobile phone regarding the timings of the visit. One person will be given a 15-second slot,” said Yadav.According to the SOP, children below the age of 10 and adults above 60 besides pregnant woman and chronically ill people won’t be allowed to enter the temple. Also, every visitor will be thermally screened at the entrance.“Unlike old times, no offerings will be accepted from outside. However, we will provide packets of prasad at the temple itself. People can also make the offerings online,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soon-online-appointments-to-visit-mansa-devi-shrine/story-9HJ99EzvFxkOfVqd6itMwO.html
03-06-2020||City||52-year-old man tests positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula, district count 27||A 52-year-man resident of Sector 12 has tested positive for Covid-19, taking Panchkula district’s total count to 27 on Wednesday. The man, who works for an English daily, complained of sore throat and fever on May 31 and was sampled at the civil hospital, Sector 6, the next day.Though he had been working from home since April 21, he had travelled to Delhi in his car on May 7 and returned on May 24, said officials. His wife and son have been put under quarantine and contact tracing is being conducted. Also, five houses in the sector have been declared containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/journo-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-panchkula-district-count-27/story-P2qIJfkF5daftzxb7WLFFK.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali gym owners demand reopening of their establishments||Members of the Tricity Gym Owners’ Association (TGOA) on Wednesday held a protest at Phase 11, Mohali, against the delay in reopening gyms.The members said the fitness industry in tricity is on the brink of collapse due to repeated lockdowns. The gym owners are also miffed at what they feel is step-motherly treatment being meted out to the industry by the government. Their contention is that despite Unlock 1.0 seeing another client interaction based industry – ‘salons & hair dressers’ reopening, and with restaurants and malls slated to reopen on June 8, the government is ignoring and delaying reopening of gyms.Sanjeev Kumar, president of TGOA said, “The prolonged lockdown has meant financial distress for owners of 200 fitness centres and gyms across tricity. Another issue is that almost 3,000 employees have had to go without pay for the last two months. Despite writing to UT adviser and administrator and deputy commissioners of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula asking for reopening of gyms under standard operating procedure, there has been no positive response.”The TGOA has also written to the Prime Minister asking for his intervention to resolve the problems of the industry in tricity. These include the financial burden on gym owners as well as large scale unemployment being faced by trainers, sales staff, spotters, house-keeping staff etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-gym-owners-demand-reopening-of-their-establishments/story-mTg7cGrlUOZomEeiFvYpiO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Flight ops at Mumbai airport suspended due to Cyclone Nisarga resume||Flight operations at the Mumbai airport, which was suspended at 2.30 pm, has now resumed, a spokesperson of GVK said on Wednesday. MIAL, the private airport operator, had earlier announced that all operations at the CSMIA will remain suspended between 2.30 pm and 7 pm as a precautionary measure in view of the cyclone Nisarga. “The operatins at Mumbai airport have recommenced,” the spokesperson said.Follow latest updates on Cyclone Nisarga here  A GVK-led consortium in partnership with AAI runs the Mumbai airport under a joint venture MIAL. “The landing and take-off is permitted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) from 6 pm,” the airport spokesperson said in a statement. MIAL had scheduled a total of 19 flights for Wednesday, which include 11 departures and eight arrivals to be operated by five airlines -- Air India, IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoAir and AirAsia India. It had, however, said schedule could change also depending upon the situation.Meanwhile, during the day, a cargo aircraft belonging to FedEx overshot the main runway of the Mumbai airport on its arrival from Bengaluru, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said in a statement. The aircraft was towed away from the runway and there has been no disruption in flight operations, it said. “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport witnessed a runway excursion today (Wednesday) with FedEx flight 5033 arriving from Bengaluru. The incident occurred when the MD11 aircraft landed on runway 14/32,” it said. Mumbai airport was allowed to operate a total of 50 flights per day, 25 departures and arrivals each following the resumption of air passenger services on the domestic routes from May 25. The operations of commercial passenger services were suspended on March 25 due to the imposition of a nationwide lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The government later lifted the restrictions on domestic flights from May 25. The international operations by the Indian airlines, however, remain suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/flight-ops-at-mumbai-airport-suspended-due-to-cyclone-nisarga-resume/story-FxKRMyQnB0GsezFluzRONI.html
03-06-2020||City||Health dept scam: Himachal Congress leaders seek resignation of CM Jai Ram Thakur||The Congress party’s Himachal unit has scaled up its attack on chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and his BJP government in state. Congress legislators, led by leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, met at Vidhan Sabha and passed a resolution demanding CM Jai Ram Thakur’s resignation.All 21 legislators including former CM Virbhadra Singh, All India Congress Committee general secretary Asha Kumari, former Congress chief Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, senior legislators Harshwardhan Chauhan and Ram Lal Thakur were present at the meeting.Congress alleged that the CM who holds the health portfolio as well has proved to be inept in handling the lockdown situation. They demanded the government to convene a special Vidhan Sabha session to discuss the Covid-19 crisis in state. The party legislators observed that the government failed at multiple fronts to handle the crisis whether it was death caused by the virus or arrangements at quarantine centres.Congress alleged that the HP government failed to make appropriate arrangements for transportation of people stranded across India and people from outside states who were stuck in state amid lockdown.“CM should explain what led to the resignation of party president Rajeev Bindal. Its Jai Ram Thakur who is at the helm of affairs and irregularities in purchase of medical equipments has come at a time when he holds the health department portfolio,” said Congress legislator Mukesh Agnihotri.Congress demanded the HP government to issue white paper on the purchases made by different departments during its two-and-a-half-year tenure. They urged party workers to run statewide campaign to generate awareness among people on “the failure” of Himachal government on different fronts. Congress demanded the government to register cases under sedition against those involved in different scams. Congress also adopted a resolution castigating the government for fuel and ration price hike amid the ongoing crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-scam-himachal-congress-leaders-seek-resignation-of-cm-jai-ram-thakur/story-P4TGUI5dfTf0QmDEaZbmhP.html
03-06-2020||City||21K evacuees to stay put even as cyclone threat averted at Palghar||The 21,080 evacuees from 22 coastal villages in Palghar district will continue to stay in temporary shelters till Thursday noon even as the Cyclone Nisarga threat was averted in Palghar on Wednesday.Palghar district information office (DIO) Rahul Bhalerao confirmed the development. “The residents are currently staying in schools, resorts and other establishments since Tuesday night and are being provided food packets, packaged drinking water, milk, dry rations and other materials,” said Bhalerao. Meanwhile, police and other officials visited the coastal villages of Dandi, Murbhe, Bordi, Dahanu, Navapur, Kelwe, Satpati, Shirgaon and other areas to take stock of the situation as the villages are dotting the Arabian Sea.Two teams, comprising of 70 jawans of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) Andheri visited the 110-km coastal stretch from Vasai to Zai in Talasari to warn the villagers to stay away from the beaches.156 stranded fishermen return safeMeanwhile, 156 fishermen on 13 boats who were stranded since Monday returned to Pachubunder jetty in Vasai on Tuesday night when the weather condition improved. Daman coast guard guided the boats safely to shore, said Ajinkya Patil, assistant commissioner, fisheries, Palghar. Around 577 boats with 4,200 fishermen onboard were at sea amid the cyclone alert and 564 had returned to Palghar coast. The remaining 13 boats were stranded at the high seas and they returned safely on Tuesday late night said Patil. We will take action against the 577 boats which had ventured into the seas without permission and violated Section 144 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC, said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21k-evacuees-to-stay-put-even-as-cyclone-threat-averted-at-palghar/story-mBlqyr5AlmqId8QqnmzaZN.html
03-06-2020||City||Rs 9 lakh fine on contractor for felling 300 extra Khair trees in Mohali forest||A team of the Punjab vigilance bureau probing the illegal felling of Khair trees in Mirzapur forest area of Mohali has recommended a fine of Rs 9 lakh on the contractor for cutting more trees than was permitted. As per information, permission was given for felling of 6,000 trees but the contractor cut 300 extra trees. The probe was conducted on the directions of the Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh after the chief minister’s office received a complaint in this regard.A senior official of the forest department said that Rs 5.72 lakh has already been deducted from the contractor’s security deposits and a notice has been issued to him for recovery of the remaining fine amount, which comes to Rs 3.30 lakh.VIOLATIONS GALOREThe team, led by assistant inspector general (vigilance) Ashish Kapoor, found that the contractor maintained no register to record the number of trees felled. Besides, fresh saplings were not planted in place of the felled trees, which is mandatory under the management plan approved by the Government of India. The contractor also violated the felling and marking rules by opening up the closed canopy of the forest. There were no records of labourers entering and exiting the forest area and even the condition of not felling trees after sunset was violated. No effort was made to apportion the common land, said vigilance officer.When contacted, contractor Kapil Sharma said, “We had got six permits to cut the trees. I got to know about the fine but I have not received any official intimation. The labourers had cut the trees by mistake.”The forest department gives permission to fell trees after every five years as per silvicultural practices. Vigilance sources revealed that even as felling trees having a diameter of less than 2-ft is not allowed, several such trees were chopped off.There are also reports that though the contractor was asked to complete the task by March 15 and ensure that logs are moved to the store by March 31, tree felling continued till mid-April, even after the lockdown was imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-9-lakh-fine-on-contractor-for-felling-300-extra-khair-trees-in-mohali-forest/story-ZPShAkBM4Aki1XQZ3tuxXN.html
03-06-2020||City||Impact of Covid-19 on Indian economy in focus during national conference at Ludhiana college||A three–day online national conference on “Financial implications of Covid-19 on India with special reference to Punjab” organised by the community and postgraduate department of commerce of Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College commenced on Wednesday. RS Bawa, vice-chancellor of Chandigarh University, Gharuan (Mohali), was the chief guest on the occasion. Participants from the fields of commerce, management and economics attended the webinar.Bawa delivered the inaugural address where he spoke on the financial impact of Covid-19 on different sectors of the Indian economy. He suggested various measures which can be adopted by the central and state governments to reboot the economy. He spoke at length about the ₹ 20 lakh crore economic package announced by the Prime Minister. Debabrata Mitra, professor at the university of north Bengal, Ram Khanna, former head and professor at Delhi School of Economics and Hawa Singh, former registrar, Kurukshetra University, were the resource persons for the technical session. Mitra spoke on the falling growth rate of Indian economy and the financial impact of the pandemic on the economy, especially MSMEs. Singh discussed the industries which are worst hit by pandemic and how these units can be revived. He also discussed empowering labourers and migrant workers, both in organised and unorganised sectors. Khanna focused on shifting consumer demand patters during the lockdown and how e-commerce sector has helped in the fulfilment of basic needs. He also emphasised on the importance of digital marketing platform for selling essential products to consumers. SP Singh, president, Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council, emphasised on the need for such seminars and conferences in educational institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/impact-of-covid-19-on-indian-economy-in-focus-during-national-conference-at-ludhiana-college/story-kAHzKv39RfWklebvsYakrO.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Local bodies dept relaxes single-bid tender norms||The Punjab local bodies department has announced relaxation in single-bid tender norms, introduced in 2018 on the recommendations of the then local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu citing corruption.The municipal corporations (MCs) in the state will now not have to float the tender for a project for the third, if there are less than three valid technical bids for the same each time. The contract can now be awarded to the bidder in the second attempt. Earlier, the authorities were allowed to award the contract with less than three bids in the third attempt. The officials said this would not only save money on publication of tenders, but will also save time. The process to award the contract, which used to take around one-and-a-half months, would now be completed in 35 days. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said even after Sidhu imposed single-bid norms, not much change was witnessed at the ground level. In most cases, the MC received less than three bids even after floating the tender for the third time. The same contractor, who had submitted a bid in the first attempt, got the contract even after the contract was floated for the third time. It may be due to a pool, formed by the contractors, or due to the less number of contractors with expertise to take up a particular project. MC superintending engineer (SE) HS Bhullar said, “The MC has received the notification and the single-bid contracts can now be awarded in the second attempt. This will save both time and money.” Sidhu had suspended four SEs in Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar in 2017 stating that projects worth hundreds of crores were allotted to contractors on a single bid with no competition, during the SAD-BJP regime in the state. The single-bid tender row had remained in the headlines as Congress MLAs, including Bharat Bhushan Ashu (now cabinet minister) and Sanjay Talwar, also lashed out at Sidhu in 2018, claiming that the single-bid tender norms were delaying only development projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-local-bodies-dept-relaxes-single-bid-tender-norms/story-K5gCAtOdKs49eNQzXJTXqO.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Spurious paddy seed scam: Farmers in Ludhiana worried about ‘poor quality’ nursery||As investigation agencies are making inroads into the spurious paddy seed scam case, the farmers, who had purchased seed from Brar Seed Store, the shop accused of selling spurious seed, and raised paddy nurseries (paneeri), have started making distress calls to agriculture department officials complaining about the stunted growth of seedlings and deficiency in yield.“We are receiving distress calls each day from the farmers complaining about the less growth of paddy seedlings. As a solution, we are telling them to buy new seed and create a new nursery, if they are sowing rice with conventional pudding method. Similarly, those opting for DSR have also been advised to buy new seed as this is the right time to sow crops through the DSR,” said chief agricultural officer Narinder Singh Benipal.”“The department has also asked farmers to submit bills so that action could be taken against the dealers selling spurious seed. Sadly, many farmers do not have the bills,” said Benipal.Director agriculture, Punjab, Dr Sutantar Kumar Airi, said the department was stressing that farmers should take proper bills while buying agro inputs, including seed, fertilisers and pesticides to ensure stringent action against the firms selling substandard or unauthorised seed of crops.A Jagraon-based farmer, Baljinder Singh Bhundri, who is one of the key members of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Kisan Club, was arrested on Tuesday as he was allegedly involved in the scam.According to police, Bhundri was providing the seed of PR 128 and PR 129 varieties of paddy, developed last year by PAU to assess the results as trial.However, he used the resultant crop to mass produce more seed and sold it to the Brar Seeds Store in Ludhiana without authorisation, the police said.The raid by the department at the Brar Seed Store, located in front of PAU Gate No 1 on March 11, had taken the lid off the nexus.The main accused, Hawinder Singh Kaka Brar, was arrested on May 31. Kaka is the son of Hardyal Singh, a former seed expert of PAU. Initially, the FIR was registered against octogenarian Hardyal Singh, but, as Singh was not keeping well, so his son Kaka Brar was arrested as he actually handling the business.The action against Brar Seed Store owners was taken on the complaint of the district’s chief agricultural officer after a Moga-based farmer alleged that the store was selling PR 128 and PR 129 seeds for Rs 200-250 per kg whereas PAU was selling it for Rs 70/kg only.The department had collected 11 samples of different rice verities, but out of 11 samples, 10 failed germination test and turned out to be spurious.The state agriculture department has so far carried out raid on 1,900 seed dealers across the state and revoked the licences of 12 seed stores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spurious-paddy-seed-scam-farmers-in-ludhiana-worried-about-poor-quality-nursery/story-M0X11sCQs6G60Dn0xiOF4M.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two months on, crowding concern keeps OPDs at Chandigarh’s govt hospitals shut||Suspended on March 20, OPDs at PGIMER and five other government hospitals in the city continue to remain shut even as most of the restrictions announced in view of the Covid-19 pandemic have been withdrawn.The OPD services at PGIMER, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and other allied hospitals were suspended as norms like social distancing could not be followed amid heavy crowds.For over two months later, only emergency wings continue to be offered at the three medical institutes and the three civil hospitals in Manimajra, Sector 45 and Sector 22.A medical hub for north Indian states, Chandigarh sees patients coming in from as far as Jammu and Kashmir and even parts of Uttar Pradesh for treatment.According to PGIMER, a centrally funded premier medical institute, they cannot go back to the previous practice where thousands of patients visited the OPDs daily, waiting among thick crowds.“Our focus currently is on improving the tele-consultation services. More than 600 people are being registered everyday through the telephone lines, following which our doctors reach back to them and provide appointments to patients who need in-person consultation. But, there is no decision on reopening of OPDs as of now,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER. The hospital, however, is mulling to convert a part of the mutli-level parking outside the OPD into a holding area where patients can be screened before entering the building.“There is a fear of spread of infection. Even if one positive person enters the crowded OPD, it can create havoc. Who will be responsible for that?” Dr Ram questioned.On reopening of OPD services at GMCH-32 and GMSH-16, UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said, “It is going to take time as UT’s health staff is still engaged in various activities like screening train and air passengers and are also working in containment zones in addition to taking care of Covid positive patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-months-on-crowding-concern-keeps-opds-at-chandigarh-s-govt-hospitals-shut/story-EKIJkzu43tOEFSOf3hLZzO.html
03-06-2020||City||Centre asks J&K L-G to defer reopening of schools from mid-June||Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh on Wednesday asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration to defer its decision of reopening schools and charging vehicle registration tax.“Have spoken to Jammu and Kashmir UT administration and suggested that decisions regarding vehicle registration tax and reopening of schools may be deferred,” the Union minister of state Dr Jitendra Singh tweeted on Wednesday.There had been strong resentment among the people over the UT adminitration’s purported move to reopen schools from June 15, especially among the parents.Former J&K women commission chairperson Vasundra Pathak Masoodi in a letter to lieutenant governor had described the plan as “an abject contravention and violation of the guidelines issued by the home ministry under the National Disaster Act”.In her letter on June 1 to the L-G, Masoodi had taken strong exception to the education department’s circular issued in Srinagar wherein it was stated that the administration intended to re-open schools in mid-June.“I have been approached by many parents across the UT who shared their fear and unwillingness to let their wards join school until the threat of Covid-19 pandemic is over as they are apprehensive that the children may not be able to strictly adhere to the social distancing norms,” she had stated in her letter.Reportedly, in an official circular, directors of education department in Kashmir and Jammu divisions were directed to ensure pairs of reusable masks and gloves to every student and ensure availability of 1,000ml hand sanitisers and 1,200ml liquid soap at the entry point of each government school.National Conference Jammu president Devender Singh Rana had exhorted the administration to exercise caution while deciding to reopen schools amid unfortunate increase in Covid-19 cases, saying any wrong move could be detrimental to the students.NO DECISION TAKEN YET, SAYS LG ADVISERFollowing the centre’s intervention, L-G adviser K K Sharma, who is also in-charge of the school education department, said the UT administration has not taken any decision to reopen the schools on June 15 yet.He, however, said instructions have been issued to schools to ensure sanitisation of the premises in view of Covid-19 across J&K.KASHMIRI PARENTS EXPRESS RESENTMENTMeanwhile in Kashmir, many parents termed the school reopening decision idiotic and risky for their children.“What is the logic of opening schools when every day more than 100 people are testing positive for Covid-19. Even the shops and markets are still closed. How can we put the life of our children at risk,” asked Ateeqa Begum, 45, mother of three schoolgoers.Resentment was expressed on the social media as well.“...Expecting school children to undertake social distancing and follow safety protocols, when top officers and doctors are falling prey to the deadly virus, is nothing but idiocy,” said Faheem Aslam, a Srinagar resident.Calls to commissioner secretary education Asgar Samoon and school education director Younis Malik went unanswered.The number of Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir has crossed 2,700 and the fatality tally is at 33.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-asks-j-k-l-g-to-defer-reopening-of-schools-from-mid-june/story-HeYfpeqhOl88LUggZA3UtI.html
03-06-2020||City||Pak opens fire along LOC areas in J&K’s Poonch||Continued its ceasefire violations, Pakistan on Wednesday resorted to intense firing on Indian posts and forward villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district here.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “There was unprovoked firing from across the border in Kirni sector that started around 1.45pm. The Indian Army retaliated in equal measure and the exchanges stopped around 3pm,” he said.However, there was no report of any casualty or injury on the Indian side, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-opens-fire-along-loc-areas-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-9nVsacD6BnhLjpQTJ7DEmM.html
03-06-2020||City||Send letters meant for CM to Capt not media: Brahm to MP Bajwa||Chandigarh Punjab local bodies and parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra on Friday took a dig at Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa for going public on the issues “the MP should ideally have raised at the party or the government forum”.In a statement issued here, Mohindra said, “It is good that you (Bajwa) have been flagging issues of public interest, but the letters addressed to the CM should ideally reach Capt Amarinder directly and not through the media.”In the recent months, Bajwa has been taking on the chief minister and the state government on a number of issues by writing letters and issuing them to the media. On Tuesday as well, the Congress MP, along with three party MLAs, wrote an open letter to the chief minister seeking immediate release of the pending sugarcane arrears.“This does not convey the right message. A letter addressed to the CM should reach him and not the media. By releasing the letters to the media before dispatching it to the chief minister makes the motive and purpose of such letters obvious that the public concern (raised in these letters) is the last thing in the mind of the person,” said Mohindra.The minister suggested to Bajwa that he should act as the spokesperson of the Punjab government and highlight the achievements of the state in fighting the Covid-19.“Punjab has the highest recovery rate of about 90% while the death rate is less than 2%. This was despite huge influx of non-resident Indians (NRIs) and infected pilgrims all of whom were properly treated and most have recovered,” said Mohindra, who is the number two in the cabinet in seniority after the chief minister.“Bajwa as a loyal Congressman has every right to raise issues of public interest, but there is a proper way of doing things,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/send-letters-meant-for-cm-to-capt-not-media-brahm-to-mp-bajwa/story-69UXNMJ5fN2n9lg66jbZkO.html
03-06-2020||City||‘HP govt should hand of health dept corruption case to sitting HC judge’||Theog legislator Rakesh Singha and a delegation of leaders of CPI (M) met governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhawan in Shimla on Wednesday. They urged him to direct the state government to handover probe into the alleged corruption in purchase of medical items and equipment (such as PPE kits and sanitizers) to a sitting HC judge.In a memorandum submitted to the governor, CPI (M) has demanded him to direct the state government to place all fund collections received for combating Covid-19 pandemic in public domain by publishing a white paper, to advice the government to constitute an ethical committee for approval of all medical equipment purchased for dealing with Covid-19 as mandated in the Medical Devices Rules, and abiding by guidelines of the Drug Controller General of India in relation to items that fall within its purview. They demanded that a system should be in place to put all details of purchases, tenders and stock on public domain.Singha has alleged that the vigilance investigation failed to take steps between May 21 and 25 to seize relevant documents, question the possible chain of culprits, and take persons concerned in their custody when one of the accused Dr AK Gupta was allowed admission to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-should-hand-of-health-dept-corruption-case-to-sitting-hc-judge/story-r6Bo8SlOIfmA6WpcWYLsPI.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||11-year-old pillion run over by BEST bus as bike skids on highway||A 11-year-old boy who was returning home on a two-wheeler with his father died after their bike skid on the highway and he came under the wheels of a passing BEST bus in Kandivali (East) on Tuesday evening. The 57-year-old Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus driver was arrested for negligence. The police said it was raining at the time of the incident.According to Samta Nagar police, the incident took place at around 5.30 pm near Sai Dham temple on the north-bound stretch of the western express highway. The father-son duo was returning to their home in Nalasopara from KEM Hospital in Mumbai. The police rushed the boy to Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali (West) where he was declared dead before admission. The father survived with minor injuries.The deceased boy Ali Khan was suffering from a disease and was being treated for it for the past seven years at KEM Hospital. His father Aslam, a labourer had taken him on the bike to KEM Hospital and the duo was returning home.“The bike skid and the boy fell off and came under the front wheel of the bus. He suffered injuries on his stomach. We have registered an FIR against the bus driver and have arrested him for causing death due to negligence under section 304 A of the IPC,” said Raju Kasbe, senior police inspector of Samta Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/11-year-old-pillion-run-over-by-best-bus-as-bike-skids-on-highway/story-yRmMkh8QQlcEBXsTqITmBP.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Only senior citizens or parents can file appeal under Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has held that only senior citizens or parents can file appeal under provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007.“Sub-section (1) of section 16 permits ‘any senior citizen or a parent, as the case may be’ aggrieved by an order of a senior citizen tribunal, to prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal,” justice AS Gadkari said last week while dismissing a petition filed by a 59-year-old World resident and her two children challenging a January 31, 2017 order of the senior citizen appellate tribunal.The appellate tribunal had refused to entertain their appeal against August 12, 2016 order of the senior citizen tribunal evicting them from a shop, an office at Prabhadevi and a workshop at Worli, owned by the petitioner’s estranged husband, a senior citizen.“A plain reading of the said section would clearly disclose that ‘children’ under Section 2(a) or ‘relative’ under Section 2(g) of the said Act are precluded from preferring an Appeal against an order of a tribunal,” said the court. “It is only the ‘senior citizen’ or ‘a parent’, as the case may be, is permitted to prefer an Appeal to the Appellate Tribunal under Section 16 of the said Act,” it added.All the three properties were self-acquired properties of the senior citizen and he had exclusive right over the properties. However, in October 2002, when the husband left his family residence, a power of attorney was executed conferring all powers over the properties to his wife, the petitioner, who had executed documents conferring tenancy rights of the properties to her children.Justice Gadkari held that transfer of the properties by the petitioner to her children was a fraud and therefore, the tribunal had rightly passed an order holding the transfer agreements as unauthorised and directing the petitioners to handover their possession to the senior citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-senior-citizens-or-parents-can-file-appeal-under-maintenance-and-welfare-of-parents-and-senior-citizens-act-hc/story-9r11tjrXt776C7gxU60CBK.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||With no new demand from govt, Shramik Special trains end run from Delhi||The operation of Shramik Special trains from Delhi has ended, railway officials said on WednesdayThe reason for this, officials said, was that there was no further demand from the Delhi government. They added that the trains will run again in case there is any fresh request, news agency PTI reported.“There is no demand for Shramik Special trains from the Delhi government as of now. There are no migrant trains scheduled from railway stations in Delhi. However a train from Gurgaon to Odisha’s Balasore is scheduled today,” a railway official was quoted as saying by PTI. The last trains to operate from Delhi were on May 31. They were : Anand Vihar- Purnia, Anand Vihar- Bhagalpur and Hazrat Nizamuddin-Mahoba Express. Indian Railways began running Shramik Special trains from May 1 to ferry back home migrant labourers stranded in various parts of the country due to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. From the five railway stations in Delhi, 242 of these special trains were run in the last one month. Of these, 111 took migrants to Bihar and 101 terminated in Uttar Pradesh. Over all, around 5.7 million stranded migrants across India have returned to their states in 4,155 such special trains thus far. However, there has been a decline in the demand to run these trains by the states in recent weeks. On Sunday, the Railways operated only 69 Shramik trains while on Tuesday only 102 Shramik trains operated till 10 am, railway officials said. “The demand for trains has reduced and only a very few trains are running as mostly all stranded migrants have been sent. The operation may soon be over,”a rail ministry official told HT said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-no-new-demand-from-govt-shramik-special-trains-end-run-from-delhi/story-jaR4vLY49gkKxY7aqmcntK.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||10,000 evacuees from low-lying areas in Mumbai to be screened for Covid-19 symptoms||All 10,000 persons evacuated from low-lying areas in Mumbai, including areas along Mumbai coast from Colaba in South to Gorai in the western suburbs, and taken to safe shelter will be screened for temperature and oxygen levels, to detect symptoms of Covid-19, before being permitted to go home, the city’s municipal commissioner said Wednesday.Section 144 was imposed in Mumbai at midnight on the intervening night of June 2 and 3, which will be effective till June 4 noon. No untoward incident was reported from the city’s beaches till Wednesday 4.30 pm, even as strong winds lashed Mumbai due to severe cyclonic Cyclone Nisarga made its landfall near Alibag at on Wednesday.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said the next few hours are crucial for Mumbai, and that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is continuously monitoring the situation. “We are monitoring the rainfall and [possible] flooding,” said Chahal who also visited Worli seaface and Versova beach to supervise the evacuation of people staying in slums and fishing village close to sea shore being carried out.Lifeguards and fire personnel of the Mumbai Fire Brigade have been on standby to conduct rescue and other disaster management operations in the city’s six beaches since Tuesday night. Chief fire officer P Rahangdale said, “I inspected the situation at all beaches at around 2 pm, accompanying Mayor Kishori Pednekar. Apart from a few incidents of tree collapses that did not cause any damage to human life, no other untoward incident was reported.”Also read: Cyclone Nisarga snaps trees, electricity poles in Maharashtra’s RaigadRahangdale and Pednekar also visited Girgaon, Shivaji Park, Versova, and Juhu beaches on Wednesday afternoon. “The lockdown due to Covid-19 really proved beneficial. At other times, despite the municipal corporation’s advisory some people are seen wandering on beaches. But that was not the case on Wednesday due to lockdown already in place,” Rahangdale said. The fire brigade is now taking stock of how many tree collapses were reported along the coast of Mumbai. As of now, the city has experienced little rainfall and barely any flooding. In the last 24 hours, Mumbai has received around 68mm of rainfall, according to the state Indian Meteorological Department of which 45 mm rainfall was recorded at Colaba and 23 mm at Santacruz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-000-evacuees-from-low-lying-areas-in-mumbai-to-be-screened-for-covid-19-symptoms/story-VbxahhE04YLQBXD91qU1OK.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Not equipped to start online teaching as students have not paid fees: Unaided pvt schools||Unaided private schools in the state have said that they are not equipped to start the new academic year online, as students have not paid fees.Three associations--the Private Unaided School Managements Association (PUSMA), Independent English Schools Association(IESA) and Unaided Schools Forum--declared that nearly 60% unaided private schools in Maharashtra are in financial distress and cannot start online teaching. “In budget private schools, many parents have not paid fees after the state education department issued a circular allowing them to make partial payments. Thus, we are unable to pay our teachers and take care of our basic expenses. How can we provide online education in such a situation”, said Bharat Malik from PUSMA. The association said that nearly 78% of the total private schools in the state are budget schools, which charge up to Rs 15,000 per year.On May 18, the three associations wrote to the state education department with their grievances but said there has been no response so far. “The decision to come up with government resolutions was taken without consulting all stakeholders. While it is true that parents are facing financial constraints due to the Covid-19 pandemic, schools are also struggling to make ends meet. These are also grim times for a lot of teachers who are having difficulties in getting their salaries,” said Rajendra Singh, working president, IESA. When asked about several big school chains imposing a fee hike even as the government has asked them not to, SC Kedia, secretary of the unaided schools forum said that the hikes were approved before the pandemic. “Due process has been followed while imposing hikes. Schools are offering some concessions to parents facing difficulties but as a whole, they cannot reduce fees because now expenses will increase with sanitisation costs and expenditure towards IT infrastructure for online teaching,” he added. As per a government resolution (GR) released in May first week, schools cannot hike fees for the academic year 2020-21 and have to allow parents to pay in instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-equipped-to-start-online-teaching-as-students-have-not-paid-fees-unaided-pvt-schools/story-Gny7GZoOyO0oHzMsoNSL0J.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Six long-pending vacancies in Sangrur’s animal husbandry department||Six key posts in the animal husbandry department, including that of the deputy director, have been lying vacant in the district for a long time, years in some cases. The post of deputy director has been lying vacant for almost six years.Other vacant posts include that of assistant director animal husbandry (ADAH), Sangrur senior veterinary officer (SVO), SVO Malerkotla, SVO Dhuri and SVO Moonak. SVO Sunam Dr Baldev Singh, who has been serving on extension, has been serving as deputy director Sangrur with additional charge.“There is pressing requirement of senior officers in the district. However, we are managing the best we can with available staff,” said Baldev.A department official, requesting anonymity, said that the posts of SVOs had been lying vacant for several months. However, other districts have ‘sufficient staff’.Punjab director animal husbandry Dr Inderjeet Singh said that the office of deputy director is being run with additional charge and all vacant posts, including SVOs, will be filled soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-long-pending-vacancies-in-sangrur-s-animal-husbandry-department/story-VbJvtviWc5m1Ch5iQtfEZL.html
03-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19 has proven to be a tough challenge and PMC is doing an amazing job: Bapat||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Girish Bapat, mayor Murlidhar Mohol and city unit president Jagdish Mulik held a closed-door meeting on Tuesday, with four IAS officers, appointed by the state government to assist the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in combating the spread of Covid-19.“Covid-19 has proven to be a tough challenge and PMC is doing an amazing job. We discussed the challenges with the officials and the plausible solutions. We spoke about fine tuning of our response strategies and asked them if they need help from us. The officials were positive about our feedback,” said Bapat.Bapat said that he has proposed to give Rs 25 lakh via CSR funds for ventilators. “We also updated the officials regarding cleanliness work to be carried out on war footing in all wards,” he added.Mohol said, “PMC has been working with all the seriousness and professionalism in combating Covid-19. We will work with the officialdom by taking charge of our respective wards where the corporator will take the lead and work in close coordination with the PMC officials in carrying out the coronavirus-related work.”The meeting concluded with the BJP office-bearers promising that they will work in unison on one platform by taking care of each ward, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-has-proven-to-be-a-tough-challenge-and-pmc-is-doing-an-amazing-job-bapat/story-1hMMskbZsMfcdD95m34nZN.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||MBBS fee hike: GMC doctors, AAP workers stage protest in Amritsar||Protesting against the state government’s decision to hike the MBBS fee by around 80%, doctors and students of Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, wore ‘black badges’ on Wednesday while workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) gheraoed medical education minister OP Soni’s residence at Rani Ka Bagh. The protestors said the Punjab government had taken an ‘anti-people and anti-poor decision’ which will make medical education impossible for the middle class and economically weaker sections.‘PLUTOCRATIC DECISION’Amritsar Medical Student Association president Dr Vaibhav Chawla said, “Around 1,000 students, interns, senior residents and faculty members of GMC, Amritsar, wore black badges to show solidarity against the plutocratic decision of the government. MBBS students also staged a peaceful protest on the college premises.” ‘FEE ALREADY 55% HIGHER THAN OTHER STATES’“The government had earlier hiked the MBBS fee by 160% in 2015 and now it has announced another 80% hike. The fee of MBBS courses in Punjab is already the highest in India. It is around 55% higher than other states. Non-meritorious students from rich families will now get admission,” he said. Meanwhile, APP workers held a protest march from Valmiki Chowk to the residence of the medical education minister. Barnala AAP MLA Meet Hayer, Suman AAP MLA Aman Arora and AAP state youth wing president Manjinder Singh participated in the march. Majha Zone AAP president Kuldeep Dhaliwal, said, “Around 200 AAP workers raised slogans against the minister after gheraoing of his house. Later, we came to know the minister was in Patiala so we handed over a memorandum to his office workers, demanding roll-back of the decision to hike fee.”“The MBBS fee in government-run colleges in the state has been increased 12 times in 10 years and the 80% hike will be a setback for aspiring doctors,” he said. INCREASE DOCTORS’ SALARIES: AAP “The government is filling its own pockets by hiking students’ fee at a time when they are working as frontline warriors while combating the Covid-19 outbreak. Instead of hiking the fee, the government should increase doctors’ salaries and inters’ stipends,” said Dhaliwal, adding that AAP will intensify its protest if the government does not roll back the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mbbs-fee-hike-gmc-doctors-aap-workers-stage-protest-in-amritsar/story-hxLuaZUtdDwAEMF2qEE5kM.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||From Nisarga to Amphan: How do tropical cyclones form||India has been hit by two cyclones, Nisarga and Amphan, in less than a month as the country is already in the grip of the coronavirus pandemic and there is a severe strain on the health care system and personnel.Nisarga, like Amphan which battered West Bengal and Odisha last month, is expected to submerge low-lying areas, uproot trees, destroy uncemented houses and critical infrastructure, and worse, kill people and animals. The aftermath of the storm will be challenging too. Here is how tropical cyclones form:* Tropical cyclones form in the tropics when the sea is warm (sea surface temperature ≥ 26.50 degree C)* When the water vapour from the warm ocean condenses to form clouds, it releases its heat to the air* The warmed air rises and is pulled into the column of clouds. Evaporation and condensation continue, building the cloud columns higher and larger* A pattern develops, with the wind circulating around a centre (like water going down a drain). As the moving column of air encounters more clouds, it becomes a cluster of thunderstorm clouds, called a tropical disturbance* As the thunderstorm grows higher and larger, the air at the top of the cloud column is cooling and becoming unstable* The heat energy is released from the cooling water vapour, the air at the top of the clouds becomes warmer, making the air pressure higher and causing winds to move outward away from the high-pressure area* This movement and warming cause pressures at the surface to drop. Then air at the surface moves toward the lower pressure area, rises, and creates more thunderstorms* Winds in the storm cloud column spin faster and faster, whipping around in a circular motion. When the winds reach between 25 and 38mph, the storm is called a tropical depression* When the wind speeds reach 70 kmph, the tropical depression becomes a tropical storm. This is also when the storm gets a name* The winds blow faster and begin twisting and turning around the eye, or calm centre, of the stormFavourable environmental conditions for their formation:* Warm ocean waters (of at least 26.5°C) throughout a sufficient depth (at least 50m). Warm waters are necessary to fuel the heat engine of the tropical cyclone* An atmosphere which cools fast enough with height such that it is potentially unstable to moist convection* Relatively moist layers near the mid-troposphere (5km). Dry mid levels are not conducive for allowing the continuing development of widespread thunderstorm activity* A minimum distance of at least 500km from the equator* Coriolis force so that the low pressure of the disturbance can be maintained. The Coriolis effect is the pattern of deflection taken by objects not firmly connected to the ground as they travel long distances around the Earth.* Low values of vertical wind shear--the magnitude of wind change with height.(Source: IMD/ NOAA/National Geographic)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/from-nisarga-to-amphan-how-do-tropical-cyclones-form/story-6FIRALmbTQbSurQmpOPW3I.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hectic lobbying underway for Himachal BJP chief’s post, panel of five names sent to Nadda||Shimla: A week after Rajeev Bindal stepped down as the Himachal Pradesh BJP chief when his name surfaced in the health department medical equipment scam, hectic lobbying is underway for the coveted post.A vigilance and anti-corruption department probe into the irregularities in the purchase of medical equipment was ordered after an audio clip of former health director Dr Ajay Gupta’s conversation with a dealer surfaced on social media in which he was heard seeking a bribe of Rs 5 lakh. Though Bindal, 65, denied any link to the case, he quit on moral grounds.Former chief minister Shanta Kumar was critical of the scam in the purchase of equipment amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the matter reached the offices of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and party national president Jagat Parkash Nadda. Bindal was Nadda’s choice for the state president in January, but he wasted no time in accepting his resignation as the opposition Congress scaled up its attack on chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the health portfolio.Among the aspirants, backed by party stalwarts, lobbying for the post is Randhir Sharma, a two-time legislator who also remained the BJP state general secretary. Sharma, who is the chief spokesman of the party, is backed by former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal.Shanta Kumar is once again backing Rajeev Bhardwaj, who is chairman of the Kangra Co-operative Bank. He remained the state secretary of the party and also served as its vice-president. Bhardwaj was also the district president of the BJP’s Kangra unit.Party general secretary Trilok Jamwal is another frontrunner. His name had also cropped up when Bindal replaced the party’s longest serving president Satpal Singh Satti five months ago. Trilok is from Bilaspur district and considered close to Nadda. The party’s powerful organisational secretary, Pawan Rana, backs Trilok.First-time legislator from Sundernagar and party general secretary Rakesh Jamwal is the blue-eyed boy of the chief minister and a keen contender for the post. He was earlier president of the party’s Mandi district unit.Ram Singh, who is from the Scheduled Caste community, may have unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections from Kullu in 2012 but he enjoys the backing of Sangh leaders and is also vying for the post. Ram Singh had been president of the party’s Kullu district unit.The state unit has drawn up a panel of the names of all five aspirants and forwarded them to Nadda. There is every likelihood that the party high command may have its own choice for state BJP president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hectic-lobbying-underway-for-himachal-bjp-chief-s-post-panel-of-five-names-sent-to-nadda/story-2j8b2eFEpYvRUY6YLVaMmO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray shares a list of Dos and Don’ts. Read full list here||As cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday shared a list of dos and donts in view of the cyclonic storm asking citizens to exercising utmost caution. The cyclonic storm, which pounds the state also impact other coastal districts including Mumbai, Palghar and Thane.Among the top precautions, Thackeray has urged people to stay away from windows, pay attention to official instructions on TV and radio, abstain from circulating rumours and keeping an emergency kit ready. A list of Dos for people during cyclone Nisarga* Loose things outside the house should be tied or moved indoors*Seal important documents and jewellery in a plastic bag* Regularly inspect battery-operated as well as reserve power systems* Pay attention to official instructions on TV and radio* Practise actions to be taken in case of emergencies* If you do not live in a mud house/hut, choose a part of the house as an emergency shelter and practise how members of the house will use the space during the cyclone* Keep an emergency kit ready* Stay away from windows. Close some windows and keep some open so the pressure is maintained.* Stay at the centre of the room. Stay away from the corners as debris often accumulates in the corners* Hide under strong furniture such as a stool or a heavy table or desk, hold it tight* Use your hands to protect your head and neck* Avoid large roof spaces such as auditoriums or shopping malls* If you find an open space and there is enough time, find the right shelter in the nearest pit or pasture* Relocate to a predetermined or administration determined location* Disconnect power supply of all non-emergency equipment and tools* Store drinking water in a clean place* Help people trapped or injured. Provide first aid if needed* Check for air leaks. If you smell gas or hear a leaking sound, immediately open the windows and exit the building. If possible, turn off the gas valve and report to the gas company* Check for damage to electrical equipment. If you notice sparks, exposed wires, or burning smell of rubber, disconnect the main power supply and call the electrician* Help those in need of special help like children, physically challenged, elderly, neighbours.A list of Don’ts for people during cyclone Nisarga* Don’t spread or believe in rumours* Do not attempt to drive or ride any vehicle during the cyclone* Stay away from damaged buildings* Do not move injured people unless it is absolutely safe to do so. It may cause more harm* Do not allow oil and other flammable substances to spill. Clean immediately||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-shares-a-list-of-dos-and-don-ts-read-full-list-here/story-POOWQGa2vQ6kSjuyBCieEJ.html
03-06-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru duo arrested for selling fake insurance, registration papers||A city duo creating and selling fake documents looking like genuine motor vehicle insurance and registration cards has been arrested, an official said on Wednesday.“Sridhar, 29, cab driver and Santosh, 20, RTO broker, have been arrested for creating and selling the fake documents,” Central Crime Branch (CCB) Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Kuldeep Jain told IANS.The two were arrested under IPC Sections 420, 468 and 471, pertaining to forgery. They are in judicial custody after they were produced in a local court.Explaining their modus operandi, Jain said Sridhar, the cab driver, created a fake vehicle insurance policy document when his car’s insurance got expired.“He first tried it on himself and easily got away when stopped by the traffic police. The documents looked like original and the police let him go,” he said.On passing the police test, Sridhar and Santosh identified a way to make money creating such fake documents and vehicle registration cards.“It will cost some Rs 20-25 thousand to buy insurance per year, but the two were selling these fake insurance documents for around Rs 2,000, creating them at home,” said Jain.The fake papers were so well made that the two could replicate the documents of all major insurance companies in the market which easily passed the traffic police test.Using 60-70 seals, and following the latest format of such papers, the two continued with their “trade” for six months.Most enforcement agencies would not spend a much time on the genuineness of the documents, he said.“It was difficult to apprehend the duo. Based on some leads, we raided their home and seized a lot of seals, documents, a printer and a computer,” said Jain.Likewise, Sridhar and Santosh were also creating fake vehicle registration cards by defacing the flip-side of a card and reprinting with new information, mostly for second vehicles.“A CCB team led by police Inspector Hazresh detected fake insurance and registration card scam. Two accused have been arrested and fake seals, registration cards, insurance policies have been seized. Further investigation is on,” tweeted Joint Commissioner of Police Sandeep Patil.Some of the leading insurance companies the two used for creating the fake papers included Tata AIG Insurance, Shriram, Reliance and United India Insurance among others.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-duo-arrested-for-selling-fake-insurance-registration-papers/story-J72MRROjIKdY8fVlE9nFsJ.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hotels in Shimla to remain closed till August-end||In a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state, the Shimla Hotel Restaurant and Association has decided to not to re-open hotels till August-end or September until an effective vaccine for Covid-19 is available. The association said most tourists who visit Himachal are from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab, which have witnessed an onslaught of Covid-19 cases. The hoteliers noted that the cases were likely to continue to increase in June and July and advised the state government not to open state borders.Shimla hotel and restaurant association president Sanjay Sood said it will take hoteliers at least two to three months to train employees to take care of guests, themselves and the properties during the pandemic.“We should not consider opening the state for tourism till normalcy is restored in domestic and international air traffic and all inter-state borders are opened,” Sood said.QUARANTINE TOURISM DANGEROUSShimla hoteliers have also requested chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to not start quarantine tourism in the state as it could be unsafe for employees, properties and local residents.In order to once boost tourism in the state, Shimla hoteliers have suggested that state government should start marketing Himachal for wellness, adventure, environmental, cultural, heath, religious and culinary tourism.“If the state government hopes to open Himachal for tourism after two to three months, we suggest the state government project Himachal Pradesh as a safe destination,” said Sood.ADVERTISE ON NETFLIX: HOTELIERS TO CM The hoteliers also suggested ways to boost tourism such as advertising on Netflix, popular TV channels, theatres, newspapers and magazines.They said the state government, tourism department and members of all hotel associations organise roadshows, exhibitions and dinners with popular travel houses in all metropolitan and cities where the CM, senior officials of the state and association members showcase Himachal as a safe destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hotels-in-shimla-to-remain-closed-till-august-end/story-NBK3gYgCUxYyh1UgxrCLdK.html
03-06-2020||Bangalore||Yediyurappa directs tough action against 150 absentee employees||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has directed strict disciplinary action against 150 Horticultural Producers Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society Ltd (HOPCOMS) employees for being absent from work on Tuesday.“Take disciplinary action against 150 absentee staff of HOPCOMs,” said Yediyurappa at a review meeting of Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture departments.Out of 550 HOPCOMs shops in the state, only 250 are open, prompting the Chief Minister to instruct action against those not opening shops.Yediyurappa has also directed official to cancel all deputations in the Agriculture and Horticulture Departments.He also released Rs 666 crore relief amount to maize and flower growers.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister said no permission should be granted to drill new borewells as the state received good rainfall.He assured the people of Karnataka not to worry about the swarms of locusts as scientists told him that there will be no affect. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/yediyurappa-directs-tough-action-against-150-absentee-employees/story-Rb4Awycf6SgCT1edixQXJN.html
03-06-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru International Airport takes measures to make air travel conatctless||Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru on Tuesday intensified preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in a bid to make air-travel contactless.The airport has introduced contact-less self-check-in kiosks, non-intrusive thermal cameras, self bag drop facility and other features. Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) had earlier said that it will ensure that the taxis are sanitised and the drivers are screened before every trip to eliminate all chances of infection.“Drivers have been instructed to maintain a safe distance. They will be encouraged to use hand sanitiser and face masks to make the car a safe space. Able-bodied passengers are advised to load their luggage into the car without the driver’s assistance. For elderly citizens and passengers with reduced mobility, drivers will assist while following hygiene measures,” BIAL statement had said. The masks have been made mandatory for both drivers as well as passengers.Karnataka on Monday reported 187 new cases of coronavirus, with which the State’s total COVID-19 count has surged to 3,408.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-international-airport-takes-measures-to-make-air-travel-conatctless/story-dx2RppyLyH120xOkfYarWL.html
03-06-2020||Pune||Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall; heavy rainfall, strong winds hit Pune, parts of western Maharashtra||Several districts in western Maharashtra were lashed with heavy rains and accompanied with gusty winds on Wednesday as Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in the state’s Raigad district.They have been witnessing heavy rainfall since Tuesday night.In Pune district, widespread rains lashed cities and talukas on western parts such as Pune, Maval, Mulshi and Velhe. Other areas like Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli also witnessed rains.Also read| Cyclone Nisarga landfall begins, will take 3 hours to complete: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Shivajinagar in Pune witnessed 44mm of rainfall while Lohegaon received 97mm rainfall and Pashan recorded 51 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours till 8am on Wednesday.Water-logging has also been reported from many parts of the city.Anupam Kashypi, IMD Pune’s director, said most parts of western Maharashtra will witness rain for the next three days.“We have issues alert to hilly areas such as Ambegaon, Junnar, Maval, Bhor, Velhe and Mulshi talukas where the severity of cyclone is likely to be felt,” Naval Kishore Ram, the district collector, said.“We have also prepared evacuation plans if required in these areas. People have been asked not to go out of homes,” Ram said.Watch:  Cyclone Nisarga to hit Maharashtra today, NDRF teams deployedIMD said Cyclone Nisarga started making landfall at 11.30am south of Alibag in Raigad district with strong winds of 120 to 140kmph, higher than expected, making it the second severe cyclone to hit Mumbai since 1961. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on the ground witnessed Nisarga make landfall between Murud and Revdanda areas in Raigad district, just south of Alibag. RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at the weather forecast department, said Cyclone Nisarga will gradually enter Mumbai and Thane districts. Also read| Cyclone Nisarga: 60,000 people evacuated from Konkan, over 7,000 boats brought back“Landfall is just beginning. It will take three hours to complete the process,” Jenamani said.The cyclone was about 500km in size when it was in the ocean and its wind speed ranged from 110 to 120 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cyclone-nisarga-makes-landfall-heavy-rainfall-strong-winds-hit-pune-parts-of-western-maharashtra/story-xr6Zg0QZTCPPzGWq35OGOM.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Containment zones in Delhi soar to 158 after 11 new areas added to list||The number of containment zones in Delhi has gone up to 158 and 58 zones have been de-contained till date, news agency ANI reported citing government data on Wednesday.This came as the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the Capital surged past the 22,000-mark, as per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin.South-West and North districts have the highest number of containment zones at 31 each and West district has 30. The South-East district has 27 containment zones while the South district has 26 zones. The East district has 17 containment zones, North-West district has 15 containment zones and New Delhi district has 14 zones. The Central and Shahdara districts have 10 zones each.North-East district has the least number of containment zones at five.Delhi had reported 1,298 new cases of the Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases reported in the city so far to 22,312, as per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin.The number of new cases shot up again after a slight dip on Monday, when Delhi added 990 patients to its tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/containment-zones-in-delhi-soar-to-158-after-11-new-areas-added-to-list/story-PwHy8mG612P5nfHIw1p4SN.html
03-06-2020||Noida||2 realtors among four booked for assaulting woman||Two security personnel of a real estate group were arrested while its CEO and a general manager booked for assaulting a woman at a residential society in Greater Noida (West) on Tuesday, police said.  Those booked are Panchsheel Group’s CEO Deepak Jain, general manager (Civil) Prakash Jha, and two security personnel Jitendra Singh and Rahul, police said. According to locals, around half a dozen builder’s men, including the security personnel carrying firearms, had entered the society in the afternoon when the incident happened.  “The action was taken after an altercation broke out between residents of the society and some representatives of the builder at the Panchsheel Green society during the day over the installation of prepaid electricity meters instead of postpaid meters,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said.  “Some residents were opposed to the change. Meanwhile, the security men of the builder misbehaved with a woman resident and also allegedly brandished a gun to intimidate her,” he said.  “Two people have been arrested in the case,” Chander told PTI. The DCP said soon an FIR was lodged at the Bisrakh police station.   The accused were booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation). Police will also get the license of one of the seized firearm cancelled, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/2-realtors-among-four-booked-for-assaulting-woman/story-fyy1Ar3mkU3UMQh0WtmenL.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Stranded migrant workers stage protest outside DC’s office in Amritsar||At least two hundred migrant workers and their families staged a protest outside the deputy commissioner’s (DC’s) office here on Wednesday, and demanded that their return to their native places be facilitated. They said they had been stranded in the district for three months. “We do not have any accommodation, food or employment. It is difficult for us to continue like this any longer, especially for those with young children,” a protesting migrant labourer said.MIGRANTS CAMPING NEAR RAILWAY STATION TOLD TO MOVE The protestors had been waiting to return home for the last four-five days near the Amritsar railway station. “Now, we have been asked to vacate the area near the railway station as shops have started opening,” a protestor said. The protest started around 9am. Labourers say they will continue the sit-in until they get some assurance from the administration. “Around 50 of us had been working in Beas town before the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Now, we have been sacked. We cannot live here anymore and want to return home,” said migrant labourer Vidhya Devi Chauhan.“For the last four days we had been living outside the railway station. Some of us had been sleeping without food. There was no toilet facility. We have applied to return home, but have not received any response. Yesterday, some policemen took copies of our Aadhaar cards, but we don’t know when we will be allowed to return to our native places,” said Chauhan.Mithun Kumar of Bihar said, “We have been out of work for the last three months. At least 1,000 labourers are still stranded here. The Bihar government should arrange for our return.”Rajesh Kumar of Chattisgarh said, “We have been living on the roads. Arranging food and a bath has become difficult for us.”“For last four days, we have been told that no trains are available. The lockdown is killing us, not coronavirus,” said a woman cradling her child. Shramik trains will be arranged: ADC Additional deputy commissioner (ADC-general) Himanshu Aggarwal said the migrant workers had come to the railway station on Tuesday night. “Those who had come to the railway station before yesterday were sent to shelter homes,” he said.“Most of the workers who have gathered outside the DC’s office had been working in brick kilns. They are from Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh,” Aggarwal said.Aggarwal said, “We have asked the owners of the brick kilns to provide the exact number of migrant workers who want to return home.”“Earlier, half-empty Shramik trains had run from Amritsar to various states. If we had the details of these migrants labourers, we would have sent them home. Now, these migrants will be shifted to shelters. After ascertaining the total migrants who want to go to their native places we will arrange Sharmik trains for them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stranded-migrant-workers-stage-protest-outside-dc-s-office-in-amritsar/story-drRUxeNgCG7Nqz5PxlUOYO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: 60k people evacuated from Konkan, over 7k boats brought back||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that it has evacuated around 60,000 people from the state’s coastal region of Konkan, and brought 7,003 fishing boats back to the shore with the help of disaster management authorities as Cyclone Nisarga made landfall.The Konkan administrative region comprises seven districts in Maharashtra, including Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri.“We have evacuated almost 60,000 people from districts such as Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Palghar and Thane. The number is likely to increase when updated figures are released,” said Kishor Raje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.“Additionally,” he said, “we have successfully brought back 7003 fishing boats. We believe citizens’ safety is top priority, and we began an operation on Tuesday to bring back all the boats from the deep sea. Now, there are no fishing boats in the Arabian Sea along the Konkan coast.”Nimbalkar, however, could not confirm the number of fisherfolk who were brought back in their boats.He added that all emergency services have been put on alert, including non-Covid hospitals that have been told to prepare for a possible influx of emergency care patients. “The administration has also stocked excess food and medicine as a precautionary measure,” he said.Cyclone Nisarga, meanwhile, started its landfall around noon on Wednesday south of Alibag in Maharastra’s Raigad district. This is the the second severe cyclone to hit Mumbai since 1961.“Landfall is just beginning. It will take three hours to complete the process,” said RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at the weather forecast department.The cyclone was about 500km in size when it was in the ocean and its wind speed ranged from 110 to 120 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-60-000-people-evacuated-from-konkan-over-7-000-fishing-boats-brought-back/story-yT3IKN9iSUG9Rgs9XOjjnN.html
03-06-2020||Noida||Noida: 2 arrested, 817 penalised for Covid-19 lockdown violations||Two people were arrested and owners of 817 vehicles penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Tuesday for allegedly violating the lockdown curbs, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said. Also, three vehicles were impounded during the day. The Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, whose urban areas fall in the coronavirus red zone, even as general lockdown curbs continue due to the pandemic. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “An FIR was registered on Tuesday for a lockdown violation and two people arrested. A total of 1,941 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 817 of them, while another three were impounded,” the police said in a statement. The FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and violation of prohibitory orders put in place under the CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, they said.  The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed for movement except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration, officials said. The district’s borders continued to witness major snarls during peak morning hours and then again during the evening, while many people without requisite passes were denied entry into Gautam Buddh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-2-arrested-817-penalised-for-covid-19-lockdown-violations/story-RFd0I1Vjzh2hZ4MaqXm9dM.html
03-06-2020||Noida||Covid-19: One more dead, 26 new cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar||A 48-year-old man died of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday, taking the death toll due to the disease to eight in the district, officials said.A resident of Sector 62, the man was admitted to the government hospital in Noida, where he passed away in the evening, they added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The cause of death was pneumonia with sepsis (a life-threatening condition caused by a human body’s response to an infection) and respiratory failure,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.Meanwhile, 26 fresh Covid-19 cases, including seven staffers of a government hospital, were detected in Gautam Buddh Nagar, taking the number of such cases in the district to 494, he said.Also, 47 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Tuesday, leaving 142 active cases in the district, the senior doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-one-more-dead-26-new-cases-in-gautam-buddh-nagar/story-PY5Lp2EbQ6s3NLxGvzCOUL.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Traffic crawls at Delhi-Ghaziabad border as cops screen vehicles for passes||Thousands of commuters were caught in a long traffic jam at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border due to strict checking. The jam, say commuters, began at around 9am and led to long queues which then spread to the internal roads in Ghaziabad.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that borders of Delhi will be sealed for one week. Ghaziabad has put in similar restrictions since April 22, citing a rising number of cases in the district when city residents travel to Delhi.“I came to drop off my wife who goes to Delhi by car pool. But we got stuck as there is heavy jam from the UP-Gate up to Dabur-crossing on the Link Road and also up to Gaur Green Avenue in Indirapuram on the Delhi-Meerut expressway. The cops are checking every vehicle at the border, which has led to this. Every vehicle is getting checked for passes,” said Jeevan Singh, a resident of Vasundhara.The Ghaziabad police officials said the checking of vehicles by the Delhi police led to traffic jams on the UP side.“The Delhi police are checking vehicles at the border so there is very slow movement of vehicles and have led to long queues in Ghaziabad jurisdiction. On our side, we are checking vehicles which are entering Ghaziabad from Delhi,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).The officials have even restricted passage of vehicles before 9am and have advised commuters to return from Delhi after 6pm. Fresh instructions were issued on May 25 with certain categories of commuters exempted upon production of their identification cards and valid authorisation letters from their offices.Some of the commuters who left Ghaziabad for Delhi early morning said that there were no checks around 7.30am.“I crossed the UP-Gate border around 7.30m but there were no checks either by the Ghaziabad police or the Delhi police. There was less traffic and I reached my office within 45 minutes. The National Highways Authority of India is also performing repair work on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway and this has also added to traffic jams near the UP-Gate,” said Kuldeep Saxena, Indirapuram resident.The officials of the NHAI said that the traffic jams were not due to DME works but due to barricading put up at the border area of NH-9.“Generally the barricading or blocking the highway is not allowed but cops do it to maintain law and order. Earlier we had written to the Delhi authorities about this in order to remove barricading near Akshardham. Otherwise, the purpose of highway and expressway gets defeated,” said Mudit Garg, deputy general manager of NHAI.According to NHAI officials, the traffic on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, which is under construction from the UP-Gate to Dasna in Ghaziabad, the passenger car units (PCUs) have reduced to one-fourth during the lockdown period.“According to our estimates, there is about 80,000 PCU traffic at the UP-Gate which is just one fourth during the present times. The ratio is the same at our toll at Chijarsi (at Pilkhuwa town in Hapur). Our road has full capacity to cater to traffic and our works have not hampered movement of vehicles. It is because of barricading and checks taken up by police,” Garg added.The phase 1 of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, about 10km, stretches from Akshardham to the UP-Gate and is operational. The stretch caters to about 1.2 lakh PCUs per day.The under construction phase 2 of the project is in Ghaziabad and spreads to about 19.8km from the UP-Gate to Dasna. This stretch caters to about 80,000 PCUs per day.The officials said that different works under phase 2 are taking place at Hindon canal, near Khoda, near CISF camp and Vijay Nagar areas in the Ghaziabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-crawls-at-delhi-ghaziabad-border-as-cops-screen-vehicles-for-passes/story-d1OYj7IlD55z51BDnht5GJ.html
03-06-2020||Ranchi||51 fresh Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, total 712||Fifty-one people, including two intern doctors, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the number of cases in the state to 712, according to a bulletin issued by the health department.Two intern doctors at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) were found to be Covid-19 positive, health officials said, adding that they had a recent travel history.According to the bulletin, 499 of the total number of cases are migrant workers who recently returned to the state.Jharkhand has 411 active cases at present, while 320 people have been discharged from various hospitals following recovery, it said.Five persons have so far died of the disease in Jharkhand.Most of the active cases are in East Singhbhum district (115), followed by Dhanbad (51), Hazaribag (42), Ramgarh (25) and Gumla (22), the bulletin said.The other districts with active cases are Koderma (19), Ranchi (17), West Singhbhum (14), Simdega (14), Garhwa (13), Giridih (nine), Bokaro (seven), Pakur (five), Khunti (five), Seraikela (four), Lohardaga (four), Sahibganj (three), Latehar (three) and Palamau (two).A total of 5,415 people, who returned to the state recently, are under surveillance and asymptomatic, while 4,084 have completed the 28-day observation period.While 91,765 people are in various quarantine centres, 2,91,828 people are in home quarantine, the bulletin said.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is 44.94 per cent in Jharkhand and the mortality rate is 0.7 per cent, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/51-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-total-712/story-5xhuFOuXLkF1g0lnasyoVM.html
03-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s border districts on high alert over probable locust attack||Jharkhand Agriculture Minister Badal Patralekh on Tuesday said that the state is prepared for the possible locust attack and issued high alert in border districts of the state. “Jharkhand has prepared itself for the attack. By looking at states being affected by locusts we have issued high alert in border districts. The report of a three-tier high power committee is awaited. But before that, we have given alert to all our scientists and NDRF,” Patralekh told ANI. The Minister said there is less chance of Jharkhand facing the locust attack.“But if the border districts are attacked, we are ready for it. And we will definitely succeed in protecting the state from the attack. A meeting will be held on what other measures can be taken,” he added. Locust swarms from Pakistan have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, and Madhya Pradesh threatening major damage to standing cotton crops and vegetables, a spokesperson of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had earlier said.While the minister also said that the state will continue to bring stranded migrant labourers back to the state.“As monsoon is approaching, we have directed officials to help migrant labourers in the state. A meeting was held to restructure the market from where revenue will be procured. Our work to bring back our migrants will continue,” Patralekh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jharkhand-s-border-districts-on-high-alert-over-probable-locust-attack/story-Hg5ScheF0varfXVZ7SUWJN.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||500 emergency response team members on standby as Mumbai braces for Cyclone Nisarga||Over 500 emergency response team members from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are on standby as Mumbai braces for impact of Cyclone Nisarga’s landfall by Wednesday afternoon.The BMC has appealed to citizens to not step out of their houses unnecessarily. It has also asked citizens to keep their mobile phones and power banks charged to ensure connectivity, and to keep candles handy. The city has been receiving light rains in several places since early morning.However, power distribution firms have said there will be no scheduled shutdowns. The Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company (Mahatransco) has created a contingency plan for all stakeholders for Wednesday and Thursday to prevent power outage in the state.There will be no planned shutdown of power supply in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and north Maharashtra on the two days, the plan, accessed by HT, stated. All the sub-station, operation and maintenance personnel and engineers have been asked to remain alert at power stations, to analyse the cause of tripping and take quick action, in case of any glitches. Mahatransco has also asked an adequate number of experienced staffers to be deployed at the control centres for ‘crisis management’. “A system restoration procedure will also be readily available for the teams to take quick action,” an official from the transmission arm said.The BrihanMumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking, which supplies power to Mumbai’s island city, said it will keep its engineers on standby so that immediate action can be taken in case of a power failure, especially at Covid-19 hospitals or care centres. Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML), a major power supplier in the city and its suburbs, said all necessary precautions have been taken. “Our specialised quick response teams are on standby. Consumers can call our helpline 19122, and our teams will attend to their concerns at the earliest,” an AEML spokesperson said.According to BMC’S disaster management department, officers from each of the 24 wards are on standby, followed by 150-plus members from MFB who will activate the flood response plan, in case of an emergency. Further, 94 lifeguards are on standby at several beaches in the city including Girgaon Chowpatty, Juhu, Versova, Aksa and Gorai, BMC officials said. Citizens have been barred from going to beaches in the city under a Section 144 order by the Mumbai Police.Three NDRF teams of 45 members each were already stationed in Mumbai until Tuesday. An additional five teams of 45 members each were airlifted from Andhra Pradesh late on Tuesday night.The NDRF team is on standby with equipment such as rescue boats, tree and pole cutters, life jackets, ropes, breathing masks, floaters, etc.An official from BMC’s Disaster Management Cell said, “The main worry is slums in places like Versova and Colaba, considering they are almost on the seashore. Many of those residing in these slums were identified and evacuated on Tuesday night.”The official added, “We are expecting a lot of trees to fall, and the ward level and MFB officials are already on standby for the same. Thankfully, as per the predictions, the landfall is in afternoon when there is a low tide, however, it will be worrying if during the landfall there is heavy rainfall.”In the next three days, there will be three high tides of over four metres at least thrice. The first high tide of 4.26 metres was on Wednesday at 10.06 am. This will be followed by a 4.56 metre high tide at 10.57 am on Thursday, and a third one is expected at 11.45 am on Friday of 4.75 metres.Meanwhile, in an advisory issued on Tuesday, the BMC said, “If for some unavoidable reason, you need to drive your car, please ensure that you carry a hammer or objects that can help you break the glass in case your car doors get jammed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/500-emergency-response-team-members-on-standby-as-mumbai-braces-for-cyclone-nisarga/story-ACbQsC3U2M8Cc7J9OJVwxH.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: 4,407 people relocated, but landfall site survey shows many still at home||A total of 4,407 have been relocated from the coastal resort town of Alibag — around 9 nautical miles or 90 km by road from Mumbai — where cyclone Nisarga is expected to make landfall just south of it between 1 pm and 4 pm. Nisarga, classified as a severe cyclonic storm is expected to make landfall at a wind speed of 100-110 kmph, with a gusting speed of 120 kmph. The Indian Institute of Oceanic Studies has also warned of storm surges that may result in inundation in low-lying areas along the coastline.However, a survey of coastal villages by this reporter showed that many people had still not left their homes despite a warning by district authorities. HT spoke to residents of three fishing villages, Siddharth Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Alibag Koliwada, who were still at home on Wednesday morning. Local police was spotted going door-to-door, telling people to evacuate as rain and wind speed intensified marginally around 9.30 am. “It has been raining since yesterday. We have to complete all our household chores before leaving. We will evacuate soon,” Kamla Perekar, a fisherwoman from Alibag Koliwada, told this reporter. Girish Hirlekar, a resident of Shastri Nagar village said, “We were informed about being evacuated at 8 am by the local police. It will take us sometime to leave our houses. [I am worried that we will be leaving our homes] unattended during the cyclone.” Alibag on Wednesday has recorded 33 mm rain between 5.30 am and 9.30 am while Raigad district, which comprises 17 talukas, recorded 285 mm rain in the same time frame. Residents have been evacuated from other coastal districts too — as of Wednesday 10 am, relocation of at least 2,553 people from Shrivardhan, 2,407 from Murud, 1,512 from Uran, 239 from Mhasala, 87 from Pen, and 55 form Panvel has taken place. “People have been relocated to rest houses, schools, and government buildings for Wednesday and Thursday. From Alibag, they are mostly residents of fishing villages relocated to schools, and everyone will be allowed to return to their homes once we are told that there is no impending danger from the cyclone,” said Manoj Sanap, district information officer of Raigad district, in which Alibag falls. He added that they had been informed by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) that Cyclone Nisarga is likely to make landfall close to Alibag around 3 pm. “There are seven teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in the district including two teams in Alibag,” he said.Until Wednesday morning, 20 National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) teams were deployed in Maharashtra: eight in Mumbai, five in Raigad, two each in Thane, Palghar and Ratnagiri, and one in Sindhudurg district. Each team has up to 45 jawans equipped with tree and pole cutting machines, communication gadgets, inflatable boats, first-aid kits, basic medicines and a rescuer-Covid kit, which includes a hand-wash, soap, gloves, face masks and face shields. There are more than 40 teams across the western coast, as Gujarat also prepared for the cyclone’s impact.Close to 100,000 people have been evacuated from the coastal areas of Maharashtra until Wednesday morning state government and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) authorities have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-4-407-people-relocated-from-landfall-site-officials-say-but-site-survey-shows-many-still-at-home/story-bqFAOmLxemh5aM3dxzmVBJ.html
03-06-2020||City||First Covid-19 cases reports from Kinnaur, Himachal tally climbs to 359||Fourteen people, including a couple from the tribal district of Kinnaur, tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 359.The couple, who had returned from Delhi, became the first cases of Covid-19 to be reported from Kinnaur.Kinnaur chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sonam Negi said a family of three from Sangla area had travelled from Delhi on May 26.The 45-year-old man, his 40-year-old wife and 10-year-old child were quarantined at Urni.“The couple have tested positive for Covid-19 while the sample of their child has been sent for re-testing,” said Dr Negi.The patients are being shifted to the Covid-Care Centre in Rekong Peo.FOUR CASES IN KANGRAKangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that four men were tested positive in Kangra district.One returned from Madhya Pradesh and one from Pathankot. The third flew from Delhi by Air India flight on May 29. The trio was under institutional quarantined.The fourth, a taxi driver who was ferrying passengers from Delhi and Chandigarh was put under institutional quarantine on May 25 for violating containment zone orders.His contacts are being traced, said Prajapati.SHIMLA, BILASPUR REPORT ONE CASE EACHOne case each was reported in Shimla and Bilaspur.A 27-year-old resident of Taklech in Rampur subdivision of Shimla district has tested positive. He had returned from Delhi on May 27 and was put under institutional quarantine in Jeori.The reports of a 31-year-old man from Bilaspur also came out positive. The man had returned from Delhi in his private vehicle and was institutionally quarantined at Swarghat.One 32-year-old ITBP jawan was tested positive for the virus in Una district. His sample was tested negative in Delhi and was under home quarantine after returning to his native village in Haroli area.However, his sample was tested positive today, said Una CMO, Raman Kumar.Two cases each were also reported from Mandi and Hamirpur district and one from Chamba.204 ACTIVE CASESSpecial secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said there are now 204 active cases in the state.Eleven of 12 districts were now affected by the disease. Only Lahaul And Spiti remains Covid-free.So far, the state’s tally is 359 cases with five fatalities - three men and two women.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 114 cases followed by Kangra with 94 cases. A total of 40 cases have been reported in Una, 32 in Solan, 25 in Chamba, 19 in Bilaspur, 17 in Mandi, 10 in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and two each in Kullu and Kinnaur. Till date, as many as 146 people have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-2-covid-19-cases-reported-from-kinnaur-himachal-s-count-climbs-to-349/story-xrmhj1qTySJkAec5MHXt0O.html
03-06-2020||Kolkata||Bengal Guv takes ‘strong exception’ to TMC minister for calling him as ‘BJP man’||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Tuesday took a ‘strong exception’ to widely reported statement of state’s Education Minister Partha Chatterjee in which he has called the Governor ‘BJP man’ for the appointment of Prof Goutam Chandra the Pro-Vice chancellor of Burdwan University.“This is very unfortunate. We sent him our choice but he appointed a person, not on the list. He always wanted to appoint the people loyal to the BJP. This is not done. We will not accept him in that position ... The Governor should have remembered that the government pays salaries in all the universities,” Chatterjee has said, according to a statement issued by the Raj Bhavan.Responding to these allegations, West Bengal Governor Dhankar said that on a point of fact also he has tripped and the names were shared with him and the consultation as per Act effected.“Such an allegatory stance, apart from being highly regretful, is unbecoming for the position he holds as Minister. It is also an outrage of the Oath of Office he has taken as a Minister. His earlier attempts to politicise the Office of the Governor/Chancellor and now this outrageous comment cannot be countenanced, as the approach is indicative of a strategy to embroil the Office of Governor in the public domain in controversy,” Governor Dhankar was quoted as saying in the statement.“His stance that the Governor should remember that ‘government pays salaries in all the universities’ is not only lamentable but betrays ignorance about the working of the Constitution and democracy. Does he intend to indicate that by paying salaries such vital educational institutions are required to be at his beck and call, be in subordination and compliance mode? Such a situation will be a death-knell of education in the State, and is unacceptable,” he added.According to the Governor, the appointment of the Pro Vice-Chancellor of Burdwan University was effected after due consultation with the Minister on more than one occasion in accordance with the Statutory provisions of the Burdwan University Act. “The same is in accordance with the legal regime and competence of the Chancellor enjoys under the provisions of the Act. Suggestion by the Government received full consideration but the final decision in the mater as per the Statute rests with the Chancellor and that was taken fully in accordance with the provisions,” Governor said.The West Bengal Governor said that the rationale of Minister Chatterjee’s logic is otherwise also fragile. “By his logic, institutions like that of the Governor under Article 158, the Public Service Commission under Article 322, the High Court and the like, whose salaries are paid by the State government, should be in subordination or compliance mode. It is hoped such unthoughtful and constitutionally repugnant statement is immediately withdrawn and the intervention of the Chief Minister on the point is called for,” he said.The Governor further said that the appointment of Prof Goutam Chandra by the Chancellor as Pro-Vice chancellor, Burdwan University, was in accordance with the provision contained in Section 9A (1) (b) of the West Bengal University Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011. “The Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Administration and Academic) shall be appointed by the Chancellor in consultation with the Minister. The term of his office shall be for four years and he shall be eligible for re-appointment for a period not exceeding four years but shall not hold office beyond the age of sixty-five years,” provisions read as quoted by West Bengal Governor Dhankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-guv-takes-strong-exception-to-tmc-minister-for-calling-him-as-bjp-man/story-9tMwZ3qjz2Jry9lSVz8LqN.html
03-06-2020||Jaipur||Centre’s hike in MSP ‘insignificant’, raise procurement limit to 50%: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday the raise in the minimum support price (MSP) announced by the central government was “totally insignificant” and demanded an increase in the limit of procurement for crops to at least 50%.Ashok Gehlot said in a series of tweets that the Centre’s promise to double the income of farmers by 2022 was just another “jumla”.His comments came after the Centre on Monday raised paddy MSP marginally by Rs 53 per quintal to Rs 1,868 per quintal for the 2020-21 crop year and hiked the rates for oilseeds, pulses and cereals substantially.Cotton’s MSP was increased by Rs 260 per quintal to Rs 5,515 for medium staple variety and by Rs 275 per quintal to Rs 5,825 for long-staple variety of cotton for the current crop year (July-June).“Hike in MSP announced by government is totally insignificant looking at the hardships faced by our farmers, who have been hit hard by not only corona but sliding economy, locust attacks, cyclone etc. Farmers have been desperately waiting to get concrete relief but their hopes have been dashed,” Ashok Gehlot tweeted. Hike in MSP announced by Govt is totally insignificant looking at hardships faced by our farmers, who hv been hit hard by not only corona but sliding economy, locust attacks, cyclone,etc. Farmers have been desperately waiting to get concrete relief but their hopes hv been dashed.“If the government of India really wants to help the Annadata, it should increase the limit of MSP procurement from 25% of the crop produce to at least 50% under the Price Stabilization Scheme and fix MSP as recommended in the Swaminathan report,” he said. If the government of India really wants to help the Annadata, it should increase the limit of MSP procurement from 25% of the crop produce to at least 50% under the Price Stabilization Scheme and fix MSP as recommended in the Swaminathan report.“The so called raised MSP is a paltry amount, which doesn’t even cover farmers’ input costs. The increase is just 2.07 % for moong and 7.5 % for bajra, which makes the tall promise of GoI of doubling the farmers’ income by 2022, look like yet another jumla (sic),” he added.Recently, the state government had announced relief to farmers, industries and domestic consumers in the payment of electricity bills on April 2. It has extended the payment of electricity bills to June 30, which earlier was till May 31 amid the coronavirus pandemic. The government had also extended the amnesty scheme period till June 30 for such agricultural and domestic connections, which were disconnected before March 31, 2019, over pending arrears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/centre-s-hike-in-msp-insignificant-raise-procurement-limit-to-50-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-NfT2liwX2yxrOjtLXem3fL.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||More than 4,000 people evacuated from Cyclone Nisarga landfall site Alibaug near Mumbai||A total of 4,407 have been relocated from the coastal resort town of Alibaug - around 9 nautical miles or 90 km from Mumbai. Cyclone Nisarga is expected to make landfall just south of Alibaug between 1 pm and 4 pm. Nisarga, classified as a severe cyclonic storm, is expected to make landfall with a wind speed of 100-110 kmph, gusting upto 120 kmph. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has also warned of storm surges that may result in inundation in low-lying areas along the coastline.However, a survey of coastal villages showed that many people had still not left their homes despite warning by district authorities. Hindustan Times spoke to residents of three fishing villages - Siddharth Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Alibag Koliwada - who were still at home on Wednesday morning. Police officials was spotted going door-to-door, telling people to evacuate as rain and wind speed intensified marginally around 9.30 am. “It has been raining since yesterday. We have to complete all our household chores before leaving. We will evacuate soon,” said Kamla Perekar, a fisherwoman from Alibag Koliwada.Girish Hirlekar, a resident of Shastri Nagar, said, “We were informed about being evacuated at 8 am by the local police. It will take us sometime to leave our houses. (I am worried that we will be leaving our homes) unattended during the cyclone.” Alibaug on Wednesday recorded 33 mm rain between 5.30 am and 9.30 am while Raigad district, which comprises 17 talukas, recorded 285 mm rain during the same time period.Residents have been evacuated from other coastal districts too - as of 10 am on Wednesday, relocation of at least 2,553 people from Shrivardhan, 2,407 from Murud, 1,512 from Uran, 239 from Mhasala, 87 from Pen, and 55 form Panvel has taken place.“People have been relocated to rest houses, schools, and government buildings for Wednesday and Thursday. They are mostly residents of fishing villages. Everyone will be allowed to return to their homes once we are told that there is no impending danger from the cyclone,” said Manoj Sanap, district information officer of Raigad district, which Alibaug is part of. Sanap added that the district administration had been informed by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) that Cyclone Nisarga is likely to make landfall close to Alibaug around 3 pm. “There are seven teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in the district including two teams in Alibaug,” he said.Until Wednesday morning, 20 teams of NDRF were deployed in Maharashtra: eight in Mumbai, five in Raigad, two each in Thane, Palghar and Ratnagiri, and one in Sindhudurg district. Each team has up to 45 jawans equipped with tree and pole cutting machines, communication gadgets, inflatable boats, first-aid kits, basic medicines and a rescuer-Covid kit, which includes a hand-wash, soap, gloves, face masks and face shields. There are more than 40 teams across the western coast, as Gujarat also prepared for the cyclone’s impact.Close to 1,00,000 people have been evacuated from the coastal areas of Maharashtra until Wednesday morning, state government and the NDRF authorities have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-than-4-000-people-evacuated-from-cyclone-nisarga-landfall-site-alibag-near-mumbai/story-i5cfOnLLWwgZ9lXs8qadHI.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Borders with Delhi to be opened after discussion with Delhi Govt: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that the decision regarding opening of borders with the national capital will be taken after discussing the matter with the Delhi government.“MHA guidelines were followed while taking decisions but the Delhi government decided not to allow any movement. Now any decision in this regard would be taken after discussing it with the Delhi government as borders would be opened after mutual consent of both governments,” said Haryana CMO quoting Khattar.On Monday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the borders of the national capital have been sealed for the next one week and only essential services will be allowed citing a surge in Covid-19 positive cases.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in its new guidelines has said that there shall be no restriction on the interstate and intrastate movement. Also, no separate permission/approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements.However, if a State or Union Territory, based on reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation proposes to regulate the movement of persons, it will give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions to be placed on such movement and the related procedures to be followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/borders-with-delhi-to-be-opened-after-discussion-with-delhi-govt-haryana-cm/story-7sY7vfBwQq4L2sFXFHtmEN.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mother-son, pregnant woman, hospital staffer among seven test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Mohali||Seven new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Mohali on Wednesday, taking the district’s coronavirus count to 123.The district has 17 active cases, as 103 people have recovered and three have died.A 50-year-old woman and her 21-year-old son, both residents of Baltana in Zirakpur; a 40-year-old man and a 28-year-old pregnant woman from Naggar village in Banur; a Class-4 employee at the civil hospital in Dhakoli, Zirakpur; a 39-year-old man from Dera Bassi; and a 36-year-old man from Sector 78 have been tested positive for coronavirus.“We are tracing contacts of the patients,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. While the 40-year-old man had come from Bihar, the 39-year-old and 36-year-old man had returned from Delhi recently. Meanwhile, the 28-year-old woman tested positive during prenatal check-up.“All patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Their condition is stable and they are all responding well to treatment,” said Dr Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mother-son-among-five-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-mohali/story-ZNtZz7574GDta0Ob1xE6bJ.html
03-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan opens monuments, museums after over 2 months||Monuments and museums were opened in Rajasthan from Tuesday after over two months.The decision to open these 16 monuments and 22 museums were taken by the Rajasthan Archaeological and Museums Department.However, forts shall continue to remain closed in the state.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThese museums and monuments were closed on March 18 this year in wake of Covid-19 crisis.According to officials, the monuments and museums have been opened everywhere except in the hotspot and containment area. Archaeological Department Director Prakashchandra Sharma said: “Monuments and museums are being opened for four days in a week - Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. In the first week from its commencement, they shall be opened from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.“In the second week, their timings will be from 9 am to 1 pm and from 3 pm to 5 pm“The entry will be free for the first two weeks. After this, tourists will be given entry with a 50 per cent discount on entry fee from the third week.”Amongst the guidelines issued, sale of online tickets are being promoted. Also, the monuments and museums will be cleaned before opening. Necessary cleanliness is being ensured in the day and evening as well.People will undergo thermal screening prior to entry. Also, sanitisation is a must and no one will be given entry without a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-opens-monuments-museums-after-over-2-months/story-TcSzPO6tgjJME4iYLgGUqM.html
03-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot directs officials to conduct university exams in July||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday directed officials to conduct the exams of universities, postponed due to the Covid-19 lockdown, in July.Chairing a review meeting of the higher education department, the chief minister asked the officials to start examinations of final year of UG and PG courses from second week of July, a statement said.Click here for full Covd-19 coverageIt was decided in the meeting that first and second year students will be promoted to next year on provisional basis and their exams will also be conducted later on, according to the statement.Same pattern will be followed for B Tech, MBA and polytechnic courses. He said that health protocols, social distancing should be followed properly in view of coronavirus during exams and other activities, it said.Higher Education Minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati, Technical Education Minister Subhash Garg, Chief Secretary DB Gupta and other senior officials were also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-directs-officials-to-conduct-university-exams-in-july/story-r6bturWDBFPHpTBvxHTAgK.html
03-06-2020||Education||AKTU to roll out part-time postgraduate, Ph D courses||The academic council of the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) approved running of part time M Tech/M Arch/M Design courses and part-time PhD courses, from the new academic session, at a meeting held on Tuesday.These courses will be run at AKTU’s constituent institutions like Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET), Lucknow, Centre of Advanced Studies, Lucknow, Faculty of Architecture, Lucknow and Uttar Pradesh Institute of Design, Noida. “These courses will be started for such students who are employed in any industrial sector or government and non-government institutions and wish to do M Tech/M Arch/M Design and Ph D courses. The proposal for running part-time M Tech/M Arch/M Design courses and part-time Ph D course has been agreed with the condition that students taking admission in the said courses have to ensure attendance in regular classes,” said AKTU vice-chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak.He said, “It was also decided in the meeting that the university will provide educational autonomy to private affiliated institutions, keeping in view their performance in academic, research, innovation, training and placement, etc. In this regard, a committee has been constituted.”In another decision, AKTU approved the introduction of Abdul Kalam Institutional Ranking Framework (AIRF) to ensure quality among affiliated institutions. The objective of introducing AIRF rankings will be to prepare the institutions for the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranking with the assurance of quality in the associated institutions, the V-C said. “It will be mandatory for each affiliate institution to participate in the AIRF ranking. This ranking is proposed to be done on the prescribed standards of NIRF ranking. The top 25 institutes which will appear in the AIRF ranking will be provided all possible support by AKTU, by working as a mentor for NIRF rankings,” he said.The academic council unanimously approved the process of conducting practical examinations of various engineering courses through virtual labs. It was also decided to organise the annual Dr Abdul Kalam Art, Cultural, Technical, Literary and Management Fest as an e-fest this year.The academic council also approved the establishment of four other student welfare cells in Agra, Bareilly, Jhansi and Sultanpur.Unique action against abusive students AKTU has decided to take unique disciplinary action against students who have made abusive and vulgar comments on the official social media platforms of the University (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube etc). “If a student makes obscene and vulgar comments on the official social media platform of the university, then he must compulsorily take a course of 15-days in human values. Also, during the summer and winter holidays, for one month he/ she will have to go to a rural area and take part in positive social work,” said V-C Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/aktu-to-roll-out-part-time-postgraduate-ph-d-courses/story-EOoICeEphARv0JXZt2zEeP.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||120 shanties gutted in fire at Delhi’s Tughlaqabad area||A fire broke out in the slums of southeast Delhi’s Tughlaqabad area in the early hours on Wednesday, officials said. According to the Delhi Fire Services, a call about the blaze at Valmiki Mohalla was received at 1.30 am and 22 fire engines were rushed to the spot. The fire was brought under control by 3.30 am. No one was injured in the blaze that gutted 120 huts. This is the second fire incident in a week’s time in the area. Last week, a massive fire had gutted 250 shanties in Tughlaqabad village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/120-shanties-gutted-in-fire-at-delhi-s-tughlaqabad-area/story-NjZ2u7w82FazqSr6fpuZgJ.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||8 nurses at a private hospital in Delhi test positive for Covid-19||Eight nurses have tested positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital here, over a week after a nursing staff member of the facility died of the infection, officials said on Tuesday.The employee of Kalra Hospital had died of Covid-19 on May 24 at the Safdarjung Hospital.“Around eight nurses of our hospital had tested positive a few days ago. Three of them are kept in an isolation facility at our hospital only and the rest are asymptomatic. So, as per guidelines they have been told to be home-quarantined,” said Dr R N Kalra, owner of the hospital.The 112-bed private facility is located in Kirti Nagar in west Delhi.“We also have a unit in Dwarka with 50 beds. We have reserved 34 beds there for Covid patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/8-nurses-at-a-private-hospital-in-delhi-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-beJLbrTRIVOMneGoS6tMkI.html
03-06-2020||Lucknow||Woman beaten to death by neighbours in UP’s Moradabad||A woman died in Jayantipur area after she was thrashed by her neighbours after an argument broke out between them, which turned into a scuffle among their children, said Police on Tuesday.Police said the woman was beaten to death by her neighbours.“There was a clash between two groups who are neighbours after their children got into an argument. The woman was beaten to death by her neighbours,” Assistant Superintendent of Police Deepak Bhukar.“The body has been sent for post-mortem and the action will be taken on the basis of the report,” he added.Meanwhile, the investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/woman-beaten-to-death-by-neighbours-in-up-s-moradabad/story-p1lTyN3BYXH7tTp4410cAJ.html
03-06-2020||City||1 dead, 4 others of a family critical in Odisha’s Jharsuguda after suicide attempt||A 33-year-old man died and four of his family members, including his mother, were battling for their lives on Wednesday in Odisha’s Jharsuguda district after they allegedly tried to commit suicide following the death of one of the sons, police said.Officials said Srikanta Biswal was among the five members of his family who drank phenyl on Tuesday. Srikanta Biswal, his 55-year-old mother and three sisters in the age group of 30 to 38 years from Lahandabud under BTM police station area of Jharsuguda district were admitted to the district headquarters hospital on Tuesday morning in critical condition.One of the deceased youth’s sisters, who first tried hanging herself before drinking phenyl, was shifted to Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Hospital after her condition worsened.Suchismita Mohanty, the inspector of BTM police station, said the five people were traumatised after 22-year-old Dipak Biswal succumbed to his injuries in a nursing home on Monday, two years after he met with a road accident.“The family’s head Golak Bihari Biswal, an employee of PSU Mahanadi Coalfields Limited, had also died after retiring from service in 2016. After the accident involving Dipak in 2018, the family had spent over Rs 30 lakh on his treatment but there was very little recovery. On Monday, he was admitted to a nursing home after his condition deteriorated but he passed away,” Mohanty said.One of the members of Biswal family, who too attempted suicide, told the police that they were very close and could not bear the thought of losing their brother.“When my brother died last evening we decided to die along with him and consumed phenyl and herbicides,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-family-members-in-odisha-attempt-suicide-after-son-s-death/story-t7dgnfHNvkrqGCEmiUjsmM.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Uncertainty dogs commuters but Delhi’s borders stay open for now||Traffic moved smoothly at some of the 29 border points in Delhi while intermittent checking was conducted at some others on Tuesday, a day after the Delhi government put stringent curbs on interstate travel for a week to protect the city’s health care resources as Covid-19 cases crossed the 20,000-mark.On Tuesday, Delhi reported 1,298 Covid cases with the total tally reaching 22,132. Eleven more people died over the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 556, according to the Delhi government’s daily bulletin. The average number of daily new cases in the last week has been 1,095 and the Delhi government has been taking several measures to augment bed strength across hospitals and medical institutions. Senior Delhi Police officers said their personnel were briefed not to “unnecessarily harass anyone” and “allow Delhi residents to enter the Capital after seeing their residential proof”. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageMany regular commuters Hindustan Times spoke to said that their travel to Delhi from Ghaziabad and Noida was smoother than what they had experienced in the past few weeks despite curbs imposed by the district administrations of the two Uttar Pradesh cities.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “The Delhi government had sent the order to seal all borders to the Delhi police. It is now the job of the police to enforce it. The Delhi police is not under us.” At the Gurugram border, there was no restriction on the Delhi side as commuters, including officer-goers, drove across without any checking by the Delhi Police staff. At the Ghaziabad (UP)-Ghazipur (Delhi) border, the police conducted random checks occasionally during the day time. But in the evening peak hour, no car was being stopped from entering or leaving Delhi. Many commuters said they were confused about whether the restrictions on the border had been relaxed.The Gurugram police, however, closed the barricades to check for movement passes and turned away a few commuters who could not establish a reason to visit the city. The police also asked people to paste the movement pass issued by the district administration on the windscreen of their cars so that their personnel deployed at the border can check it without disrupting the traffic flow.The Haryana government had decided on Sunday evening to ease restrictions on the state’s borders with Delhi in Gurugram that had been in place since May 1. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said talks will be held with the Delhi government to build a consensus on the inter-state movement issue. He, however, said some restrictions should stay in place. “Our borders were already closed but when the Delhi government said these should not be opened, we felt what they are saying holds weight. Strictness should be there for now along the Delhi-Haryana border,” Khattar said.Mandeep Singh, a senior executive of a private company in Gurugram, said he had left his home in Hauz Khaz for his office at 7am to avoid any screening from the police at the border. “I left way ahead of my office reporting time because I did not have any pass to show to the police had they stopped me. But, my colleagues who came from Delhi at the usual office time, later told me that there was no checking of any kind. I had a sleepless night for no reason. The government should have made its intention clear,” he said. At the Badarpur border, however, the police checked the identity cards and passes of all commuters entering the national capital by cars or motorcycles, but no questions were asked of those leaving the city.Many motorists had a tough time trying to convince the police that they belonged to Delhi and should be allowed to pass through.“So many people are showing old passes. We don’t know how to deal with them. So, we are going by our judgement in each case,” said an assistant sub-inspector deployed there.“I had gone to a client’s home in Indirapuram in the morning. Nobody stopped me or asked for any pass. Now that I want to return home, the policemen at Delhi border refused to let me in as I do not have a movement pass. I told them Delhi CM has banned other states’ residents and showed them my Delhi residence proof. But they are not letting me in,” said east Delhi’s Mandawali resident Anil Pandit, after a brief argument with police at the Ghazipur border.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said, “Personnel deployed at borders have been briefed to assist people who are facing urgent situations.”At the Dundahera and Mandi Border-(Chattarpur farms) in south Delhi, commuters were seen crossing the border without any checks, even as police barricades and policemen were present. Similarly, no restrictions were seen at the Maharajpur, Mayur Vihar, and Bhopura borders in east and northeast Delhi, as motorists were crossing the barricades freely.“We are implementing all provisions mentioned in the new notification. Whatever issues have come to our notice will soon be resolved. Those who need to visit Delhi should get movement passes,” said Delhi Police spokesperson, Mandeep Singh Randhawa.While traffic flow was mostly smooth, the issuance of travel passes by district magistrates in Delhi appeared to be a source of confusion. While senior officials in the government said those working in private firms will also be issued passes by the district magistrates (DMs), administrations remained divided over whether to give passes only to those engaged in emergency and essential services, or grant permission to others in non-essential sectors as well. “At a time when all offices and other economic activities have opened up nationally, it is difficult to restrict movement. There are over 4,000 e-pass applications pending, accumulated over two days,” said one DM, on condition of anonymity. At least two DMs said e-passes in their district are being issued only to those engaged in essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/uncertainty-dogs-commuters-but-delhi-s-borders-stay-open-for-now/story-HKCJjXkKI9wJVcv6FBOeZK.html
03-06-2020||City||Cyclone Nisarga: 22 villages in Palghar on red alert||Around 21,080 residents of 22 villages in Palghar district, which have been issued red alert, have being evacuated to safer shelters on Tuesday, a day before Cyclone Nisarga is expected to make landfall, district collector Dr Kailash Shinde said.Around 7,000 villagers from Satpati, Jalsarang, Murbhe, Ucheli and Dandi in Palghar have been evacuated, while around 12,520 locals from Chandip, Pachubunder, Saiwan, Kaman, Sasunavghar, Arnala, Rajodi and Bhuigaon villages in Vasai have also been taken to safer locations. Authorities have also shifted around 1,400 residents of Narpad, Ambewadi and Dahanu areas to nearby schools, resorts and other places.However, some locals of Satpati village have been refusing to shift into temporary shelters. “While we have successfully evacuated 50 families of Toofanpada in Satpati village to safer locations, such as nearby schools and resorts, some villagers have been refusing to relocate stating that they prefer to stay at their relatives’ homes. We are trying to convince them. Dr Shinde and superintendent of police Duttatray Shinde are overlooking the evacuation process,” said Jitendra Thakur, assistant inspector, Satpati police station. Meanwhile, the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) said the nuclear power installations of four units of Tarapur Atomic Power Station (TAPS), as well as the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) in Tarapur do not face any threat as installations can withstand cyclonic winds with a speed of more than 180 kilometre/hour, said Dr Shinde. The Adani Thermal Power Station (ATPS) in Dahanu, which generates 500 megawatts of thermal power will continue to operate, authorities have informed. “But we have directed the employees residing outside Dahanu to not to report to work. The unit from Dahanu supplies power to suburban Mumbai and there will be no power generation issues,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-nisarga-22-villages-in-palghar-on-red-alert/story-bYimA0b8r929Fgelxlc0uK.html
03-06-2020||City||Thane records 4 Covid deaths, 104 new cases||Four Covid patients died and 104 new cases were reported from Thane on Tuesday. The number of cases in the city is 3,300 while 98 people have died so far.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “The death of four people, including a woman, was recorded in the city on Tuesday. A 68-year-old woman from Sawarkarnagar died in Kalsekar Hospital on May 31. A 70-year-old man from Majiwada and a 53-year-old man from Kasarvadavli are both from Majiwada Manpada ward. The fourth death is of a 52-year-old man from Indira Nagar who died on June 1.”The highest number of 25 cases was recorded in Wagale Estate followed by 20 in Naupada-Kopri ward and 19 in Kalwa ward.Sixty-five patients were also discharged from hospitals in the city, taking the total number of patients who recovered to 1,774. The city has a recovery rate of 45%.The city has 280 containment zones compared to the 235 zones last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-4-covid-deaths-104-new-cases/story-uZ1Z6gfMEgmTlxQsFw5zHO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police impose Section 144 in view of Cyclone Nisarga||In view of the threat posed by impending Cyclone Nisarga, the Mumbai Police on Wednesday imposed Section 144 in the entire city from midnight to Thursday afternoon and banned people from coming to places like beaches, parks and promenades along the coastline. Section 144 (CrPC) has been promulgated in the city from 00:00 hours, June 3rd till 12:00 hours, June 4th.Refrain from venturing out to coast-beaches, promenade, parks and other similar places along the coastline.#TakingOnNisargaDue to the cyclone, there are 8 arrivals and 11 departures of flights for Wednesday, instead of 25 departures and 25 arrivals, said a statement.A deep depression over east-central Arabian Sea, which intensified into cyclone Nisarga on Tuesday noon is expected to make landfall as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph near Alibag in Raigad district on June 3, the India Metereological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. It started as a warning on Sunday for mid-week heavy rains in Mumbai and by Monday, rapidly developed into a red alert for several coastal districts as the deep depression progressed over the Arabian Sea. As of Tuesday noon, cyclone Nisarga was 280 km west-southwest of Goa, 490 km south-southwest of Mumbai and 710 km south-southwest of Surat . The IMD said that the cyclone was likely to cross north Maharashtra and adjoining south Gujarat coast between Daman and Harihareshwar in Raigad on Wednesday afternoon.The western coastline from Konkan’s Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri to Saurashtra’s Bhavnagar and other districts of Gujarat including Surat and Baruch have received wind warnings ranging from 55-65 kmph (gusting to 75kmph) and increasing to gusting speeds of 115-120kmph in four Maharashtra districts of Palghar, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad. Though a wide expanse of districts stands to be affected across coastal Maharashtra and Gujarat, higher wind speeds in the four districts mentioned above offer an indication of where the cyclone is likely to have maximum impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-issue-section-144-in-view-of-cyclone-nisarga/story-VLDN0920h7hKyx7UsqFCEJ.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Residents say BMC did not issue any cyclone warning||From shelter homes in municipal schools and transport arrangements to evacuate people to team of labourers to remove debris, arrangements for food packets and regular announcements in coastal areas, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started preparations, in the wake of the Cyclone Nisarga warning. However, residents of several coastal areas said they are clueless about the civic body’s advisory.Areas such as Worli, Dadar, Marine Drive, Cuffe Parade, Mahim, Bandra, Versova and Malad have several sea-facing buildings and slum pockets along the coastline. Some residents’ associations complained the local ward offices are not interacting with people living on the coastline. Some have, however, taken precautionary measures. Ashok Patel from Cuffe Parade Residents’ Association said no special advisory has been issued to them, even though 30 towers in the area are sea-facing. “There has been no communication from the ward office. Several residents are clueless and are only relying on forwarded messages,” he said. Mehjabeen Barwani of Juhu Citizens’ Welfare Group, said, “As yet, there has been no official communication. Our local representatives are updating us with all precautionary measures. The BMC should be in contact with the residents’ associations in the city, as it is easier to communicate during such times.”Mahendra Hemdev, coordinator of Marine Drive Residents’ Association, said, “We are shifting all loose material from the balconies. The local corporator is in constant touch with us and updating us. All residents are in touch with each other.” The 4-km stretch of Marine Drive has at least 80 sea-facing buildings.A senior civic official said a team of ward officials is being sent to coastal areas, where they are making announcements on safety measures. The BMC’s official Twitter handle has also put out ‘dos and don’ts’.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North (Dadar-Mahim), said, “We have identified three municipal schools which were to be turned into quarantine centres for Covid-19, but will now be used to shift people from high-risk zones.” Another ward official from Juhu said they are making announcements and removing temporary structures on the beach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/residents-say-bmc-did-not-issue-any-cyclone-warning/story-HgtLa0fbNZLmV2a1D0zUlO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||50 flights operated to and from Mumbai on Tuesday||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport CSMIA saw a total of 50 scheduled flights including 25 departures and 25 arrivals on Tuesday.CSMIA connected to 14 sectors which were operated by seven airlines. On Tuesday, CSMIA catered to a total of 6,247 passengers which include 4,400 passengers at departures and 1,847 at arrivals. The highest passenger load capacity was seen on the Delhi route departing out of Mumbai. The first flight departed to Kolkata at 6.05am while the first flight arrived at 8.10am from Lucknow which were operated by SpiceJet and IndiGo, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50-flights-operated-to-and-from-mumbai-on-tuesday/story-nGYHWpgbjeqOAYR5akN6eN.html
03-06-2020||City||Cyclone Nisarga: No planned power shutdown in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||With Cyclone Nisarga likely to have an impact over power supply and distribution across the west coast, the Maharashtra transmission authority Mahatransco has created a contingency plan for all stakeholders for June 3 and 4. On Tuesday night, the Union ministry of power also released a press statement, in which it said that it will closely monitor the power status in the states of Gujarat and Maharashtra on an hourly basis.There will be no planned shut-down of power supply in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and North Maharashtra on the two days, the plan, accessed by HT, stated. All the substation, operation and maintenance personnel and engineers have been asked to remain alert at power stations, to analyse the cause of tripping and take quick action, in case of any glitches pertaining to power supply.It has also asked an adequate number of experienced staffers to be deployed at the control centres for “crisis management.” “A system restoration procedure will also be readily available for the teams to take quick action,” an official from the transmission arm said.Officials said that power failure can occur owing to the collapse of overhead wires, tree-collapse or inundation resulting in damage to underground wires. “In some cases, supply might have to be temporarily shut if there is massive flooding in some areas to avoid any mishaps,” an official from the distribution arm of the state power said.The Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking, which supplies power to the Island city, will also deploy its engineers on stand-by so that immediate action is taken in case of a power failure, especially at Covid-19 hospitals or care centres. Meanwhile, Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML), which supplies to a major part of the city, said that all necessary precautions have been taken from their end. “To ensure the continuity of power supply and mitigate any disruptions owing to the cyclone, AEML has taken all necessary precautions, and our specialised quick response teams are on standby. During these testing times, we request our consumers to stay indoors. In case of any issues with the power supply, consumers can call our helpline 19122, and our teams will attend to their concerns at the earliest,” an AEML spokesperson said.Precautions have been taken at infrastructure sites, too. An official said that measures such as locking gantry cranes at casting yards, removal of loose materials from concourse/platform levels at Metro sites, lowering piling rigs and keeping them in a horizontal position, and protecting electrical boards, were underway on Tuesday to avoid any mishap. “The electrical boards will also be switched-off during cyclone hours,” an official said.The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is building a 33.5 km underground metro in Mumbai, has also adopted several measures at its sites. A spokesperson said that piling rigs and boom of cranes have been lowered, gantry cranes locked, de-watering pumps readied and flash-lights will be on for the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-nisarga-no-planned-power-shutdown-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region/story-5llkgjnd4S6NmH38Hr9tvL.html
03-06-2020||City||With Covid-19 lockdown, poetry flowers virtually in Valley||Srinagar: “Again a long lonely night to kill my dreams alas;tears will shower again and dreams too will shatter,” reads out poet Tariq AhmadTariq, referring to his life during the Covid-19 lockdown.The virus outbreak that kept all creative souls confined indoors in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) has led to an outpouring of feelings and emotions now taking the form of poetry that’s going online. Not surprisingly then, virtual poetry sessions or mushairas have now become a part of life here.“We have organised six full-fledged mushairas, songs, skits, magic shows (since the lockdown) and plan to carry out similar activities in the near future,’’ says Muneer Raquib, secretary, J&K Academy of Art, Culture, and Languages.Such sessions first started with singing performances in different languages, and then poets requested online readings, which were arranged in cooperation with various cultural organisations of the Valley.The Covid-19 lockdown actually helped the academy cement plans to go online. “From the last one year the academy had plans to switch over to online and virtual sessions to reach a bigger audience, especially the younger generation. The lockdown has given us that opportunity. We have asked people too to use our facilities to reach their audiences.’’ Two days ago, one of the oldest cultural organisations in J&K, Rafiabad Adbi Markaz, along with the academy, held a joint online poetic session in which more than 17 poets from various parts of Kashmir participated.Mohammad Ashraf Tak, chief editor of the academy, said the role of literary organisations in the state to ensure the success of the online platform was important as cultural events remained suspended for months across the Valley. “This is the beginning and more programmes and projects are in the offing,’’ Tak added.Many poets and writers have written about Covid-19 and its deadly impact on day-to-day activities. “The sessions attract knowledgeable audience that cheer the creativity of the poets. For us, it is lockdown literature,’’ said Rafiq Masoodi, a former secretary of the academy.Not only, this many poets are now regularly updating their work in English, Urdu, Hindi and Kashmiri on social media, with many focusing on Covid-19, giving people the hope that such times will not last long.“It is not easy to conduct mushairas using 2G phone connections, but we have managed to successfully hold such events,” says Tajamul, a participant in a poetic session.Athar Bashir, a young poet who is adept at using social media said the lockdown had helped them write about “things happening around us. Through social media we can share our literary work with a cross-section of society and it’s encouraging when it reaches larger audiences, especially the younger generation. Also, it helps us maintain social distancing.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-covid-19-lockdown-poetry-flowers-virtually-in-valley/story-TsIIGILIv7a31PQfYoCnwM.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Airports come up with ways to keep ops smooth in Mumbai||City’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) along with Juhu airport has placed a contingency plan to tackle cyclone Nisarga. A majority of the flights were cancelled by airlines due to the cyclone on Wednesday. Instead of 25 departures and 25 arrivals, only 8 arrivals and 11 departures were scheduled.A statement by the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) said, “In the wake of cyclone Nisarga, CSMIA convened a meeting with its stakeholders to devise preventive measures to tackle potential adversities accompanied by the cyclone. Preventive checks at different airport functions have been carried out and the airport has ensured uninterrupted power supply. Water pumps have been positioned across the airport to clear water in case of waterlogging and food and beverage counters will be operational 24/7 at the airport for passengers.” Sources from CSMIA said that the small aircraft parked at the airport have been interlocked (tied close to each other) for their safety.“Around 15 aircraft parked at CSMIA do not have hangars, in such cases, the airlines have been given an option to fly their aircraft and park them in any other airport, if suitable,” said the source. A dedicated team has been placed on standby at the airport to assist amid cyclone.“Special precautions have been taken for smaller and lighter aircraft as they are vulnerable to strong winds. Some aircraft have flown out of Mumbai until the cyclone passes while others have been asked to park inside the hangar. The airport has ensured that minimum aircraft are parked on the apron. The airport is closely coordinating with IMD to monitor the progress/dissipation of adverse weather,” the statement said.Operators at Juhu airport too have shifted all the helicopters in their respective hangars. Juhu airport director Ashok Kumar Verma said, “We are prepared to face the cyclone as we have not only taken care of our helicopters but also cleaned our drainage system in order to keep our airfield operational. We also have put in place pumping stations to remove all the accumulated water, if any, from the low lying area of the airport.” Juhu airport handles around 120 helicopter and charter aircraft movements per day. However, after the lockdown, it is currently handling around 50 movements. A Pawan Hans official said that currently they operate four helicopters everyday (for ONGC) and have continued to schedule them on Wednesday too. However, the decision on flying operations will be taken based on the weather conditions on Wednesday morning. Stakeholders at CSMIA have also made arrangements for additional ground staff at the airport. “Measures have been taken to have sufficient staff at the airport for the smooth functioning of flight operations which include airport, airlines, security and air traffic staff. This is in case the other set of staff are unable to reach the airport on Wednesday due to the cyclone,” said an airport official. The aviation regulator — Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) too issued a circular to airline operators and pilots to re-iterate the existing guidelines and bring awareness on adverse weather and monsoon operations. DGCA asked the airline operators to operate with pilots a level higher than the minimum experience, especially in cases where both crew members are operating after a long gap in flying. The operators were also asked to ensure the flight duty time limit (FDTL) requirements for crew should not be exceeded more than the approved limit by the DGCA. “Runway surface condition and effect of the same on aircraft performance should be understood and taken into account for performance. Selection of a suitable destination alternate is also an important aspect during adverse and monsoon conditions,” the DGCA stated. DGCA also asked the airlines to understand and decide their fuel availability before their flight before it starts to descend or diverts due to bad weather. In adverse weather, a stabilised approach is the first step towards a safe landing, the DGCA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airports-prepare-for-cyclone-nisarga/story-vArV58TR0gmRwnnhmWlh1K.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||How Mumbai steered clear of cyclones||Despite cyclones frequently forming in the Arabian Sea, Mumbai has been shielded from being directly hit by these weather systems thanks to what climate scientists describe as steering winds and a subtropical ridge.Steering winds are way above the earth’s surface and control the movement of weather systems. In case of a cyclone, these upper-level winds steer the cyclone in the direction that they are flowing. “Cyclones in the Arabian Sea are mostly formed in the central Arabian Sea. The reason Mumbai has been shielded is because they [cyclones] do not form close to the coast. Even if they do form close to the coast, they move towards Oman, Yemen or Somalia because of upper-level steering winds that move from east to west,” said Sridhar Balasubramanian, associate professor, department of mechanical engineering and associated faculty, IDP in Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay. Looking at cyclone Nisarga making landfall south of Mumbai and last year’s severe cyclonic storm Vayu, professor Raghu Murtugudde, from University of Maryland’s department of atmospheric and oceanic science, said the possibility of a change in the steering wind pattern could be a factor.“Something is changing about these winds, given last year cyclone Vayu and this year Nisarga have come straight to the coast,” said Murtugudde, who is currently in Mumbai. “My guess is that [ocean] warming has weakened the steering wind in a way that the direction of cyclones will probably begin to change. Overall, this dynamic change is in response to global warming, which is similar to observations of a slight weakening and changes in monsoon circulation.”Mumbai has also evaded being hit by cyclones in the past because of a high-pressure zone called the subtropical ridge. “Normally, during the pre-monsoon season, the subtropical ridge acts as a barrier and doesn’t allow the cyclone to come towards us,” said Balasubramanian. “The cyclone moves along the line of the ridge, which is usually over Mumbai-Gujarat and therefore the system ends up towards the Gulf.”Taking into account the probability of climate change-driven increase in pre-monsoon cyclones hitting the coastline, Murtugudde said that going forward, policy makers must incorporate cyclone-level storm surge and inundation in the city’s disaster management plan. “There is a need to modify the plan that goes beyond flooding to factor in the consequences of the ocean being pulled into the city. Policy makers need to keep in mind that a one-in-100-year event can begin to occur once in 20 years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-mumbai-steered-clear-of-cyclones/story-LKPqsXxe1beBuyL6DdhX7K.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Coastal flooding is major threat after cyclone’||In an email interview with Hindustan Times, Jonathan E Martin, professor of atmospheric and oceanic sciences, University of Wisconsin–Madison, USA, spoke about the impact of Cyclone Nisarga over Mumbai, which is expected to make landfall 19 km south of the city on Wednesday. Martin has carried out extensive research for almost 30 years on the evolution of cyclones across the world.Will Cyclone Nisarga cause severe damage to Mumbai’s infrastructure?Cyclone Nisarga is likely to develop into a major tropical storm and may possess sustained winds of 35 mph (56-60 kmph) over Mumbai on Wednesday. Such winds can damage tall buildings, but our experience in the US shows that such damage is often not drastic. We suffer much more substantial damage with hurricane-force winds (at or above 120 kmph). Nevertheless, winds will be destructive to structures in a major city like Mumbai.Has Mumbai ever witnessed a cyclone landfall in history?This storm may be the first tropical cyclone to strike Mumbai or move very close to the city in 129 years. However, there are stray reports of a cyclone landfall near Mumbai in 1948 and one that was quite close in 2009.What are some of the most critical measures to be taken while tackling intense cyclones?Coastal flooding is a major threat from a hurricane landfall. The biggest errors in the past have involved lack of adequate evacuation plans which often traps large numbers of people in desperate situations during flooding. The impact of flooding on the most impoverished areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region needs to be the primary response. Providing adequate shelter for those who are displaced by such floods is very important for recovery.Are pre-monsoon and post-monsoon cyclones increasing in the Arabian Sea?Cyclones preferentially form in the eastern portion of the Arabian Sea as opposed to the western portion as the waters are much warmer in the east and warm sea surface temperature is a key ingredient for cyclone formation. Considering storms that eventually affect the Arabian Peninsula, there is a slight increase in their frequency over the last 40 years (two in the year 1980, six in 1990, five in 2000 and 12 in 2010) but this trend needs to be further studied.Are tropical storms intensifying much faster which climate models are failing to identify?Rising sea surface temperatures encourage more frequent and more intense tropical cyclone development. Modern numerical forecast models including those used by the Indian Meteorological Department is generally quite good at tropical cyclone forecasting. Some developments are missed by these models, but since the storms have life cycles of over a week, even if the models miss their initial development they catch on during the lifecycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coastal-flooding-is-major-threat-after-cyclone/story-XioMxrBOVOwGEiHzIcmEfM.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||My kid thinks a monster will appear from sea: Fisherman in Alibag||A 30-year-old fisherman, Ganesh Kashnath Lohar, who resides 500-metres from the Arabian Sea coast close to Mandwa jetty in Alibag, was surprised to see four boats and 13 men in formals standing close to the shoreline on Tuesday morning. On consulting with other fishermen, he learnt that they were officials from the Maharashtra Maritime Board, district collector’s office and National Disaster Response Force who were assessing the level of storm surge in the region.“We had only heard about devastating impacts that cyclones had caused in south Konkan but now, based on warnings issued by district officials, we are expecting to witness it first hand,” said Lohar as it started heavily in the region. “My daughter is frightened as if a monster from the sea is going to appear but we have calmed her down telling her its just loud thunder and rain. Nothing more. But we ourselves don’t know what to expect after hearing stories from friends how fishermen were affected off the coast of Bengal (during cyclone Amphan),” he added.Though Lohar did not know what the name of the cyclone was, he said owing to the “Chakrivadal” (cyclone), he was asked to pull his boat out of the sea, and park it closer to his home.“Our entire village has pucca structures, thus nobody was relocated from here. An announcement was made in the village on Monday afternoon and Tuesday morning directing us to keep doors and windows shut when rain commences from Tuesday afternoon onwards.” Lohar lives with his wife, daughter and mother in a one-room house. “First it was the lockdown that restricted fishing for almost the entire month of March, and then when we began fishing for just over a month, now a cyclone is coming. There have been a lot of losses for us this year but the safety of my daughter is of prime concern for me,” he said adding, “A few fishermen even went fishing within a 2-km radius on Tuesday but the coast guard sent them back within an hour of their departure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/my-kid-thinks-a-monster-will-appear-from-sea-fisherman-in-alibag/story-N7FrNPARBcFJX5z3ch48KI.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone during Covid: Stormy weather for BMC||Already reeling under the pressure of handling the pandemic, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday scrambled to activate its disaster response plan in the face of the likely landfall of Cyclone Nisarga near Alibaug on Wednesday.Mumbai is likely to experience extremely heavy rain and high speed winds due to the cyclone. It could impact slums, informal settlements, power and water supply, besides causing flooding and tree falls, etc. BMC announced by Tuesday evening that it had identified localities at high risk due to strong winds, low-lying areas likely to be inundated and residents who needed to be moved to safe shelters being readied in municipal schools. So far, other than the 150 Covid-19 patients residing in field facilities, evacuees have not been shifted.Moreover, the civic body’s emergency helpline for disaster response and Covid-19 related help for patient and bed management - 1916 - operated via 60-odd hotlines from the main disaster control room at BMC headquarters in Fort stopped working on Tuesday evening. It started to work late at night. Officers from the disaster management department remained unavailable for comment. A senior civic officer said, “The overall preparedness is good because we were getting ready for the monsoon. Trees have been trimmed, dewatering pumps are active, along with measures to handle inundation in low-lying areas. Evacuation plan for residents living along Mithi is activated, landslide-prone areas and dilapidated buildings have been identified.”However, details of the location of the safe shelters, identified and rescued evacuees remained unavailable. In a press release, BMC said municipal commissioner IS Chahal has instructed all ward officers to identify evacuees and safe shelters, and prepare evacuation plans.Assistant commissioners of at least three wards that HT spoke to confirmed that all preparations were being made, but evacuees were not actually moved to safe shelters. This will be done if it is absolutely necessary.An officer said, “I have identified evacuees, and have two-three schools ready as shelters. But social distancing is a must. So they are safe in their homes also. They will be moved immediately if it appears cyclonic conditions are worsening.”BMC, however, moved 150 odd Covid-19 patients from its temporary jumbo facility constructed at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BMC) to the NSCI dome at Worli, and the NESCO exhibition grounds at Goregaon. A senior civic officer said, “Structural stability of all temporary Covid Care Centres, or health facilities is being checked. But the one at BKC is constructed temporarily in an open ground, to house Covid-19 patients. Other jumbo facilities are in existing buildings.”In a statement, MMRDA that constructed the facility on its BKC ground, said, “Although the Covid-19 hospital can sustain strong winds of up to 80km-100km per hour, with human lives at stake, as a precautionary measure, all patients (about 150) from the hospital are being shifted by BMC.”Chahal also instructed all BMC officers to move Covid-19 patients from such temporary erected facilities if necessary, upon conducting stability tests on the structures.BMC also issued an advisory of dos and don’ts for all Mumbaiites on Tuesday with general instructions on how to stay safe during cyclonic conditions. The civic body also issued a notice to all construction sites to prevent accidents such as dislodging of cranes/scaffolding, possibility of roof blowing away, falling of any construction material, or anything likely to cause damage to human life and property especially which the gusty winds forecast. The notice said, “In case of any such accident which may cause damage to the properties/human lives because of any negligence on your part, you will be held responsible.”Meanwhile, the Mumbai fire brigade activated its standard operating procedure on Wednesday. Equipped to handle disasters such as tree collapse, house collapse, fires due to short circuit, land slide, and floods due to monsoon, the Mumbai fire brigade said all 35 fire stations are on high alert for disaster response, with 150 personnel on stand-by. It also said 63 fire engines fitted with hydraulic, electrical and mechanical gears for cutting, lifting, spreading, and quenching are on stand-by, along with five rescue vans equipped with pneumatic lifting bags, portable chain saws, various cutters, portable generators, flood lights, and stretchers.For beach safety, the fire brigade has stationed 96 lifeguards at the six beaches in Mumbai - Girgaum, Dadar, Versova, Juhu, Aksa, and Gorai, with five jet skis, six boats, six kayaks, and two floating stretchers for rescue.Mumbai will also have eight teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on standby. Three of these teams are already stationed at Andheri, while five more were flown to Mumbai from Vishakhapatnam on Tuesday afternoon. Each team has 45 personnel, and equipment such as tree and pole cutters, rescue boats, life jackets, rescue ropes, breathing apparatus, floaters and life buoys.In a meeting with Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, Chahal, and other bureaucrats in the civic body on Tuesday, the municipal commissioner informed Thackeray that in light of possibility of torrential rains, dewatering pumps have been installed at potential water storage sites; notices have been issued to all contractors concerned to secure cranes at infrastructure construction sites; lifeguards have been deployed at various intersections and equipment like rescue boats and jet skis have been deployed for flood relief. The department offices have been directed to hold an emergency meeting to ensure there is no risk, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-cyclone-impact-onset-of-monsoon/story-nueKRgEScspx5rTcBtOMgI.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: 5 flood rescue teams, 3 diving teams of Indian Navy on standby in Mumbai||The Western Naval Command (WNC) has mobilised adequate resources for flood relief, rescue and diving assistance in case of excessive rainfall and flooding, of both, urban and rural areas in coordination with the state governments, on the western seaboard.“With the cyclonic storm ‘Nisarga’ approaching the Arabian Sea, all teams have been put on alert and are in readiness to respond to any requirement of HADR (humanitarian assistant and disaster relief) during the storm period,” said Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relation officer (defence).“In Mumbai, the Navy will be on standby with five flood rescue teams and three diving teams throughout the monsoon season. These teams are stationed at various naval areas across the city to enable early response over a larger area” said Karnik.“These teams are fully equipped and have been trained for rescue operations. The trained teams have conducted a recce of known flood-prone areas and all necessary preparations are in place” added Karnik.Apart from that the Indian Coast Guard Ship (ICG), aircraft and shore stations along with the western seaboards warning merchant ships and fishermen about impending adverse weather requesting them to return to nearest harbour, added Karnik.Similar arrangements have been set up within the Karwar naval area, the Goa naval area as well as Gujarat, Daman and Diu naval areas. The respective area and station commanders are in touch with the state authorities, NDRF (national disaster response force) and SDRF (state disaster response force) to be able to respond to a crisis in the shortest possible time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-5-flood-rescue-teams-3-diving-teams-of-indian-navy-on-standby-in-mumbai/story-TK93yvx3o56KiRiO9fYV3N.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: 65,000 people living close to coast of Maharashtra evacuated||With the Cyclone Nisarga likely to hit the coastal parts of the state on Wednesday afternoon, the authorities have evacuated more than 65,000 people living close to the coast of Maharashtra. Of them, 35,000 are in Raigad, 21,080 in Palghar, over 5,000 in Ratnagiri and 1,586 in Sindhudurg.Seven coastal districts of Maharashtra – Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Thane, Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban and Palghar– have been put on alert. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 20 teams – 8 teams in Mumbai, 4 in Raigad, two each in Palghar, Thane and Ratnagiri and one each in Navi Mumbai and Sindhudurg. Four teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), too, have been deployed in these districts, while one NDRF team is on standby. An NDRF team comprises 35-45 jawans, depending on the severity in the region.“Guhagar, Dapoli and Mandangad in Ratnagiri are expected to be the worst-hit. We have identified schools and colleges for evacuation and adequate stock of food grain and other essential commodities has been kept ready,” said an official from the district collectorate.Ratnagiri collector Laxminarayan Mishra said the government will made arrangements for food and shelter for people if their houses are damaged in the cyclone before they are rehabilitated. After the change in the forecast that projected the landfall of the Cyclone Nisarga at Alibaug, instead of the earlier Harihareshwar in Raigad district, two more teams of NDRF have been deployed at Alibaug. “Two more teams of NDRF are deployed at Murud and Shrivardhan,” said Bharat Shitole, resident deputy collector of Raigad.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, too, appealed to citizens to not step out of their homes on Wednesday and Thursday. He asked establishments, which had started operations in the past few days, to remain shut for two days. In a notification issued on Sunday, the state had said that public gardens can open from Wednesday, but Thackeray appealed to citizens to stay indoors.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also called Thackeray. “He has assured us of help from the Centre,” Thackeray said in his live address to citizens. He asked citizens to take precautions. “Keep your phones and emergency lights charged. Keep all your essentials, including medicines, at a safe, accessible place. Make sure you store drinking water and avoid unnecessary usage of electricity, as there might be chances of a power cut owing to heavy rain,” he said. He also asked citizens to not venture near dilapidated buildings or temporary sheds and identify a corner in the house where they can take refuge during gusty winds. He asked citizens to collect loose items near the house and tie it together or keep it at home, so it doesn’t cause any mishap.Meanwhile, the Palghar district collectorate has identified 21 villages that are vulnerable and 21,080 of its residents are expected to be evacuated. “Most of the families are shifting to their relatives’ homes in safer areas. We have identified 85 places for evacuation and have made adequate arrangements,” said Kiran Mahajan, resident deputy collector.Lokesh Chandra, divisional commissioner, Konkan division, said, “The evacuation will be completed late by Tuesday night. The 13 fishing boats that are deep in the sea are expected to return by late night. We have deployed 13 NDRF teams in these districts, five of them are in Raigad and two in Palghar.”Need for social distancing owing to the pandemic may add to the challenge for the NDRF. Anupam Srivastava, NDRF Maharashtra commandant, said each jawan has been provided with a “rescuer Covid kit”, which includes a hand wash, soap, gloves, face masks and shields. They have also been provided with two biological suits, one which can be disposed of and one which can be washed. “It will be a difficult rescue operation, but we are well-prepared,” Srivastava said.NDRF teams have been conducting briefings with people to explain the damage possible from the cyclone. Five additional NDRF teams from Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh will also be airlifted and deployed in Mumbai by Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning, a senior commander from NDRF said. Officials said the Indian Coast Guard ships, aircraft and on-shore stations are continuously relaying warnings about the impending adverse weather to marine vessels and fishermen.On Tuesday, NDRF men also briefed citizens living near the coast to be alert and prepared for the cyclone. “These are people who have lived near the sea for generations. They say we have already seen these events, so it is a little difficult to convince them, but we are trying our best. We have started evacuation in Alibaug, Palghar and Sindhudurg,” Srivastava said. “Besides village-level meetings and appeal over public address system, we have formed teams of senior officials to oversee the evacuation and mitigation operation,” said Shitole.The state government has released special funds to all district collectors for relief measures. “The district collectors have been directed to undertake evacuation operation in low-lying areas that are expected to be hit the most. Machinery has been geared up in all seven districts,” said Abhay Yavalkar, director disaster management units. The state has directed evacuation of people living in kutcha, semi pucca and houses with metal roof sheets, along with their livestock. Most district collectors have imposed curfew for the next three days in the tehsils expected to be hit by the cyclone.The state cabinet met on Tuesday to discuss the impending threat of the cyclone and the measures being taken to combat it. The disaster management unit made a presentation at the meeting. “We have requested the Centre to keep the additional teams of NDRF from the neighbouring states on standby. The authorities have also been directed to ensure that Covid-19 and non-Covid hospitals do not suffer. The power supply authorities have been directed to arrange for generators for the hospital for uninterrupted health services. The cabinet was also informed that except the field hospital at Bandra-Kurla Complex, the newly erected Covid-19 field hospitals at Worli, Goregaon are safe and can sustain the cyclone as they are in pucca structures,” said a government official from the relief and rehabilitation department.Palghar district officials on Tuesday also released an order to shut shops, commercial establishments on Wednesday. It has also asked chemical factories to take precautions and practise “safe shutdown” on account of the cyclone. A state government advisory to citizens also assured that the nuclear plant at Tarapur in Palghar is safe and can withstand the impact of cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-65-000-people-living-close-to-coast-of-maharashtra-evacuated/story-tJ4iXT8Fi8MJ5gxmExTioO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Will cyclone impact onset of monsoon in Maharashtra?||With the southwest monsoon expected to reach Mumbai around June 11, experts are divided over whether its onset will be impacted by cyclone Nisarga, which is the first pre-monsoon cyclone to hit Maharashtra in 59 years.On Tuesday, IMD said it didn’t expect Nisarga to delay the monsoon. “Sometimes, such large weather systems favour monsoon conditions by aiding convection and allowing the faster progression of the overall system. This is likely to happen for areas impacted by the cyclone,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones, IMD.Other meteorologists predicted the onset for around June 12. “Since the cyclone has formed early in the season, a delay may not happen,” said Sridhar Balasubramanian, associate professor, IDP in Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. Mahesh Palawat, vice president of private weather forecasting agency Skymet, said the onset was expected around June 13.Generally, a cyclone is followed by a lull in monsoon progression. “This is because the cyclone changes the thermodynamic and dynamic conditions such as temperature, humidity, and circulation of the entire region. But in this case, hopefully, the southwest monsoon should reorganise soon,” said Dr. Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune.Last year, the onset of the monsoon over Mumbai was on June 25. It was the most delayed onset in 45 years because of the very severe cyclonic storm Vayu (June 10-17) over the Arabian Sea.Independent meteorologist and researcher at the University of Reading, Akshay Deoras believes Nisarga will delay the monsoon’s onset. “In Mumbai and the Konkan, monsoon’s arrival will perhaps be a little before June 15. This southerly wind pattern will be extremely similar to mid-June 2019 when Vayu had disturbed the monsoon’s progression,” said Deoras. He also said farmers should wait a week after June 4 before sowing crops. “The state might witness a resurgence in the rainfall activity from June 12 and the monsoon’s probable arrival in interior areas is expected after June 15. A few days before this would be the appropriate sowing period,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-cyclone-impact-onset-of-monsoon-in-maharashtra/story-JPKSSjIzcKIyQoWaEV89xL.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Curbs relaxed, but cops bar movement at beaches||In the wake of the possibility of the Cyclone Nisarga hitting the coast of Maharashtra, the Mumbai Police have issued a prohibitory order restricting public movement of one or more persons near the Mumbai coast, including promenades such as Marine Drive, Nariman Point, Worli sea face, beaches and parks which are near the coastline, on Wednesday and Thursday. From Wednesday, the lockdown restrictions owing to the pandemic were to be relaxed.The prohibitory order is a preventive measure to prevent any harm to human life and property due to the cyclone. The order will be in place till 12 pm on Thursday. An FIR will be registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, if anyone is found violating the order. The order has been issued by Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson. An excerpt from the order read: “Whereas Mumbai city is expected to be severely impacted by the Cyclone Nisarga, it is considered expedient to issue prohibitory order restricting any presence or movement of one or more persons in public place along the coastline like beaches, promenades, parks and other places near coastline where people may gather.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/curbs-relaxed-but-cops-bar-movement-at-beaches/story-pNHv33qThpqZCZZD5ER2qN.html
03-06-2020||City||Work to build roads in Ludhiana Focal Point inaugurated||Ludhiana The Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) chairman Gurpreet Singh Gogi on Tuesday inaugurated the construction work of concrete roads in the city’s Focal Point. To be built at a cost of Rs 40 crore within the next eight months, the concrete roads cover stretches of 21 km.Gogi was also accompanied by Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC) chairman KK Bawa, Punjab Large Industries Development Board (PLIDB) chairman Pawan Dewan, besides several leading industrialists and senior PSIEC officials.Speaking on the occasion, Gogi said a total of 21.26 km of concrete roads will be built in the Focal Points of the city, which include 6.39 km stretches in Phase 6; 5.28 km in phase 7; 5.13 km in Phase 8; 2.47 km in phase 4A and 1.99 km in Phase 5.PSIEC will also beautify and upgrade the existing infrastructure in focal points in other districts of the state, Gogi said, adding that more than Rs 200 crore will be spent on this work, the orders for which had been issued. He said that the “smart” focal points would have entry gates, fire stations, ESI dispensaries, well maintained green belts, landscaping, and other amenities. PSIEC will also be coming up with a one-time settlement scheme for industrialists shortly, where all pending disputes of industrialists will be settled.State chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and minister of industry and commerce Sham Sunder Arora had granted Rs 40 Crore for development of the focal point roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-to-build-roads-in-ludhiana-focal-point-inaugurated/story-jOfPt39imuwbVztCv7n0XO.html
03-06-2020||City||Unlock 1: Panchkula shops can remain open from 9am to 7pm||Announcing relaxations as part of “Unlock 1”, the Panchkula administration has allowed all shops to remain open from 9am to 7pm except on Mondays, while announcing night curfew from 9pm to 5am.District magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said shops offering essential commodities were allowed to remain open from 7am to 7pm. All standalone shops, neighbourhood/colony shops and shops in residential areas will also remain open on all days from 9am to 7pm, except Mondays. Chemist shops can remain open 24x7.The rehri markets in Sectors 7, 9, 11 and 17 and shops in Raily, Abheypur, Haripur, Maheshpur, Budanpur, Madanpur, Jaisinghpura and Bhainsa Tibba will be opened following social distancing norms.While issuing these relaxations, Ahuja said people must follow social distancing norms and wear face masks whenever they go out in public spaces, adding that they must avoid stepping out unless completely urgent. He said action will be taken against shopkeepers found flouting norms.Besides, the district magistrate has appointed six nodal officers, who will collect information of people entering the district.TRADERS MAKE NOTEIn markets, there should be minimum 2-metre distance between customers and shopkeepers. All shopkeepers must wear face masks and gloves. Not more than five persons can enter a shop at a time, including the shopkeeper, helper and customers. Traders cannot stack their stock outside the shop.Guards at the entry point of large shops and AC shops should be provided with sanitisers and thermal scanners.All shopkeepers and their employees need to download Aarogya Setu App, and paste a notification in their shop to spread awareness about the app among their customers.Customers should avoid parking their vehicles right in front of shops. They should utilise nearby parking lots and walk the remaining distance.FOR MARRIAGES, SPORTS No more than 50 people are allowed to attend a marriage ceremony and not more than 20 at cremations and funerals. Sports trainees can practice only after 5am and before 9pm due to night curfew. Gymnasiums and swimming pools will remain closed. All trainers and trainees must download Aarogya Setu app. No spectators are allowed. Besides, no event or function is allowed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-1-panchkula-shops-can-remain-open-from-9am-to-7pm/story-p93w7YplaqZiAVVpGPOnbL.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Corona patient found dead at Dadri civil hospital||A 38-year-old man, who tested positive for coronavirus on Monday and was admitted to the civil hospital in Charkhi Dadri, was found dead in the premises, the police said.The deceased who hailed from Dhani Phogat village in the district was found lying dead by other patients inside a toilet on the same night.However, the hospital authorities claimed that the man had died after he fell in the toilet while the victim’s family members blamed the hospital staff for failing to provide treatment. Sarpanch of Dhani Phogat village, Mandeep Phogat alleged that the man died due to medical negligence and poor facilities at the civil hospital.“We have asked the district administration to form a team of doctors to investigate the matter and take strict action against the doctors,” he added.Raising doubts over the death of the Covid-19 patient, Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan said that he came across a video by a coronavirus patient admitted at the civil hospital alleging poor facilities provided at the hospital.“We suspect that the patient died due to poor facilities and lackadaisical approach of the doctors. I will urge Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and health minister Anil Vij to take strict action against the hospital,” the independent MLA from Dadri added.However, a few days ago the Covid-19 patients had also shared pictures of poor quality food being served to them at Dadri hospitalDadri deputy commissioner Shiv Prasad Sharma said that a team of eight doctors has been constituted to investigate into the matter.“The autopsy will be conducted on Wednesday. Those found guilty will not be spared”, the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/corona-patient-found-dead-at-dadri-civil-hospital/story-Nd071NQYbNGYYMCJUC4ygP.html
03-06-2020||Jaipur||Jilted lover sets woman ablaze in Sikar, arrested||The police investigation into the arrest of 24-year-old man on charges of setting a woman on fire revealed that the accused planned to kill the girl as she stopped taking interest in him after she cleared a government exam.Additional superintendent of police (addl SP) Dinesh Agarwal said that the accused Bakesh Yadav confessed that the two had an affair for three years but after the woman cleared the staff selection commission exam in April, she stopped interacting with him after which he killed her to take revenge.“The 23-year-old girl had stopped responding to his chats and calls from the first week of May, saying that they are from the same sept (gotra) and don’t have a future ahead which irked the accused after which he decided to take revenge,”said Agarwal.The addl SP added that in order to take his revenge, Yadav on Monday purchased four litres petrol from Mawanda village. “From May 19, the accused started tracking the movements of the girl,” Agarwal told.On Thursday , around 8.30 pm, Yadav went to the girl’s house located at the Natha Ki Nangal village in Patan police station area of the district.The woman, her mother and brother were sleeping in the courtyard of their house when the accused entered their house, sprinkled petrol on the woman, set her ablaze and fled.The family extinguished the fire and rushed the woman to a government hospital where doctors referred her to Jaipur. The woman died on Friday morning during treatment.“The man also attempted suicide by consuming aldrin to misguide the police investigation. He also left a suicide note alleging harassment from his neighbours. On Monday evening, he was arrested after doctor discharged him,” Agarwal said.A case against the accused has been filed under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jilted-lover-sets-woman-ablaze-in-sikar-arrested/story-NJogYNwMIrBpMLTKu557WP.html
03-06-2020||City||Medical van to visit Ludhiana villages from June to August, schedule released||For providing the best healthcare facilities to the people of Ludhiana district, especially those residing in far off places, the health department has issued a tour plan for a medical mobile unit (MMU).The MMU will reach people residing in Payal, Sahnewal and Koom Kalan blocks for the months of June, July and August.Providing details of the tour programme, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said the MMU will visit community health centres in villages of Payal block till June 10, Dabba on June 11, Bulara on June 12, Central Jail Ludhiana on June 13, Lohara on June 15, Kakowal on June 16, Khwajke on June 17, Khasi Kalan on June 18, Jassian on June 19, Noorwala on June 20, and different villages of Sahnewal block from June 21 to 30.The van will again visit the villages of Payal block from July 1 to10, Central Jail Ludhiana on July 11, Bulara on July 13, Dabba on July 14, Dhandari on July 15, Sherpur on July 16, Khwajke on July 17, Central Jail Ludhiana on July 18, Noorwala on July 20, and different villages of Sahnewal block from July 21 to 30.The same schedule with the same dates will be followed for the month of August as well.The MMU comprises a doctor, a medical officer, a laboratory attendant, an X-Ray technician, counselor, and support staff. Dr Bagga said the MMU has adequate medicines and instruments. Whenever the MMU visits a particular village, an announcement regarding their visit is made in advance so that maximum number of people can avail the benefits.Dr Bagga said the MMU was started by the health department to reach rural areas. The unit also provides awareness regarding welfare schemes related to the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/medical-van-to-visit-ludhiana-villages-from-june-to-august-schedule-released/story-OJrk6k7yqyRUOHuPykKTlM.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||GREENFIELD CONNECTIVITY: Capt govt, Harsimrat in credit war||The Capt Amarinder Singh government and Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Tuesday claimed credit for a new Greenfield Road link to Amritsar from Nakodar via Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib and Khadoor Sahib announced by the Centre as part of Delhi-Amritsar Expressway.Both the Congress government and Harsimrat, who belongs to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), said the Centre had acceded to their requests. A Punjab government spokesperson said the Centre had accepted the CM’s proposal to convert the Punjab stretch of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway to ‘Greenfield project’, whereas Harsimrat Badal thanked Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari for acceding to her request to amend the alignment of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway to create a new direct link between Amritsar and Delhi.In a release, the Punjab government said the CM had raised the issue with the Centre after local citizens and their representatives expressed concern over the project’s failure to connect the religious and historical towns of Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, and Tarn Taran. “During the VC today, the Union minister told the CM that, after detailed deliberations with the state government officials and examination of all aspects of the proposal, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had approved the alignment of Phase-I of the Delhi–Amritsar–Katra Expressway with Delhi-Gurdaspur section as Greenfield project,” said the spokesperson. Amarinder has also agreed to an early meeting between NHAI and state government authorities, as suggested by Gadkari.Harsimrat Badal, while terming the decision as a “historic development”, said it had fulfilled a long standing demand of the residents of Amritsar and was also in tune with the original alignment proposed during SAD-BJP tenure.“Under the new alignment which she had proposed, the expressway will now connect the five historic Sikh shrines at Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran and Sri Amritsar Sahib,” she said in a statement. It said the Union minister also requested Gadkari to name the expressway between Nakodar and Amritsar in honour of Guru Sahiban and he assured to take this request into consideration.MALIK ALSO CLAIMS CREDITNot to be left behind, BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Amritsar Shwait Malik said that Gadkari has acceded to his request for inclusion of Amritsar in the project. Malik said that with his efforts, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gadkari and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri got this express highway passed in 2016 as he had raised this matter in Parliament three times. “Amritsar is more in need of this express highway because it has several important religious and historic venues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/greenfield-connectivity-capt-govt-harsimrat-in-credit-war/story-IuXM2BrzPVZfjgTgDfYVhO.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||GNDU, Punjabi University V-Cs get extension||Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore has approved the extension of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, vice-chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu and his Punjabi University, Patiala, counterpart BS Ghuman, on the recommendation of the state government. The three-year term of Prof Ghuman, an economist, was to end on August 14, while Prof Jaspal’s term was to conclude on August 17.Prof Jaspal, an educationist, remained secretary of the University Grants Commission (UGC) before joining as GNDU V-C. The governor is also the chancellor of the two universities. A senior government official said the notification of their extension will be issued soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gndu-punjabi-university-v-cs-get-extension/story-rORf03Ad5QEMkqHKyvZFGJ.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bajwa, three Cong MLAs seek release of Rs 681-cr cane arrears to farmers||Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa and three party MLAs on Tuesday sought immediate release of the pending sugarcane arrears totalling Rs 681.48 crore to 70,000 farmers at the earliest.In an open letter to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Bajwa and his party colleagues said the state government must make all pending payments to protect the cane growers and sugar industry in the state. “These farmers sold their produce to private and cooperative sugar mills. The unpaid dues for the 2018-19 season are Rs 96.36 crore and the amount left to be paid for the 2019-20 season is Rs 585.12 crore,” the Congress leaders wrote. The letter was signed by Congress MLAs Fatehjung Singh Bajwa (Qadian), Balwinder Singh Laddi (Hargobindpur) and Joginder Pal (Bhoa).They said as per the Sugarcane Control Order and clause 3(3) of the Sugarcane Purchase and Regulation Act, the sugar mills must make payment within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane otherwise the mills will have to make these payments along with interest for the delayed period. “It is a matter of grave concern that there are outstanding payments for years. These unpaid dues have caused financial distress to thousands of sugarcane farmers, leaving many with huge debts,” reads the letter which also gives the names of nine cooperative and five private sugar mills that have pending payments.Citing the example of two private mills which have made payments for both seasons, Bajwa said if these two could pay for their goods, why the rest were unable to do so. “It is a major lapse of the government where sugar mills break the rules and regulations of the state and do not face any punishment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bajwa-three-cong-mlas-seek-release-of-rs-681-cr-cane-arrears-to-farmers/story-QizYl0oLwOcZoBAxqDVB6N.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Orders to work during winter break not justified: Chandigarh teachers||Chandigarh The UT Government Teachers’ Union has criticised the education department’s notice asking them to work during the winter break and second Saturdays to compensate for the extended summer break during the Covid-19 lockdown.In a statement on Tuesday, the Joint Action Committee of Teachers, (JAC), said, “An emergency meeting of the executive committee of the JAC was held to discuss the recent orders of the district education officer (DEO) Chandigarh for the deduction of the winter break and second Saturdays during the current session, which is not justified.”The statement read that the teachers were demoralised as they were taking classes regularly and with “dedication,” according to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) syllabus. In addition to it, teachers were also doing routine work such as distribution of books to children and sending day to day information required by the department.The teachers were confused and were wondering whether they should work or not. “They are working continuously from home during the lockdown and even during the summer vacation so there is no question of deduction of leave,” said Bhag Singh Kairon, JAC president.Apart from Kairon, the meeting was attended by various JAC leaders, including Savinder Singh, Ranbir Rana, Khushali Ram Sharma and Shamsher Singh. An appeal was also submitted to the education department officials to “not issue such orders which demotivate the teachers and request them to withdraw these unjustified orders as these orders have no meaning in prevailing situations,” said Kairon.When questioned, director, school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We will consider their request on merit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/orders-to-work-during-winter-break-not-justified-ut-teachers/story-pPIq2u2IiscI9qkvQ0IpxI.html
03-06-2020||City||File on controversial tree-pruning machine goes missing from Mohali MC office||Three years after failing to recover ₹89 lakh from a company for making the controversial tree-pruning machine, the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) has now said the company’s case file has gone missing from their office in Sector 68.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg has given the department concerned three days to locate the file, following which legal action will be taken. On the other hand, the Congress party has demanded the lodging of an FIR in the case of the missing file.WHAT IS THE CONTROVERSYIn January 2017, the Mohali MC decided to purchase a tree-pruning machine and after the tenders were floated, an advance payment of ₹89.5 lakh was made to a company. The machine, however, was never handed over to the civic body. Later, an inquiry was conducted. Some officials were charged for corruption and the Punjab government issued orders to recover the money for the alleged discrepancies in the purchase of the machine and also issued the cancellation of the tender.BR Bansal, retired additional district and sessions judge, was appointed to investigate the matter. The judge presented his report to the government on 20 October, 2019, in which the discrepancies related to the purchase of the machine were confirmed.WHAT THEY SAYI have already issued a notice to the officials concerned to locate the file in three days, following which a legal action will be taken against them. We will not spare any official for the lapse.Kamal Kumar Garg, MC Commissioner of MohaliI submitted a written complaint to the MC commissioner on Tuesday and have demanded lodging of FIR for the allegedly missing file. The civic body has completely failed to recover the amount from the company, which is now ₹2 crore with interest. If the MC will not take any action, we will go to court.Kuljeet Singh Bedi, former Congress councillor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/file-on-controversial-tree-pruning-machine-goes-missing-from-mohali-mc-office/story-CHj9jbAJLgd8FvgsvXlqJM.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||5 accused of murder surrender before Tarn Taran’s OCCU IGP||Five men wanted in a case of murder registered in Tarn Taran district surrendered before Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, inspector general of police (IGP) of the state’s organised crime control unit (OCCU). The case was registered at the Sadar police station in January 2019 in which Harpreet Singh alias Happy of Noordi village was killed in a road rage incident. Another man had received serious injuries in the incident.The accused were absconding since. Those who surrendered are Sukhpal Singh, Arshdeep Singh, Gurpartap Singh, Akashdeep Singh and Gurjant Singh of Bakipur village in the district. They were taken in custody and handed over to Sadar station house officer (SHO) for further legal action, said the IGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-accused-of-murder-surrender-before-tarn-taran-s-occu-igp/story-nSoDHK8VOPWaXl73TZ4STK.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||State braces for Nisarga impact; rain alert for city||Cyclone Nisarga, developing in the Arabian Sea, is expected to make landfall today afternoon over Raigad district, south of Mumbai, the weather bureau said on Tuesday. The cyclone is very likely to intensify into a “severe cyclonic storm” around 5.30am on Wednesday, and cross Maharashtra and the south Gujarat coast on Wednesday afternoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The prediction is extremely heavy rain for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad with high-speed winds, gusting to a maximum of 120kmph along the coast. The landfall site has been identified close to Alibag, Raigad district, which is 16km south of Mumbai over the sea, with extensive damage expected for Mumbai, the weather bureau said. However, private weather forecasters maintained their earlier predictions of the cyclone’s landfall in Palghar, north of Mumbai.“The major impact of the landfall over Alibag is expected around 12 noon and the impact will continue till around 3pm, which will be felt across all four districts,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at India Meteorological Department (IMD).Maharashtra and Gujarat activated their disaster-response mechanisms as the two western states, which are already battling a raging pandemic that has put their health infrastructure under severe strain, deployed National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams and started evacuating people from vulnerable areas on Tuesday. In Maharashtra, authorities have started to evacuate more than 65,000 people living close to the coast. Seven coastal districts of Maharashtra – Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Thane, Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban and Palghar district – have been put on alert, as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to citizens to stay indoors on Wednesday and Thursday and establishments to remain shut. NDRF has deployed 20 teams – eight teams in Mumbai, four in Raigad, two each in Palghar, Thane and Ratnagiri and one each in Navi Mumbai and Sindhudurg. Four teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) too have been deployed in these districts, while one NDRF team is on stand-by. These teams comprise 35-45 jawans, depending on the expected severity of the cyclone in the region.Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to chief ministers of both states and assured them all possible help from the Centre. “He has promised help from the Centre,” Thackeray said in his live address to citizens. He asked citizens to take precautions. “Keep your phones and emergency lights charged. Keep all your essentials, including medicines, at a safe and accessible place. Make sure you store drinking water and avoid unnecessary usage of electricity as there might be chances of a power cut owing to heavy rain,” he said.In Mumbai, the police have issued a prohibitory order restricting public movement of one or more persons near the coast, including on promenades at Marine Drive, Nariman Point, Bandra, Worli sea face, and at beaches and parks which are near the coastline on Wednesday and Thursday. The BMC, too, has started its preparations, said a senior civic official, adding that a team of ward officials is being sent to coastal areas, where they are making announcements on safety measures. The BMC’s official Twitter handle has also put out a list of ‘dos and don’ts’.The weather system, currently a cyclonic storm, was located about 310km south-southwest of Mumbai, and 270km south-southwest of Alibag. It is likely to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm by 5.30am on Wednesday. Maximum wind speed is expected to range between 100-110 kmph on Wednesday afternoon (expected landfall), gusting to 120 kmph along Mumbai coast.“The current trajectory of the system shows landfall over Raigad district, just scraping the south of Mumbai, which is likely to impact the financial capital with the possibility of extremely heavy rain and high-speed winds,” said Devi.“Authorities across all four districts — Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar — have been warned about the severity of the weather event as all four districts are expected to be affected when the severe cyclonic storm moves closer to landfall on Wednesday afternoon.”Meanwhile, the city and suburbs recorded light to moderate showers from 5pm onwards on Tuesday. Between 5.30pm and 8.30pm, south Mumbai recorded 18.6 mm (moderate) rain, while 11 mm (light) rain was recorded in south Mumbai. Moderate wind speed of 10-12 knots was recorded at south Mumbai.On Monday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had expected the landfall over Palghar district (north of Mumbai), but based on studying the trajectory of the system, revised their prediction by Monday evening.Meanwhile, private weather forecasting agency Skymet on Tuesday said they still expected landfall over Palghar district. “Our weather models are showing landfall north of Mumbai with a crucial period of extremely heavy rain and gale winds expected from Tuesday evening to Wednesday afternoon,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet. “Heavy rain over Mumbai will have the potential for intense flooding.”The IMD’s latest bulletin issued warnings for the expected storm surge and damage expected across four districts — Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Ratnagiri — for Wednesday. “Storm surge of about 1-2m above astronomical tide (tidal characteristics associated with gravitational effects) is very likely to inundate low-lying areas of Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts, and 0.5-1m height above the astronomical tide likely to inundate low-lying areas of Ratnagiri district during the time of landfall,” the IMD release said.Major damage was expected for thatched houses, huts and those with unattached metal sheets as rooftops, which are located across several areas in the Mumbai slums, which may blow away due to high speed winds, the IMD bulletin said, adding that there was expected damage to power and communication lines, breaking of tree branches. Uprooting of large avenue trees, damage to banana and papaya trees , large dead limbs blown from trees, major damage to coastal crops, damage to embankments and salt pans were some of the other warnings.Dr Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, said if landfall happens over Raigad, maximum rainfall is expected over northern regions (Mumbai). “Not just the direct impact of winds, but forecasts indicate heavy rain up to 200mm, while the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services has forecasted storm surges with waves of 3-6m as the cyclone approaches landfall,” he said. “If this happens during high tide on June 3 then flooding will be a major concern for a city that is already clogged.”Dr Koll pointed out that natural defences such as mangroves and river flood plains had been constructed on many parts of the city for infrastructure and real estate, giving rise to prolonged inundation concerns.Other experts said that in order to respond to such extreme weather events, there was need to develop a granular understanding of climate risks at the state, district, and city levels. “Cyclone Nisarga could severely test the climate resilience of infrastructure in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra. Given our vulnerability to climate change, the tail-end risks of today could become more frequent and more intense in future with severe economic and security consequences. Restoration of natural ecosystems must be prioritised. We also need to evolve our emergency preparedness beyond ‘disaster management’ and build resilient physical and digital infrastructure, strengthen training given to relief personnel, and inculcate social and behavioural changes in citizens and communities,” said Arunabha Ghosh, chief executive officer, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).In times of social distancing, it is going to be a difficult and different rescue operation in Maharashtra for NDRF. A commander said the jawans have, however, been preparing to battle monsoon amid the Covid-19 outbreak and adequate measures have been taken. Anupam Srivastava, NDRF Maharashtra commandant, said that each jawan has been provided a “rescuer Covid kit”, which includes a hand-wash, soap, gloves, face masks and shields. They have also been provided with two biological suits, one which can be disposed of and one which can be washed. “It will be a difficult rescue operation, but we are well-prepared,” Srivastava said. On Tuesday, NDRF men were also briefing citizens living near the coast to be alert and prepared for the cyclone. “These are people who have lived near the sea for generations. They say we have already seen these events, so it is a little difficult to convince them, but we are trying our best. We have started evacuation in Alibaug, Palghar and Sindhudurg,” he said. (with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-braces-for-nisarga-impact-rain-alert-for-city/story-kAFGs5up26vy23t32QuujN.html
03-06-2020||City||Two months on, 153 Indian nationals stuck in Dubai land at Chandigarh airport||As many as 153 Indian nationals from the region, who were stuck in Dubai after the outbreak of coronavirus, landed on an Air India flat at the Chandigarh international airport on Tuesday.The evacuation was part of the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission of the Government of India.As per the spokesperson of the airport, the aircraft landed at 9.28pm with passengers from adjoining states of Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.All passengers were screened by Punjab health department and were subsequently handed over to respective states after immigration and customs clearances.Afterwards, all passengers were sent for quarantine as per protocol issued by their respective states who had arranged for their transportation.District nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar said the passengers will not be sent home yet and will instead be quarantined at government facilities for 14 days. All passengers were asymptomatic, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-months-on-153-indian-nationals-stuck-in-dubai-land-at-chandigarh-airport/story-SdoyirfiqK4hjkmwl6CIqJ.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha tally at 72,300, but unlocking begins||After 71 days, Maharashtra will allow its citizens to walk, run, exercise and cycle at open spaces, playgrounds and sports complexes from today, as the government eases lockdown restrictions on Wednesday, when the first phase of state’s three-phase ‘Mission Begin Again’ kicks in. The government has allowed relaxations, including opening of markets and private offices in red zones, but not in containment zones, even as 2,287 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases were reported on Tuesday, pushing the infection count to 72,300. Of the fresh infections, 38,493 are active cases, which accounts for 53.24% of the total cases, according to the state health department.However, despite the scheduled lifting of curbs, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to people to stay indoors in view of Cyclone Nisarga, which is likely to make landfall by Wednesday afternoon. Mumbai is likely to be affected by the cyclone.“Although, we have decided to give relaxations from tomorrow, it will be in the interest of everyone to stay at home tomorrow and day after as we all know the cyclone is likely to come at Alibaug (near Mumbai). Everything will remain closed for two days, including industries,” Thackeray said in his live address to the state on Tuesday evening.On Tuesday, it also reported 103 deaths. The toll stands at 2,465. Of them, 38 deaths are from past two days, while the rest are between May 1 to May 30, clarified the health department.Last Friday, the state had recorded 116 fatalities, highest so far. However, the government had clarified that 70 of them were from past 13 days.Of 103 deaths, 49 are in Mumbai, 10 each in Mira Bhayander and Pune, six each in Raigad, Satara, five in Solapur, four each in Navi Mumbai, Panvel, three each in Sangli and Akola and one each in Thane, Nashik and Ahmednagar.Of the deaths, 59 were of above 60 years of age, while 39 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining five were below the age of 40 years. Of the deceased, 69 had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, health officials said.Mumbai also recorded 1,117 new cases on Saturday and its case count stands at 42,216. Of them, 23,629 are active cases. The city’s toll stands at 1,368.On May 22, Mumbai had reported its highest one-day jump in cases — 1,751.Officials said that the cases are likely to surge for a few more days after which they are expecting decline in numbers. “We are concerned that with more relaxations, more people will step out and get exposed to the virus. This ultimately will result in asurge in cases. We are already experiencing a rise in cases in the districts where there were no cases or were minimal in number before relaxations were given in the state on May 20,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said, “We are of the opinion that the trend will continue till the sixth incubation cycle of 14 days is completed, after which the decline in cases will start.”The sixth incubation cycle will be completed on June 14.In the state cabinet meeting held on Tuesday, the state health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas informed that 35.23%, of the total patients in the country are in the state and the recovery rate of the state is 43.33%. He also said that maximum 40% of patients are in the age group of 30-40 years, while 18% patients are in the age group of 40-50 years and 16.5% patients are in the age group of 50-60 years.After the Centre announced its guidelines on lockdown 5.0 billed as ‘Unlock 1’, allowing for significant relaxations, the state government on Sunday announced more relaxations that will be applicable in three phases starting from June 3.According to the state’s notification, physical activities, including walking, running, exercising, cycling, can begin from June 3 in sports complexes, stadia, playgrounds, beaches and open spaces. From June 5, shops, market places can be open (on odd-even basis) and from June 8 private offices (up to 10 per cent of staff) can start operating. The relaxations are applicable for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) (the areas governed by nine municipal corporations including Mumbai) Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur — the 19 corporations, which have been earmarked as red zones. All the containment zones within the red zones remain excluded from the relaxations.The non-red zone areas, which include the remaining eight municipal corporations and rest of Maharashra, mostly covering the rural areas, have already been given greater relaxations. All markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, have now been allowed to open on a P1-P2 basis between 9am and 5pm. Shops on one lane will be allowed to open on odd dates, while another lane will be opened on even dates.Private offices in all the red zones can now operate at 10% of their strength, with the remaining staff working from home. “The offices will have to take care of transportation facilities for its employees as public transport has not been allowed in red zones,” said a government official. Government offices have been allowed to operate with 15% of their strength of the staff, up from the current permission of 5%. “It is the beginning of the lifting of curbs in a phased manner. Although we have extended the lockdown till June 30, there will be graded relaxations coming in the next four weeks. Industrial and commercial activities will see greater relaxations on the need-base criterion. Few more civic corporations may see exclusion from red zones,” said another official, wishing not to be namedIt, however, has also extended lockdown till June 30, which means trains, metro, inter-district transport, educational institutions, malls, multiplexes, please of worship, political-religious-social gatherings, barber shops, spas, saloons will remain closed across the state, irrespective of the zones.Meanwhile, the state cabinet reviewed the situation arising due to the Covid-19 outbreak on Tuesday. Considering problem being faced by the staff related to the emergency services, it was decided to follow up with the Centre to starting local trains only for them, said a minister, privy to the development.BMC commissioner IS Chahal also gave a presentation and stated that they have decided to make it mandatory for the laboratories to give Covid-19 test reports in 24 hours. The doubling rate of the cases also rose to 19 days in the city. Some 3,750 private doctors have agreed to serve the city and are being trained for the task.The health department declared to have conducted 4,83,875 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 4,11,575 people tested negative, said an official. State currently has 3,730 active containment zones. A total of 19,019 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 71.61 lakh people.So far, 35,097 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,70,453 people have been put under home quarantine.The mortality rate has also slightly increased to 3.40% (2,465 deaths on June 2) from 3.27% (1,792 deaths on May 26). It is also more than the national mortality rate, which is 2.83%, with 5,394 deaths till Sunday, stated the data shared by the state health department.However, the state has also succeeded in bringing down the mortality rate significantly from last month. On April 13, the mortality rate of the state was 7.41%. (148 deaths). This indicates improvement of 4.4%, the data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-tally-at-72-300-but-unlocking-begins/story-aZmLejLUctHMh3isLKJRfO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Copyright extends to theme, plot and storyline of a literary work: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has held that in the case of literary works, copyright extends not only to expression of the core idea but also to its theme, plot, and storyline.The order, which was pronounced on Friday, was in regards to a plea filed by Urdu writer Shamoil Ahmad Khan claiming that Falguni Shah and two others had infringed his copyright on one of his short stories, ‘Singardan’ and produced a web series under the same title which was being aired on online platforms. Khan claimed that producers of the web series had not only copied his title, but also the entire plot, narrative, and characters of his story.Producers of the web series opposed his plea for an injunction, claiming that except for the central idea of ‘Singardaan’, there was no other similarity between Khan’s literary work and the web series. They claimed that the central idea, set during riots, about a man taking a dressing table from a brothel to his home and how its use leads to changes in the behaviour of the womenfolk at home, was not entitled to any copyright protection.They submitted that the depiction of the central idea in the web series, scene to scene, situation to situation, in-climax to anti-climax, including the pathos, texture, treatment, purport, and presentation, was materially different from Khan’s story and therefore, there was no question of infringement.The argument, however, failed to impress upon justice SC Gupte. The judge agreed that that copyright does not extend to ideas, schemes, systems, or methods and it is confined to their expression; and if the expression is not copied, the copyright is not infringed.However, he clarified that in a literary work, a germ of an idea is developed into a theme and then into a plot and then finally a story, with the help of characters and settings. It is the combination of all these elements which give substance to the work. “If one goes on stripping the final work of these various elements, one may finally come to the bare idea or abstraction which no longer enjoys copyright protection,” Gupte said.“The narration is the life and blood of the plaintiff’s [Khan’s] story,” said the judge, adding that it cannot be said that the writer has copyright only in the details of expression.“If someone steals this theme, plot, and storyline, is he not thereby plagiarising the expression of the plaintiff’s work? Can the theme, plot, and storyline be simply dismissed as non-protectable ideas of the plaintiff’s work and not its expression? I think not. We have not yet reached that level of extraction where the work can be stripped to its non-protectable idea,” the judge said.Gupte concluded that though the producers of the web series developed Khan’s theme, plot, and storyline differently, prima facie it was a case of copyright infringement. The court restrained the producers from making any further adaptation of ‘Singardaan’ and directed them to maintain accounts of the revenue earned from the web series, right from its inception till the disposal of Khan’s suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/copyright-extends-to-theme-plot-and-storyline-of-a-literary-work-hc/story-F9aKE5UPzCxHyPwkx7lqFN.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC issues circular on lockdown relief in 3 phases||Even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray made a plea to citizens to stay indoors in view of the Cyclone Nisarga, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) late on Tuesday evening issued detailed guidelines to ease restrictions in Mumbai, as part of lockdown 5.0 in light of the Covid-19 outbreak. In tandem with the Maharashtra government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ announced on May 31, BMC has allowed easing of restrictions in a three-phased manner, from June 3, June 5 and June 8. Municipal commissioner IS Chahal, who issued the circular, said, “We will follow government orders.” He implied that people should stay at home for two to three days during which the cyclone is expected to make landfall in Mumbai. From June 3, outdoor recreational activities such as jogging, cycling, running, and walking in open public spaces, parks, and playgrounds will be allowed, along with opening of government offices with 15% staff, or 15 staff members, whichever is lower, and businesses such as garages for motor repairs. From June 5, markets, market areas and shops, except malls or shopping complexes, will be opened between 9am and 5pm, along with plying of taxis, auto-rickshaws and cabs for essential purposes. From June 8, private offices will be allowed to operate with 10% staff, while the remaining staff will work from home. These relaxations will not apply to containment zones, where only essential services of medical and grocery stores will remain open. The periphery of containment zones will be defined strictly by respective ward officers and no one can enter or exit a containment zone, except for medical emergencies, the circular read. It also advises pregnant women and elderly citizens to stay home. The circular allows outdoor activities from June 3 strictly between 5am and 7am. Group activities will not be allowed. Children must be accompanied by adults. Also, people can undertake such recreational activity only in their neighbourhoods, and long-distance travelling is not allowed. Shops and markets will be allowed to remain open on the condition that they are open on either side of the road on alternate days. All shops and markets will remain shut on Sunday. Use of trial rooms and exchange policies will not be allowed. Shops that do not follow social distancing rules will be closed down immediately. The circular allows for taxis, auto-rickshaws and cabs to ply for essentials, with two passengers apart from the driver. Two-wheelers are allowed only with a single passenger and no pillion rider, and four-wheelers are allowed with two passengers along with driver. While certain restrictions are eased, schools, colleges, educational and training institutes will be closed. Also, Metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, places of worship, spas, barber shops, saloons, beauty parlours, shopping malls, hotels and restaurants will remain closed. Religious and cultural functions and sports gatherings will not be allowed. International air travel of passengers will not be allowed, and passenger movement by train and other domestic travel will not be allowed unless specified with an order. It has also disallowed night activity, and prohibited any movement of people between 9pm and 5am, except for essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-issues-circular-on-lockdown-relief-in-3-phases/story-9pcTm32VjOIqmjzbP2aOgM.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy cultivation in full swing in Karnal villages||Cultivation of water-guzzling paddy is in full swing in several Karnal villages despite government’s orders banning the transplantation before June 15. Farmers could be seen pumping out groundwater and flooding their fields in Samora, Ramba, Salaru, Darar, Churni and Bibipur villages of Indri and Karnal. Most of them claimed they weren’t worried about any action against them and were ready to pay the fine of Rs 133 per day per acre than delaying the paddy sowing.They said they have to clear their fields in September to grow vegetables, which is why most of them sow early varieties of paddy and begin the transplantation in the last week of May and first week of June. “These farmers own acres of land and are politically connected. It is difficult for officials to take action against them. That is why they start transplantation in the first week of June every year,” said a labourer working for a farmer in Ramba village, pleading anonymity. Karnal deputy director (agriculture) Aditya Dabas said some farmers had gone for early transplantation fearing labour shortage. “It is difficult to uproot the paddy sown at this scale, but I believe that imposing a penalty is a better option. We have decided to charge a fine of Rs 133 per day for per acre of transplantation and have issued notices to 57 farmers,” he added. Dabas said notices will be issued to the erring farmers and the fine will be added to their revenue records which will be chargeable whenever they visit their tehsil office. VIOLATION OF SUBSOIL WATER ACT The advanced sowing has also exposed negligence on the part of ground-level officials as these farmers have also violated the Haryana Preservation of Subsoil Water Act by preparing nursery beds before May 15. A nursery takes 25 to 30 days before saplings are ready for transplantation. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “A committee comprising the local halqa patwari, sarpanch, a policeman and an official from agriculture department will conduct a village-to-village survey and the transplanted crop will be destroyed to leave strong message.” As per a recent research carried out by Karnal-based Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, flood-based irrigation is putting enormous stress on the groundwater supplies and paddy alone consumes about 50% of the overall irrigation water. The research revealed that the yearly dip of about 3ft in groundwater table in north-west India between 1973 and 2001 had multiplied five times between 2000 and 2006 in central Punjab and parts of Haryana. During 2008-2012, total freshwater withdrawals in India were about 761 billion cubic metre of which, about 90% was used for agriculture, the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paddy-cultivation-in-full-swing-in-karnal-villages/story-PuYZ1TKVFfC5VsMSrbtatM.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||40 cops from JJ Marg police station recover from Covid-19||Seventy-one policemen from Dharavi and JJ Marg police station, who had contracted Covid-19, have now recovered, with six policemen from Dharavi police station resuming work on Tuesday.A total of 32 policemen posted at Dharavi police station contracted the virus, out of which 31 have recovered. One policeman succumbed to the virus. Whereas, 48 policemen attached to JJ Marg police station had tested positive for the virus, out of which 40 have recovered.“30 policemen attached to JJ Marg police station have joined duty. Rest are under home quarantine,” said Sangramsinh Nishandar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.“Those who were affected and recovered include one assistant police inspector, two police sub-inspectors and 29 other constables. They were tested negative for the virus and rested for a week, after which they resumed work,” said Ramesh Nangare, a senior police inspector, Dharavi police station.The rest who have been discharged are currently under self-isolation. “We have had regular counselling sessions for our staff. Experts have been roped in to brief policemen on the precautionary measures required to enter congested areas,” said Nangare.18 deaths in Mumbai Police Two more police personnel from Mumbai Police succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 18, till Tuesday. The death toll in Maharashtra Police is 29, comprising 28 constables or assistant sub-inspector (ASI). The latest death reported was of a 49-year-old head constable from Malad traffic division, on Monday. Rajani Salunkhe, an inspector from Malad traffic division said, “The victim might have contracted the virus from his son-in-law, who is posted with the local arms department. He tested positive for Covid-19 on May 3.”On May 15 the said head constable suffered from fever and got himself admitted at a private nursing home in Vashi, but his health deteriorated. He tested positive for Covid-19 on May 21. He was then admitted at SevenHills Hospital in Andheri.In the second incident on Monday, a 53-year-old assistant sub-inspector posted at Santacruz police station succumbed to Covid at Sion Hospital. His wife too has tested positive and is being treated at the hospital.1,526 total personnel infected in Mumbai A total of 1,526 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 till Monday night. In this, a total of 533 have recovered and 18 have died. The total number of active Covid cases in Mumbai Police as of Monday night is 975.The corresponding figure for Maharashtra Police for active cases till Tuesday morning is 1,479. As 975 cases out of the 1,479 cases in Maharashtra Police are from Mumbai Police, the city’s police force is contributing to about 65.9% of the total cases.Overall, in the state police, 29 police personnel have succumbed to the virus. In this, 18 are from Mumbai Police, three from Nashik rural, two from Pune and one each from Thane, Solapur city, Solapur rural, Jalgaon, Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and Mumbai Government Railway Police (GRP). 40 booked, 19 arrested for violations on Monday The Mumbai Police on Monday registered 19 FIRs against 40 people and arrested 19 for lockdown violations. A majority of 10 FIRs were against people gathering in public, five for not wearing masks, three against shops and one against hotel for operating despite being non-essential services. A maximum of eight FIRs were from central region, four from west region, three each from central and north region and one from south region. (Inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu and Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-cops-from-jj-marg-police-station-recover-from-covid-19/story-Jr6rihonBBgOCeOXsp4WfO.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Schools can’t strike off students’ names over non-payment of tuition fee, Chandigarh admn tells HC||The UT administration on Tuesday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that non-payment of tuition fee by any parent in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak will not result in denial of education or any other adverse consequence for the student.Senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain told the high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli that instructions in this regard had been issued to all schools on May 18.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Chandigarh advocate, Pankaj Chandgothia, who had challenged the May 18 directions of the UT administration to schools allowing them to charge tuition fee for the months of April and May by May 31 and thereafter monthly.Chandgothia told the court that in March schools were told to give one month’s time to parents/students to deposit the fees after schools reopened, but now two months’ fee was being charged in one go. This put parents in unnecessary hardship, he had told the court.The bench observed that the UT administration had already passed orders giving specific directions to private schools not to take any coercive steps against students in case of non-payment of fee.The bench disposed of the plea observing that adequate arrangement for accommodating students and parents unable to deposit fees has already been made. Therefore, no further direction was required to be issued in the matter, the bench added.The court, however, gave liberty to individual parents and students to approach the schools, the grievance redressal authority, or even the UT administration in case of any hardship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schools-can-t-strike-off-students-names-over-non-payment-of-tuition-fee-chandigarh-admn-tells-hc/story-AUQYVuvedq5cs1DEBZQraM.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||State issues show-cause notice to 4 hospitals for violating Covid-19 orders||The state government on Tuesday issued show-cause notices to four major hospitals in the city for violating its guidelines for the treatment of Covid-19. In a separate development, following the state cabinet’s approval, Maharashtra became the first state in India to extend health insurance that covers Covid-19 to all its citizens.Late on Monday, state health minister Rajesh Tope had made a surprise visit to the four private hospitals. During this inspection, he found the hospitals were flouting the rules laid down for treatment of Covid-19 patients, some of whom were made to wait despite less than 50% occupancy of hospital beds. “We found the hospitals had not put up boards specifying availability of beds and treatment charges for Covid-19. A few hospitals had sufficient beds, but they chose to keep Covid-19 patients waiting,” said Tope, adding that strict action will be taken against the hospitals for their non-compliance.On May 22, the state decided to reserve 80% of beds in all private hospitals in the city to tackle the shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients. Following reports of patients being charged exorbitant fees at private hospitals, the state health department also issued an order that capped Covid-19 treatment charges at private hospitals and required hospitals to put up boards with details of available beds and the treatment charges. Restrictions were also imposed on billing of medicines.In a state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state administration to appoint civic officials in private hospitals to monitor the situation. “This will ensure patients won’t have to face difficulties,” said Thackeray.The state cabinet also approved its free health insurance scheme being extended to all citizens of the state, making Maharashtra the first state in India to take this initiative. Under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, people in the state can avail free Covid treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-issues-show-cause-notice-to-4-hospitals-for-violating-covid-19-orders/story-vA3FQBpv8K4MpOPySNFJDP.html
03-06-2020||City||Asymptomatic patients can be isolated in clubhouses: TMC||Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms in Thane will no longer have to be admitted at quarantine centres. The Thane civic commissioner has asked housing societies to create isolation centres in their clubhouses and common halls for infected residents in this category.Societies will be required to register their Covid centres three days from the time they receive orders from the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). However, civic officials claimed that the order is not mandatory.With the increasing number of Covid cases in the city, the availability of beds in quarantine centres is rapidly decreasing. Moreover, given residents’ concerns about the quality of these centres, Thane civic commissioner Vijay Singhal issued directives to all residential societies to set up quarantine units in the premises.“If a positive patient is found in any society, who has no symptoms or has minor symptoms, he can be quarantined in the society itself. The clubhouse or multipurpose hall in the society will now be turned into a Covid care centre for these patients. Societies will have to set up these centres three days from the time they receive the orders. This will also ensure that those who are critical and need hospitals, will have beds available,” said Singhal.The circular states that no outsider, including friends and relatives of the people residing in the society, will be allowed to use this centre. “Only residents will be admitted here. If the number of positive patients is more than the beds, patients will be admitted on a first-come-first-serve basis. Persons isolated at these centres can get all meals from their families, provided the members wear protective gear and maintain social distance. Food will be kept outside the centre from where the patient will have to pick it up. Disposable plates and containers will be used to provide meals,” Singhal added.Patients admitted at the centre will have to clean the area on their own, or else a sanitation worker with a proper PPE suit will be permitted. The waste generated will be given to a biomedical waste centre. Regular examination of patients will be conducted by doctors from the society but if none are available, the society should approach the corporation for a medical officer. The doctor appointed by the society will get remuneration from the concerned patient, his family, or the society.“The isolation facility will also have jumbo oxygen cylinders and oxygen masks. The concerned doctors appointed by the society will help to secure these masks or they can seek help from us,” said Singhal.While the move would ease the burden on the TMC, residential societies claimed that these directives are not feasible. K Kumar, president of Progressive Thane Resident’s Welfare Association (PTRWA), Vasant Vihar, said, “Most societies do not have such a large space to set up quarantine centres. The clubhouse is small and there is just one washroom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asymptomatic-patients-can-be-isolated-in-clubhouses-tmc/story-XMBWtHDf0J7WKvSoOgy85H.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four injured as 2 men open fire outside liquor shop in Chandigarh’s posh Sector 9 market||Two masked men opened fire outside a liquor shop in the posh Sector 9 locality of Chandigarh, leaving four people injured on Tuesday evening. In all 10 shots were fired before the duo fled. Police suspect financial dispute behind the shooting.The incident comes just two days after four to five unidentified men drove up to the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla on Sunday evening, firing 17 shots in what police said was a targeted attack on his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla.The Tuesday attack took place outside a liquor shop owned by Ram Avtar Batra, 69, in the Sector 9 inner market near the police headquarters. The Sector-21 resident told police he has been running the shop since April 2018 and also owns a petrol pump in Sector 35.Batra said he suspects “his dispute over a money transaction with some people” led to the shooting, said Chandigarh senior superintendent of police Nilambari Jagdale.It was around 7:25pm that two men reached the spot in a white Honda Amaze car. After parking it outside a house opposite the market, the duo — one in red and the other in blue T-shirt — walked across the road and started firing at the shop. They later fled.In all 10 rounds were fired from .22 bore and .32 pistols, said police, who have recovered eight shells from the spot.One of Batra’s employees, Rajesh, sustained a bullet injury in his right arm while his son-in-law Ankur Narang received splinter injuries. Two other employees — Madan and Pawan — were also injured by shards of the shattered windowpanes.Rajesh was rushed to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research while others were taken to Government Multi Specialty Hospital. Their condition is stated to be stable. Police were in the process of registering a case at the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-injured-as-2-men-open-fire-outside-liquor-shop-in-chandigarh-s-posh-sector-9-market/story-7KlUobSJpMjUQaUFwbgAiN.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Inflated property tax bills add to Chandigarh industrialists’ woes||Counting their losses in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, city’s industrialists claim they have now been hit hard by municipal corporation’s inflated property tax bills.Businesses in the city’s twin industrial areas contend that MC has issued grossly inflated property tax bills, with some even going up to Rs 12 lakh, even as most tax payers have only received SMSes about the outstanding bill amount, and no hard copy of the bills.“While we have been expecting some relief from the government for mitigating our suffering due to the two-month lockdown, here we were shocked to get inflated property tax bills. In addition to the annual payment, these bills also contain arrears for several past years. This is despite no dues pending for past years with MC,” said a tax payer, based in Industrial Area Phase 1, requesting anonymity.“I received a tax bill for Rs 90,000. On an average, my tax is only Rs 10,000. The bill also mentioned outstanding amounts for past 10 years. Thankfully, I had the payment receipts for all these years and showed it to MC officials. They mercifully corrected their records,” said an industrialist, requesting anonymity.Majority of industrial units are getting 4 to 5 times inflated property tax, which include unreasonable arrears and interests, said Naveen Manglani, president, Chambers of Chandigarh Industries, adding that worse, MC wanted tax payers to visit its office, along with records since 2004, to get the bills rectified, without looking into its own errors.“There is a 20% hike in property tax this year, which is like rubbing salt on our wounds, when we were assured by the administration that property tax will be waived for at least the lockdown period. E-sampark as well as online payments accompany collection fees, which is also unjustified. It is the MC responsibility. No such charges are levied on payment of water and electricity bills,” said Manglani.Stating that he is aware of the problem, which will be soon resolved, MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “We have received complaints regarding the inflated bills. We will be starting a helpline number on Wednesday. Those affected can contact MC on this number and rectify any mistake in the bills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inflated-property-tax-bills-add-to-chandigarh-industrialists-woes/story-gKrwPosUWWJn3lVYjMlUFK.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gym owner detained in Chandigarh’s Sec 33 firing case for ‘rivalry’ with liquor baron||Chandigarh A gym owner in Zirakpur, has emerged as the prime suspect in a case of firing at the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla on May 31 because of his rivalry with his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla.Armed men had driven up to the hotelier’s house, asking security men at the gate for Arvind Singla’s address in the same sector, but not finding him there had returned again to Rakesh Singla’s bungalow and fired from a pistol before fleeing. The suspect belongs to Sangrur and lives in Shivalik Vihar, Zirakpur, where he also runs the gym. Investigations have revealed that the prime suspect had for the last two years been working for gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and was also involved in an extortion case in Sector 26 about six months back. He was rounded up by the police on Tuesday with a friend and a man from whom they reportedly borrowed the vehicle used for the shooting. Suspect’s residence raidedPolice teams tracing the vehicle to a Ropar resident were told that he had sold it to the current owner, who when questioned, said it had been borrowed by the gym owner. After receiving the information, a search was carried out in the prime suspect’s Zirakpur house, where he lives with his family, including his brother and mother while his sister is settled abroad.“We have recovered the vehicle and investigations are continuing,” said Vineet kumar, superintendent of police (operations). He did not reveal any other details.It has also been learnt that the gym owner was also involved in a case of firing in Sector 26 six months ago.Chandigarh police in its statement later on Tuesday said investigating officials were working on technical details such as call records of the suspects. Raids had also been conducted at three places in Haryana and three in Punjab, it was learnt.All names of the suspects have been withheld as they are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gym-owner-detained-in-sector-33-firing-case-for-rivalry-with-liquor-baron/story-57mWx8N1zOTZwlwVAruZeO.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||10 city wards report over 2,000 cases; Kurla, Matunga, Dharavi top the list||According to ward-wise data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), as on June 2, 10 out of 24 administrative wards in Mumbai have recorded more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases.The 10 wards – G-North ( Dharavi, Dadar, and Mahim), L (Kurla), F North (Matunga), E ( Byculla), K-West (Andheri West), H-East ( Santacruz East), G-South (Worli and Prabhadevi), F-South (Parel), K-East (Andheri East), and M-East ( Govandi) – together make up nearly 27,000 of the total 42,216 positive cases in the city.Maximum cases have emerged from G-North (3,127), followed by areas like Kurla (2,726) and Matunga (2,684). Apart from these areas, K-East ward witnessed an increase of 110 cases on Monday and Tuesday, bringing the total to 2,430 cases.Areas like Chira Bazar (442), Borivli (469), Bhendi Bazar (542), and Mulund (823) continue to be at the bottom of the list with the least number of cases.In terms of ward-wise growth rate, R-North ward (Dahisar) topped the list with 8.1%, followed by P-North ward (Malad) at 6.9% and R-South ward (Kandivli West) at 5.9%. Mumbai’s average growth rate stood at 3.68% on Tuesday, lower than 3.85% on Monday.The latest infographic released by BMC suggests that of the 16,663 recovered patients, the highest number of 1,883 were discharged from N ward, followed by L ward with 1,175 patients.Meanwhile, Dharavi reported 25 cases on Tuesday, pushing its tally to 1,830. A total of 2.80 lakh residents from the area have been screened. Dadar reported 11 new cases, taking its total to 337 while Mahim saw 25 new cases bring the area’s total to 549.Suresh Kakani additional municipal commissioner, said, “Of the over 3,000 cases in G-North ward, 1,800 cases are from Dharavi. After battling day and night to contain the outbreak in an area where social distancing was next to impossible, our team managed to do a great job. The doubling rate has been better and the number of cases recorded is coming down. The overall growth rate of cases in Mumbai is coming down too.”Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 1,117 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 42,216. The city also reported 49 new deaths, driving the casualty figure up to 1,368.The city on Monday reached the landmark of conducting 2 lakh Covid-19 tests since the first case was detected in Mumbai on March 11. The state has carried out almost 4.71 lakh tests as on Tuesday. Ramping up testing in a big way, nearly 4,000 samples are now processed daily through six public-sector and 12 private labs in Mumbai, said the civic authorities.Cyclone preparednessMaharashtra environment minister and Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday held a preparation review meeting with civic officials for the impending Cyclone Nisarga and assured all possible help to deal with any situation arising from it. Thackeray instructed officials to identify potentially hazardous settlements in their divisions as well as low-lying settlements, and evacuate residents to nearby schools or safer areas.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that adequate manpower has been deployed at the main and departmental control rooms of the corporation. Squads of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Coast Guard, Navy, and Mumbai Fire Brigade are on alert.Low-key Ganesh celebrations“Necessary actions have been taken as per the directions of the Centre and state government,” Chahal said.This year, the Ganesh festival is expected to be a low-key affair in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Tuesday, mayor Kishori Pednekar held a meeting with members of the Ganesh Festival Coordination Committee and requested organisers to tone down celebrations. Pednekar said, “Mandals have responded positively to the appeal and are ready to celebrate in a simple manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-city-wards-report-over-2-000-cases-kurla-matunga-dharavi-top-the-list/story-fmEcgI0WxUzLV1xFOplRxN.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC against sealing of borders||A plea was filed in the Delhi High Court on Tuesday against the sealing of the borders of Delhi for a week by the Delhi government. The plea, filed by advocate Kushagra Kumar, stated that it was an “illogical, irrational, unreasonable and unconstitutional” move. The plea contended that the order of the Delhi government is in violation of the Indian Constitution. It also said that by sealing the border, the Delhi government is taking away the rights of those working in Delhi and staying in NCR cities like Noida and Gurugram to avail of the health facilities in Delhi. In addition, the citizens in other states like UP and Haryana are also denied the basic right to access the central hospital in Delhi. The matter will be now heard on June 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-hc-against-sealing-of-borders/story-5nEiBsgLgP4gJIL4B6tFXI.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Rising Covid deaths push Delhi’s largest cemetery at ITO to brink||The rise in coronavirus-linked deaths in the Capital, and the relatively complicated and space-consuming protocols set to bury those who have died or are suspected to have died of the pathogen, are pushing the largest Muslim cemetery in the city to the brink, according to officials who say it may run out of space if the rate of Covid-19 deaths continues to spike.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe problem, the officials said, is that these bodies take up more space than other bodies, and the land they are buried in cannot be reused, unlike when other dead bodies are buried there.In April, when hospitals across the city first started sending bodies to the cemetery in Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) suits, the authorities earmarked a two-acre space within the 44-acre cemetery for those who were infected with Covid-19.“No one knew then that we would get so many bodies. We have already buried such 193 bodies since April 3,” Haji Mian Faiyazuddin, the secretary of New Cemetery for Mohammedans (Qabristan Ahle Islam), said. Though Delhi’s total Covid-19 death toll, according to the Delhi government bulletin on Tuesday, was 556, it was not clear how many of those buried in the cemetery were listed in the figures as confirmed cases.“The protocol is the same for suspected and confirmed Covid-19 deaths. They cannot be buried next to the other non-Covid bodies. Instead of the normal four-by-three, we have to dig a hole that is 12 feet deep and four feet wide. We also have to keep extra space between bodies. That means much more space than a normal burial,” Faiyazuddin said.Apart from the ITO cemetery, two other cemeteries at Shastri Park and Mangolpuri have been allowed to accept Covid-19 confirmed and suspected cases. The other grounds are smaller in size and measure less than five acres each. Faiyazuddin said the space at the ITO burial ground has anyway been filing up over the years. “This cemetery was started in 1924. In the time to come, there will be a problem for non-Covid bodies too; but burying Covid-19 bodies is the immediate problem. The rate at which we are getting the bodies, the government should provide some other space immediately. It should be earmarked far away from the main city,” he said. On Monday evening, the Delhi District Management Authority (DDMA) wrote to all district magistrates (DMs) asking them to identify space to create more cremation and burial grounds far from residential areas. The additional chief executive officer (CEO) of the DDMA, Rajesh Goyal, in a letter to the DMs, asked them to find such spaces and provide the requisite information on “topmost priority”. HT has seen a copy of the letter.The Delhi Waqf Board’s chief executive officer, SM Ali, however said there was no problem of space at the ITO graveyard, and added that there were other options.“Burial grounds across the city are managed by our committees, which are allowed to create more space in the graveyard by taking necessary steps, if required. We have enough of graveyards dedicated to bury Covid-19 related bodies in the city, so there is no need to panic.”Officials at the ITO graveyard, however, held a different view. The supervisor of the cemetery, Shamim, said that in April the cemetery got only 3-4 Covid-19 bodies every day, which was manageable. “But the numbers have increased now. On Sunday, we got eight bodies; nine bodies were brought on Saturday. Unlike the non-Covid burial space, we cannot dig the same ground and bury another body after a year, so this space cannot be used again. It is gone forever. We may have space for around 300 more bodies -- no more than that,” he said.Another official said, asking not to be named, added: “Non-Covid bodies can be buried in four-feet holes. We do it manually, but for Covid deaths, we use the [eathmover] machine. We pay Rs 3,000 for the machine per body. The bodies come wrapped in PPE kit and are lowered using ropes. We also have to keep a distance of at least four feet between two bodies. People come here from across the city. Either we bury only confirmed Covid bodies if the government says the numbers are less or the within a month, we will run out of space,” A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to queries seeking a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rising-covid-deaths-push-delhi-s-largest-cemetery-at-ito-to-brink/story-vGeqf4Clwu5jbfgXPXlb6H.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||13 staffers in L-G’s office test positive for Covid-19||At least 13 employees in Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s office, Raj Niwas, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), an official spokesperson said on Tuesday.However, Baijal himself was not tested, because tracing teams found that the L-G had no contact with any of the infected staffers.According to a Raj Niwas spokesperson, the first case came to light after a junior assistant officer from the extended branch of the office contracted the infection from his father. After the first case was detected, all 300 employees of the office in Civil Lines were tested, and 13 results returned positive.“The first employee who tested positive was asymptomatic and so was coming to work. As a result, others who came in contact with him contracted the infection. But, the situation is under control because none of them are in a serious condition,” said the spokesperson.All 13 have been put under home quarantine as per the Centre’s guidelines, the spokesperson added. “The L-G was not tested for Covid because the surveillance teams did not find any link to him during contact tracing. Him apart, every senior and junior employee has been tested,” the spokesperson said. The official further stated that the L-G office is not being sealed and that frequent disinfection drives are being carried out. In the evening, Baijal tweeted, “Deeply concerned about health of officials of my secretariat who tested positive for COVID-19 Health of all officials is stable & is being closely monitored. All of these officials were working tirelessly in these difficult times shoulder to shoulder with other frontline workers.”“I applaud their commitment towards work & pray for their speedy recovery. All precautionary measures to contain spread of Covid-19 to continue strictly as per govt protocol,” he said in another tweet.“All protocols laid down by the ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] and the Delhi government are being followed here,” the L-G’s office said. The infections at Baijal’s office come just a day after a NITI Aayog official who worked in the body’s Delhi office tested positive for Covid-19. The third floor of the office was sealed on Monday for sanitisation .Earlier this week, at least two officials working at the headquarters of the Union ministry of external affairs tested positive for the infectious disease as well.The L-G on Tuesday also held a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) review meeting at his office that was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev and Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava, among other senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-staffers-in-l-g-s-office-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Fd6tVPFHhW05gNyUEJlppJ.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC to monitor implementation of govt’s disposal norms for bodies||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said it will monitor the implementation of the Delhi government’s guidelines issued on May 30 for the timely disposal of bodies of Covid-19 patients, or those suspected to have died of the disease. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan said it wants to review the government’s work on the ground.The Delhi health department’s May 30 order has made responsible the medical director/director of Covid-designated hospitals for timely disposal of bodies on time. The order mandated that such bodies must be disposed of within 24 hours and asked municipal agencies to make all arrangements necessary. The high court had, last week, taken suo moto cognisance of bodies piling up in Covid-19 mortuaries. The court had quoted an HT report dated May 28 that detailed how all 80 storage racks at the Covid-19 mortuary of the Lok Nayak Hospital were full and 28 bodies were stacked on the floor. The court also quoted the report stating that eight bodies were returned from Nigambodh Ghat on Tuesday because the facility was not in a position to accept more bodies, as only two of the three CNG furnaces were working and the bodies of those who had died five days before that were yet to be cremated. On the last day, the court had sought status reports from the Delhi government and three municipal corporations. On Tuesday, Delhi government’s standing counsel, advocate Sanjoy Ghose, said that the court particularly wanted to see whether the May 30 order has worked with regard to bodies of those who died on May 31 and June 1. Ghose also said that the court asked the government to file an updated status report two days before the next date of hearing on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-to-monitor-implementation-of-govt-s-disposal-norms-for-bodies/story-FXRgk1VIZ26fihay2PZ5XJ.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Debt-ridden man attempts to kill self, goes into hiding; caught||Neck-deep in debt, a 43-year-old former national-level powerlifter attempted to kill himself two weeks ago in outer Delhi’s Kanjhawala in such a way that it would appear to be accidental death and his family could receive his life insurance benefits, the police said on Tuesday. But when the suicide didn’t go through as planned, the man went into hiding to escape his moneylenders, forcing the police to investigate his disappearance as a case of kidnapping. On Monday, as the homesick man tried to return to Delhi from Haridwar, the police intercepted him on a train in Meerut.The man, Deepak Dabas, lives with his wife and two sons in Kanjhawala. “He had won a gold medal in powerlifting at the national level years ago,” PK Mishra, the deputy commissioner of police (Rohini), said.Later, he began dealing in property and opened a gymnasium. “The problem began when he borrowed money from his relatives and friends at an interest of 2% per month and lend it to others at a higher rate of interest,” the DCP said. He borrowed nearly ₹1.5 crore just to earn the interest, the DCP said, adding that he had also borrowed another ₹50 lakh to construct a house.“Soon, he was neck-deep in debt and had no way to get out of it even as the lenders began insisting that he return their money, along with the interest. Meanwhile, he could not make any money off lending,” the officer said.Finally, he decided to get out of the mess by killing himself, the DCP said. But, he added, he needed to make the suicide look like an accidental death. “He had an accidental death policy of ₹1 crore and life insurance of ₹50 lakh. He thought at least his family could benefit from his death,” the DCP said. On May 15, Dabas allegedly drove his Renault Duster car to an isolated stretch of road near the Bawana-Kanjhawala Road and doused his vehicle with diesel. “He thought if he was burnt inside the car, it would look like an accidental death. But when the car caught fire, he couldn’t bear the dense smoke and got out,” the DCP said. Leaving his burning car behind, the man walked for six days to Haridwar, allegedly to go into hiding forever. “He walked all the way since he could not find transport,” the DCP said. His family, meanwhile, registered a kidnapping case at Kanjhawala police station as they thought someone had abducted him for not returning the borrowed money. “We questioned his family and friends. We checked his and his family’s bank accounts to find that all the accounts had maintained only the minimum balance. We continued to keep a watch on their bank transactions,” the DCP said. The burnt car also aroused the police’s suspicion—why would kidnappers trouble themselves with burning the car if they just wanted Dabas?On May 19, the police found that ₹2,500 had been withdrawn from Dabas’ account from an ATM in Muzaffarnagar. “We checked the CCTV camera footage from the ATM and saw that it was Dabas who had withdrawn the money and that he was alone,” the DCP said, adding that sources were deployed to gather more information about his movements. “We alerted people in and around hotels and ashrams in Haridwar and neighbouring areas to alert us if they saw any man matching his description. On Monday, one of our informers alerted us that Dabas had boarded a Jan Shatabdi Express from Haridwar to Delhi,” the DCP said. A police team intercepted the train in Meerut and found Dabas on board. The police are still contemplating whether to press charges against Dabas and if so, under what sections of the Indian Penal Code. “As of now, the possible offence he has committed is attempting to trick insurance companies. But neither he nor his family had proceeded with claiming insurance so far. So, we are still contemplating what legal action to take against him,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/debt-ridden-man-attempts-to-kill-self-goes-into-hiding-caught/story-N9gJZ3SnGFxVVJVXTGDXSL.html
03-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s lockdown exit to take place in 3 phases... starting today||Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Tuesday issued orders for Lockdown 5, which mainly focused on the city beginning to move back to normal.Gaikwad said, “As instructed by the state government, various relaxations have given in three stages. The first stage starts on June 3, where citizens can go for walks and ride cycles. In the second stage, from June 5, citizens autorickshaws, taxis and other self-employment services will start. In the third stage of relaxation from June 8, private offices will start functioning with 10 per cent manpower.”Gaikwad clarified that all these relaxations are only for non-containment zones, which he claims is almost 90 per cent part of the city.Three-phased easing of lockdown(Only in non-containment zones)From Wednesday, June 3- Exercise in public spaces, but not in gymnasiums, indoor clubs- Cycling, jogging, running in gardens- Public gardens open for public- Self-employed services, like plumber, electrician, pest control, technicians can begin operations taking necessary care- Garages open, but only by prior appointment- Government offices open with 15 per cent manpowerFrom June 5- Taxis/autorickshaws permitted- Private cars allowed on roads- Tulshibaug, Hong Kong lane and individual shops allowed to open on P1 (odd dates) and P2 (even dates) basis- Vegetable markets and Mandai allowed to open on the odd-even dates plan- Trial rooms in shops not allowed to operate. No exchange of goods in clothing stores permitted- Shopkeepers must ensure social distancing of at least 6 metres- People encouraged to walk or cycle- Shops allowed to open from 9am to 5pmFrom June 8- Private offices can open with 10 per cent manpower. -Rest of the employees can work from homeNot allowed in all zones- Schools, colleges, classes- Cinema halls, Gyms, Swimming pools, auditoriums- Religious places- Salons, beauty parlour- Malls, hotelsPrecautions that need to be taken at public places- Mask compulsory- Owner of establishment and government authorities to ensure physical distance- No groups of more than five- Maximum of 50 people allowed for marriages; 20 for final rites of deceased- Spitting not allowed- Smoking and chewing tobacco not allowed in public places||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-lockdown-exit-to-take-place-in-3-phases-starting-june-3/story-NpKIWeQgH4QiNfOC8i8S4L.html
03-06-2020||Pune||New list of Covid-19 containment zones in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, on Tuesday, announced 27 areas deleted from the earlier list of 65 containment zones, and, 28 new areas added to the containment list. Now, Pune has a total of 66 containment zones.Micro containment zonesKasba-Vishrambaug wada ward office- Mangalwar peth, Old bazaar, Parvati darshan, Dandekar Bridge slum, Laxminagar, Sane Guruji vasahatBhavani peth ward office - all peth areas, excluding Sadashiv pethDhole Patil ward- Pune station, Tadiwala road, Sangamwadi TP scheme, Koregaon Park-Sant Gadgebaba vasahatDhankawadi Sahakarnagar ward office- Parvati, Taljai, Shivdarshan, Shahu vasahat, Ambegaon KhurdaBibwewadi ward office-Gultekadi-Ambedkarnagar, Dias plot, Meenat tai Thackeraynagar, Upper Indiranagar, Premnagar, Bhimale complex, Shilpa park societyYerawada Kalas Dhanori ward office-Yerwada ward number 6Wanowrie-Hadapsar ward office-Ramtekadi, Ramnagar Masjjid area, Blind school, SRPF area, Hadapsar, Gosavi vasti, Sayyadnagar, Kondhwa Khurda, Bhagodaynagar, Mithanagar, Hadapsar Indiranagar, Sarthak SocietyShivajinagar -Ghole road ward office-Shivajingar, Janwadi, Vadarwadi, Pandavnagar, Arun Housing Society, Wellworth SocietyAhmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri- Siddharthnagar, White House society, Neeta park, GandhinagarHadapsar Mundhwa-Kalika Dairy area, Unnatinagar, Saryodaya Colony, Taiyaba Masjjid area, MundhwaKothrud-Postman Colony, Shastrinagar PMC colony, Rahul Complex Paud road, Erandwada Suvery no 44, Kelewadi, Vitthal Temple areaAundh-Baner ward office-Bopodi, Aundh road, Chikalwadi, Kailas Krupa society, Mhasoba temple area||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-list-of-containment-zones-in-pune/story-fewo0NkUlkwZUAlllzmnbO.html
03-06-2020||Pune||26 Covid-19 deaths reported in a day, highest count in Pune||The city reported the highest number of deaths on Tuesday, 26, including one from rural Pune, due to Covid-19, taking the death count in PMC to 345, and 346 in the city. The city also reported 266 fresh positive cases taking the progressive count to 6,795. Also, 169 patients were discharged on Tuesday taking the count of those cured and discharged to 4,119. Out of the 2,331 patients currently admitted, 165 are in critical condition. The highest number of deaths, 11, reported on Tuesday out of the total was from Sassoon General Hospital. The eleven deaths reported at Sassoon include a 56-year-old female residing at Shivajinagar who also reportedly had tuberculosis and heart diseases. The patient was admitted on May 15 and was declared dead on June 1. A 68-year-old female residing at Gultekdi who was also suffering from heart diseases also became a Covid victim. The patient was admitted on May 21 and was declared dead on June 1. A 78-year-old who was residing at Ganesh peth and was suffering from high blood pressure and heart disease. The patient was admitted on Monday and declared dead on the same day. A 45-year-old woman residing at Hadapsar and was suffering from pneumonia in both lungs. The patient was admitted on Monday and declared dead on Tuesday at 12:30 am. A 51-year-old male residing at Hadapsar and was suffering from high blood pressure and lung diseases. The patient was admitted on May 25 and declared dead on Tuesday.A 62-year-old woman who was residing in Hadapsar was suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure and pulmonary high blood pressure. The patient was admitted on May 28 and was admitted on June 2. A 60-year-old female was residing at Hadapsar and did not report any comorbidity. The patient was admitted on May 11 and was declared dead on Tuesday. A 65-year-old female was residing at Tadiwala road and was suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes. The patient was admitted on May 21 and declared dead on Tuesday. A 46-year-old woman residing at Camp and was suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes. The patient was admitted on May 21 and reported dead on Tuesday. A 60-year-old female residing at Vishrantwadi and was suffering from high blood pressure. The patient was admitted on May 22 and declared dead on Tuesday. A 40-year-old female from Yerawada who was also suffering from diabetes and obesity was declared dead on Tuesday after being admitted on the same day. Two deaths each were reported at Kashibai Navale Hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, Poona Hospital and Sahyadri Hospital, Hadapsar. Two deaths reported at Kashibai include 78-year-old, male resident of Janata Vashat who died on Sunday due to severe acute respiratory failure with stroke. The second deceased was 51-year-old male who died at 1 pm on Sunday due to severe acute respiratory failure.The deaths at Deeenanath hospital included a 54-year-old female from Wadarwadi who died due to severe acute respiratory illness and also had pneumonia, hypertension and acute kidney injury (AKI). The second death was of a 43-year-old female from Health Camp chawl number 4 of Pune who died on Monday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). She had pneumonitis with obstructive sleep illness.The deaths at Poona Hospital include a 70-year-old female from Wanowrie, who died on Monday due to urosepsis with AKI. Another 76-year-old female from Hadapsar died on Tuesday due to ARDS with bilateral pneumonia.The two deaths at Sahyadri hospital, Hadapsar, include, a 60-year-old male residing at Hadapsar, who died on Sunday evening due to septic shock with AKI and had diabetes and lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI). The second deceased was a 60-year-old male from Ramtekdi who died due to septic shock with ARDS. He was also having hypertension and pneumonitis.The other deaths included a 77-year-old male reported dead from Ruby Hall Clinic. He was residing at Rasta peth. The patient died due to type 2 respiratory failure with ARDS was also suffered from diabetes, hypertension and pneumonia. Another 60-year-old male residing at Yerawada was reported dead from Naidu hospital. The patient died due to acute myocardial infraction and bilateral pneumonia. Another 72-year-old female reported dead at Sahyadri hospital Deccan was residing at Yerawada. She died on Monday due to pneumonitis with ARDS and was suffering from diabetes and hypertension.Another 55-year-old male was reported dead from Jehangir Hospital, residing at Kondhwa died on Tuesday due to bilateral pneumonia and ARDS. He was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and septic shock. An 86-year-old male was reported dead from Bharati Hospital on Tuesday due to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) with pneumonia who was also having hypertension.The YCM hospital reported one death of a 79-year-old male from Mangalwar peth who died on Sunday due to septic shock with acute respiratory failure. He was suffering from bilateral pneumonia with hypertension and diabetes.A death in rural Pune was also recorded on Tuesday of a 65-year-old female who was residing at Daund. The death was reported at YCM hospital and was admitted on May 31 and declared dead on Tuesday. The patient also suffered from diabetes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-a-day-highest-count-reported-yet-in-pune/story-M01GuedAnZpeoG4UCYMr0H.html
03-06-2020||City||2 masked assailants shoot Ludhiana farmer at point-blank range, victim survives||Two armed assailants shot a framer at point-blank range outside his house in Kot Mann village of Sidhwan Bet on Monday evening. However, the victim survived.The Sidhwan Bet police have lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused for attempting to murder Pavittar Singh (50).The accused, who had covered their faces, have been captured by the CCTVs installed in the area.The police suspect rivalry behind the crime. As per them, the victim was engaged in a land dispute with his brother.In his police complaint, victim’s son Hardeep Singh stated that two masked motorcycle-borne men showed up at their door on Monday evening and asked for Pavittar. “As my father came out of the house, the accused flashed a gun and opened fire. The accused shot my father at point-blank range leaving him injured and fled,” Hardeep said.Pavittar was rushed to hospital where he underwent surgery and survived.Sidhwan Bet SHO inspector Rajesh Thakur said a case of attempt to murder has been registered against the accused. As per the CCTV footage, one of the assailants was wearing a turban, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-masked-assailants-shoot-ludhiana-farmer-point-blank-victim-survives/story-HITzlMvZTUq4sefaxLtZ8K.html
03-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Cases rise from 18 to 158 in Pune’s Janata Vasahat causing concern||Janata Vasahat, Pune’s largest slum at the foothills of Parvati hill, has seen an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in May.As per the data with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) smart city war room, the Janata Vasahat-Dattawadi area which had about 18 Covid-19 positive cases as of May 16, reported that the count touched 158 by May 31.The maximum number of cases were reported on May 31 (53 cases) and May 28 (36 cases). The area falls under the Sinhgad road ward which had reported a total of 193 cases as of May 31, of which 158 were from Janata Vasahat and Dattawadi.The slum is located between a canal and the Parvati hills which restricts the movement of people from outside. However, intermingling within the slums has made it difficult for the authorities to keep a check on the spread of the virus.The area is spread across approximately 2.5-3 sq km and has about 7,000 to 7,500 houses with 4-5 members in each house. The civic administration which is currently dealing with the slums and congested areas in Tadiwala road and Bhawani peth is now facing new challenges with this rise in cases. Bosekar Jayant Shyamsundar, deputy commissioner, PMC Zone 3 said, “The first index cases found in these areas was that of one person who was infected possibly from the medical store at Sadashiv peth and another who was visiting a hospital for dialysis. These two were the index cases and the remaining were also close contacts.”He added, “As soon as we recorded the first case, we identified as many close contacts as possible and started testing them. Since the area was a non-containment zone, people freely moved and so there were too many contacts. We have currently sealed around 10 gallis (narrow slum lanes) from 0-56 lanes which have cases, while the remaining 7- 108 lanes do not have any cases as of yet. The public toilets in the area are thoroughly washed with sodium hypochlorite for at least 3-4 times a day. We have sealed the entry exit points of all these lanes, but we cannot stop the mingling of people within the area. The geographical area of the slum is such that we cannot completely seal if off physically.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-rise-from-18-to-158-in-pune-s-janata-vasahat-causing-concern/story-O9FE2yf8fnLGuIPHha7vyJ.html
03-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga to be second pre-rain cyclone to hit Maha coast in 129 years: Study||Even as the districts along the north Konkan coast prepare to handle the impact of a tropical storm brewing in the Arabian Sea, researchers from Pune’s Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology have said that Cyclone Nisarga would be the second pre-monsoon cyclone to hit the Maharashtra coast in 129 years – the first having been in May 1961.Cyclone Nisarga was officially declared as a cyclonic storm by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), after it intensified from a deep depression on Tuesday afternoon. It is currently located 450 km south-southwest of Mumbai.Click here for cyclone Nisarga live updatesThe system is expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm by Tuesday afternoon, and make landfall over Alibag in Raigad district by Wednesday afternoon, IMD said.IITM researchers analysed cyclone landfall data for Maharashtra and the west coast, since 1891 onwards, when authorities began officially recording cyclone formations. The analysis found that for June, the developing cyclone would be the first one to hit Maharashtra since 1891 and only the second pre-monsoon (April-June) cyclone in recorded history to hit the Konkan coast.“If we consider excluding Gujarat, then this will be the fourth cyclone to hit the west coast during pre-monsoon months, with previous instances recorded on May 1932, May 1941, and May 1961. We can also say that this is the first-ever June cyclone to hit the west coast, excluding Gujarat,” said IITM’s senior scientist Dr Roxy Mathew Koll, whose team carried out the analysis.Experts have said that pre-monsoon cyclones have become common phenomenon in the Arabian Sea.“As IPCC author, our report shows that future climate projections are indicating more intense cyclones growing in the Arabian Sea during the pre-monsoon and post-monsoon periods, which is very dangerous for coastal cities, especially Mumbai,” Dr Koll said.Experts have cited the example of very severe Cyclone Vayu, which had developed last year and ended as a low pressure system over Gujarat. “We are observing the increase in pre-monsoon cyclones in Arabian Sea. While we should not draw a trend until observing such weather systems for at least a few years, the formation of Cyclone Nisarga should not be called a rare event. However, we are assessing whether these systems are intensifying faster than before due to numerous factors including rising ocean temperatures,” said Sunitha Devi, the in-charge of cyclones at IMD.Meanwhile, there is no clarity so far if Mumbai has ever witnessed a cyclone landfall.On Tuesday, HT had reported that a tropical cyclone, which was said to have made landfall on June 6, 1882, in the city had led to more than one lakh deaths, but it was termed as an “event that never occurred” by national and international researchers in a peer-reviewed research paper.“The last major cyclone was Phyan, which also made a landfall over Alibaug in November 2009, leading to heavy rain and gusty winds over Mumbai. Other than that, there have been similar stray incidents during the 1940’s, but we are not aware of any cyclone making a landfall over Mumbai,” said Dr Koll.Another IPCC author, Anjal Prakash, said that rising ocean temperatures, increase in rainfall during storms, rising sea levels and faster intensification of cyclones in the Arabian Sea can all be attributed to climate change.“Some of the weakest cyclones at sea are being strengthened due to global warming and climate change impacts. This is no more a theory, and is being witnessed every monsoon in Arabian Sea now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-to-be-2nd-pre-rain-cyclone-to-hit-maha-coast-in-129-years-study/story-ljNA1xkfOAlnKY14slLaJK.html
03-06-2020||Pune||Two held for murder of a man in broad daylight in Kondhwa||The Pune police arrested two persons and are on the lookout for two other accused of murdering a 46-year-old man in broad daylight in Kondhwa on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Babul Ibrahim Sayyed, a resident of Navajish Park in Kondhwa. He was the owner of a garage in Kasba peth. The two arrested have been identified as Saeeb Fareed Sayyed, 26, and Tousif Fareed Sayyed, 24, both residents of Kondhwa.The deceased man was walking down the street on Monday at 6:30pm when the four men approached him, one of them was carrying a long blade. The four assaulted him with blows and kicks before attacking him with the blade on his head and neck. In the close circuit television (CCTV) footage from the area, the man appears to have sustained a grievous head injury.According to the police, the reason behind the murder is suspected to be a dispute between the deceased and one of the four attackers since the past several years.“They had been in a fight over something related to the shop since several years. We are yet to get the details of the reason behind the murder. However, on Monday, the father of the two arrested men complained to them about the now deceased man looking at him with anger during the day. The father of the two accused was going out to get gas filled in their cylinder,” said police inspector VinayaK Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case. A complaint has been lodged by the relative of the deceased, who owns a spare parts shop in Kasba peth.“There are three cases of physical violence registered at Faraskhana police station related to these two families starting 2015. The deceased has one of those cases registered against him while one of the accused has a total of four cases registered against him,” said PI Gaikwad.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Kondhwa police station against four persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-held-for-murder-of-a-man-in-broad-daylight-in-kondhwa/story-fekkH2m5P8pRXfQOHzgsGI.html
03-06-2020||Delhi||Manu Sharma, who shot dead Jessica Lal in 1999, released from Delhi prison||Siddharth Vashisht aka Manu Sharma, who shot dead model Jessica Lal tending an unlicensed bar at a private party in south Delhi in 1999, was released from jail on Monday evening after the government accepted the recommendation of the Sentence Review Board.Sharma walked out of jail on Monday evening, hours after the Lt Governor Anil Baijal signed off on the recommendation of the seven-member board. Under the law, any convict who serves 14 years in prison without remission can be considered for early release if the person hasn’t committed a heinous crime when he or she was out on parole.The board had earlier rejected his release, prompting Sharma’s lawyer to approach the high court to secure his release. He told the high court in November 2019 that the board had rejected his request for early release on four occasions in an “unfair and unlawful manner.”Watch | Manu Sharma, who killed Jessica Lal in 1999, released from Delhi’s Tihar jail The court had asked the board to consider Sharma’s case for release at its next board meeting. This meeting took place on May 11.Manu Sharma was accused of violating his parole conditions when he was released for two months in 2009, ostensibly to attend to his ailing mother in Chandigarh. A huge controversy erupted when his ailing mother was seen addressing a press conference in Delhi while the son was spotted in a Delhi nightclub where he got into another brawl. This one, involved the police commissioner’s son. As per his parole conditions, he should have been in Chandigarh.Sharma eventually returned to Tihar to serve the remainder of his life term 12 days before his parole was to end.Jessica Lal murder caseManu Sharma had pulled out his gun and shot Jessica Lal after she refused to serve another drink at the Qutub Colonnade party well past midnight in April 1999. He left with his friends soon after.Sharma eventually surrendered to the police about a week later amid massive outrage against the police and his father Venod Sharma, then a Congress leader. It was alleged that his father had exerted pressure to go soft on Manu Sharma.Sharma was acquitted by the trial court in February 2006, triggering sharp protests across the country. There were suggestions that some police officers had botched up the probe.The Delhi High Court, which in an unusual move, took up appeals against the conviction on its own to respond to the nationwide outrage. In a hard-hitting verdict that didn’t spare the trial court either, the high court reversed the acquittal and pronounced Manu Sharma guilty in December 2006.Justices RS Sodhi and PK Bhasin held that the trial judge’s reasoning for acquitting Manu Sharma was “immature”, “positively perverse”, “totally wrong” and the “result of non-application of mind”. The Supreme Court upheld the order in 2010.Moved to open jail in 2018Manu Sharma was moved to an open jail in 2018 that allowed him to work with a NGO outside the jail premises in view of his good conduct. Open-jail inmates are allowed to step out of prison gates and work every day. They cannot leave the city or spend time anywhere but the place of work mentioned in the transfer order.Forgiven, says Jessica’s sisterJessica Lal’s sister Sabrina who had led fronted the legal battles for justice, told HT last month that she had forgiven Manu Sharma.“It has been 21 years [since the incident].My fight was always for justice. He has served time for what he did. Now if he is free, it does not bother me much. It is fine. There comes a time when we have to move on. I have clearly moved on. One can only hope that he(Sharma) does not ever repeat what he did 21 years ago,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-lieutenant-governor-allows-release-of-manu-sharma-convicted-for-killing-jessica-lal/story-JHu7iQyL3GD6MMGwyeBBkK.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Online learning: Digital divide hurting economically disadvantaged students||With schools closed for over two months now because of the Covid19 pandemic, the only source of learning for students is through mobile, SMS, television, radio or social media. For students from families that can afford it, keeping up with studies is not much of a problem. But what happens to those who cannot afford a Wi-Fi connection at home, let alone a smartphone?Consider this, both Agamjot Bajri and Harpali Chauhan study in Class 10. Son of two marketing agents, Bahri is a student of Chitkara International School in Sector 25. Logging in to an online class comes easy to him as he has an iPhone and four computers. Chauhan, who studies in Government High School (GHS), Sector 24, can only join her e-class through her daily wager father’s mobile phone, which she also shares with four of her siblings.Sumedha Gautam, a teacher at a Sector 38 based school, says, “Now access to the internet and technology is a class-marker for lakhs of students. This means economically disadvantaged students will not get as much access to quality education as their peers will, which will push them even behind in studies.”Bahri’s mother, Deepika complains that he has been spending too much time on his mobile phone and computers during the lockdown.“Earlier it was just an hour and now it stretches to over 10 hours, starting with social media, going on to online classes, games, coaching classes, cooking classes and finally back to social media again,” she says.In comparison, Shiv Kumar, the son of a waste collector and Class 6 student at Government High School, Dadu Majra, is helping his father with the collection work and so has no time for studies. “I don’t have access to a mobile phone at all, let alone the online classes,” adds KumarMeeting overheads is not easy for families living under constrained budgets. Class 12 student Nishu’s mother is a domestic helper who recharges her mobile phone with a Rs 10 voucher for 1 GB data only when her teacher sends assignments on WhatsApp.Comparatively, the spends of a middleclass family on WiFi and mobile connections probably match what people like Nishu’s mother earn after a month’s hard labour.“I spend Rs 2,000 every month on Wi-Fi and around Rs 1,000 on mobile data so that my son can access the online classes,” says Khushpreet Singh, a software engineer, whose son, Gagan, is in Class 11.The parents of Manjot, a Class 10 student in a Sector 26 based private school, have also subscribed to an expensive e-learning app to help him stay ahead of his class in academics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-learning-digital-divide-hurting-economically-disadvantaged-students/story-Mdssf7S7t0azD7Ui843LVJ.html
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bribe case: CBI files supplementary chargesheet against 2 CGWB officials in Chandigarh||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed a supplementary chargesheet against two more accused in the October, 2017, graft case, in which a bribe was demanded for issuing a no-objection certificate to a bottling plant. The accused, Dinesh Tiwari and Gyaninder Rai, are both officials of the Central Ground Water Board, Chandigarh.The case dates back to October 10, 2017, when the CBI had arrested Sanjay Pandey, scientist of the Central Ground Water Board, Chander Parkash Midda, an Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) employee, and Dinesh Kumar, an alleged middleman acting on behalf of Gurugram-based businessman Savraj Kandoi.The CBI had claimed that it had received a tip-off that a bribe of ₹1.5 lakh was being paid by Kumar to Pandey at Midda’s house in Sector 39B, Chandigarh, to obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC) for Kandoi’s bottling plant.CBI chargesheeted two more accused after gathering additional evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bribery-case-cbi-files-supplementary-chargesheet-against-two-more-accused/story-sRSQ8Dc55cRXFBSYusUGNN.html
