04-06-2020||Mumbai||Koshyari gives nod for undergraduate and postgraduate medical exams from July 15||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, in his capacity as the chancellor of all universities on Thursday, approved the state government’s plan to conduct all undergraduate and postgraduate examinations of the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) from July 15.State minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh had met the Governor at Raj Bhavan on Thursday morning to submit the plan. Koshyari, while conveying his approval, also appreciated the detailed plan presented by the minister.This comes days after the Governor snubbed the state government and chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray for taking the decision to cancel the final-year university examinations and give students aggregate marks based on the previous semesters, without consulting himDeshmukh, in his letter to the Governor, said that MUHS had decided to conduct examinations as per three alternate plans, depending on the situation, from July 15.“According to the first plan, the theory examinations will be held from July 15 to August 15 in a staggered manner, if the situation is conducive. As per the second plan, if the examinations cannot be held as per the first plan due to Covid-19, the same will be held between August 16 and September 15,’’ stated the communication from Raj Bhavan.The third plan is to seek guidance from the Central Medical Council on conducting examinations if both plans cannot be implemented.Deshmukh is learnt to have informed the Governor that he had held discussions with all stakeholders, regulatory authorities besides consulting former vice-chancellors and pro vice-chancellors.The medical education minister has held consultations with Indian Nursing Council, Medical Council of India and other central bodies before deciding the examination schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/koshyari-gives-nod-for-undergraduate-and-postgraduate-medical-exams-from-july-15/story-O883r3epWYeZa97q29OAYL.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||State nodal officer among 327 test positive in Haryana||Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, 56, and his 25-year-old daughter are among the 327 people who tested positive for the virus in the state on Thursday. “We had collected the samples of Dr Chaudhary’s 50-year-old wife on June 2, while the samples of the nodal officer and his daughter, who is also a doctor in a private hospital, were taken on Wednesday. Dr Chaudhary and his daughter tested positive on Thursday, while the result of his wife is awaited,” a senior official in the PGIMS microbiology department said. Dr VK Katyal, senior professor of medicine at PGIMS, has been appointed as state nodal officer for Covid-19 in the absence of Dr Chaudhary, said PGIMS vice-chancellor OP Kalra. “41 contacts of Dr Chaudhary, including PGIMS staff, have been quarantined,” he added. STATE’S TALLY NOW 3,281Haryana on Thursday again saw the biggest single-day spike in infections, which took the state’s tally to 3,281. Even as the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to convene a meeting with Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh to find out a common programme and a common portal for interstate movement within a week, the spiraling number of fresh cases in Gurugram continued to be a cause of concern for the state health authorities. Gurugram and Faridabad accounted for about 77% of the positive cases recorded on Thursday. While Gurugram registered 215 fresh cases, 35 infections were detected in Faridabad. Other NCR districts recording fresh cases were Palwal (7), Nuh (4) and Jhajjar (2).‘INTERSTATE MOVEMENT LEADING TO RISE IN CASES’Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said Covid cases were on rise in Sonepat, Gurugram, Jhajjar and Faridabad due to interstate movement between these districts and the national capital. He said all three states (Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh) must appoint one senior official to set up a common programme for ensuring better interstate movement. The deputy CM said interstate borders must be opened for limited people and work from home should be encouraged. 49-YEAR-OLD MAN DIES IN KARNALA 49-year-old man has reportedly died due to coronavirus in Karnal. He was among the five persons who had tested positive for the virus on Thursday, said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav. These cases are yet to be added to the state’s official tally. While three new cases were reported in Kaithal, nine people were found infected in Kurukshetra and one each in Panipat and Ambala. Sukhbir Singh, chief medical officer, Kurukshetra, said all local patients either have a history of travel or being in contact with a corona carrier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/state-nodal-officer-among-327-test-positive-in-haryana/story-sytKrOY2oFzQBD1jh8PAlL.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Mini war rooms’ in wards to allot beds to Covid-19 patients: Chahal||As the struggle to find beds for Covid-19 patients continues, to bring down the turnaround time, civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal has decentralised the allotment of beds to Covid-19 patients. Chahal has directed all 24 ward offices to develop 24 mini war rooms, each with a dedicated staff of 10 officers, including medical staff. These mini war rooms are expected to be operational from Monday.From Monday, all those who call on 1916 will be redirected to the mini war rooms which will allot beds in their respective wards. Each ward’s mini war room will also have its own phone line, numbers for which are yet to be released. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the mini war rooms will allot beds and ventilators to patients in intensive care units (ICUs), as well as normal beds in Covid care centres and beds in quarantine facilities for high-risk contacts.Additional municipal commissioner, Suresh Kakani said, “The whole idea of a mini war room to allot beds to citizens is to bring down the turnaround time. There have been complaints that it gets very late while allotting beds, and we are taking steps towards minimising the hardship. The ward-level war room can allot all types of beds, including ICU beds, oxygen beds and even ventilators depending on availability.”BMC had earlier developed a centralised dashboard that could be accessed by civic officials who could guide citizens calling on disaster management helpline (1916). The dashboard is updated every 30 minutes. However, citizens say finding beds continues to be difficult.As per the new plan, every ward’s mini war room will have live data from the centralised dashboard. Based on this, the ward office will allocate beds to citizens. A BMC official said, “Earlier, ward offices were coordinating with the central team as they were allotting the beds. However, now the filter of central team will not be there.”Not being able to find beds for Covid-19 patients has been a consistent problem. Andheri-resident Amruta Das, who lost her uncle to Covid-19, said, “My uncle tested positive on May 29 and he had difficulty breathing due to which he was put on oxygen, owing to which he required ventilator. However, for over 24 hours we had to wait for the ventilator to be allocated. My uncle was taken to three hospitals where we were told ventilators were available, but on reaching, we were informed they weren’t available. My uncle passed away on the evening of May 30 at Shatabdi Hospital in Govandi due to not getting the required treatment.”Ujwal Shah, a resident of Malad, said, “Our neighbour was tested positive on May 28 and was hospitalised the same day at a private hospital. However, his condition deteriorated on May 29 after which we were told that he needs a bed in ICU. But all beds in the particular hospital were full and we were asked to shift the patient immediately. However, for almost 24 hours, we couldnot find a bed for the patient. The doctors put him on oxygen in the general ward itself, but his life could not be saved. We understand that the number of patients are too much to handle, but we cannot have citizens left to die.”As of May 28, BMC has over 82,000 beds for Covid-19 patients. This number includes beds for quarantined high-risk contacts of Covid-positive people. Around 70,000 of the 82,000 beds are for asymptomatic positive patients, mild cases and positive cases. Of the remainder, 373 are beds with ventilators and 645 are ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mini-war-rooms-in-wards-to-allot-beds-to-covid-19-patients-chahal/story-2AyEuNwBkA2zVJi6owUrSJ.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Govt to empanel pvt hospitals for taking samples of covid-19 suspects||The Punjab health and family welfare department has decided to involve private hospitals in testing for covid-19 and will empanel these to take samples. These hospitals will only take samples, charging not more than Rs 1,000 for the service, with government facilities to carry out the actual test.Civil surgeons will carry empanel these hospitals at the district level with only those having a flu ward eligible to apply. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said private hospitals would need to arrange all logistics for the purpose, including kits. “Government facilities will test these samples free of cost. It has been made mandatory that private hospital/clinics and labs should have a separate isolated area for suspected patients of covid-l9, where the sample will be taken. The person taking the sample should be in full protective gear,” reads the letter that director, health and family welfare, has sent to all civil surgeons.The private hospital will pack the sample in an ice-box and send it to the nearest government testing facility as per protocol. The hospitals would ensure filling all testing data, as per the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on the RT-PCR App, as RT-PCR is the name of the technique used in the test.WHO CAN GIVE SAMPLES?Sidhu added symptomatic international or domestic travellers, symptomatic contacts of confirmed covid-19 patient, symptomatic persons coming from containment zones/hot-spots, asymptomatic high-risk contacts of COVID-19 patient, asymptomatic/symptomatic front-line workers and symptomatic returnees or migrants.ILL-PLANNED MOVE: PRIVATE HOSPITALS Private hospitals are jittery over this move with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) terming it as ‘ill-planned’. “The government which was earlier not ready to involve private hospitals in its planning seems to have exhausted itself in carrying out testing. Now, officials want us to take samples without providing any training to our staff. We don’t have any problem in serving the state, but the government should make efforts to train our staff to take samples,” said Dr Navjot Dahiya, IMA Punjab president. He added that the decision was taken without taking them into confidence, with little planning done on managing covid-related biomedical waste. “Private hospitals had been dithering on carrying out covid-19 testing, because of risk of infection to its staff. At least, now these hospitals don’t have any excuse as they can earn from this,” said a senior health department functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-to-empanel-pvt-hospitals-for-taking-samples-of-covid-19-suspects/story-MJzVun9QWT27Ck7SBbx9NI.html
04-06-2020||City||Haryana speaker inaugurates road repair work in Panchkula||Panchkula Haryana Assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta inaugurated the special repair work of external roads in Panchkula on Thursday. As per a press release, the roads to be repaired at a cost of Rs 2.66 crore include the external roads between Sectors 3 and 4, 1 and 4, 4 and 5, 3 and 6, 4 and 6 MDC Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-speaker-inaugurates-road-repair-work-in-panchkula/story-j1IP3k1YNs9WX9Mtd94KSK.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||IIT flyover robbery: Cops chased suspects for 8km, 10 tems formed to crack case||A gang of motorcycle-borne robbers, who allegedly stabbed and robbed a Spicejet pilot on the IIT flyover in the early hours of Wednesday, were chased by a police team for nearly eight kilometers before they managed to slip away, the Delhi Police said.The police have now formed 10 teams, comprising a total of around 100 personnel, to crack the case, Devender Arya, deputy commissioner of police (south-west) said.“We are checking CCTV footage of that entire eight-kilometre stretch. The registration numbers of the motorcycles and scooters would have certainly been captured by one of those cameras. It is just a matter of time before we crack the case,” said Arya.The Spicejet pilot was targeted by the gang when he was travelling from his home in Faridabad towards Delhi’sIndira Gandhi International Airport. The man was allegedly intercepted by the gang on the IIT-Delhi flyover around 1.30 am on Wednesday.While the pilot has told the police that there were atleast eight to 10 suspects, investigators believe that there were four or five men riding three motorcycles and scooters.According to the pilot’s complaint, the robbers intercepted the cab, smashed its windows and pointed a gun at his forehead.“One of them robbed Rs10,000 cash from him while another stabbed him in his thigh,” the DCP said. The injury sustained by the pilot is not life threatening, the officer added.The driver was allegedly let off with after being slapped once.Later, even as the pilot made a call to the police control room (PCR), an emergency response vehicle (ERV) of the police patrolling the road below the flyover was alerted by a passerby about the incident, the DCP said.“The police team took a U-turn and reached the flyover to find four-five men riding away on three motorcycles. The victim pointed at the suspects and told the police team that they had robbed him,” the officer said.The police immediately launched a chase and pursued the suspects along Aurobindo Marg till Mehrauli, a distance of almost eight kilometers, the DCP said.“In Mehrauli, the suspects took a sudden turn and disappeared into the bylanes. We lost them there,” said the DCP.But the police have charted out the route of the chase and are checking CCTV footages along the route, the officer said. No clues about the suspects had emerged till Thursday evening, the officer added.HT tried to reach the pilot for his version , but he did not respond to calls and messages. Spicejet too refused to comment on the matter.The police believe that the gang of bikers comprised history sheeters. “We have activated our sources and are checking the roles of criminals with such a modus operandi,” the DCP said.Another investigator, who didn’t want to be identified, said that while robbery remains the prime crime, the police are also simultaneously probing if there was a road rage angle involved in the crime.“There were so many robbers, yet they did not take the victim’s watch or mobile phones. We are probing if it was a case of road rage that turned into robbery,” the investigator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-flyover-robbery-cops-chased-suspects-for-8km-10-tems-formed-to-crack-case/story-q1xbVX9ctThftu0ntLcsZP.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||People with medical emergencies can cross border, Delhi govt tells HC||The Delhi government on Thursday told the Delhi High Court that its guidelines for sealing borders with neighbouring states to contain the spread of Covid-19 made exceptions for people travelling with medical emergencies. Such people can enter Delhi from other states by applying and obtaining an e-pass. Advocate Sanjoy Ghose, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, and advocate Urvi Mohan, told a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that its Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued an order on June 1 with regard to prohibited and permitted activities, during the phased reopeningof the capital. The guidelines, the lawyers said, permit entry into Delhi from neighbouring states in case of medical emergencies.The court was hearing a plea by an advocate Kushagra Kumar seeking immediate de-sealing of Delhi borders to enable citizens in NCR or other states to access Central government hospitals and medical facilities in the national capital.Taking note of the submission and the DDMA order of June 1, the bench disposed of the plea while also directing the Delhi government to upload the June 1 order on its various department websites by today in a prominent manner and have it highlighted for easy access by citizens.The plea had said those working in Delhi and residing in NCR cities — like Noida and Gurugram — or other states are deprived of their right of accessing Central government’s medical facilities,like AIIMS, in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/people-with-medical-emergencies-can-cross-border-delhi-govt-tells-hc/story-USbwqbeTOorTqj7yeZyiuN.html
04-06-2020||City||Civil Secretariat staffers protest against admn’s decision to shift Darbar Move offices to Srinagar||Amid purported moves of the government to shift the seat of power—Civil Secretariat and other Darbar Move offices to Srinagar, Jammu-based employees staged a protest on the premises of the civil secretariat here on Thursday against the administration’s decision. Sources in the secretariat said that the Jammu and Kashmir administration was likely to come out with an order to shift Darbar Move offices to Srinagar in the next two days.Jammu-based employees, who were the first to learn about such a plan of the government, held a demonstration on the premises of the Civil Secretariat against any such decision and demanded to immediately defer the decision till Covid-19 situation improved in the Union territory.Employees assembled outside the civil secretariat and held a strong protest demonstration.The Civil Secretariat at Srinagar started partial functioning on May 4 with the staff and officers on ‘as is where is’ basis i.e. those who have already been or likely to get relocated before that date.The administrative secretaries and heads of departments have been asked to assign work to officers, staff stationed at Srinagar and Jammu accordingly for obtaining maximum efficiency and minimum disruption.An earlier order had stated that the above issue shall be reviewed on June 15 when a clear picture on the extent and spread of Covid-19 would have been at hand.“It will be disastrous if authorities shift the Civil Secretariat to Srinagar at this stage of the pandemic when it has started to explode. A senior IAS officer who had gone to Srinagar had returned Covid-19 positive and has put entire top bureaucracy into jeopardy. How the government could even think something so silly,” an employee said.It may be stated here that on May 5, Jammu and Kashmir high court had asked the Centre and UT administration to look into the veracity of 148-year-old biannual Darbar Move practice that costs more than ₹200 crore to the cash-strapped and economically weak Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-secretariat-staffers-protest-against-admn-s-decision-to-shift-darbar-move-offices-to-srinagar/story-hmBBQMCT5AQvxP7JKjIPQJ.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hisar gram growers accuse arhtiyas of duping them||Hundreds of farmers on Thursday protested against two commission agents for allegedly cheating them by manipulating an electronic weighing machine in Hisar mandi.Dalip Singh, a farmer from Dobhi village said, “A commission agent started weighing the yield on his electronic machine, it showed that per kg gram weight was reduced to five kgs. When a farmer from Khariya village suspected that the weighing machine is showing less weight than the actual, he raised the alarm and soon the farmers gathered. When the bags were weighed on another machine, it was found to be 55.6kg per bag instead of 50.6 kg (as shown on agent’s weighing machine). We want that the government should ensure proper procurement of gram,” Singh added.The Haryana government is procuring grams at ₹4,875 at minimum support price (MSP) per quintal.Ram Kumar, a commission agent alleged that only two commission agents were allotted in Hisar mandi for gram procurement with an aim to dupe farmers.“Both the agents have been demanding ₹400 per quintal from farmers on the name of poor variety of yield while procuring their crop. Both of them had duped many farmers by manipulating an electronic weighing machine which was fixed to show less weight than the actual. We (commission agents) have decided to boycott these agents, who had cheated farmers,” he added.The commission agents, who were facing allegations of duping farmers’ refused to comment on the matter.Market committee chairman Mahavir Jangra said that the farmers were cheated by the commission agents with the consent of HAFED officials.“The government must order an inquiry about the involvement of HAFED officials not in gram but in mustard and wheat procurement also. A gang of commission agents and HAFED officials is working in the mandi to dupe innocent farmers,” Jangra added.Admitting that the farmers were being fleeced, Sultan Singh, Hisar market committee secretary said that they had issued a show-cause notice to two commission agents seeking their explanation on the matter.Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni said that she has ordered an SDM probe into the matter and strict action will be taken against those who cheated farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hisar-gram-growers-accuse-arhtiyas-of-duping-them/story-SxxLQcFZFSpkMyYbzZKEvL.html
04-06-2020||City||When work fizzled out, an auto driver stepped up to help migrants||Gurugram: As migrant workers arrived in buses at the railway station on Wednesday afternoon to board an evening Shramik Special train, an autorickshaw driver parked his vehicle and hastily took his place at the entrance of the station. He started handing out tickets to migrants and requested them to form a queue.“Please maintain social distancing and take your tickets from here. Do not form a group. Wear a mask and use the sanitiser please,” he yelled to the workers.Over the next three hours, Gurpreet Singh, an autorickshaw driver, distributed food packets, water and dry rations to migrant workers as they lined up at the platforms to board the train to their home states. For the past 25 days, Singh has been helping workers, often carrying cooked meals in his autorickshaw and ferrying migrants to the station, before lending a hand in the screening process, along with members of civil defence teams.Singh, a resident of New Palam Vihar, said that when the lockdown was imposed, he started volunteering to distribute dry rations and cooked food provided by civic authorities and NGOs, to workers at a community centre near his house. “I was moved when I saw pictures of migrants walking to their villages. A friend told me that I could assist the civil defence staff at the railway station and help distribute meals at the railway station. On the days the Shramik Special train is ferrying passengers, I volunteer from 3pm to 6.30pm,” he said.The 46-year-old shifted to Gurugram from Delhi more than a decade ago, and has been driving an autorickshaw since 2011. Since there was no work once the nationwide lockdown came into effect, he decided that rather than being idle, he would devote his time to serve others.“I have been volunteering at gurudwaras for several years. There are people who have been driven out of their homes and are struggling to make ends meet during the pandemic. I am just trying to do my bit by ferrying migrants in my rickshaw or distributing food packets and water. In these tough times, these acts of selfless service can go a long way,” he said.He has a family of seven — his parents, wife, a 17-year-old son, a sister and brother-in-law. “My brother-in-law works as a cleaner. He and I are the only earning members in the family. Since the lockdown, with almost no income, there has been a financial crunch. But we are managing from our savings and a little borrowing from relatives,” he said.He has now resumed driving his autorickshaw, but for only a few hours each day. “I bought the autorickshaw on a loan and still have a few instalments pending. In the morning, I earn a little from ferrying passengers. However from 3pm to 7pm, I dedicate my time to volunteer, either at the railway station or at a community centre,” he said.Sunil Saini, a volunteer from the civil defence team, said, “For the past three weeks, I have seen this autorickshaw driver help migrant workers by distributing meals and helping with their luggage at the railway station. The train usually leaves around 6pm. He comes in his uniform around 3pm and till the train departs, he assists everyone and keeps morale high.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/when-work-fizzled-out-an-auto-driver-stepped-up-to-help-migrants/story-CLaph2Ex3xQVuAUgS96AhM.html
04-06-2020||City||Thane reports 194 new cases, five Covid deaths||Thane reported 194 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the second highest number of cases so far on a single day. Five deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to 108.The city’s total tally of cases is 3,643. With Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) easing lockdown, the number of cases jumped to 194 on a single day.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Five deaths were reported in the city, one woman and four men. A 65-year-old woman from Amrut Nagar in Mumbra died at Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa on May 27. A 57-year-old man from Rabodi, a 45-year-old man from Gholai Nagar and 50-year-old man from Wagale Estate died in Kalwa Hospital. A 53-year-old man from Jagjivan Nagar died in Kaushalya Hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-reports-194-new-cases-five-covid-deaths/story-4gDNKdA6ax5VfdnRXcDGvI.html
04-06-2020||City||Delhi govt releases funds to 12 DU colleges||New Delhi: While the Delhi government released funds for the 12 fully government-funded Delhi university colleges on Wednesday, colleges said their problems were far from over as the funds were inadequate. Delhi University Teachers’ Association on Thursday also wrote to education minister Manish Sisodia over the matter.Delhi government’s Directorate of Higher Education on Wednesday released Rs 18.75 crore to the 12 colleges as the grant-in-aid for these colleges.“We have received 20% fewer funds this time for the salary of teaching, non-teaching and outsourced staff like guards, peon and housekeeping staff,” said the principal of one such college, requesting anonymity. The principal added that seven DU colleges had not paid salaries of their staff in April and May. “Some colleges ended up using student funds for salaries. There is no fund for electricity bills or maintenance of any kind. If this pattern continues, college fees might be hiked in an arbitrary manner just for maintenance.”DUTA president Rajib Ray wrote a letter to Sisodia on Thursday citing the deficits in each of the 12 colleges. “The grants, sanctioned till date, are much less than the money required to cover salaries up to May. The grants sanctioned on March 25 were barely enough to cover salaries of January and February. Similarly, Grant-in-Aid released on May 7 could not cover salaries up to April,” he wrote, adding that the June sanction was also inadequate. Despite text messages to Sisodia and his office, the government did not comment on the matter.For colleges like Deen Dayal Upadhyay College, Dr BR Ambedkar College, and Keshav Mahavidyalaya, the deficits are above Rs 2 crore, as per the letter. “The 12 colleges are in dire need of the additional funds necessary for infrastructure development for smooth academic and administrative functioning. The colleges still await the release of funds for additional posts for teaching and non-teaching staff in view of the extension of reservation to EWSs and consequent increase in intake of students,” DUTA said in its letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-releases-funds-to-12-du-colleges/story-wIx7j1KRz9U5V3CJYB51EP.html
04-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 cases doubling every four days in Gurugram||As the city continues to register a record spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, data shows that new cases are doubling after every four days. For the first time in the last three months, cases are multiplying at such a fast rate, highlighting the speed at which the virus is being transmitted in the community. Previously, in the first week of May, the highest doubling rate of seven days was reported. Doubling rate is a parameter to estimate the number of days that will be taken for the total number of cases to double. If cases are multiplying within a fewer number of days, then there is an increase in the doubling rate.A state health department official, privy to the matter, admitted that cases are growing in Gurugram, leading to an increased doubling rate. However, he refused to comment on the issue further. Lalit Kant, scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “The doubling rate should not be in a single digit. It indicates the infection is spreading at a faster rate than before. Therefore, testing needs to be increased and quarantining facilities need to be expanded. Special focus should be placed on protecting the elderly and those with co-morbid conditions as more and more asymptomatic people are out on the streets.”In April, the doubling rate was 18 days, when the tally was at 60. It further slowed down to 36 days in the last week of April. But with state government’s testing strategy focusing on high-risk population groups, such as vegetable sellers or workers in the wholesale markets, cases rapidly increased in the city, bring down the doubling rate to 7.2 days. Data shows there was a slight improvement in the doubling rate from May 15 till May 29. During these weeks, cases were multiplying after every 17 and 13 days. With over 675 cases reported between May 29 and June 3, the doubling rate has now come down to four days.Calculating the doubling rate is a dynamic process, where the average of cases reported in the last seven days are being taken. It can be calculated every day, but also every three days and five days. But as per the ICMR guidelines, the Haryana health department has been using a mathematical calculation called Cumulative Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) to decipher the doubling rate.Rajib Dasgupta, professor, community health, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said, that the doubling time cannot be read directly by comparing cumulative cases. “It needs to be computed on the basis of 4-6 days of moving average, using a logarithmic scale. The doubling time is the length of time required to double the number of confirmed cases, assuming nothing else changes. Changes can include a substantial increase in the testing (particularly in high-risk groups) or re-categorisation across districts or states (as in the National Capital Region).” A district health official, who preferred anonymity, said that more people are getting tested, therefore, there has been a surge in the number of asymptomatic cases. “Nearly 80% of cases do not have any signs or symptoms. The number of cases will continue to rise in June and July until we reach a peak,” said the health official. In the last one week, the surge has also been due to the poor reporting of cases by private laboratories, health department officials said. According to Dasgupta, such a data should be recategorised either by weeks when the sample was collected and tested or can be put under a separate pool of cases. Instead of merging with the fresh cases reported in a particular district. According to the state health department, labs in Delhi, which are taking Covid-19 samples of Haryana residents, are not sharing reports properly with the authorities concerned, resulting in a delay in contact tracing and surveillance activities, besides creating a mismatch between the information provided on the website of ICMR and that on the state portal. They have issued notices to 18 private labs of Delhi, approved by the ICMR for doing Covid-19 testing in the national Capital, for taking the samples of Haryana patients without keeping the Haryana health department in the loop. This has led to Covid-19 data inaccuracies in Haryana, especially in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-cases-doubling-every-four-days-in-gurugram/story-IWy5AgJQ8O6VzpWyRSjIaJ.html
04-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana government proposes to set up an electronics hub in Sohna||The Haryana government has proposed to set up an electronics manufacturing cluster over a 400-acre plot at its industrial township in Sohna. The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has formulated a proposal in this regard and sent an application to the Union ministry of electronics and information technology for approval, said Anurag Agarwal, managing director(MD), HSIIDCThe proposed electronic cluster will have two large anchor units with major investments and will be spread over 100 acres each. “These anchor units will support the vendors. We are looking to manufacture semi-conductor chips, electronic components and other products, which are presently imported from China and other countries,” said Agarwal, adding that these steps are being taken to be self-reliant in the field of electronics and allied products.Officials of HSIIDC said that the Sohna electronic cluster is inspired by the past experience of developing this industrial area into an automotive hub based on the strength of large auto companies, such as Maruti and Hero MotoCorp and Honda. The objective here is to develop a similar electronic manufacturing hub, in which anchor companies act as a magnet for vendors down the supply chain, said officials.To make this project successful, Agarwal said that discussions are on with two major companies from Japan and China, which are likely to set up plants here. “We have also started marketing the electronic cluster and three webinars every week are being organised since May 20 to invite electronics manufacturers to this region,” he said.There are ample opportunities of big-ticket investments in Haryana in the field of electronic components and medical equipment. India wants to become more self-reliant in the medical field so that any disaster can be dealt with easily in the future, said Agarwal.The MD of HSIIDC further said that state chief minister Manohar Lal Lal Khattar has recently invited investors from United States and Japan through video conferencing to set up their industrial units in Haryana. As per the directions of the chief minister, the officers of HSIIDC are interacting one-to-one with the companies, which are willing to invest in Haryana in order to understand their requirements and attract them for investment.To push manufacturing and incentivise production, the Haryana government has also formulated a new policy, whereby a company, which would like to take a land on lease in Haryana to test or use its product, will be given land on lease initially for ten years. The lease would then be renewed after every ten years for a maximum period of 99 years, Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-government-proposes-to-set-up-an-electronics-hub-in-sohna/story-48ZxuDADRPv4fCVSDwen9M.html
04-06-2020||Gurugram||Victor Valley residents stage sit-in at developer’s office after being left without support staff since lockdown||Around 200 residents of Ireo Victor Valley condominium in Sector 67 staged a sit-in protest outside the developer’s office in Sector 65 on Thursday morning over alleged irregularities in flats and lack of promised amenities. They said that no staff has been available during the lockdown and that there has been no sanitisation of the premises despite two residents having tested positive for Covid-19.They raised slogans and demanded that the developer return money collected from them.Residents, including women, senior citizens and officials of multinational companies, who took part in the demonstration said the condominium lacks adequate maintenance and power infrastructure, despite the flats being handed to buyers three years ago and them having paid all charges, including for electrification.They said they have filed a complaint with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority online on Wednesday.Namit Jaiswal, a resident at the protest, said that they are facing difficulties managing services, such as cleaning, gardening and plumbing. “There are two positive cases in the condominium and we have to ensure the area is clean and hygienic, but there is no one to even clean the common area and we are dividing duties among ourselves,” he said.Residents alleged that the developer has not paid the property management firm, due to which there are hardly any security guards and essential workers, such as plumbers, electricians and housekeeping staff, have left the place.“There are frequent power cuts and voltage fluctuations. The society runs on diesel gensets and is yet to have proper electricity connections of 33 KVA. Presently, we have 11 KVA, which is not enough for 500 families. During the power cut, lifts stop working. We have elderly people living on the 30th and 40th floors. How will they climb so many stairs?” said Brigadier (retd) Suresh Kumar Sareen.A spokesperson for Ireo said, “We will address all grievances of residents on Friday at 11am at our office. We will take care of the issues in due course of time.”Residents also submitted a complaint to the police, stating that they have already held meetings with the developer and their maintenance team to get 33 KV connections from the state power distribution company, but so far, there has been no response. “The project was supposed to have DHBVN connections within six months from the date of first possession, but even after three years, they are using a temporary connection,” read the complaint submitted to the police.Residents alleged that they are paying over ₹12 per unit of electricity, instead of the ₹6.68, as per the conditions of the occupancy certificate (OC). “As per the OC, 33 KVA station with 12 MW load was to be given to the complex instead builder has taken 5MW temporary connection where electricity charges are ₹12 and plus per unit. We are paying ₹6.68 through the prepaid meter, while the balance of ₹5.50 per unit is to be paid by the developer. However, the entire bill amount of DHBVN, including the builder’s share, is being paid by the RWA,” said Koustav M Dhar, another resident.Aman Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that they have received a complaint from the residents and are probing the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/victor-valley-residents-stage-sit-in-at-developer-s-office-after-being-left-without-support-staff-since-lockdown/story-Cju3eoB2V5WX55ZsZ9dHuM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Written to Centre for trains to bring back migrant workers: Punjab industries minister||Ludhiana Punjab industries minister Sham Sunder Arora has said that the issue of shortage of migrant labour in the state would be resolved within a month. Arora, who met owners of industries at the Circuit House on Thursday, also added that migrant workers wanted to return back to Punjab.He added that with the increasing number of industrial units resuming operations in the state, the state government had written to the Union government to arrange trains for bringing back migrant workers who wished to return to work in Punjab. “Two buses with returning workers reached Hoshiarpur on Thursday,” he added. Arora added that he had also written to the Centre to allow export of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits being made in the state. On Centre’s relief measure for industry, he added that instead of another loan, industrialists wanted waiver of bank interest on existing loans for at least six months. He added that under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Scheme, around 20,000 local youngsters were being trained as boiler operators and their two-year course at Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) would end this year.At the meeting, social distancing norms went for a toss as media personnel and industry owners jostled with each other to talk to the minister. Even as some industrialists wanted to submit a memorandum to him, electronic media wanted his quote. Realising that the situation could get out of hand, the minister remarked, “Please maintain distance, otherwise this rush will become news.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/written-to-centre-for-trains-to-bring-back-migrant-workers-punjab-industries-minister/story-ma3SoFMOyhSEztce2iq4tO.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Wanted criminal, aide arrested in Hisar||A special task force (STF) of Hisar police arrested a wanted criminal, Ashok alias Sokhi, of Siswal village and his aide Amarjeet of Bond Kalan village in Bhiwani on Thursday.Ashok was carrying a reward of ₹1 lakh, said STF chief Pawan Kumar. The police recovered six pistols, 57 live cartridges and a motorcycle from their possession.The STF chief said they had a tip-off on the basis of which the accused were nabbed from Sector 16-17 bypass. “Ashok was declared a proclaimed offender in a murder case and carried a bounty of ₹1 lakh on his head. His aide was also involved in criminal activities,” he added.Kumar said the duo confessed that they were planning to kill at least six persons of their rival gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wanted-criminal-aide-arrested-in-hisar/story-S1xMJAlJU7aIyWF3RNVaSO.html
04-06-2020||City||67-year-old dies of Covid, family claims Lok Nayak denied him bed||New Delhi: The family of a 67-year-old Covid-19 patient has alleged that he died waiting for a bed outside Delhi’s biggest dedicated health facility for the disease – Lok Nayak hospital. Lakhjeet Singh was brought to the hospital on Thursday morning with fever, according to his family.“He had fever since May 26. After three days of taking medicines, we went to (a private) hospital, where they did an X-ray and said there was chest infection. They took sample for Covid-19 and said that the reports will be available online. We got the test report on June 1 and tried to contact the hospital,” said a message from his son-in-law Mandeep Singh.The family claimed that it went to several private and government hospitals to understand what to do next. They were advised to go to Lok Nayak hospital by the Delhi government helpline, the family said.“So, we reached there around 6.50am. When we went to the Covid-19 block, a doctor told us to go back to the hospital where he had been tested. The patient was waiting in the car right outside the emergency. As soon as we reached back, he had an attack and fainted,” said Singh.According to the family, after they requested the doctor, he was given oxygen but died within 15 minutes.Lok Nayak hospital, however, has refuted the claim.“The first tweet regarding alleged refusal to admit the patient was posted at 08:05 am and subsequently at 09:08 am the news of the patient’s passing away was shared. Upon investigation of the incident, it was found that the Lok Nayak hospital’s auto-generated electronic casualty record had registered the patient in question as brought dead at 7:37 am,” the hospital said in a release.“The hospital wishes to clarify that the patient was not refused admission and was examined by the doctors upon being brought in,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/67-year-old-dies-of-covid-family-claims-lok-nayak-denied-him-bed/story-8cgfNa0bHkNMn7gOZl43CI.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC recalls framing of charges order against Mansa court employee||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday recalled an order that framed charges against a Mansa court employee, Harmeet Singh, for allegedly scandalizing the judiciary by posting videos criticising judges on social networking site, YouTube. While recalling the order passed on Wednesday, the bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Sant Prakash said the order was passed presuming that Singh would be present and the charge-sheet would be read over to him. However, due to the covid-19 outbreak, his presence or the lawyers’ presence could not be ensured. “Inadvertently, the aforesaid charge was framed and it was ordered to be read over and explained, but the requirement of the law is that the charge should be read over and explained to the respondent in person,” the bench recorded, adding that ‘mistake’ took place due to hearing being conducted through video conferencing. It added that to impart fair and substantial justice, Singh needed to be given an opportunity of hearing. The matter stands adjourned for September 24. Singh, a clerk is accused of making a page ‘Ugly face of Indian Judiciary, Ludhiana’ and uploading videos lambasting judicial officers by levelling ‘false allegations and conveying wrong message’ to the public. He is also accused of scandalizing the names of sitting judges including that of the high court, by concocting stories of corruption, bribery and nepotism. The court had termed his act as an “attack on the judges”.As per the reference sent to the high court for taking action against him under Contempt of Courts Act, Singh joined in 2009 as a clerk at district and sessions division Ludhiana. He was posted at Jagraon, but he kept pressuring him to transfer him back to Ludhiana. Later, he was transferred to Mansa. This posting was not of his liking and thus he started filing RTIs and opened an account on YouTube, criticising the judges and making allegations against them, the reference says. The contempt proceedings were initiated in 2013 and in 2016 he also faced stoppage of four annual grade increments for his conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-recalls-framing-of-charges-order-against-mansa-court-employee/story-kp1hqdl16grmSo194jYucJ.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||SDMC starts offline facility for depositing property tax||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Thursday decided to provide both online and offline facilities for filing property tax returns and making payments. Till now, only online filing of property tax was allowed by the civic body. The move comes after residents complained about difficulties while filing property tax on the website.To make the system more citizen-friendly and streamline operations, the SDMC had, earlier this year, developed a website for online filing of property tax and payment. SDMC officials said that the portal was developed keeping in view future necessities.However, residents complained that the new version of the online tax format is not user-friendly and that there were issues in accessing and submitting forms to pay the tax.“On the requests of its citizens and for their convenience, SDMC has also started accepting property tax returns through manual modes also. The last date for making payment of property tax both online and offline with 15% timely rebate will be June 30,” the south civic body said in a statement.It added that SDMC would be organising special property tax camps in all colonies in association with the area councillor, residents’ bodies and, market associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-starts-offline-facility-for-depositing-property-tax/story-oWudRC6iLgHSdceQnAjEiN.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||20 officials of Delhi Metro test positive for Covid-19||Twenty officials of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The DMRC officials clarified that these cases have been reported in a staggered manner and are not from a single office. The officials said they are taking all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the disease.Senior Delhi Metro officials said even though the Metro operations are shut, a few employees are coming in to work on rotational shifts from May 18, when the fourth phase of the lockdown kicked in and certain modes of transportation were allowed to function in Delhi-NCR. The DMRC clarified that none of the infected officials was serious and most of them were recovering.Following the spike in the number of cases, the DMRC released a statement expressing solidarity with the infected officials and assuring the general public that the Metro was ready to resume operations as soon as they get a go-ahead from the government.“Along with the rest of the country, the DMRC is also fighting the battle against the Covid-19. The Delhi Metro’s employees have shown exemplary resilience in reporting back to duty and to keep the Metro system in all readiness for an eventual resumption of services,” the DMRC statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/20-officials-of-delhi-metro-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-As1OhUc4lkNc4Sj46EG8MM.html
04-06-2020||Lucknow||UP’s top revenue earners fall short of target in April-May||The Uttar Pradesh government’s major revenue earning departments fell short of their target in the first two months of 2020-2021 amid the Covid-19 lockdown. They received only Rs 7,654.17 crore as taxes against the target of Rs 26,318.47 crore, according to official data. After considerably poor earnings in April 2020 due to restrictions, tax revenue witnessed an upward trend in May following the gradual resumption of economic activities. Although the collections reached Rs 5,577.80 crore, this figure was well short of the target of Rs 13,903.19 crore for the month, the same data showed.Under the non-tax head too, revenue realisation from the mining of minor minerals was Rs 296.40 crore against the target of Rs 600 crore in the first two months of 2020-2021. The state government realised Rs 242.24 crore revenue from the mining of minor minerals this month, about 80.7% of the target of Rs 300 crore for May.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, at a video conference with media persons on Sunday, had asserted that the state government’s revenue had gone up considerably and it did not propose to levy any new taxes or cess in the fight against Covid-19. He has asked his team to ensure that the major revenue earning departments meet their targets to ensure an increase in the state government’s kitty.A close scrutiny of the state government’s revenue receipts in the first two months of 2020-2021 indicates excise was the top revenue earner followed by Goods and Services Tax (GST) and VAT (Value Added Tax). The state government received Rs 2169.25 crore as excise duty, which was 58.9% of the target of Rs 3,680.00 crore for May 2020. Cumulatively, the earnings from excise in the first two months (April and May) were Rs 2222.71 crore. The earnings from GST were Rs 3,442.71 crore (32.2% of the target) and Rs 1421.87 crore (43.7% of the target) was realised from VAT.“Yes, the opening of liquor shops has helped the state government in increasing its revenue to some extent in May. Some other economic activities like transport etc are picking up now and this will add to the receipts from VAT as well. In such a situation, the state government needs to have a relook at its priorities and rationalise its expenditure,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor of the department of economics, Lucknow University.The state government spends of Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 13,000 crore every month on salaries and pension and it would have to increase the receipts from taxes, along with the non-tax revenue, to meet the committed expenditure in the coming months. Besides freezing the dearness allowance hike and scrapping other allowances, the state government has taken a number of steps to cut down its expenditure to ensure that sufficient funds remain available for salaries and pension to employees and the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-top-revenue-earners-fall-short-of-target-in-april-may/story-FGsv0B4Obm7fAv4Nk8eJPK.html
04-06-2020||Lucknow||Two UP ministers opt for self-quarantine||Finance and medical education minister Suresh Khanna quarantined himself at his official residence here on Thursday and said he would get himself tested on the fifth day of his Monday visit to the Meerut medical college where three patients tested positive a day later.Similarly, state labour welfare board chairman Sunil Bharala, whose post is akin to that of a minister of state, has decided to quarantine himself in Meerut. Bharala had visited the Meerut medical college with Khanna.“I have quarantined myself at my residence and I am discharging all my official responsibilities from there,” Khanna said in a press note a day after HT reported his plan to get himself tested for the coronavirus infection.“A day after my visit, positive cases were reported from the emergency ward of Meerut medical college. I had visited the place to ensure that non-Covid patients too get emergency facilities,” he said.Khanna said he had inspected King George’s Medical University, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) in Lucknow and later visited medical colleges in Kanpur, Jhansi, Saharanpur, Meerut, Ghaziabad and Moradabad. “I had visited these colleges to check if emergency services were being given to people,” Khanna said. Bharala was upset that officials didn’t forewarn them about the presence of suspected Covid-19 patients in the emergency ward.Officials, including Meerut medical college principal SK Garg, however, said that social distancing was ensured during the ministers’ visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/two-up-ministers-opt-for-self-quarantine/story-diYv12ouDGGT3rklqRu4rK.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong patronising illegal liquor trade in Punjab: Kalia||Former Punjab minister and veteran BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia on Thursday accused the state government of patronising illicit liquor trade in Punjab. “The recovery of several unauthorised liquor distilleries in parts of the state speaks volumes about the incompetence and collusion of corrupt politicians of the ruling regime behind it,” he claimed at a press conference.“Instead of taking on drug suppliers, persons close to the Congress leaders are found running illegal distilleries,” Kalia alleged. He also took a swipe at state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal for failing to keep his pre-poll promise of reviving the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant in his assembly constituency of Bathinda.“The Congress leadership is in a habit of not meeting its public commitments. Over the past six years, the BJP-led NDA government at Centre, however, has worked to strengthen India’s national security and emerged as a strong global entity,” claimed the veteran BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-patronising-illegal-liquor-trade-in-punjab-kalia/story-2rvSlq38ZkbLFWrTuxMjvO.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Patience running out in Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30||Chandigarh: Being barricaded at home and cut off from the rest of the city for about a month now because of the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases here, residents of the containment zones in Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30 are slowly getting desperate. From fear of contracting the disease, not getting urgently needed medical care to worries over losing jobs, the psychological impact is beginning to be feltThe recent standoff between the residents and the administration, with the former demanding easing of restrictions or withdrawal of containment zone orders indicates that patience of the people locked in is slowly running out.Of the total 302 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city till date, 226 are from Bapu Dham and 23 from Sector 30. “People are getting desperate here. One can see how it has started affecting youngsters forced to stay indoors. First there was curfew, and then containment. New cases are being reported every day from the colony. We are really worried and wonder when this will end,” says Ajay Koda, a resident of pocket 15, Bapu Dham Colony. LOSING JOBS, NO MEDICAL TREATMENTEven though the administration has assured the residents that it assist them in sorting out problems related to employment, people say their employers are not ready to listen. “So many people have already lost their jobs, what will the administration do now? The longer they remain confined at home the quicker they will lose their source of income and savings,” says a Bapu Dham resident who did not want to be named.People suffering from health ailments too are unable to get medical treatment on time. Navneet Kumar, a resident of Sector 30, says, “My father is suffering from multiple health problems, he is completely bedridden and needs regular medical check-up. Already two deaths have taken place of aged people here. Will administration take the blame if more people die?”Another resident of the locality, Bhuvan Mishra, says, “My 82-year-old grandfather is diabetic and his amputated hand needs dressing and we have to do it ourselves. My friend’s eight-month pregnant wife hasn’t had a single medical check-up in the last two months. Is this the way to live?”STRUGGLING WITH SOCIAL STIGMAOn top of that, the social stigma is not easy to shake off. “We are not the cause of the disease but we are forced to feel guilty,” says Ambedkar, a resident of Bapu Dham.Living in isolation is not easy, says Dr Sandeep Grover, professor, department of psychiatry, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). “People are facing mental stress, anxiety and the fear of contracting the disease. The degree of the impact of all three on an individual depends on his overall health, age and individual coping mechanism.”On dealing with the stigma, Grover suggests, “They should know that by being in a containment zone they are in fact working for the benefit of the society by helping contain the spread of the disease.”DEMAND TO EASE RESTRICTIONSOn easing restrictions at the Sector 30 containment zone, local councillor Devinder Singh Babla says, “the administration should immediately exclude the locality from the zone. People cannot stand it any more and must be released from this prison.”BDC councilor Daleep Sharma has also reiterated his demand of removing “clean” areas from containment and buffer zones.In the wake of the residents’ protests, the Affected Area Committee met on Thursday at the UT Guest House. “Restrictions in Sector 30 are likely to be removed by Friday, while a decision on Bapu Dham Colony will be taken next week,” says senior UT official who attended the meeting, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patience-running-out-in-bapu-dham-colony-and-sector-30/story-D5CpoSSfC52vuBkEtvvfxN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt recommended addl director prosecution’s extension: Govt in HC||ChandigarhPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had recommended the appointment of Vijay Singla as additional director, prosecution, a day after his retirement on January 31. Singla, who is also director prosecution joined back on February 3.The record of the controversy was perused on Thursday by high court bench of justice Ritu Bahri during resumed hearing of a plea of Satnam Singh Kaler, a joint director with the prosecution department, who has challenged Singla’s extension.“It transpires from the official file that there is noting on January 29, 2020, whereby list of officers was to be presented before the departmental promotion committee (DPC) and after retirement of Singla on January 31, 2020, the CM took a decision to grant extension to him on February 1, 2020, itself as per the noting,” says the order passed by high court on Thursday, after perusing the record and asking the state government to file a detailed reply on the issue.The order says the CM recommended the appointment under Rule 3.26(a) of the Punjab Civil Services Rules under which the state government is empowered to grant an extension, if it is of the opinion that same would be in ‘public interest’.The high court had summoned record on June 3 on the plea after his counsel Shekhar Verma had told the court that Singla had availed two optional extensions in service till January 31. But after retirement, he was re-employed on February 3 on regular basis against a regular post without the approval of finance department and the state cabinet. The petitioner said only two extensions can be granted to an employee as per the Punjab government service rules.Verma had told court that the department initiated process of the DPC for the appointment on January 23 and on January 25, Singla’s retirement orders were passed. The DPC met on February 10 and his name was recommended for promotion. But by that time Singla had joined. Despite him being the only eligible person in the department for promotion to the post of additional director, he was not considered, the petitioner had told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-recommended-addl-director-prosecution-s-extension-govt-in-hc/story-tWGdySzTbxwL3iKSZE6jOO.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt allows up to 20% relaxation in liquor sale quota||The Punjab excise and taxation department has allowed a relaxation of up to 20% in the minimum guarantee quota for the sale of liquor from May 7 to June 30. It means during the 55-day period, the sale of liquor for 5 to 11 days will be free of all taxes. While the relaxation is 20% in the municipal jurisdiction of Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, it will be 10% in the rest of the state. Amendments in the excise policy for the current financial year were cleared on Wednesday. The state government has already exempted the contractors for 36 days from April 1 to May 6, by waiving the minimum guarantee quota. “We can’t get a better deal than this,” said Anil Mahajan, a Hoshiarpur-based liquor contractor. The exemptions announced are subsequent to a report submitted by the group of ministers (GoM) constituted by CM Amarinder Singh on May 12. The GoM comprises cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Vijay Inder Singla and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. On January 31, the government had passed the excise policy for the 2020-21 financial year and fixed ₹6,200 crore revenue target. “Since the situation is still volatile, there is a possibility of an extended lockdown. In such a scenario, proportionate reduction should be given in the minimum guarantee revenue on the lines of initial 36 days when liquor vends remained shut,” reads the amendment in the excise policy.INTERCHANGE BEER QUOTA WITH LIQUOR On the demand of contractors, the excise and taxation department has allowed to interchange the beer quota with the country-made or Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL). The state government has already announced to impose Covid cess on liquor sale with effect from June 1. The move will help the government mop up an additional revenue of ₹145 crore in the current financial year. The cess varies from ₹2 to ₹50 depending on the type of liquor and beer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-allows-up-to-20-relaxation-in-liquor-sale-quota/story-o7LwcQdR5VMWtHVkVX0TDN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra sadhus eagerly look forward to opening of temple doors||The temple priests, pandas, sadhus, shopkeepers, and devotees of Kurukshetra are eagerly waiting for June 8, when the temples of the holy city will reopen after being closed to the devotees for more than two and half months.Ramji Lal, a sadhu, said, “I have never faced such difficulties in my life. Hundreds of sadhus here have been living hand to mouth as the temples were closed and people could not come out from their homes to do any charity.”Reacting to the arrangements made by the government to feed the needy, he said, “They only provide free food to ration or Aadhar card holders. But we are sadhus, we don’t have any identity cards. We survive only on the charity of people.”It was also a tough time for over 120 pandas living in the vicinity of Sanhit Sarovar as their earnings plummeted to negligible levels.“In the past two months, I have earned only ₹1,100 from Yajman (customer). It was very difficult for us to manage as I used to earn above ₹25,000 per month earlier,” said Panda Sehal Mishra.“Let us see how people react to the government’s decision to reopen religious places,” he added. People, who run eateries and religious paraphernalia shops outside the temples said that they were eagerly waiting for June 8 but were not sure whether as many devotees will turn up now.“Since the morning, I have sold only three cups of tea and one samosa. It will take about six months for this situation to normalise,” said Virbhan, a 62-year-old tea vendor at Brahm Sarovar. Amarjit Singh, who sells religious paraphernalia outside the Badharkali Temple, said, “For the past two months, I have been unable to pay rent for my shop and house as my earnings were badly hit owing to the closure of temples amid the lockdown.”“My shop is my only source of income. I am facing difficulties in feeding my family of five,” he added. Shivani, who sells books and idols of Hindu deities at Brahma Sarovar, said, “We are the biggest victims of this lockdown as we have not been able to earn anything in the past two months.” She added, “With the number of cases on the rise, I don’t think the devotees will take the risk to come to temples.”NO DIRECTIONS FROM DIST ADMNEven though the ministry of home affairs has allowed the state governments to reopen religious places in non-containment zones, most of the priests and shopkeepers fear that restrictions on the movement of devotees may continue. They have yet not received any directions from the district administration in this regard.“We know that the union government has allowed us to reopen temples but we don’t have any permission from the district authorities yet, let’s see what they decide upon,” said Karan Dhiman, a clerk at Tirupati Balaji temple.When asked about the plans to reopen the temples, Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dhirender Khadgata said, “Proper guidelines related to the movement of devotees in temples will be issued as per the directions of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kurukshetra-sadhus-eagerly-look-forward-to-opening-of-temple-doors/story-IuQUJcL6Ar6eiFlqoxrguI.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Karnal juvenile centre inmate commits suicide||A 17-year-old inmate of a Karnal juvenile observation home committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan, police said on Thursday. As per the information, the boy belonged to Bindroli village of Sonepat district and was brought to the juvenile centre, ‘Place of Safety’, on June 1 after he was detained under Section 12 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.Krishan Mann, superintendent of the centre run by Haryana women and child welfare department, said the incident took place on Wednesday evening when he was alone in the quarantine centre. “The boy used a bedsheet to hang himself,” he added. Karnal superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria said they initiated inquest proceedings and the boy’s body was handed over to his family members after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/karnal-juvenile-centre-inmate-commits-suicide/story-SN1EHszKsXClq40iv0YUsK.html
04-06-2020||City||24 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally rises to 383||Twenty-four more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 383, officials said.Seven cases were reported from Sirmaur, four each from Kangra and Hamirpur, three each from Mandi and Chamba and one each from Kullu and Bilaspur.SEVEN FRESH INFECTIONS IN SIRMAURSirmaur deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said seven people, including four who returned from Saharanpur and two from Delhi, have tested positive for the virus. All of them were under institutional quarantine.A woman, whose sample was collected randomly, has also tested positive. She was admitted at Nahan Medical College a few days ago and her contacts are being traced, the DC said.With four more people testing positive on Thursday, the number of cases in Kangra district has risen to 98.Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said among the four fresh infections, three had returned from Delhi and one from the US.A 30-year-old man from Baijnath had returned from Delhi in his vehicle on May 28 and was under institutional quarantine. A 17-year-old youth, also from Baijnath, had returned from Delhi in a taxi and was in home quarantine.The third patient is a 46-year-old woman who had returned from Delhi in a taxi and was in home quarantine.A 25-year-old man, who arrived from the US in a Spicejet flight on May 29, has also tested positive.THREE CASES IN MANDI DISTRICTThree people have tested positive in Mandi district. All of them were under home quarantine.Mandi deputy commissioner Rugved Milind Thakur said two patients are from Dharampur sub-division and the third is from Gumma area of Jogindernagar sub-division.Four new cases were reported from Hamirpur and three from Chamba. Besides, one case each was recorded in Kullu, Shimla and Bilaspur.199 ACTIVE CASES, 175 CUREDActive cases in the state stand at 199, special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said. He said eleven of the 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh are affected by Covid-19. Tribal district of Lahaul & Spiti is the only Covid-free district.So far, the state’s tally is 383 cases with five fatalities.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 118 cases followed by Kangra with 98 cases. A total of 40 cases have been reported in Una, 32 in Solan, 28 in Chamba, 20 each in Bilaspur and Mandi, 11 each in Shimla and Sirmaur, three in Kullu and two in Kinnaur. Till date, a total of 175 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-383/story-2s82QI6OIYGBkvsaWiq81K.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coordination meeting: Will go to any extent to fight for federalism, farmers: SAD to BJP||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday conveyed to the BJP’s Punjab unit that his party will go to any extent to fight for the country’s federal structure and interests of the farmers.In a hurriedly convened coordination meeting with leaders of the party’s coalition partner at the Centre, Sukhbir, expressed displeasure over certain decisions taken by the Union cabinet. “Our party fought against the emergency imposed by Congress in 1975 for democracy besides federalism and will continue to do so in future,” he said. The meeting, jointly presided over by Sukhbir and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, was held in the wake of the Centre’s approval to an amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, and two ordinances on freeing up farm trade from restrictions and guaranteeing a framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers.In response, the BJP leaders claimed that the existing system of assured procurement and minimum support price (MSP) will not be altered especially on wheat and paddy, as apprehended by the Akali Dal.“The Union minister for agriculture and farmer welfare is ready to come to Punjab and clarify on the issue,” Sharma said.‘WILL FIGHT AGAINST CONGMEN’S EXCESSES’Also, the coalition partners decided to jointly fight the excesses being committed on Punjabis by the Congressmen who they alleged were openly looting the state coffers. They demanded an independent inquiry into the ₹5,600 crore revenue loss incurred by the state in the liquor scam.It was also decided to meet governor VP Singh Badnore to present a memorandum to demand independent inquiries into the liquor, seed and ration scams besides immediate release of sugarcane dues to farmers.Among those who attended the meeting were Balwinder Singh Bhundar, Tota Singh, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Daljit Singh Cheema, Sikandar Singh Maluka and Bikram Singh Majithia from SAD, and Avinash Rai Khanna, Tarun Chugh, Madan Mohan Mittal from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coordination-meeting-will-go-to-any-extent-to-fight-for-federalism-farmers-sad-to-bjp/story-8Zt08Q47n5P7quEgnURJsK.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 59 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 59 new coronavirus cases, taking the state’s case tally to 2,506. Ludhiana topped the chart with 24 cases followed by Amritsar 15, Jalandhar six, Pathankot four, Bathinda three and one each in Muktsar, Fazilka, Rupnagar, Barnala, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur and one in Patiala. 20 FRESH INFECTIONS IN MAJHA REGIONThe Majha region of the state reported 20 fresh cases. “Of the 15 people tested positive in Amritsar, 11 are community transmission cases. One patient is the close contact of a positive patient, who was reported in Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar. A person with travel history from Haryana was also tested positive,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore. Besides, a private doctor from the Katra Praja area contracted infection. Four cases were reported from Pathankot and one from Gurdaspur. The patient in Gurdaspur had returned from Kuwait a few days ago. DOC COUPLE’S DAUGHTER INFECTED IN LUDHIANA Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the new cases include two-year-old daughter of the doctor couple from Khanna who had tested positive for the virus two days ago. The doctor couple is suspected to have caught the infection while treating ex-serviceman Ujagar Singh, 86, at Mohandai Oswal Hospital. Ujagar died on June 1.Besides, four contacts of a 20-year-old man from Baupur village in Khanna, who returned from Manesar in Gurugram on May 20, have tested positive. They comprise a 57-year-old woman, 24-year-old man, 14-year-old boy and a five-year-old child.Fifteen contacts of a Chhawani Mohalla patient also tested positive.3 SIBLINGS AMONG 5 TEST POSITIVE IN SOUTH MALWAFive new cases of Covid-19, including three siblings in Bathinda, were reported in south Malwa region on Thursday. Bathinda civil surgeon Amrik Singh Sandhu said three persons had come from Mumbai to Bathinda via Sriganganagar on Shramik Express train. These patients include a young woman and her two brothers. Sandhu said the three were in home quarantine since June 1.In Fazilka, a 45-year-old woman was tested positive. Civil surgeon Chander Mohan Kataria said the patient is being treated in an isolation facility. Muktsar also reported a fresh coronavirus case. 51 COPS HOME QUARANTINED Fifty-one cops, including Barnala SSP have been home quarantined after a drug accused, Zulfikar, alias Zulfi, who was arrested from Malerkotla town of Sangrur district and was on police remand, tested positive for Covid-19. Civil surgeon GB Singh said the patient has been sent to isolation centre. “We have quarantined 51 cops, including SSP Sandeep Geol, SP (investigation) Sukhdev Singh Virk, DSP Ramninder Singh Deol and ASP Pragya Jain, besides staff of the local court,” added the civil surgeon.Though the SSP, DSP and ASP tested negative for the virus, they will remain in home quarantine, said health officials.In Rupnagar, a 23-year-old man of Lakhvindra Enclave locality, who returned from Delhi recently, tested positive for the virus. ASI CONTRACTS INFECTION IN KAPURTHALA An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) posted at Begowal police station in Kapurthala tested positive for coronavirus. The 50-year-old cop’s sample was taken on Tuesday after he showed symptoms of the virus. His 17 close contacts, including the nine cops of the police station, have been quarantined at Bholath civil hospital. The ASI hails from Hoshiarpur district and was admitted to Hoshiarpur civil hospital for treatment, said health officials.A 17-year-old resident of Nabha tested positive in Patiala. He had returned from Chennai recently and was quarantined.PREGNANT WOMEN, 3 OTHERS TEST +VE IN JALANDHARFour persons, including a pregnant woman from Lama Pind, tested positive for coronavirus in Jalandhar. The others include a 55-year-old man from Tagore Nagar, 29-year-old man from Preet Nagar, 65-year-old woman from Rose Garden. Besides, a Rahon man, who returned from Kuwait, tested positive of virus in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. (Inputs from Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Sangrur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-reports-59-fresh-covid-cases/story-BEIPFZ8W8WEqMmOGMvBsyM.html
04-06-2020||City||Mission Fateh: Youth to help contain spread of virus in Punjab||The Punjab Youth Development Board will rope in youth to help contain the spread of coronavirus and make ‘Mission Fateh’ a success, said Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, chairman of the board. He informed that with the active support of 13,900 youth clubs, 600 red ribbon clubs and 2 lakh NSS volunteers, the board aims to spread awareness in every nook and corner of the state. He said that during the month-long campaign under the mission, the warriors will create mass awareness on the need for wearing masks, washing hands, maintaining social distancing and taking care of the elderly.Besides, they will ask people to remain vigilant about the entry of outsiders in their locality, bring home the importance of use COVA App to track COVID -19 patients, guide about the importance of home quarantine, the symptoms of the flu and action thereafter, restrictions during Lockdown 5.0 and penalties and fines in case of violations. Bindra said that to check the spread of the virus, community mobilisation was required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mission-fateh-youth-to-help-contain-spread-of-virus-in-punjab/story-rV0gmPnbZmxpTx3oXYQXhO.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||3- member committee formed to check spike in Covid-19 cases in Amritsar||: The Punjab directorate of health has formed a three-member committee to look into the reasons behind increasing Covid-19 cases in the Amritsar district and to assist the district administration combat the disease. Amritsar is the only district in Punjab to have crossed the 400-cases mark. It has also reported 7 deaths. Besides, 90 cases of community transmission have surfaced. The committee comprises Amritsar additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal, municipal corporation joint commissioner Nitish Singla and Punjab State AIDS Control Society medical officer Dr Sukhwinder Kaur.“Our main focus of the team will be to increase sample collection. Earlier, 150- 200 samples were being collected in the district daily. Now, it has increased to 500 and we will collect over 1,000 samples in coming days. We have categorised all the priority areas and have fixed the responsibilities of the officers from the civil and health administration,” said ADC Aggarwal.Nitish Singla said, “The team will also focus on maintaining the home quarantine rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-member-committee-formed-to-check-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-amritsar/story-4zfWOVqNId15OgZLM0b1yH.html
04-06-2020||City||J&K crosses 3,000 mark with biggest single-day spike of 285 Covid-19 infections||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded the biggest single-day spike of 285 Covid-19 cases, taking the number of infected people in the Union territory to 3,142, officials said.Of the new cases, 63 were reported from Jammu division and 222 from Kashmir. Out of these 57 patients have a travel history, officials said.The biggest jump of 49 cases was in Kulgam while Shopian recorded 35 fresh infections, Baramulla 29, Anantnag 27, Srinagar 25, Kupwara 19, Bandipora 15 and Pulwama 14. There were single digit jumps in other districts of the Valley.In Jammu division, Udhampur witnessed most cases at 25 followed by 11 in Jammu district.After initial cases of Covid-19 in J&K since March 9, this is the first time that the number of Covid-19 cases have crossed 200-mark in a day. The UT had been witnessing a jump of more than 100 cases since last nine days.One more death in Srinagar, UT toll 35 A 60-year-old man from Srinagar died due to the virus at the Chest Diseases Hospital on Thursday. “The man was shifted from Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital two days ago after his samples tested positive. He was suffering from pleural effusion,” a doctor said.With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 35—31 in Kashmir and four in Jammu division.Also, 41 patients have been discharged– 24 from Jammu division and 17 from Kashmir, officials said. So far, 1,048 people have recovered in the UT. At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 1,488 and 571 are in Jammu.Till date, 1.97 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 42,195 in home quarantine, 38 in hospital quarantine and 53,745 under home surveillance. Besides these, 99,278 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-crosses-3-000-mark-with-biggest-single-day-spike-of-285-covid-19-infections/story-QXddbuUftZJOkqAHbuMCmN.html
04-06-2020||Noida||Three criminals nabbed in separate encounters within 12 hours in Noida: Cops||Three alleged criminals were arrested in as many encounters in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district in less than 12 hours, police said on Thursday. The first shootout took place around 9 pm on Wednesday near Noida’s Filmcity in Sector 16A in which Rinku, who has 17 FIRs against him at various places, was held, a police spokesperson said. “He was on his motorcycle when officials from Sector 20 police station intercepted him. He opened fire at the police team and got injured in retaliation,” the spokesperson said. In another incident, notorious criminal Sonu, who was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest, was held in the Phase 2 police station area around midnight, the official said. Sonu had made an extortion bid and police were tipped off about his movement in the city after which he was intercepted near Sector 112, the spokesperson said. “Sonu had demanded Rs 5 lakh from a trader based in Bhangel. He was here in connection with that. When trapped by the police, he opened fire but got injured in retaliatory firing,” he said.  There are at least 43 FIRs, including in cases of robbery, dacoity, extortion and arms act, against him, he added.  In the third incident, a criminal wanted in at six least cases of crime was held after a gunfight with police in Greater Noida’s Kasna area.  “Accused Shahzaad was on a motorcycle along with an associate. They opened fire on the police team and Shahzaad got shot in the leg. He was held but his associate managed to escape in the darkness,” the spokesperson said.  All the three accused were taken to a hospital for treatment after the gunfights, police said. Pistols were recovered from each of the criminal and their vehicles were impounded, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-criminals-nabbed-in-separate-encounters-within-12-hours-in-noida-cops/story-fXWLu6MZODYaozcOoPJXqI.html
04-06-2020||Noida||Noida authority office sanitized after suspect Covid cases||The Noida authority on Thursday conducted disinfection drive in its administrative building after some employees were suspected of having contracted the Covid-9 infection. However, the health department is yet to conduct tests of its employees. Officials said that the authority is disinfecting offices with sodium hypochlorite solution to sanitize the common space.“We are sanitizing all our offices twice daily — during mornings and evenings — to ensure safety to our employees. We are sanitizing door handles, work desks, chairs and tables, among other furniture, in the commercial, residential, horticulture and water departments, among others,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.The authority has at least 5,000 employees who work with different departments and the Noida employees association has demanded that random tests be conducted on all employees engaged in delivering essential goods, taking care of sanitation and other jobs.The employees association also alleged that has demanded that there should be random tests of all employees without delay. But the administration was delaying in getting the staff tested for Covid.“We have demanded that there should be tests without further delay because it will help in containing the spread of the infection. If tests are delayed then people with the virus may end up passing it on to others who are working with them. Some people may also be asymptomatic,” said Dharmendra Sharma, vice-president of Noida employees association.Contacted, the Noida authority’s senior officials said that testing will be done only of those who show symptoms of Covid-19.“The tests cannot be done for all employees due to some limitations. The administration will get done testing done of those who show symptoms like fever and cough,” said a senior Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-office-sanitized-after-suspect-covid-cases/story-3TmdNUgiCrN0njlQayTwkJ.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sondhi takes over as head of Chandigarh chapter of NRAI||The National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI) has set up the Chandigarh chapter of the NRAI and appointed city-based restaurateur Sunveer Sondhi as its head on Thursday.Sondhi is the founder and CEO of La Pyramid Hospitalities Pvt Ltd, brand owner and franchisor of Pyramid Café Lounge Bar, Pyramid Microbrewery, The ATM Bar, Pyramid Express (Cloud Kitchen) and Easy Switch (Frozen Foods).Sondhi said, “The Indian restaurant industry has been badly hit due to Covid-19 pandemic. I aim to help restaurant owners bring their businesses back on track.”He added that he would personally interact with restaurant owners and take up their issues with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sondhi-takes-over-as-head-of-chandigarh-chapter-of-nrai/story-fVTA7p3sIBmsuyUhoH5A3O.html
04-06-2020||City||Pune fire brigade department logs 92 tree-fall calls||PUNE: The city fire brigade received over 92 calls related to incidences of trees falling on roads due to rainfall and gusty winds, between 7am and 11.30am on Thursday. Most of the calls were from Kothrud, Yerawada, Dhanori, Wadgaonsheri and other areas. Prashant Ranpise, chief, Pune fire brigade, said that calls related to crashing down of hoardings were also reported.“We noted down the complaints and fourteen of our vehicles were deployed for carrying out removal of trees, cutting branches and facilitating vehicular movement. Our team has been working round the clock to help residents,” he said. Ranpise said that more than 100 personnel of fire department were on ground helping police and other government agencies in carrying out weather related works. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city will experience cloudy conditions with cloudy skies in the next few days. The fire brigade department has stationed a special crack team to address tree-fall incidents as city gears up for the monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-fire-brigade-department-logs-92-tree-fall-calls/story-DjFuFZ8tlCDbeGndJjks9K.html
04-06-2020||City||British Sikh MP Dhesi seeks probe into role of Thatcher govt in Operation Bluestar||Tanmanjit Singh Dhesi, member of Parliament for Slough (UK), on Thursday, reiterated the demand of an independent inquiry into the role of the former Margaret Thatcher government in Operation Bluestar at the Golden Temple in Amritsar in 1984.The first turbaned Sikh MP of the UK, while speaking in the House of Commons on Thursday, said that this week marks the 36th year since the then Indian PM Indira Gandhi had ordered attack on the Sikh shrine. “It eventually led to the destruction of historic structures, genocide of Sikhs, and burning of the Sikh Reference Library. Sikhs can never forget 1984,” he said.“I am sure the leader of the House will agree that it’s atrocious and many still struggle for justice. But perhaps he can explain to me why – despite recent revelations, demand from the British Sikh community, and support of the Labour Party and other opposition parties – no independent inquiry has been to establish the extent of Thatcher government’s involvement in the 1984 attack,” he questioned.Dhesi, who hails from Raipur village in Jalandhar, is the nephew of Congress leader and SGPC member Paramjit Singh Raipur.In response, leader of the House, MP Jacob Rees-Mogg, said that it is an important anniversary to remember. “The questions raised by Dhesi should be taken up during the adjournment debate. But I have full confidence that Margaret Thatcher, who was one of the greatest leaders the UK has ever had, would always have behaved properly,” Mogg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/british-sikh-mp-dhesi-seeks-probe-into-role-of-thatcher-govt-in-operation-bluestar/story-MrS8sQah6GuFJ9fsobecfM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves take away gold, silver jewellery from Sector 8 temple in Chandigarh||Two masked men broke into a temple in Sector 8 here and decamped with gold and silver jewellery and cash during wee hours on Thursday. While the value of the jewellery is yet to be ascertained, Rs 7,000 were stolen from the donation box.The theft at the Shri Sanatan Dharam Pracheen Shiv Mandir came to light when the pujari opened the temple for puja around 5.30am. Temples in the city are closed due to lockdown these days and are supposed to reopen on June 8 for public, as per the orders of the UT administration.General secretary of the temple Ashwani Gupta, in his complaint, told the police that when the temple was opened on Thursday morning, gold and silver jewellery of idols was found missing and the money box was also found broken.He said the thieves had taken away two gold nose rings (naths), a gold ‘tikka’, a silver flute, four silver thrones and three silver crowns of deities, three idols, two silver globular water containers (lota) and one silver plate.A case in this regard has been registered at the Sector 3 police station.THEFT CAUGHT ON CCTV CAMERASThieves, with their faces covered with masks and monkey caps and wearing gloves, were seen entering the temple between 3am and 4am in the three CCTV cameras installed in the temple.As per the footage, the accused came from the back lane and climbed down the stairs from the roof. They broke a grill with a rod to gain entry to the temple.“The thieves disconnected one CCTV, turned the direction of the other and covered the third camera with a paper to avoid being caught. It appeared to be a well-panned theft,” said Gupta. “A pujari, usually sleeps in the temple premises. But, on Wednesday, there was no one in the temple. There was a watchman at the front gate of the temple and a sewadar was sleeping in the nearby dharamshala in the temple premises,” said Gupta.Police said they had collected fingerprints from the spot and were analysing them against criminals with similar modus operandi. They have also taken the mobile tower dump data in the area.THEFTS AT RELIGIOUS PLACES IN TRICITYMarch 17: Burglars struck at the shrine of Maa Shakumbhri Devi in Sector 43, Chandigarh, and took away huge silver ornaments worth Rs 3.3 lakhDecember 11: Thieves decamped with gold and silver ornaments from a temple in Sector 8, Panchkula September 27: Two masked men stole 3kg silver from Hari Mandir in Phase 5, MohaliSeptember 9: Around Rs 1 lakh, besides multiple silver items, were stolen from Shiv Temple in Sector 39, ChandigarhAugust 31: Burglars decamped with Rs 50,000 from the donation box of Christ the King Cathedral in Sector 19, ChandigarhAugust 3: Rs 30,000 were stolen from the cash box kept inside a gurdwara at Sector 11, ChandigarhJuly 28: Thieves fled with Rs 5,000 from Sanatan Dharam Panch Mukhi Hanuman Mandir in Sector 19, ChandigarhJuly 25: Burglars struck twice in Chandigarh, stealing Rs 35,000 and silver items from Shri Krishna Temple in Sector 33 and Pracheen Shiv Sati Temple in Sector 43.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/thieves-take-away-gold-silver-jewellery-from-sector-8-temple-in-chandigarh/story-uJSnJPyEQxztdlVaszdcyO.html
04-06-2020||City||IndusInd Bank branch in Faridkot robbed of Rs 3.4 lakh||Faridkot Five masked armed men barged into a sub-branch of IndusInd Bank at Tehna village, around 5km from district headquarters, in Faridkot on Thursday afternoon and robbed it of Rs 3.43 lakh, after holding the staff hostage. Superintendent of police Sewa Singh Malhi said the robbers took away cash from the main locker and also snatched the gold chain of a woman employee and three mobile phones. The bank did not have a CCTV or a guard deployed at the gate. “Only four staff members, including the branch manager, were present inside the bank when the incident took place. The branch manager and one of his colleagues were beaten up after they tried to resist the robbers. Both are undergoing treatment at the Faridkot Civil Hospital,” Malhi added.“According to the manager, the five men had parked their Honda City car outside the branch. There is no CCTV installed at the bank, so we are checking footage from cameras in surrounding areas to identify the robbers,” the SP added. A case has been registered against unidentified persons under Sections 392 (robbery), 427 (mischief) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indusind-bank-branch-in-faridkot-robbed-of-rs-3-4-lakh/story-sGz4R1wDhOOWB43jJ4LAZO.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||PU’s IAS centre plans to start online course for PCS judicial preparation from August||Panjab University’s centre for IAS and other competitive examinations is planning to start a year-long online course for PCS judicial service exams, from August this year.The centre has written to the university, seeking permission to start the course. The centre presently offers coaching for Indian Administrative Services (preliminary), UGC-NET, Punjab Civil Services (executive) and judiciary branch exams.In the letter, the centre officials said, “Every year, many LLB students enquire about the availability of online classes for PCS (judicial) exam, stating that due to their regular classes, they are unable to attend the course at the centre.”Besides, the course will also be useful for those who cannot come to the university for classes. Last year, around 32 students had enrolled in the PCS judiciary course at PU’s IAS centre.WHAT’S IN STORE?If the course gets nod from the university, it will have 40 seats, which will include nine seats for Scheduled Caste (SC) and Schedule Tribe (ST) candidates. The course will run for 12 months and a fee of Rs 35,000 has been proposed for the general category candidates while for SC/ST candidates, it will be Rs 17,500, with additional GST charges on both. Centre coordinator Dinesh Kumar said, “Due to heavy commercialisation of coaching classes, many students are not able to afford it. So we are trying to give an opportunity to all aspirants through our courses. We will have specialised teachers who will train the students here.”A senior university official said that they have received the proposal and it is under consideration. “It has been forwarded for vice-chancellor’s approval,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-s-ias-centre-plans-to-start-online-course-for-pcs-judicial-preparation-from-august/story-FCCNJDM7AgT11mRurpaXHI.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||60-year-old labourer’s mutilated body found in Chandimandir||Panchkula The mutilated body of a 60-year-old labourer was found by the police at Chandimandir in Panchkula on Thursday morning in a case of suspected murder.Vishwanath from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh had been living in a one-room unit in Chandimandir for the last 14 to 15 years.In a complaint filed with the police, a 30-year-old man, Umakant, working as a munshi at a stone crusher in Chandimandir, said his father Nathuni Pal, who had left for his village in UP during the lockdown, had rented out the room to Vishwanath while Umakant lived at his place of work.According to the complaint, Vishwanath, an alcoholic, had a frequent visitor, a driver, and Umakant had seen the two together on June 3. However, when he returned home the next morning he found blood outside Vishwanath’s room and a search led to his half-naked body in the bushes at a distance of 50 feet. The head had been smashed and the face was unrecognisable. “There were some stones with bloodstains lying near the room as well,” Umakant mentioned in the FIR.“There were remains of non-vegetarian food Inside the room and empty liquor bottles. I have my suspicions that (the driver) killed Vishawnath with rods or stones and threw the body in the bushes,” Umakant said.The Chandimandir Police has registered an FIR under section 201, 302 and 34 of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/60-year-old-labourer-s-mutilated-body-found-in-chandimandir/story-DnjUnOpLNT1i0SBrL6VyLJ.html
04-06-2020||City||PSPCL staff protest as Ludhiana councillor’s husband accuses them of theft||Contractual employees of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) staged a protest on Thursday morning against a Congress councillor’s husband for allegedly hurling abuses at the workers, who were carrying out cable maintenance work on Rahon Road on Wednesday night .The employees complained that Vipan Vinayak, husband of ward number 3 councillor Pallavi Vinayak, accused the employees of stealing power cables during midnight and also called the police to arrest them.They said they had been carrying out cable maintenance work on the Rahon Road as per protocol and many feeders, including that on the Rahon Road, were closed to carry out the repair work. “These days, we are working from morning till midnight amid pandemic to complete repair works at different places at the earliest, but the councillor’s husband branded us as thieves,” said Raghubir Singh, a union leader. Vinayak had also shared the entire episode on Facebook, the protesters said.Vipan Vinayak, however, said it was a case of mistaken identity as, of late, there have been complaints of power cable thefts from the area. Later, during the day, both the groups reached a compromiseZonal president of the Power Corporation Employees Union Ramesh Sharma, divisional president junior engineer Raghveer Singh, former state president Jagir Singh, Gaurav Sharma and Ram Asra condemned the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-staff-protest-as-ludhiana-councillor-s-husband-accuses-them-of-theft/story-GtUaR9jMX0AHlA4rQc3rhK.html
04-06-2020||City||Jai Ram launches counter-offensive against Congress, accuses them of making frivolous allegations||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday launched a scathing attack on Congress and said that while his government made concerted efforts to stop the spread of coronavirus, the leader of opposition was politicising the pandemic.The CM refuted allegations of the opposition denying that there was any scam in the health department. He said that there were no irregularities in the purchase of personal protective equipment. “My government has zero-tolerance for corruption,” said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur addressing the media. “The government immediately ordered vigilance probe soon after audio clip with director health services audio surfaced. He was suspended and the matter is still being probed,” said Thakur. Whereas the government focused on tackling the coronavirus crisis, Congress leaders made frivolous allegations against the government, he said while referring to the bills submitted by the Congress to its high command. “Congress submitted a bill amounting to ₹12 crore to its high command claiming that it spent on welfare during the ongoing crisis. We are trying to trace where has the congress distributed PPE kits or any other relief material to the needy” he said taking a dig at the opposition.Thakur denied that there were any regularities in the purchase of ventilators in the state. “Opposition party was referring to an anonymous letter on purchase of ventilators that’s in circulation for some time. The allegations made in the letter are frivolous and do not hold any ground,” he said adding that the actual cost of the ventilators the state purchased was ₹9.19 lakh whereas the opposition was quoting prices of ventilators amounting to ₹10.30 lakh which was incorrect,” he added.Referring to irregularities in the purchase of sanitisers at state secretariat he said that the government did not make any payments to the supplier and the staff involved has been booked and chargesheeted,” he said adding that the opposition was making the haywire allegation to impress the party high command. Giving details CM said that ever since the lockdown was induced as many as 1.70 lakh people stranded in different parts of the country returned back to the state. He said that 976 buses were pressed into service that ferried 22,000 people. He said that further 2,200 buses were put in service to transport 45,000 people from one place to another during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-plans-counter-offensive-against-congress-accuses-them-of-making-frivolous-allegations/story-yuQR7zb52G5Nc8ggVFmWuI.html
04-06-2020||City||Arya College holds webinar on reshaping Indian economy post lockdown||With the pandemic-induced lockdown bringing the economy to an abrupt halt, leading to job losses and stagnation, the department of commerce and business management of Ludhiana’s Arya College, in association with the internal quality assurance cell, organised a webinar titled ‘Reshaping the Indian economy in the post-lockdown era’. College principal Savita Uppal inaugurated the event, which was organised under the stewardship of Arya College Management Committee secretary Satisha Sharma. Uppal said that in times of such a crisis, there is a need to reshape the economy and promote self-reliance.Head of the commerce department, Prof Shailija Anand said the commerce sector needs to redefine its priorities.Principal of the Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Ajay Sharma, who was the resource person at the event, spoke about the issues facing the Indian economy, including low GDP rates, unemployment, inflation, and deterioration of small-scale businesses and industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arya-college-holds-webinar-on-reshaping-indian-economy-post-lockdown/story-FW0bKz3TkVpvxNfqOiUw7I.html
04-06-2020||City||MP Bittu comes to Ludhiana MC’s rescue to arrange pitbull’s feed||Failing to finds its owner and saddled with the exorbitant price of feed of an abandoned pitbull, the Ludhiana municipal corporation heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday after Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu came forward to bear the expenses of the dog’s feed.The pitbull is in the custody of the Ludhiana MC since April 3. Bittu and his wife Anupama, who are dog-lovers and own two pet dogs – a Shih Tzu and a St Bernard –said that everyone should come forward to help animals.“We should take care of animals and do our bit for their welfare. I came to know about this abandoned Pitbull through an HT report. As I am in Delhi, my staff has handed over Rs 10,000 to mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu for the upkeep of the dog. I would bear the expenses till the MC tracks down the actual owner,” he said.The dog caught from Ishar Nagar has been kept in a cage at MC’s animal birth control centre since April. A bill of over Rs 6,000 is pending towards a chicken shop owner as the dog eats nothing but chicken. While the MC is struggling to find the dog’s owner, the staff was in dilemma over the rising cost of its diet.MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “The MC had filed a complaint with Jamalpur police to locate the owner of the dog. In May a woman had called MC office claiming ownership but failed to show up. She said that she lives in Jamalpur but will come to take possession of the dog after May 25 as she is stuck in Patna due to lockdown.”Dhalla appreciated the efforts of MP Bittu and said that if anyone had any leads on whereabouts of the dog’s owner, they should share the information on 9815091107.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mp-bittu-comes-to-ludhiana-mc-s-rescue-to-arrange-pitbull-s-feed/story-UrkCkNEicVdPv5D7UTBg1K.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Weighed down by poverty, Ludhiana coolies desperate to start work again||Many coolies (porters) left without work after the lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak from March are now making their way back to the city’s railway station, hoping to earn something even though rail services have been restored partially.There was no help from the government during the lockdown, they said, leaving them totally dependent on NGOs for food and rations for their families. Gagandeep, 41, of Haibowal said he had been working at the railway station from the past 11 years and was the only earning member of the family of five. “We had no work left after rail services were suspended,” he said. “We had nothing to eat at home and did not get any relief from the government. Some NGOs provided food and ration to the family. I was so depressed that I was thinking about ending my life, but did not do so because there would be no one left to take care of my family.”Adding that porters’ earnings were at par with labourers, Partap Kumar, 39, district president, Lal Wardi (red uniform) Union, said the government had sent ration to labourers, run special trains for them and also extended financial help to them, but the porters were not given any relief.“I have four growing children, but due to the lockdown I have nothing to feed them. I had decided to work as a labourer but nothing was available as all factories were closed and construction work had stopped,” said Kumar.“As rail services have resumed we came to the railway station hoping to get some work. Hardly one or two passengers want us to carry their luggage. We hope things return normal soon,” he added.Jai Bhagwan, 44, a resident of Kabir Basti at the Dhuri Lines, said there was a lesser chance of them dying of Covid-19 and more chances of them starving.About 52 coolies work at the Ludhiana Railway station.Most of them say they have been sending repeated representations to railway authorities for getting the status of Class-4 employees, but no one had listened to their pleas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/weighed-down-by-poverty-ludhiana-coolies-desperate-to-start-work-again/story-nTaJ11VoZ5vMS1af1gwyOO.html
04-06-2020||City||HP health dept scam: CPI(M) to stage protest on June 9||Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Thursday condemned the BJP-led state government over recent scams in the health department and has decided to organise a block-level protest on June 9.Through the protest, CPI(M) will be demanding an investigation into the purchase of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), sanitisers and other medical equipment by the health department and other scams by a sitting judge of the high court, to issue white papers regarding purchases made during the coronavirus pandemic. All essential facilities should be provided at all Covid-19 dedicated hospitals and medical staff as per the standard of the World Health Organisation (WHO).The state government should constitute an ethical committee and to publicise all purchases made by the state government by publishing it on a website and take necessary steps to improve health services in the state, to fill all vacant posts in the health sector, they said.On June 3, CPI (M) had also submitted a memorandum to governor Bandaru Dattatreya regarding this matter.CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that the way the state government is conducting the investigation of scams raises many questions therefore it is very necessary to conduct an unbiased investigation to find out the truth.The party workers have also urged people to participate in the protest to urge the state government so that these scams can be exposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-health-dept-scam-cpi-m-to-stage-protest-on-june-9/story-fH0sd6mN29gDye0cVqtziJ.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Cyclone Nisarga: Death toll in Pune district climbs to 3 as govt measures damage||The death toll due to cyclone Nisarga, which hit the district on Wednesday, climbed to three with the death of Narayan Nawale (38), a resident of Khed, who succumbed to his injuries on Thursday, according to Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. The government has announced financial aid of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of those who lost their life. His mother, Manjabai Nawale (68), had died on Wednesday after a wall and a portion of the roof of their house caved in due to heavy rainfall in the area. Narayan was also injured in the accident. The Nawales belong to Vahagaon village in Khed tehsil.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said that at least 1,464 houses have been damaged due to heavy rains and gusty winds. Besides the Nawales, Prakash Mokar (52) of Mokarwadi in Haveli tehsil, died after sustaining critical injuries while holding onto the tin roof of his house.“We have started conducting a punchnama of houses and farms damaged due to the cyclone. The punchnama will be finished within two days,” said Ram. According to Ram, griculture-related damage is mostly from Maval and Mulshi talukas of the district. According to Mhaisekar, besides three deaths, at least 1,350 kuccha (temporary) houses and 114 pucca (permanent) houses have been partially damaged due to cyclone-related incidents. “The loss to property has been high in Pune district compared to Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur in the Pune division,” said Mhaisekar. There are reports of damage to 89 huts, 31 schools and 57 anganwadis from Pune district, he added.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its assessment stated that conditions are likely to become favourable for further advancement of the southwest monsoon into some more parts of central Arabian Sea, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, southwest including east central Bay of Bengal; entire Southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of west central Bay of Bengal during the next two-three days.IMD director Anupam Kashyapi said, “The impact of the cyclone has weakened, but remnants of its fury can still be felt. Some rainfall and other associated climatic events will take place as the cyclone is still receding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cyclone-nisarga-death-toll-in-pune-district-climbs-to-3-as-govt-measures-damage/story-Inn7esgk7616CV5z7HrYTJ.html
04-06-2020||City||Law, a dynamic profession: Advocate Amar Puri tells students during webinar||All those in the legal profession remain students forever, said Amar Vivek, an attorney at the Punjab and Haryana high court and the former additional advocate general of Haryana, during a webinar organised by the University Institute of Laws, Panjab University regional centre, on Thursday.The webinar titled ‘Law: Studentship, internship, profession and hardships’ was convened by Professor Arti Puri, coordinator of laws and Prof Pooja Sikka, under the guidance of centre director Professor Ravi Inder Singh.Stating that the law was an extremely dynamic profession, advocate Amar Vivek advised students to read at least one judgement a day to get a better insight into the profession. He also exhorted students to maintain a diary of the legal parlance, use their time judiciously, develop a pragmatic attitude and work towards the betterment of the society. He added that the profession offered everyone an opportunity to become “wholesome individuals: fertile, ready to receive and ready to act.”The advocate was flooded with questions from students by the end of his talk.Professor Arti Puri said, “This is the fourth of a series of talks which began exactly a month ago. These are being conducted to help students keep up with their course amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown.” There were over hundred participants in the webinar, Prof Puri added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/law-a-dynamic-profession-advocate-amar-puri-tells-students-during-webinar/story-Tjn9DfXRkh5lFEbQYLOqaI.html
04-06-2020||City||No mechanism to address problems faced by people in J&K: Panchayat Conference chairman||Expressing displeasure over the lack of connect between the district administrations and the public in Jammu and Kashmir, All J&K Panchayat Conference chairman Shafiq Mir on Thursday said the gap has been created intentionally by government officials in the name of social distancing due to which people are facing hardships.“The aim and objective of keeping people at distance is not only to prevent spread of Covid-19 but also to create lack of transparency,” Mir said.He alleged that most deputy commissioners have shut their office doors and are not meeting people in the name of social distancing. “The same is with their subordinate offices in each district. There is no mechanism to address problems faced by the common man. Nobody responds to the calls on helpline numbers notified by the administration,” Mir said.“Due to the absence of a proper mechanism to connect with people, middlemen have been minting money for addressing issues of the people,” he added. “Even panchayat leaders are not being attended by the administration. We are feeling dejected and cheated after contesting these elections. If we cannot serve the people at this hour then what is the need of becoming a chairman and or sarpanch,” Mir said. Apprehending large scale bungling in Covid-19 expenditures, particularly in establishing quarantine centres and distribution of masks by the district administrations, Mir said,” An inquiry commission should be constituted immediately to know how many masks have been given to people in rural areas and how much money has been spent for quarantine centres.” Mir also appealed J&K L-G GC Murmu and chief secretary BVR Subramanyam to set up a commission to investigate about bills and payments drawn against developmental works during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-mechanism-to-address-problems-faced-by-people-in-j-k-panchayat-conference-chairman/story-UnIhq7JBrOTfHoF97P5XwN.html
04-06-2020||City||Educated youth in J&K treated most shabbily by present regime: Former minister Harsh Dev||Urging upon the lieutenant governor GC Murmu to give priority attention to the concerns of the educated youth, underemployed and retrenched employees of various departments of J&K in the State Administrative Council meet scheduled for June 6, chairman of Panthers Party and former minister Harsh Dev Singh said that the youth of erstwhile state had been treated most shabbily by the Centre as well as the UT during the past few years. While the BJP-led government surpassed all other governments in giving lofty slogans and tall assurances of youth empowerment, the actual delivery was in inverse proportion to the articulation of the said promises, Singh said.Never before had the educated youth of J&K been so marginalised, cheated and humiliated as during the BJP government said Singh while drawing the attention of the State Advisory Council especially towards the pathetic condition of the disengaged health professionals and others made to polish shoes on the roadside. Seeking the revocation of disengagement orders of all terminated employees of the health department, information department, PHE, education department besides other contractual and daily rated workers, Harsh Dev said that the government’s move to oust the bread earners of the respective families had operated very harshly against the educated youth during the coronavirus pandemic. And while the Prime Minister had been repeatedly making media announcements that none was being disengaged, the ground situation was totally different from massive retrenchments having been affected by the government, regretted Singh. Castigating the BJP government for its doublespeak, Singh called for the reinstatement of all SRO-24 ousted employees of the health and information departments and the contractual lecturers of schools and colleges. He said that the lecturers engaged on a contractual basis during 2019-20 should be allowed to continue for the next academic session of 2020-21 as well in view of the pandemic. Seeking age relaxation in the new recruitments to be made by the administration, Singh said that the SAC must consider the issue in view of negligible employment having been created during the past 4-5 years in J&K. He said that the youth had hardly any employment opportunities in the past due to which several of them had become over-aged and needed to be accommodated by the government granting suitable relaxation in age and criteria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/educated-youth-in-j-k-treated-most-shabbily-by-present-regime-former-minister-harsh-dev/story-7fnPVzaLRwBQJzK2Bj7z3N.html
04-06-2020||City||Parents approach Ludhiana DC for school fee waiver||Parents of over 60 students of GMT Public School, Haibowal Kalan, held a protest against the school outside the deputy commissioner’s office at the mini-secretariat here on Thursday. Parents submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and requested him to ask the school to waive annual charges and tuition fee.They stated due to financial constraints caused by lockdown, parents were not be able to pay even the school fee, but school authorities are sending messages regularly to deposit all charges.A parent, Kajal Jain, said, “My son has been studying in the school for the past four years. At present, I am facing issues of survival and not able to deposit the school fee. Parents are requesting the DC to ask the school principal to waive the school fee.”As per sources, the school authorities have asked parents to deposit Rs 400 each for a diary, syllabus book, identity card and assignments for students.Despite repeated attempts, principal Manjeet Kaur was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-approach-ludhiana-dc-for-school-fee-waiver/story-U0QSyTaGzznr8g9vjqSCxI.html
04-06-2020||Lucknow||With masks, social distancing, riders keep date with World Bicycle Day||Unlock-1 coupled with the World Bicycle Day (June 3) prompted recreational cycling clubs and cyclists to resume organised group rides after a hiatus of two months. Over five different groups rode different routes in the city at the crack of the dawn.Nearly 100 men, women and children (above the age of 10) mostly from Cyclopedia, Pedal Pushers, Aero Activity Club and Arun’s Pathshala, got into the saddle with masks and while observing social distancing.Cyclists had resumed daily rides since the start of the Lockdown 4.0, but cycling clubs had not announced or conducted any group rides since March 22.“We are glad that we did not miss the day. On April 12, 2018, the United Nations had designated June 3 as World Bicycle Day. So, since the first World Bicycle Day on June 3, 2018, Lucknow cyclists have kept their date with the day every year. But this time, due to the protracted lockdown, we were uncertain. Luckily, Unlock-1 came into force on June 1, and the clubs could go ahead with their organised rides,” said TCS Lucknow senior manager Sandeep Joshi (49) of Pedalyatri: mostly a club of endurance cyclists. On Wednesday, Joshi rode 50 kilometres solo from Faizabad Road, Kisan Path and through Kukrail forest.Aero Activity Club rode with nine riders, including one woman. They took off on a 40 km ride from Polytechnic Crossing, went to Indira Dam and returned. Their trip began at 5.30 am and finished at 8 am. “Although our club is large, we rode with only nine to manage the group well because of social distancing norms. It feels great to be back in group rides,” said club manager and HAL Lucknow engineer Jogendra Meena, 36.Fifteen riders of Arun’s Pathshala cycled from the 1090 crossing and ended their outing passing through HCL, Ekana International Cricket Stadium and Janeshwar Mishra Park.Pedal Pushers rode under the banner of Cyclopedia, the largest cycling club of Lucknow. The Cyclopedia ride had 42 riders who rode 35 km from Indira Nagar to Indira Dam and back. Some new riders joined the club on the day. Four women--Usha Singh, Shalini Tiwari, Shalini Pawah, and Arti--participated in the ride.Cyclopedia members also had a laughter session to mark the World Laughter Day that fell on May 2, but could not be celebrated outdoors.It also turned out as the biggest recreational-sports activity since lockdown 1.0.Shaurya Mathur, 12, who rode with Cyclopedia said: “I love cycling. Last year I notched up my biggest achievement when I rode a 100km in a ride with my grandfather. I was ecstatic when this ride was announced. I quickly registered for it. Today’s ride was pleasant and it wiped away all lockdown blues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/with-masks-social-distancing-riders-keep-date-with-world-bicycle-day/story-WpYbntHJrm36uPY4hqkUnJ.html
04-06-2020||City||Himachal Congress demands resignation of CM Jai Ram Thakur||Congress leaders on Thursday met governor Bandaru Dattatreya and submitted a memorandum demanding the resignation of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on moral grounds.Congress through memorandum also has demanded the governor to order the state government to conduct an investigation of corruption in the state health department by a sitting judge of the high court and to issue white paper regarding purchases of equipment etc, made by the department during coronavirus pandemic.Congress leaders said that CM has to resign as he is having charge of the health department and he cannot escape from his moral responsibilities. Resignation of Rajiv Bindal as state BJP president is proof that BJP leaders are involved in this scam, they alleged.They said that Congress has extended full support to present state government in fighting Covid-19 but the state government has betrayed them and the people of the state and these scams need to be investigated impartially.Congress leaders have alleged that there are many more cases of corruption against senior leaders of BJP in which most of the cases have been withdrawn from the court or investigations are not being expedited.State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, Congress Legislators Vikramaditya Singh, Ashish Butaip, Dr Dhani Ram Shandil, Mohan Lal Bragta, and others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-congress-demands-resignation-of-cm-jai-ram-thakur/story-dqWABxXN98nDmv3qfKoOtJ.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Governor’s statement on final year exams worries students, colleges||Students and colleges are confused after Governor and chancellor of state universities, Bhagat Singh Koshiyari, released a statement against chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray’s decision to cancel final year exams. Many approached the government, demanding clarity on the status of examinations so that students’ psychological distress can be reduced. “Everyone was relieved to hear the CM’s decision of promoting students without exams. At a time when Covid-19 cases are increasing by the minute, how can exams for lakhs of students be conducted without risking their lives?” said a senior professor from a suburban college. He added that such contradictory views and decisions by two government officials are causing stress to the students.On May 31, Thackeray had said that all final year students will be promoted based on an aggregate of their performance in previous semesters. He added that if any student is not satisfied with the score, he or she can better their performance by appearing for exams in October-November.Koshiyari, however, said that promoting students without exams will jeopardise their future and clarified that as the chancellor of universities, he has the higher authority in such matters.Last month, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant, in a Facebook live had said that while the state plans to hold final year exams in July, the same would be reconsidered if lockdown in the state is extended till June 30. With the Centre’s decision to extend lockdown till June end, students had assumed they won’t have to appear for exams. “We have requested the CM to issue a government order upholding the state’s decision on May 31 and promote students on the basis of aggregate scores. This is keeping in mind the larger interest of all students and their well being,” said Siddarth Ingle from the Maharashtra Students Union (MASU). The request letter was sent to the CM office on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/governor-s-statement-on-final-year-exams-worries-students-colleges/story-CQbim0S0b6TNRBVwRGjPeK.html
04-06-2020||City||Man held for killing minor daughter in Poonch||A man was arrested for allegedly killing his 14-year-old daughter in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Thursday.The victim was identified as Kulsoom Begum.Poonch senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “The accused Riaz Ahmed Mir of Dhara Mandi village has confessed his crime. People living in the area suspect that he had killed his wife and a son too.”“As per initial investigation, the accused suspected his daughter’s character and murdered her on May 29. Since then, he had been telling people that his daughter was missing. However, the police team suspected something fishy. During questioning, the man confessed his crime,” the SSP said. “On the orders of the district magistrate, the girl’s body was exhumed from the grave for conducting postmortem after which it was handed over to her uncle, he said.A case under relevant sections of law has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-killing-minor-daughter-in-poonch/story-qovbayaU2HfE9tDjfTZ0vJ.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Edu dept to take action against schools pressuring parents for fee payment||Even as the state education department has warned schools against putting pressure on parents for delayed payment of fees, several schools in the city are now using coercive means to push parents into paying.Barely three days after the education department released a list of nodal officers to address complaints from parents, officers said they have been flooded with calls from parents. “I get nearly 10-20 calls each day from parents of different schools saying the school is pressuring them. We are taking note of all the complaints and will start sending notices to the schools from Monday,” said Bhaskarrao Babar, assistant director, Mumbai region. On Thursday, parents of Oxford International School in Kandivli (East) said some of them were removed from the school’s online learning group citing non-payment of dues. “We regret to inform you that students who have not paid the dues will not be a part of the online teaching group,” read a message sent to the parents by the school management. “We have complained to the education department on behalf of the parents. It is really unfair that the school is treating children in this manner in a crisis situation,” said Chetan Pednekar, vice-president, Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarti Sena. When HT contacted Avinash Jadhav, trustee of the school, he said, “We were not aware of the fact that such a message had gone to the parents. I have asked the school principal to get it fixed. Parents won’t have to worry as their children would be added back.”Another school in Andheri asked teachers to call parents to remind them about fee payment. “Some of us have not been able to clear dues owing to the current situation. Every day, we get calls from teachers asking us to deposit the money. This is no less than torture,” said another parent. According to a Government Resolution released in the first week of May, schools cannot hike fees for the academic year 2020-21 and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/edu-dept-to-take-action-against-schools-pressuring-parents-for-fee-payment/story-UZ5rrQJU7tepEPJ3llCrCO.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||Migrant artisans mortgaged plots for loans to travel home to found them destroyed by Amphan||Mafizul, a migrant artisan working in south Delhi’s Shahpur Jat, left for his village in West Bengal’s Medinapur on May 18. He travelled aboard a private bus he hired using the money his family had sent him by mortgaging their land, not knowing that he would find his home in ruins three days later. The 35-year-old artisan was among thousands of people who lost their homes in Cyclone Amphan, which hit West Bengal on May 20. Mafizul and several other artisans employed in embroidery units in Shahpur Jat — which houses many designer clothing stores—had spent every last penny to hire private buses to return to their hometowns last month when they were rendered jobless amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Each of them had spent ₹4,200 for a seat on a bus that was travelling to West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar. Some of them had to resort to taking loans or mortgaging a piece of land to arrange money for their travel. However, many of these artisans, who returned to the Keshpur area of west Mediapur district in West Bengal, now have nowhere to go since their houses were destroyed in the cyclone. Speaking over the phone on Tuesday, Mafizul said that his family waited for two months for the trains to start functioning after the lockdown was announced. “Every day was like a battle for us without work. When my mother had a heart attack, my brother mortgaged our land and sent money to us to book a bus ticket and come home. It took three days to reach home. The cyclone hit our area a day before we reached and destroyed our house. We have nowhere to go now. My ailing mother is living at a relative’s place. My wife, two kids and I have now also come to stay with a relative after completing our 14-day quarantine. We do not know what to do. We don’t have resources to build even a mud house again. All the money we had was exhausted during the two months of lockdown in Delhi,” he said.Another migrant artisan Ariful, 28, who had been working at the embroidery unit in Shahpur Jat for the last eight years, said that his house in Keshpur was also destroyed in the cyclone last month. “After a two-month-long struggle, we came home only to witness this. I had never imagined that another catastrophe was waiting for me at home. I am still at the quarantine centre at a school here. I don’t know how my old parents must be surviving. I don’t have money to help them. I will try to come back to Delhi to find work at the earliest,” he said over the phone.Mujibur Rahman, another artisan from the locality, said, “It took so much effort to reach home in search of peace but we did not know we would be left without a home here as well. I have also lost my cattle in the cyclone. I am an embroider and I have not done any other work in my life. I don’t know what will I do if I don’t get my job back in Delhi.” His family is now living under a makeshift tent, he said.Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social activist, who works for the homeless in Delhi, said that he is in contact with 20 such families of migrants who have recently returned to West Bengal’s West Medinapur district and found their homes and agricultural lands destroyed in the cyclone. “They have nowhere to go now. Many of them have spent all their savings and even took loans to travel home. Now they are again struggling in the aftermath of the cyclone. We are raising funds for them now and we request those in the embroidery business to come forward and offer them work,” he said.When contacted, the Block Development Officer (BDO) of Keshpur Deepal Bose said that the administration is monitoring the situation. “We are conducting inquiries to assess the loss caused by Amphan. In my block, more than 600 houses were destroyed. We are providing all possible relief to the people affected by the cyclone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrant-artisans-mortgaged-plots-for-loans-to-travel-home-to-found-them-destroyed-by-amphan/story-LMOtStn7yYoOEIrRkJpyzM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Expect gusty winds, thunderstorms in Himachal on June 5, 6: Weatherman||The meteorological department has predicted heavy rainfall, thunderstorms, hailstorms and gusty winds in Himachal on June 5 and 6. The state’s meteorological department has issued an orange warning for nine districts, including Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur districts for June 5 and for Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla and Solan districts for June 6. Orange warning signifies heavy rainfall and is issued to advise people to stay alert. Orange warning is the second most dangerous weather warning.State’s meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are very likely to continue through the state till June 7.“It will rain in the middle and higher hills till June 8, after which the weather will become dry,” he said.Rainfall took place in isolated places of the state during the last 24 hours and weather was mostly cloudy on Thursday. The minimum temperatures were two -three degrees below normal and the maximum temperatures were five-six degrees below normal.Shimla, the state’s capital, received 35.7mm rainfall and recorded a maximum temperature of 22.3°C. Kufri, near Shimla, recorded a maximum temperature of 13.5°C. Manali in Kullu recorded a maximum temperature of 20°C, Dalhousie, in Chamba received 18mm rain and recorded a maximum temperature of 17.7°C, while Dharamshala recorded a maximum temperature of 26.8°C.Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded maximum temperatures of 28.4°C, 29.5°C, 29.2°C and 31°C, respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a maximum temperature of 18.6°C.With a minimum temperature of 6.5°C, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest in the state while Una was the hottest as it recorded a maximum temperature of 35.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/expect-gusty-winds-thunderstorms-in-himachal-on-june-5-6-weatherman/story-wqMs9PY1d8r2DKdfgtq3TM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||HP cabinet nod for constituting Sixth Finance Commission||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh Cabinet on Thursday gave its nod to constituting of the Sixth Finance Commission, which will review the financial status of panchayats and urban local bodies and recommend steps to the government for further improvements.At a meeting presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, the cabinet also decided to increase by Rs 300 the monthly honorarium of Jal Rakshaks (for water harvesting), who will now get Rs 3,300. Para fitters and para pump operators will get Rs 4,300.Other decisions included amending the income criteria for eligibility of 3/2 biswa land (1 biswa is equal to 1,350 square feet) in rural/urban areas for houseless persons and families by increasing it from Rs. 50,000 to Rs one lakh per annum to enable more people to benefit from the scheme.Approvals were granted for procurement, supply and distribution of school bags under the Atal School Vardi Yojna to students of classes 1, 3, 6 and 9 through e-tenders by the Himachal Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. for 2020-21. The move will benefit 2,56,514 students.The Cabinet also approved creation of a State Disaster Mitigation Fund and guidelines for the administration of the fund under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Rules, 2011, to meet expenses on mitigation, as preparedness and response activities are covered under a separate fund known as State Disaster Management Fund. Abut 20% of the State Disaster Risk Management Fund will be used for mitigation, which comes to Rs 90.80 crore for the current financial year. It was also recommended that Rs. 50 crore be used for the national fund for managing seismic and landslide risks in hill states.Consent was also given for setting up a silkworm seed production centre at Thunag in Mandi district with filling up of four posts for the unit.A new government polytechnic institute will be set up in the Sulah Vidhan Sabha area of Kangra with creation and filling up of 29 posts of different categories to manage this institution.A call was taken to create and fill three more posts of different categories at the Civil Hospital, Tihra, in Mandi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-cabinet-nod-for-constituting-sixth-finance-commission/story-HRdLf72rc6nq1MDQ8VsyRM.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Four held for extortion of a doctor from Hadapsar||Four people including a police and a journalist impersonator were arrested by Pune police crime branch officials for extortion worth Rs 5.89 lakh.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a practising gynaecologist in the Hadapsar area of Pune.The four arrested were identified as Pradeep Fasge, 37, a resident of Manjri, Arti Chavan, 29, a resident of Fursungi, and Kailas Bhanudas Avchite, 38, a resident of Phule Vasahat in Hadapsar, and a police official named Sammer Thorat, also a resident of Hadapsar.“The fourth arrested person is constable Sameer Jagannath Thorat. He is posted at the police headquarters in Shivajinagar,” said a senior police inspector Rajendra Mohite of the anti-extortion cell of Pune police.There are two others, including a woman, booked in the case along with these four, according to the police. A bigger racket of extortion is suspected to be at play.On May 31, one of the two women named in the case posed as a patient and visited the doctor. Upon entering the consultation room, the woman allegedly started raising an alarm after which her accomplices came into the room and took the doctor. The men told the doctor and one of his colleagues that they are police officials and forced them inside a car. Two among the seven pretended to be reporters. The two doctors were allegedly driven in the direction of Saswad and brought back to an office space in Hadapsar where they were forced to remain for a day. The seven booked allegedly demanded Rs 10 lakh from the doctors and settled for Rs 7 lakh. The doctors managed to gather Rs 5.89 lakh and gave it to seven people.The crime branch officials are investigating the case with a suspicion of a larger racket, according to police officials. A case under Section 364(a) (kidnapping for ransom), 384, 386, 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life, etc), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506(1) (criminal intimidation), 143, 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station against the seven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-held-for-extortion-of-a-doctor-from-hadapsar/story-gubx0SYHYGKYs0ZfoNugjI.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out at shopping complex in northwest Delhi’s Azadpur||A fire broke out in a shopping complex in Northwest Delhi’s Azadpur on Thursday, a Delhi fire service official said.No injuries have been reported.The fire department received a call about the blaze at around 11 am after which nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot.The building comprises ground and two floors. The fire broke out in the first and second floor of the building, said Atul Garg, Director of Delhi Fire Service.The blaze was brought under control at around 12 pm and the cooling process is underway, he said.The cause of the fire is being ascertained, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-shopping-complex-in-northwest-delhi-s-azadpur/story-3RxLpOlAixFaL8hruRyMTM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Release political prisoners without further dilly-dally: Tarigami||Urging the government to release all political leaders and workers imprisoned after August 5, CPI (M) leader Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami on Thursday said prolonged detentions indicate that things are far from normal in Kashmir, despite New Delhi’s claims.J&K People’s Movement leader Shah Faesal and two Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders - Sartaj Madani and Peer Mansoor - were released from detention on Wednesday. “All political prisoners, including PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, PDP leader Nayeem Akhter, Jammu & Kashmir National Conference (NC) general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and NC Hilal Akbar Lone should be released without further delay,” he said in a statement issued here. “The leaders, including Peoples Conference chairperson Sajad Gani Lone and others, who were released earlier, have since been kept under house detention, which should be put an end to immediately,” he said.“Hundreds of activists, including some teenagers, who are languishing in jails within and outside J&K must be released,” demanded Tarigami. Noting that many Kashmiris had been languishing in jails over several years, some without trial, Tarigami asked the government to give them a fair chance to defend themselves in court.We have maintained that dissent should always have a place in a democratic society. Curbing the dissent and those holding a contradictory viewpoint has proved counterproductive, he said.He said the low-speed internet was impeding the work-from-home (WFH) regimen of professionals, including doctors, and students attending online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/release-political-prisoners-without-further-dilly-dally-tarigami/story-ipRxv96QthUmGhBFZrSbZN.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: NDRF teams begin restoration work in Maharashtra’s Ratnagiri||After cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Ratnagiri yesterday, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel on Thursday conducted restoration work at Mandangad area of the district.The NDRF team was seen removing tress which got uprooted by the strong winds caused by the cyclone and had fallen on roads, causing traffic jams.A total of 43 NDRF teams were deployed in the wake of the cyclone, including 21 in Maharashtra and 16 in Gujarat. Around 40,000 people were evacuated each from both the states, along with several from Daman and Diu.Cyclone Nisarga is now a depression over west Vidarbha region and will weaken further, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-ndrf-teams-begin-restoration-work-in-maharashtra-s-ratnagiri/story-sJHrWFzeuQfdbOIiVCBQCN.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra PWD minister Ashok Chavan recovers from Covid-19, discharged||Maharashtra PWD Minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan, who tested positive for coronavirus last month, was discharged from a hospital here on Thursday after recovering from the disease.After being discharged, the former chief minister reached his home to a warm welcome from his family members.Chavan was admitted to a private hospital here on May 25 after his test report came out positive for coronavirus.The minister was discharged on Thursday after recovering from the disease, his office said.He was in Nanded when he tested positive for the infection last month and was brought to Mumbai for treatment.Chavan is an MLA from Bhokar constituency in Nanded district.Earlier, state Housing Minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad also tested positive for COVID-19 and was hospitalised for some days.He was later discharged after recovery.Till Wednesday, the state reported 74,860 Covid-19 cases and 2,587 deaths due to the disease.So far, 32,329 patients in the state have been discharged after recovery, as per official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-pwd-minister-ashok-chavan-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged/story-q6E33ZNJDMRPEvIEuQj51I.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Thane witnesses surge in tree uprooting incidents along with rainfall||With several tree and branch uprooting incidents in Thane since yesterday; the city recorded of 27.62mm rainfall, in the last 24 hours. The total rainfall has now gone up to 56.55mDue to the impact of Cyclone Nisarga in Maharashtra, Thane witnessed two major incidents of tree uprooting on Thursday. In the first incident, a tree fell on the roof of a house in Thane and in the second incident, a car suffered damages. No injury were reported“Since last 24 hours, more than 70 tree falls and over 20 branch falls has been reported. While, total 11 complaints regarding trees in dangerous condition was received by Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), Thane,” informed an official from RDMC, Thane.“On Thursday morning, a car was damaged after a tree fell at flower valley society, while a roof of the house was severely damaged due to a tree fall at Jambhali Naka market in Thane. However, no injury or casualty was reported in any of these incidents,” informed RDMC official.As per traffic police, no major traffic snarls were noticed on main routes connecting to Thane since morning. However, a traffic jam was noticed near the Gokhale road following a tree fall incident, which was later removed after clearing traffic.Following the high tide on Thursday, the RDMC has geared up to install water pumps in various spots in Thane. “Due to high tide, there area chances of water logging in the low line areas, hence total 23 water pumps are being installed in such areas to curb the water logging,” informed RDMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-witnesses-surge-in-tree-uprooting-incidents-along-with-rainfall/story-UB9Pn9aZwhowUd2W0pmGRO.html
04-06-2020||Noida||2 cops infected with Covid-19 in GB Nagar: Report||Two more Uttar Pradesh Police personnel deployed in Gautam Buddh Nagar have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Thursday.   The two personnel were posted in the control room of the district police and their reports came out on Wednesday, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP), Ankur Aggarwal, said “No office of the police commissionerate Gautam Buddh Nagar will be closed. Only sanitation drive will be carried out in offices affected by Covid-19,” Aggarwal, also the police nodal officer for Covid-19, said.Earlier on May 29, three police constables had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. One of them was posted in the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), while the others at police stations in Sector 49 and Phase 3.  The additional DCP said the constable who was attached with the Phase 3 police station constable has recovered and discharged from hospital.Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western UP has recorded 521 positive cases of Covid-19, including eight deaths, according to official figures till Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/2-cops-infected-with-covid-19-in-gb-nagar-report/story-4Fk0s0Y2Mo1ECzCixzQ5YN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Principal arrested for opening private school amid lockdown in Ludhiana||Two days after a private school in Haibowal area was found to be holding classes in violation of the state government’s directions, the principal of the school was arrested on Wednesday night. The accused, Navyug Public Senior Secondary School principal Meenakshi Sharma, was granted bail on Thursday. Punjab Agricultural University station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Paramveer Singh said, “We had arrested the principal for violating the state government’s orders by opening schools during lockdown.”“A case had been registered against Sharma under Section 188 (disobeying public servant’s order) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Disaster Management Act,” he said. VIDEO CIRCULATED ON SOCIAL MEDIAA video showing students doing class work was circulated on social media on Tuesday. The teachers could be heard giving instructions to students in the video and the students were seen sitting close to each other flouting social distancing norms. Sharma has denied the allegations: “We had called the staff for checking notebooks and planning homework to be assigned during summer vacations,” she said. “No student was asked to come but some parents who had come to deposit textbooks brought their kids along. As most students’ parents are uneducated, the teachers decided to instruct the students on how to complete their homework,” she said. SHOW-CAUSE NOTICE The district education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur had issued a show-cause notice to the school on Wednesday asking the principal to give her reason to open the school the state government’s order. The department has written to the Punjab school education board to take action against the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/principal-arrested-for-opening-private-school-amid-lockdown-in-ludhiana/story-m3Fkv4Z8QMtreJXp6xGDpM.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan: 77 out of 112 uprooted trees cleared amid heavy rains||Out of the 112 trees that were uprooted in Kalyan-Dombivli till today morning, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) fire department has managed to clear 77 of them. The city received 55mm rainfall between from 7pm last evening till 7am this morningAfter several incidents of trees falling on electric wires and poles, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) initiated the pruning of trees in several parts of Kalyan Dombivli since Thursday morning. “Trees falling on electric wires and poles lead to disruption in electricity supply on Wednesday. We are pruning trees to ensure their branches don’t fall electric wires,” said an officer of Msedcl, who did not wish to named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-77-out-of-112-uprooted-trees-cleared-amid-heavy-rains/story-O0usWu4wEi9q8fT6R6GjDJ.html
04-06-2020||Bangalore||NLS alumni arrange chartered flight to ferry 180 migrant workers to Raipur from Bengaluru||As many as 180 migrant workers stranded in Bengaluru due to the Covid-19 lockdown flew to Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur on Thursday in a chartered flight, courtesy the alumni of the National Law School of India University here and a few generous donors.The flight was sponsored by Ajay Bahl, the managing partner of a leading law firm, whereas the NLS Alumni team liaised with the Chhattisgarh government to ensure that the workers could reach their homes from Raipur, said Vijay Grover, a journalist who has been working for the cause of migrant workers stranded in Karnataka.“The chartered flight left Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru for Raipur on Thursday morning. The check-in process was carried out around midnight,” Grover told PTI.He said that former students of the National Law School of India under their initiative ‘Mission Aahan Vaahan’, with contributions from within the alumni network as well as sponsorship from generous donors, ferried more than 500 stranded workers by chartered flights to Jharkhand and Odisha from Mumbai since May 28.“This is the first flight out of Bengaluru under Mission Aahan Vahaan and the initiative has been managed primarily by some NLS Alumni members who are based in Bengaluru,” Grover said.The NLS Alumni Bengaluru coordination team of Arvind, Talha Salarpuria, Nandakumar, Shreyas, Sheahan and Aarathi worked with several NGOs and volunteer teams to extend Mission Aahan Vaahan’s reach to those who needed it most.They were supported by a team of volunteers from the NLS Alumni network spread out in different locations within and outside India.Mercy Mission, ILoveBlr trust, United Sikhs, Bangalore Media Foundation and several individuals volunteered to coordinate the mission, Grover said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/nls-alumni-arrange-chartered-flight-to-ferry-180-migrant-workers-to-raipur-from-bengaluru/story-ElRS3kEyJfa4r3sn7tKPZL.html
04-06-2020||Bangalore||Not appropriate to open schools in Karnataka for two more months: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Siddaramaiah on Thursday said it was not appropriate to reopen schools for two more months, given the current rate at which coronavirus infection is spreading.He also advised Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar not to take any hasty decisions in this regard.“As corona infection is spreading in the state beyond limits, it is not appropriate to open schools for at least two more months. Chief Minister and Suresh Kumar should not make any hasty decisions,” Siddaramaiah tweeted.Stating that Suresh Kumar has placed a proposal to reopen schools in July, he said the Chief Minister has to take note of worried parents opposing this proposal.“There are reports about students getting infected by corona after reopening of schools in countries like Britain, France and Italy. It is appropriate to think about reopening schools on analysing the situation after two months,” he said in another tweet.The State government has sought opinion from parents and stakeholders regarding reopening of schools in the state, with the easing of the Covid-19 lockdown norms.Amid worries and concerns expressed by parents across the state, the Education Minister on Wednesday had assured that the government would not take any hasty decisions regarding reopening of schools.The Union government, in its recent guidelines, had asked state governments to hold consultation at school, college, training and coaching institutions-level with parents and other stakeholders, and based on the feedback, a decision on reopening them would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/not-appropriate-to-open-schools-in-karnataka-for-two-more-months-siddaramaiah/story-WMCtMUZdVl2oH7o6ng8sWO.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid-19 count mounts to 8,474; death toll reaches 378||With 340 more people testing coronavirus positive in the last 24 hours, the number of Covid-19 patients in Pune district of Maharashtra grew to 8,474, a health official said on Wednesday.The death toll in the district reached 378 as 11 more people died due to the infection. It is the highest single-day Covid-19 death toll so far in the district, the official said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “Of the 340 cases, 288 were found in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. The number of patients there is now 7,145. However, 229 patients were discharged from the hospitals,” he said.Thirty of the new cases were found in neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad township, where the Covid-19 count now stands at 587.The number of positive cases in rural, civil hospital and Pune Cantonment Board area also rose to 742, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-covid-19-count-mounts-to-8-474-death-toll-reaches-378/story-Ax4CVTyn7nxfDVgkz7ZasN.html
04-06-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Amid lack of transport options, CM Mamata directs govt not to take action against late employees||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said no action will be taken against state government employees if they reach late to their workplaces, since office-goers are facing a difficult time in commuting because of inadequate transport facilities. As the suburban trains and Metro Railway did not resume operations owing to lockdown measures, people lack transport options, she said.“Since transport facilities are not adequate at present, state government employees will not be marked if they reach office late,” she told reporters.State government offices will start functioning from June 8 with 70 per cent strength on a day on a rotation basis and employees will have to attend duty at least three days a week, and not five. According to an order issued by the personnel and administrative reforms department, “All concerned officials in the departments are hereby directed to attend office at least three days in a week” from June 8.The transport facilities were being slowly activated and it will take some time for the situation to normalise, the chief minister said adding that government buses are out in large numbers.The chief minister said that the transport department, in consultation with the finance department, is formulating an insurance scheme for its employees and officers in case they contract coronavirus infection.All officers and drivers working at the state secretariat ‘Nabanna’ have been tested for Covid-19 after two drivers have been found to be corona positive, she said.Owing to this, the state secretariat building will be sanitised on Thursday and Friday, she said.Meanwhile, commuters continued to suffer for the third day on Wednesday owing to lack of public transport as most private buses stayed off the roads over demands for a fare hike and government buses proved to be too few compared to demand.Many private offices and establishments had started functioning from Monday.Passengers were seen waiting at bus stops for hours to board a bus during morning and evening rush hours, but government buses which came were full to their seating capacity from the starting point.Transport minister Suvendu Adhikary had earlier said the number of government buses will increase soon. An organization of private bus owners, the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates said that the transport department is yet to come up with any plan for revising fares in view of a cap on the number of passengers a bus can carry.The transport department formed a regulatory committee on Monday to look into the demands for raising fares.Around 6,500 private buses ply in the city during normal times, Joint Council general secretary Tapan Banerjee said, adding that these carry 85 per cent of commuters in the city.Some bus owners owing allegiance to another body - All Bengal Bus Minibus Samannoy Samity (coordination committee) brought out several buses in a few routes in the city and the suburbs.“We have brought out buses in some routes on an experimental basis, but we are looking at the government to decide on a fare hike so that the business remains viable,” its general secretary Rahul Chatterjee said.The state transport department has on Wednesday allowed ferry services in 29 routes in addition to nine routes in which vessels have been plying across River Hooghly since June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-amid-lack-of-transport-options-cm-mamata-directs-govt-not-to-take-action-against-late-employees/story-w7zPTVzticXUQSMsqV3CDN.html
04-06-2020||Kolkata||Central team to assess quantum loss due to Amphan in Bengal||As promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, an Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) is scheduled to visit Amphan-ravaged West Bengal districts on Thursday.The seven-member central team, formed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), will take stock of the overall damage caused by the severe cyclonic storm that battered a large part of south Bengal districts, including Sundarbans, on May 20.Spearheaded by a joint secretary rank officer of MHA, Anuj Sharma, the team is slated to conduct both aerial and ground assessment on Friday. Sources said they would visit parts of Kolkata’s adjoining South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts for ascertaining the quantum of loss and destruction caused by cyclone Amphan.The team is also expected to tour around the state capital Kolkata that had witnessed substantial damages in the wake of the super storm.State government sources said the IMCT would hold a meeting with state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha and other government officials before leaving for New Delhi on Saturday.Earlier, two days after cyclone Amphan, Prime Minister Modi and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had conducted an aerial survey of affected areas after which the PM had announced an advance relief of Rs 1000 crore for West Bengal.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/central-team-to-assess-quantum-loss-due-to-amphan-in-bengal/story-qwha8ffDVACRDohQzMGTmJ.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||80-year-old woman tests positive in Bapu Dham Colony, Chandigarh’s Covid-19 count climbs to 302||An 80-year-old woman, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, tested positive for Covid-19 here on Thursday. With this, UT’s Covid-19 count has reached 302, of which 75 cases are active and there have been five fatalities. A total of 222 patients have been discharged, a recovery rate of 73.5%.The woman, admitted to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16, is a community contact of a positive case, officials said. Samples of six of her family members were collected. One report is negative.Also, eight patients, all residents of Bapu Dham Colony, were shifted to the post-discharge quarantine centre at Sood Dharamshala. These included one female and seven male patients.Three patients discharged in MohaliThree Covid-19 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur after recovering from the disease. These included two male patients from Mohali and one male from Zirakpur. The district reported no new case on Thursday. Of the 123 confirmed cases so far, 106 people have recovered and three have died. The district now has 14 active cases, a recovery rate of 86.1%.Panchkula tally remained 27 with no new case as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/80-year-old-woman-tests-positive-in-bapu-dham-colony-chandigarh-s-covid-19-count-climbs-to-302/story-aDENA7W8ACkddRya83zA0I.html
04-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s budding archer forced to sell vegetables for living; CM comes as ‘messiah’||Jharkhand’s budding archer Soni Khatoon’s dream to emulate her champion Deepika Kumari was shattered when her bow broke a couple of years ago, but an intervention by the state government has given her a chance to dream again.The 18-year-old, a bronze medal winner in the Under-17 category in the 2011 National Schools Games, was forced to sell vegetables on the streets of Dhanbad to make ends meet.Chief Minister Hemant Soren’s intervention helped the Jodapokhar resident get Rs 20,000 from Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar on Wednesday. “The chief minister was informed through a video showing Khatoon, who received several medals in archery at the national level, is forced to sell vegetables for her subsistence,” a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said.The CM, asked the Dhanbad deputy commissioner to provide necessary assistance to Khatoon following which she was given the immediate financial assistance.”Today, she was given a cheque for Rs 20,000 as support. The district administration will extend all possible support in future,” the statement said.Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar informed the chief minister that Khatoon was unable to pursue her talent after her bow got broken. She could not get a replacement as she struggles to earn a living by selling vegetables on the streets of Dhanbad, he said.It was painful to see Khatoon selling vegetables for a living, said Soren, adding, “The state government is taking all measures to map (search) talented sportspersons and ensure that they get linked to all facilities and opportunities.”Dhanbad District Archery Association Secretary, Juber Alam said Khatoon won a bronze in the 2011 National Schools Games.Like several youngsters who chose cricket as a profession after the emergence of cricketer M S Dhoni, many in Jharkhand have enrolled themselves in various archery academies after ace archer Deepika Kumari won accolades across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-budding-archer-forced-to-sell-vegetables-for-living-cm-comes-as-messiah/story-mCFhrQF8cBpXn8us5s9WOK.html
04-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand to have its first medical university||The Jharkhand government is all set to upgrade Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) into the first medical university of the state.Health Minister Banna Gupta said that after upgradation, it will be known as Jharkhand Medical University. Draft regarding the same has been finalised, but it has to go a long way. Firstly, the draft will be sent to various departments, then for cabinet approval and subsequently to the government for its final nod.“The department is hopeful to enact it by the end of 2020,” Gupta said.Gupta said that with this move, Jharkhand will achieve a new milestone in medical field research.“Such a university is the need of time. Jharkhand has been facing a shortage of medical human resources. Once the university is set up, it will help fulfilling human resources as well as bringing about a positive change in medical advancement and research. Students will not have to go to other states for medical studies. The state will produce doctors and medical staff,” the health minister said.“Till date, Jharkhand has three medical colleges. Three more in Bokaro, Chaibasa and Koderma are in pipeline. The existing medical colleges most often face academic imbalances. The university has a detailed resolution to address these problems,” he added.“Our objective is to bring reforms in medical education and academics. We will focus to provide scope in research for scholars so that we can be at par with other premium institutes of the country,” Gupta further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-to-have-its-first-medical-university/story-KQ3R6Wg7w0HJD55egUiizK.html
04-06-2020||Ranchi||38 fresh Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, tally climbs to 764||Jharkhand reported 38 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the number of such cases in the state to 764, a government bulletin said.Of the 764 cases, 438 were active while 321 people have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals, it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe infection has claimed five lives in the state so far.East Singhbhum district tops the chart in terms of number of active cases in the state with 114, followed by Dhanbad (60), Hazaribag (40), Ramgarh (39), Ranchi (23) and Gumla (22), the bulletin said.It said the seven-day growth rate for Covid-19 in the state was 7.58 per cent as against the national rate of 4.58 per cent.The seven-day doubling rate for Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 9.48 days while the national rate was 15.49 days, the bulletin said.A total of 5,415 travellers are under surveillance and asymptomatic while 4,102 travellers have completed the 28-day observation period.While 87,376 people are in various quarantine centres, 2,80,896 are in home quarantine.The recovery rate of coronavirus patients is 42.02 per cent in Jharkhand as against the national rate of 48.31 per cent.The mortality rate in the state is 0.65 per cent as against the national rate of 2.8 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/38-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-tally-climbs-to-764/story-01JQ1NPp1RH2P0RVxtmOEP.html
04-06-2020||Lucknow||UP: Minister Suresh Khanna to undergo coronavirus test after hospital visit||UP Finance and Medical Education Minister Suresh Khanna will undergo a Corona test on Thursday after he unknowingly came into contact with three Covid-19 patients during his visit to the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College in Meerut on Monday.The minister has already quarantined himself.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe reports of the three patients showing them Corona positive, arrived on Wednesday, after which the health authorities pressed the panic button.The Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of Meerut, Dr Raj Kumar, said that the minister had stayed in the ward for just few minutes and it was unlikely that he may have caught the infection.“The time period for which the minister and the BJP leaders were in proximity to the said patients was not much. For transmission of infection, at least 15 minutes of exposure is needed,” the CMO said.Along with the minister, local BJP workers had also visited the ward following by a number of media persons.The Health Department officials have now said that the symptoms of the all the people, who came in contact with the three infected patients, will be checked for the next five days. “If they show any symptoms in the next five days, they will be sent for testing and treated according to the standard operating procedures,” said the CMO.Khanna will be the second UP minister to undergo a Corona test.Earlier in March, UP Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh had undergone a Corona test after he attended a party where Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor was present. Kanika had later tested positive for Corona and was hospitalised for a fortnight.The minister tested negative for corona though the issue had turned into an ugly controversy.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-minister-suresh-khanna-to-undergo-coronavirus-test-after-hospital-visit/story-ussdKbFfdXeZ3XxeIQRuLK.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||HP CM cancels visit to forward areas along China amid military standoff in Ladakh||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday cancelled his visit to frontier areas bordering China in Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts that was scheduled for Saturday (June 6). The decision to cancel the visit comes against the backdrop of the continuing standoff between China and India in Ladakh.The CM’s office in Shimla did not ascribe any reasons for the change in the chief minister’s schedule. Thakur was scheduled to visit Sumdo, strategic post in Lahaul-Spiti. Sumdo lies between Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts and has a large military base.The CM was to inspect developmental activities and welfare work in the border areas. VIGIL STEPPED UP ALONG CHINESE BORDER The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Indian Army have stepped up vigil along the international border with China in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts after Chinese choppers violated the Indian air space twice in April and then in the first week of May. Chinese choppers were spotted twice in Sumdo. Himachal Pradesh shares 260 kilometers of porous border with China. The border areas are manned by the ITBP and Indian Army. The Chinese army has constantly been strengthening its infrastructure along the international border in Himachal Pradesh though the region remained peaceful during the 1962 aggression. After the boundary standoff between India and China in Ladakh and the eastern sector in Sikkim, armies from both countries have stepped up activity along the international border in Himachal Pradesh.CROSS-BORDER TRADE SUSPENDED This year, the annual cross-border trade between the two countries was put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the standoff between the troops. Trade between the two countries usually starts in June and ends in November. No trader has registered themselves for bilateral trade through the Shipki La that had reopened in 1993 after it was shut due to the Indo-China war in 1962. Shipki La is a mountain pass that connects Kinnaur district to the China controlled Tibetan Autonomous Region. It’s through this pass that Sutlej river enters India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-cm-cancels-visit-to-forward-areas-along-china-amid-military-standoff-in-ladakh/story-sMigEyAek64gHwLIFheWQN.html
04-06-2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus creeps into UP’s rural areas now||While the spread of coronavirus has stabilised to a certain extent in the urban and A-class cities of Uttar Pradesh, barring districts bordering Delhi, the infection now seems to be spreading in the rural belt.The districts like Kannauj, Auraiyya, Farrukhabad, Unnao, Etawah, Sultanpur, Firozabad, Basti and Ayodhya are now reporting more corona cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHealth experts claim that this is mainly due to the return of migrant workers, especially those who escaped medical screening or were asymptomatic.In Kannauj, for instance, a mother-daughter duo who had returned from Gurugram, infected ten members of their family in the Galla Mandi area of Chhibramau, which has turned from green to orange zone now. Kannauj had reported 12 cases on Tuesday.On Wednesday, three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Farrukhabad, six positive patients were detected in Auraiyya, five in Unnao and four in Etawah.Kannauj Chief Medical Officer Krishna Swaroop said, “With this large-scale influx of migrants from urban cities to villages, the rural areas cannot be ignored and need special attention as far as monitoring is concerned. Infected people are being home quarantined or admitted to hospitals with the help of community management.”The district authorities have roped in block development officers, besides village heads and Civil defence volunteers, to take due care to avoid the spread.A senior health official said that the situation is alarming in rural pockets where the majority of the people use one water sources -- whether a well or a hand pump.“Migrants who have returned to the villages, are escaping quarantine centres and violating safety protocols. There is no resistance form the local people too, because most cases are asymptomatic,” he said.The official further said that social distancing was an alien concept in rural areas where people tend to collect even at the slightest provocation.“Besides, the wedding season is beginning and social distancing will be hard to maintain. We can only step up the awareness campaigns and increase testing,” he added.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/coronavirus-creeps-into-up-s-rural-areas-now/story-8RB8iMWSJIDLxitAJQkD1N.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19 tests positive along with daughter||Rohtak: Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, 56, tested positive for coronavirus along with his 25-year-old daughter on Thursday.Rohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla confirmed that Dr Chaudhary had tested positive.Besides holding the charge of the state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Chaudhary is the head of the pulmonary and critical care medicine department at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, which conducts the test for the virus. He had been directing and coordinating with doctors across the state for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Dr Chaudhary and his daughter have been admitted to the isolation ward at PGIMS.“We had collected the samples of Dr Chaudhary’s 50-year-old wife on June 2, while the samples of the nodal officer and his daughter, who is also a doctor in a private hospital, were taken on Wednesday. Dr Chaudhary and his daughter tested positive on Thursday, while the result of his wife is awaited,” a senior official in the PGIMS microbiology department said.Rohtak has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases this week and the district’s tally of positive patients climbed to 100 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-s-nodal-officer-for-covid-19-tests-positive-along-with-daughter/story-1crpjuYwMVk42DEfpr983H.html
04-06-2020||Health:||Demand surges for gym equipment, prices too!||With over two months of lockdown hampering access to gyms, fitness enthusiasts are having a hard time, as the equipment required for exercising at home has seen a massive surge in pricing.Karol Bagh resident Archit Juneja had bought equipment before the lockdown, but was shocked to see the surge in prices. “Before the lockdown, dumbbells weighing 1kg costed ₹80, now the same costs ₹150. Basically, all gym equipment has become double the original price,” he says, adding, “Without gym, I am getting tutorials from Instagram, YouTube, fitness apps and live-streaming workout classes.”And in order to keep up with exercise routine and stay active, at-home workouts, some are even borrowing from friends to avoid purchasing at jacked-up prices. Rajouri Garden resident Vibhav Chandhok, a model and yoga teacher in Germany, says, “Being unable to go to the gym, I’m only focusing on body weight exercises, kettlebell swings and yoga. I borrowed it from a friend as I won’t be able to carry them along.”Some gym owners have even taken to renting their equipment to make up for missing revenues and staying connected with their members. “Abhi business toh poora hi bandh hai. Kuch toh kamana padega. It was my customers who gave me this idea. I decided to give basic, light-weight equipment on rent to set up home gyms for the time being,” says a gym owner from Lajpat Nagar. He also adds, “This way, I can somehow manage to adjust the fees as well that we take in advance packages.”Interact with author/sanchita_kalra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/fitness/demand-surges-for-gym-equipment-prices-too/story-DKUnL1uMbmnEGEwjwrGn3H.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Khanna doctor couple’s daughter among six test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Six people, including two children, tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Thursday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the new cases include the two-year-old daughter of the doctor couple from Khanna who had tested positive two days ago. The doctors, who work at Mohandai Oswal Hospital, are suspected to have caught the infection while treating ex-serviceman Ujagar Singh, 86. He died on June 1.A 29-year-old man from Meharban village who worked at the shop of Kawaldeep Singh in Gandhi Nagar, whose relative Pritpal Singh, 53, from Chhawani Mohalla died of Covid-19 on May 29, has tested positive for coronavirus. A total of 10 patients have tested positive from Chhawani Mohalla.Besides, four contacts of a 20-year-old man from Baupur village in Khanna, who returned from Manesar near Delhi on May 20, have tested positive. They comprise a 57-year-old woman, a 24-year-old man, a 14-year-old boy and a five-year-old child.50 ACTIVE CASESA 64-year-old Jalandhar resident died of Covid-19 at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Wednesday.With this, Ludhiana has reported 16 Covid-19 deaths so far, including nine patients from the district and seven from other districts who had come here for treatment.At present, the district has 50 active cases. Ludhiana has a total of 209 positive cases so far of which 150 patients have been discharged after recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-doctor-couple-s-daughter-among-six-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-ludhiana/story-nrQuXqDNN0DVV41X8MH8ZO.html
04-06-2020||Patna||After RJD, Left parties to observe Vishwasghat-Dhikkar Diwas to protest BJP s virtual rally on June 7||After RJD announced that it will observe ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas’ on Sunday, the Left parties on Wednesday said that they would observe ‘Vishwasghat-Dhikkar Diwas’ on June 7 to protest against BJP’s virtual rally scheduled to be held on that day.The Left parties comprising CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML), Forward Bloc announced that they would also organise a state- wide protest to press for their demands for ensuring food, employment and safety from Coronavirus.On June 1, Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal had announced that Union home minister Amit Shah will hold virtual rally on June 9 to address the people of the state through video conferencing and Facebook live.The party later rescheduled the date of the virtual rally from June 9 to June 7.Talking to media persons here, CPI State Secretary Satya Narayan Singh came down heavily on the so-called double engine NDA government in Bihar which has “badly flopped on all fronts” and charged the government of meting out “inhuman treatment” to the migrant labourers.“In this backdrop, Amit Shahs virtual rally slated for June 7 is like rubbing salt into the wounds of the people.So the left parties have decided to observe Vishwasghat- Dhikkar Diwas in response to BJPs virtual rally. We will organize a state-wide physical protest against BJPs virtual rally and demand guarantee for ensuring food, employment and safety from Coronavirus,” Singh said.The Left parties also demanded that the Centre pay Rs 7500 per month for next six months to each families who are not included in the income tax limit, every person should be given 10 kg of grains, 200 days and MNREGA work with enhanced wage.Earlier in the day, RJD announced that it would observe ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas’ on June 7 too, to protest against the NDAs “insensitivity” in dealing with Covid crisis that led to problems of migrants.Rescheduling the partys ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas’ to June 7, Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said that “the government wants to hide the actual ground realities through its gimmickry by holding virtual rally.” “We have rescheduled our Garib Adhikar Diwas programme from June 9 to June 7 to protest against saffron partys indifference and insensitivity shown to the people especially migrants (during lockdown),” Yadav said in a video message.“We will try to wake up the government for its insensitivity - shown towards migrants, farmers, youths who got unemployed during lockdown - by beating thali-katora (plate-bowl) as a mark of protest,” he added.The BJP could have used the digital medium in mitigating the problems of people especially poor but they did not do so because they have “nothing to do with poor people”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/after-rjd-left-parties-to-observe-vishwasghat-dhikkar-diwas-to-protest-bjp-s-virtual-rally-on-june-7/story-uunA3cJjoNvLhmza8iokSP.html
04-06-2020||Patna||Covid 19 death toll reaches 25 in Bihar; cases soar to 4,326||A 64-year-old man died of Covid-19 in Bihar while 230 more tested positive for the infection, taking the death toll in the state to 25 and total cases to 4,326 on Wednesday, the Health department said. According to Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, the man hailing from Jamui district became the 25th pandemic victim in the state. Singh, however, did not provide any detail like travel history or co-morbidities of the patient. He did not tell whether the man died before or after testing positive.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Of the 25 casualties, Khagaria district accounts for three followed by Patna, Vaishali, Begusarai, Siwan, Bhojpur and Sitamarhi (two each) and Munger, Rohtas, East Champaran, Nalanda, Samastipur, Saran, Bhagalpur, Jehanabad, Madhepura and Jamui (one each).Of the 230 cases reported on Wednesday, 177 cases are those of Tuesday (June 2), the test results of which were received on Wednesday morning. Besides, 53 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday. Districts which have reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases are Patna (263), Khagaria (256), Begusarai (250), Rohtas (208), Madhubani (201), Bhagalpur (195), Jehanabad (163), Munger (158), Katihar (156). Cases have been reported from all the 38 districts in the state. Sheohar has the least number of positive cases of 11. Of the total 4,326 Covid-19 cases in the state, 25 have died, 2,025 have recovered and 2,276 are active cases. The number of samples tested till date is 84,729. According to data released by the Health Department, the number of migrants who have tested positive since May 3 is 3,079.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-death-toll-reaches-25-in-bihar-cases-soar-to-4-326/story-yuqc8esRAggq3CO2CyHdlJ.html
04-06-2020||Patna||Why call an Indian going from one state to another for work as ‘pravasi’: Nitish||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday took exception to the use of word “pravasi” (migrant) for people going from one state to another for work, even as he slammed private companies outside Bihar for not caring for their employees during Covid-19 pandemic, forcing them to return home in distress. Kumar said now a vast majority of the state’s citizens have returned and his government is making arrangements to engage them economically at home itself. “We want nobody should go outside for livelihood as ‘majboori’ (compulsion)...if someone wants to go of his/her volition that is another thing,” Kumar said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “Nowdays a word ‘pravasi’ is in circulation for people going from one state to another state for work. Why should they be called migrants when being Indians they can move around anywhere in the country,” he asked, adding “the word (pravasi) can be used if one goes out of the country”. The Bihar chief minister strongly criticised private companies for not taking proper care of their employees which forced them to return homes in distress during the coronavirus outbreak. “I have been pained by this. I want that nobody from Bihar should go out in compulsion for livelihood...everybody should get work at home itself,” he said. Kumar was interacting with the representatives of panchayati raj institutions, urban local bodies, Jeevika didis (women self help groups members) and officials through video conference and web-casting. Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi and Health Minister Mangal Pandey also addressed the function. Kumar said he has directed departments like that of rural and urban development and others to create job opportunities for people who have returned during the Covid-19 crisis along with those already living in the state. He said efforts are made to increase persondays in MGNREGA, Jaal Jeevan Hariyali Mission (environmental campaign schemes) and road construction among others to economically absorb the influx of manpower. Though there is no exact count of the returnees to Bihar, on the basis of people approaching the government online and reaching out over telephones, its estimated to be over 25 lakh. Reports have also been suggesting that maximum numbers of Shramik Special trains are going to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. With assembly elections scheduled in Bihar before the end of this year, plight of migrants is emerging as an important poll issue. Stating that victims of disaster have the first right over the state’s exchequer, Kumar said the government has so far spent Rs 8,583.52 crore for providing relief to the people affected due to coronavirus. On an average, Rs 5,300 has been spent per person who has been kept at a quarantine centre for a mandatory 14 days on return from outside, he added. The government has constituted Coronavirus Eradication Fund which has Rs 180 crore in its kitty. Health Department could buy necessary medicines and equipment such as test kits, PPEs etc, he said. The government has given Rs 1,000 as special assistance under a scheme from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to more than 20 lakh people who were stuck outside the state due to lockdown, he said, adding that Rs 1,000 has been given to each ration card holding family and even to those who are yet to get ration cards. So far, 1.41 crore ration card holding families and 21 lakh families who would be given ration cards soon have benefited from the scheme, he said and added that Rs 1,620 crore has been spent on it. The Education Department has spent Rs 3,261 crore on account of scholarships, uniform and other schemes, he said and added that Rs 1,017 crore has been spent for making payment of three months in advance to 85 lakh beneficiaries of different social security pension schemes. Similarly, the government has also sanctioned Rs 730 crore for providing agriculture subsidy input to farmers whose crops were damaged during rain/hailstorm that took place in the months of February, March and April, the chief minister said. A total of Rs 417 crore has been distributed as agriculture subsidy input among 12.35 lakh farmers so far, he added. Regarding Covid-19, he said whoever is being tested as positive should be kept in an isolation centre. He said the number of beds at these centres would be enhanced to 40,000 from current 13,496 beds for which private commercial buildings are being used. Making an appeal to the people to wear masks for their protection, Kumar said there is no shortage of masks in the state as they are being made at a large scale by Jeevika didis and people residing in quarantine centres. There is no need to panic due to coronavirus, rather people have to remain alert and vigilant, he said. “We have to wear masks to protect ourselves from coronavirus besides maintaining cleanliness and hygiene. There is less number of coronavirus cases in Japan as there is a tradition of wearing masks there,” Kumar said to drive home the point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/why-call-an-indian-going-from-one-state-to-another-for-work-as-pravasi-nitish/story-IpMbjJlM5wcTnr8jNRVhyK.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||Three hospitals to reserve 10% beds for Covid-19 patients of Economically Weaker Sections: Delhi Govt||Delhi Health Department on Wednesday ordered three hospitals in the national capital to provide 10 per cent of their beds to Covid-19 patients of Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) free of cost.The order has been issued to Mool Chand Khairati Lal Hospital, Saroj Super Speciality Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.“It has been observed that there has been a surge in number of positive cases of Covid-19 in the last one week in Delhi and resulting in additional demand of beds in the hospital in an isolation ward as well in ICU,” said an order.“In view of above and to augment the beds’ availability for Covid-19 patients these hospitals are declared Covid hospital,” said the order, adding that Sir Ganga Ram hospital is allowed to keep 20 per cent beds for non-Covid patients.While Mool Chand Khairati Lal Hospital has a total of 140 Covid-19 beds in which 126 will be paid and 14 free of cost to EWS.Saroj Super Speciality Hospital has 154 beds in total among which 139 will be paid Covid-19 beds and 15 for EWS.For Sir Ganga Ram hospital which is allowed to keep 20 per cent beds for non-Covid-19 patients has a total of 208 beds among which 457 will be paid and EWS will get 51 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-hospitals-to-reserve-10-beds-for-covid-19-patients-of-economically-weaker-sections-delhi-govt/story-SMbXLao1eoO26xPy3aoFEL.html
04-06-2020||City||Delhiwale: A daughter’s lockdown curls||The coronavirus-triggered closure of the world is doing different things to different people. Many citizens are rushing back to their distant homes in great difficulties. And those who are lucky enough to be already locked up in their houses are struggling to cope with this unprecedented suspension of life by using all the creativity at their disposal. Among this set of people, some are creating a new version of themselves by learning to wash the bartans with a minimum quantity of water in the kitchen sink, or keeping a daily pandemic journal, or even rustling out perfectly round rotis—you must have seen all these wonders on your friends’ TikTok and Facebook updates of course.Saumya Pande too hewed out a new version of herself in this difficult period. “I got myself naturally curled hair in the lockdown,” she gushes. Ms Pande, 46, is chatting on WhatsApp video from the isolation of her apartment in Noida, that she is currently sharing with her ailing father and his full-time caretaker. Her two sons live in Gurugram.An associate professor heading the department of fashion in a design institute in south Delhi, she gamely shows her crowning glory through the phone screen that connects her to this reporter. Her long wild curly hair are falling down like a cascading sea of ringlets.This new spectacle of hers is actually as much about the lockdown as about her mother, the late author Pratima Pande.“Maa was my biggest inspiration.... she was also very beautiful, with long straight hair (see the black & white pic), and was often compared to (actor) Waheeda Rehman.”But her mother never let Ms Pande grow her hair long while she was a child, partly because she wanted her little “Cookie” to first grow up herself so that she could look after her hair on her own. “In fact, she hated curls,” laughs Ms Pande, exclaiming that “Maa got my head tonsured seven times before I turned five!”Looking into the phone screen, she cheerfully says that “I got my natural curls in the lockdown simply by refusing to comb the hair!“In the BC (Before Corona) era, when people were still obliged to be physically present in the office, Ms Pande rarely found time in her hectic schedule to immerse herself deeply in everyday grooming. “Having a shower was a rushed affair,” for instance. But as she found herself stranded at home with the imposition of lockdown in late March, she slowed her life. She also started to spend more time in the shower “and developed routines like oiling my body, bathing more leisurely.” It gave her the opportunity to recall memories of her mother loudly singing Gayatri Mantra while in the shower “and the prayers wouldn’t even stop as Maa would emerge out, all dressed up, from the bathroom, and amble towards the pooja (prayer) corner in our home.”One day, more than a month ago, Ms Pande came out of her bath and discovered ringlets in her hair. “The hair looked undone... they had curled up on their own... I was sort of liking it.”Ms Pande soon realised that “if I don’t dry and comb my hair after the wash, they start curling up naturally.” She also Googled to discover other tricks—like scrunching—to make her hair go curly in a natural way.Ms Pande’s mother passed away in 2011, aged 67. “Something had snapped in her after my brother, a squadron leader in the Indian Air Force, died in a MiG-21 fighter crash.”One wonders how Ms Pande’s friends react on seeing her curly avatar on Zoom meets. The lady laughs, saying, “I think they are finding it a bit exotic! Very different from my Bihari lineage of straight no-fuss hair... this is more me—bohemian and carefree.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhiwale-a-daughter-s-lockdown-curls/story-POacGj3GodHNDABSnXsCUP.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||4 people dead, 7 districts severely affected in Maharashtra due to Cyclone Nisarga||Cyclone Nisarga, a severe cyclonic storm, which made landfall south of Alibag in Raigad district, left behind a trail of destruction of damaged power supply lines, trees fallen over roads, tin roofs blown away from tenements all along the Konkan coastline of Maharashtra on Wednesday, even as the state evacuated close to 85,000 people from seven districts, including Palghar, Ratnagiri, and Thane among others.Two people in Raigad district and two more in Pune district died, while eight people were injured in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, state officials confirmed. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar reviewed the situation in the morning, with district collectors and divisional commissioner. Thackeray directed the administration to launch rescue operations and survey damage to life and property. He later thanked the people of Maharashtra. “Even as Maharashtra is battling with the Covid-19 crisis, the cyclone stormed at its coastal part. The state stood unitedly and successfully to face this challenge. I am sure this unity will help us in tide over Covid-19 crisis too,” he said. As it passed over the coastline, Nisarga spanned 500 kms captured by radar and encompassed Mumbai and Thane districts, the IMD stated. Its eye was about 80 kms in diameter — by all measures, it was every bit the severe cyclonic storm that the states were bracing for. However, cyclones tend to lose speed the more they travel inland, and by Wednesday 8pm, Nisarga had made its way towards Pune and was headed in a northeastwards direction towards Madhya Pradesh at a speed of 60-70 kmph.Though the cyclone completed landfall between 12.30 and 2.30 pm, its intensity lasted for another hour afterwards. Alibag received 84.3 mm of rain between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm on Wednesday, while Ratnagiri district, south of the cyclone’s landfall site, recorded 45 mm in the same time period, according to district administration data. “The entire district is cyclone-hit,” Nidhi Choudhari, the district collector of Raigad, said, as she assessed the extent of damage with the NDRF team. “It struck us exactly at Diveagar, and later moved towards Alibag and Pen tehsils. The impact was felt as far as Margaon, Khopoli and Karjat (inland) where tree and electric lines were badly damaged.” Choudhari estimated at least 10,000 trees had been affected.Seven districts will continue to remain on alert till Thursday morning. According to the press statement issued by the state government, the cyclone is near Pune after moving on via Alibag-Mumbai-Thane and is weakening. “With further deep depression, moderate rainfall in Pune and Nashik districts is expected.”Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said the administration has swung into action to restore the infrastructure. “Besides the damages to the roads, electricity infrastructure too has sustained damage leading to the outage of the electricity in many parts. Since the cyclone is moving towards the North Maharashtra, we have issued advisories to the people in Pune, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-people-dead-7-districts-severely-affected-in-maharashtra-due-to-cyclone-nisarga/story-kktVssSqaMOyVVJH3qEMsO.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||18 police officers transferred in Punjab; new SSPs for Faridkot, Gurdaspur||The Punjab government on Wednesday transferred 18 senior police officers, including shifting of three IGPs and two SSPs of Faridkot and Gurdaspur. ADGP Gurpreet Deo will now also hold the additional charge of the internal vigilance cell, whereas Jitender Kumar Jain, ADGP (PSPCL) will now be ADGP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, in addition to holding the charge of policy and rules. ADGP, crime, B Chandra Shekhar will also hold the charge of ADGP (STF).Naunihal Singh, IG Jalandhar will now be IG Ludhiana replacing Jaskaran Singh, who will now be IG Bathinda Range. AK Mittal, IG (legal affairs) will now be IG (headquarters) whereas Kaustabh Sharma, IG STF has been posted as the newly-created crafted IG Faridkot range.The orders say Gursharan Singh Sandhu will be posted as IG provisioning, Pardeep Kumar Yadav as IG Technical Services and SK Kalia as IG PAP-II Jalandhar.Ranbir Khatra has now been transferred as DIG Jalandhar Range whereas Rajinder Singh AIG, counter-intelligence, will be new SSP Gurdaspur replacing Swarandeep Singh, who will hold the charge of Faridkot SSP. Faridkot SSP Manjit Singh will be AIG ARP at Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-police-officers-transferred-in-punjab-new-ssps-for-faridkot-gurdaspur/story-0aiCLCPTIoHNKIChrm6cfO.html
04-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 96 new cases||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) recorded 96 new cases on Wednesday, taking the city’s tally to 2,473. Two Covid deaths were also reported. Seven children were among the new cases. Panvel City Municipal Corporation reported 15 new Covid cases, taking the total to 580. A 48- year-old man from Kamothe died after testing positive. He had been suffering from pneumonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-96-new-cases/story-ZXiLM7o9mJOoXUqpeLA0FN.html
04-06-2020||City||KDMC records 62 new cases, 1 death||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 62 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total positive cases to 1,229.A 70-year-old man from Kalyan (East) died of Covid at Kalwa hospital on Tuesday. The death toll in Kalyan and Dombivli is 34.“He was admitted to Kalwa hospital on May 31. His test report came as positive on Wednesday, a day after he died. He was suffering from several illness including diabetes and hypertension,” said an officer from KDMC, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-records-62-new-cases-1-death/story-dTDlQ3QS58mbfGsDnu0vUI.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Opposition slams Khattar govt on Covid-19 data mismatch||Slamming the Haryana government for its ‘inept’ handling of Covid-19 data, the state Congress on Wednesday said the government was “asleep at the wheel”.Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said glaring discrepancies in Haryana’s Covid-19 figures were not only perplexing but bordered on the deliberate.“Does chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar realise its serious public health ramifications?” Surjewala asked, reacting to the HT’s report on discrepancies in state’s Covid-19 data vis a vis Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) statistics.The Congress leader said, “How will a blame game resolve the serious flaws in contact tracing and surveillance? Affirmative action needs to be taken.”Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda in a tweet said, “Haryana may head towards a Corona crisis as the government has little data to carry out contact tracing & take remedial action (sic).” Haryana may head towards a Corona crisis as the government has little data to carry out contact tracing & take remedial action. Urge the government, testing companies to come together to resolve this crisis. Important news break by Hitender Rao of @htTweets pic.twitter.com/r4eRGD56yo‘Take action against pvt labs’Reacting to the Covid-19 data discrepancy, former leader of opposition and INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said it only demonstrated the callousness of the state government. “It is shocking to know that private labs are not informing the government about Covid-19 testing and positive cases. And, they are also getting away with it. Punitive action should be taken against such private labs and FIRs should be registered against them,” he said, adding that data discrepancy can have serious ramifications in a pandemic situation.Chautala said health minister Anil Vij should adopt a proactive approach in the matter:“Vij is also the home minister and should get the matter investigated rather than keeping people in the dark. The government needs to restore public confidence,” he said.PVT LABS TOYING WITH LIVES: BALRAJ KUNDUIndependent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, who had withdrawn his support to the BJP-JJP government, said health authorities in the state had no clue about what was happening on the ground. “Strict action should be initiated against the errant private labs. By suppressing Covid-19 testing data they are toying with the health and lives of people of Haryana,’’ the independent MLA said.Kundu said that it was unfortunate that Haryana health authorities failed to check the private labs.“Anil Vij is an outspoken minister, but his words have no impact. In a crisis like this, people of the state want action,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/oppn-slams-khattar-govt-on-covid-data-mismatch/story-rAsDc8aQKWZ6bUcG3U7tbL.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Early sown paddy destroyed in Karnal||Karnal administration on Wednesday destroyed the paddy sown in about 40 acres of land in different villages of the district. The action against the farmers came a day after Hindustan Times highlighted how paddy was transplanted before June 15 in violation of the state government’s order. A team comprising agriculture and revenue department officials uprooted paddy sown in Mahmudpur, Kunjpura, Khirajpur, Bada Gaon and Bibipur villages. Karnal agriculture department SDO Sunil Bazad said, “The action was taken after reports poured in from several places about farmers sowing paddy in clear violation of government’s order which banned the preparation of paddy nursery before May 15 and transplantation before June 15.”He said on the directions of deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav, paddy was destroyed by spraying weedicides. DC Yadav said they would not allow any paddy transplantation before the prescribed date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/early-sown-paddy-destroyed-in-karnal/story-RjgJe37QZ1mE5RtlRCLAEN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kamaldeep Goyal is Yamunanagar SP||Kamaldeep Goyal assumed charge as Yamunanagar superintendent of police (SP) on Wednesday. He replaced Himanshu Garg, who was transferred to Panchkula (headquarters) as SP (crime against women). Goyal said maintaining law and order in the district would be his top priority, and sought locals’ support in the fight against coronavirus.“If the law and order in the district is good, then criminal activities can be curbed to a great extent. Also, we have to follow the necessary rules to tackle this pandemic and people should lend their support to the administration,” he said. “My focus will also be on drug addiction among the youth,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kamaldeep-goyal-is-yamunanagar-sp/story-BHKtvxn7aWyS078JNYBeFM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kaithal liquor vend fire: Two arrested on murder charges||About two weeks after the owner of a liquor shop and his helper were burnt alive in Balu village of Kaithal district, police on Wednesday arrested his two former employees for their murder. Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar said the accused were Sandeep Kumar alias Deepu and Gurmit Singh, residents of Jakholi village. “The duo have confessed that they had set the liquor vend on fire following an altercation with Om Prakash, the shop owner. The accused had been working for him until recently, but decided to take revenge after the argument,” he added. On the intervening night of April 20 and 21, the accused had set the liquor vend ablaze and fled. Om Prakash and his helper Bhagat Singh were charred to death while a salesperson, Balinder Singh, had managed to escape. Kaithal police had also announced a reward of ₹50,000 for any information about the accused.SP Kumar said the duo have been sent in four-day police remand for interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kaithal-liquor-vend-fire-two-arrested-on-murder-charges/story-XycuV0IfQtHZu0WtDEhJ2M.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana schools to reopen in July||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar said the Centre has given them green signal to open schools in the state in July. “Before that, we would run demo classes. We are planning to call 50% of students either in two shifts or on alternate days. There will be no winter vacations for students this academic year in Haryana,” he added. BSEH Class 10 result on June 8The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Wednesday announced that Class 10 results will be declared on June 8 (Monday). Board chairman Dr Jagbir Singh said Class 12 students will have to appear for their pending exams from July 1 to July 15. “Students who have opted for medical and non-medical streams in Class 11 will have to appear for Class 10 pending science exam while the results of students who have chosen commerce and arts will be declared on the basis of average marks obtained in four exams they already appeared in,” the chairman said.Board secretary Rajiv Prasad said nearly 6,000 teachers had evaluated Class 10 answer copies at home by April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-schools-to-reopen-in-july/story-7YQ9wT2MFQPlkz9JVTTCtJ.html
04-06-2020||City||Ludhiana ASI held for accepting bribe for adding sections to FIR||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) deputed at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) was arrested for accepting a bribe, the vigilance bureau (VB) said on Wednesday.A sum of ₹28,000 in cash was also recovered from his possession.The VB said ASI Gurjit Singh had demanded ₹70,000 for adding non-bailable sections in an FIR, but the deal was cracked for ₹68,000, which had to be paid in two instalments.In his complaint, Shamsher Singh of Raipur Majri village in Fatehgarh Sahib said his daughter Ramandeep Kaur was married in Birmi village. On April 24, one Sukhwinder Kaur, her sister Sandeep Kaur, aunt Jasbir Kaur and another relative Mandeep Singh had barged into Ramandeep’s home and assaulted her with sticks and metal pipes.Ramandeep had made a complaint to the police, but to no avail. Shamsher Singh told the police, “ASI Gurjit Singh kept on delaying action on the pretext of curfew duty for more than a month. On May 31, an FIR was lodged under all bailable sections of the Indian Penal Code.”“My daughter submitted her medical legal report and proof of trespassing, but the ASI denied adding more sections in the FIR. He demanded ₹70,000 for that,” he added.Senior superintendent of police (SSP, vigilance) Rupinder Singh said a trap was laid and the ASI was nabbed while accepting the bribe.A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against the accused cop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-asi-held-for-accepting-bribe-for-adding-sections-to-fir/story-RZ5UuqctD9QaWZrwjE2YZP.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||On World Bicycle Day, iconic Atlas slams brakes on operations||After years of losses that were amplified during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Atlas Cycles, one of country’s oldest bike-maker, shut its operations on Wednesday.Ironically, the company’s decision to wind up its last working unit in Sahibabad (Ghaziabad) came on the World Bicycle Day. The iconic cycle company was into manufacturing business since 1951. The Sahibabad unit has the capacity to manufacture more than 4 million cycles per annum with a 1,200-strong workforce.“Post lifting of lockdown with effect from June 1, 2020, the Sahibabad unit of the company is not in a position to resume manufacturing operations due to financial constraints. Hence, the workforce of Sahibabad unit of the company will be laid off with effect from June 3, 2020, till adequate arrangement of funds is made,” the company said in a public notice.The notice said the severe cash crunch has made it difficult to even procure raw materials. “The situation is expected to continue till the time, company is able to raise revenue,” it said.In December 2014, company’s Malanpur factory in Madhya Pradesh closed down. In February 2018, Atlas Cycles (Haryana) said it was suspending manufacturing at its Sonepat unit with immediate effect.Started by Janki Das Kapur, a man with dreams, in 1951, to provide quality bicycles to countrymen at reasonable prices, Atlas was a brand to reckon with even before Hero and Avon established themselves.What started with an improvised factory shed in Sonepat in 1951, the company rose to establishing major plants in Malanpur (MP), Sahibabad over the years.“They were the biggest importers of cycles in Karachi before Partition. After 1947, they shifted to Sonepat with a dream to start a unit and soon rose to become one of the most trusted cycle companies,” said SS Bhogal of Bhogal Cycles Limited in Ludhiana.“It’s unfortunate that the cycle industry pioneers have shut down,” said DS Chawla, president of United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/on-world-bicycle-day-iconic-atlas-slams-brakes-on-operations/story-mNbiuJ5udtDPg9rv00cFiI.html
04-06-2020||City||Schools transform into cyclone shelters||Over the last 24 hours, 790 people were evacuated from various villages along the coastal zones of Alibag and shifted to two schools converted into cyclone shelters. Alibag is in the path of Cyclone Nisarga and was expected to be the landfall area.There are 12 major schools in the region, 10 of which have been earmarked for Covid-19 care, while the remaining two will cater to Alibag’s evacuated residents. Classrooms across both four-storey buildings of the schools have been at full capacity with relocated persons from Alibag’s Shastri Nagar, Siddharth Nagar, and Alibag Koliwada. The local civic body said it ensured all persons were shifted to the schools three hours before the expected landfall over the south of Alibag. “We faced serious problems with some persons not following the protocol. However, after the cyclone made landfall, we ensured all windows and doors of all classes were shut, and there were no untoward incidents at both schools,” said Mahesh Dafal, city engineer, Alibag municipal council.However, this correspondent observed that all protocols related to Covid-19 were not being followed at both schools. None of the fisherfolk wore masks, nobody had sanitisers, and social distancing was not being maintained between families at any of the classrooms. When Dafal was asked why basic norms were not being followed, he said, “The entire relocation process has been done within a span of 24 hours. We are still organising masks and sanitisers for every floor. It will be done soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-transform-into-cyclone-shelters/story-A4wdmfhj8AAgeVeJbFZnGL.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Power supply affected majorly in state, city remains unaffected: MSEDCL||Power supply was severely affected in parts of Maharashtra, owing to the collapse of electric poles and damage to power lines caused by winds and heavy rains during Cyclone Nisarga. According to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), 2,68,000 consumers suffered power cuts. However, Mumbai largely remained unaffected. MSEDCL officials said that the work to restore power is being undertaken on a war-footing. The distribution company also suffered heavy losses owing to damage to electric cables and poles. “Trees fell on electric cables owing to which supply was shut in parts of Navi Mumbai. In Turbhe, a wall collapsed at a substation,” an official said. Tree fall also affected 540 power cables in Pune. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, power-outage was reported in Kalyan, Ambernath, Vasai, Ulhasnagar and Shahpur. Power to eight substations in Panvel and four main stations that supply power to parts of Raigad were also shut as a precautionary measure.Parts of Mulund did not receive power for more than five hours. These include Sarvodaya Nagar, Nehru Road, Paanch rasta and Nahur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/power-supply-affected-majorly-in-state-city-remains-unaffected-msedcl/story-QU8Q5U7l9Zywtjw273vj5H.html
04-06-2020||City||NMMC shifts 480 people to safer places||As Cyclone Nisarga made landfall near Alibag, around 45km from Panvel, around 455 people living in Airoli, Belapur, Nerul and Turbhe were shifted to safer locations.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) shifted those who are staying hutments and chawls to nearby schools. Mahendra Konde, public relations officer of NMMC, said, “Another 25 people, who used to work in a circus and got stuck in the city during the lockdown, have also been shifted.”A huge tree fell on six houses at Sector 2 in Nerul. No one was injured. A total of 33 tree falls were reported from NMMC areas and 20 trees fell in Panvel. Uran, which is 21km away from Panvel, was the worst-affected by the cyclone.The asbestos roof of many houses were blown away by strong winds. Residents whose houses were not damaged gave them shelter. Devendra Patil, 46, an Uran resident, said, “The asbestos roof of my house was blown away by the wind. I have an eight-month-old baby. My neighbour Sumit Jadhav took us to his house. We will stay here until my house is repaired.” Another resident from Uran market area who had ailing parents was also given shelter by their neighbour. “My neighbour Mahendra Gaikar has aged parents living with him. When we saw his house was damaged, we asked them to stay in our house till he repairs his home,” said Shubham Nimbalkar, 50, Uran resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nmmc-shifts-480-people-to-safer-places/story-63fOdSqYR3m67lsPJYhDFN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man accused of beheading Ludhiana woman killed in Meerut encounter||A man accused of killing a Punjab woman here over a year ago after marrying her died of bullet injuries he suffered while trying to flee from the custody after his arrest, police said on Wednesday.The Meerut police had on Monday arrested key accused Shakib, his brother Mussarat, father Mustkeem, sisters-in-law Reshma and Ismat and friend Ayaan for their alleged roles in beheading the Ludhiana woman, whose headless body with both its arms chopped off was found in field of Lohia village in Daurala on June 13, 2019.Following the arrests, the police had held a press conference on Monday, claiming to have solved the blind murder of the 23-year-old woman last June.Meerut SSP Ajay Sahani said Shakib, while being taken from the press conference venue at police lines to the police station, snatched a pistol from a constable accompanying him and ran away.Following this, the police team gave him a chase but he opened fire on the team, in which a constable was injured, he said, adding, Shakib, meanwhile, hid himself in a forested area, which policemen surrounded with help from villagers.As the police closed in on Shakib, he continued to fire, forcing police to retaliate, in which he suffered bullet injuries and was admitted to a hospital during treatment, said Sahani.During the treatment, the accused died in the hospital on Tuesday, said the SSP, adding the injured constable is still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-accused-of-beheading-ludhiana-woman-killed-in-meerut-encounter/story-3CmOGeF0RMsLeBie1ge6DI.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records its cleanest air in 2020 thanks to Cyclone Nisarga||The city witnessed its cleanest air day this on Wednesday as Cyclone Nisarga that battered parts of the state brought high-speed winds and washed away particulate matter (PM).The air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 22, falling under the “good” category and the lowest for the year, said the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Mazgaon had the cleanest air in the city with an AQI of four while Malad and Borivli recorded 43, which were the highest. All 10 locations recorded “good” AQI values. An AQI of 15 was predicted for Thursday. Prior to Wednesday, the lowest AQI this year was recorded at 25 on May 23. The cleanest air day so far since SAFAR began air quality monitoring was on September 4, 2019, at 12.“The wind speed was 72 km/h on Wednesday in Mumbai which dispersed pollutants combined with intermittent showers that cleared the air,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR.The concentration of PM 2.5 — a breathable particulate matter of 2.5-micron size — was as low as 15 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m3) on Wednesday against the World Health Organisation safe limit of 25 μg/m3 for 24 hours and 60 μg/m3, the national safety standard. Beig said the lockdown had helped keep the city’s PM2.5 concentration below 60 μg/m3 since the last week of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-its-cleanest-air-in-2020-thanks-to-cyclone-nisarga/story-sAnEO1FHcIFWjP5Hn63HkI.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||20 animals at Byculla Zoo shifted to holding areas for safety||As a safety measure, the Byculla Zoo has shifted over 20 carnivorous animals from the exhibits to a safer place in holding areas. The zoo has also deployed 20 people as an emergency response team. The animals have been moved to their holding cells, made of concrete and steel structure, to protect them from tree fall amidst the cyclone.“In the wake of Cyclone Nisarga, we have shifted all the carnivores like tiger, leopard, hyena, jackals and sloth bears, among others, into their holding areas to protect them from tree fall. A response team of 20 people is in place, including a team of security staff and gardeners with the necessary equipment,” said Sanjay Tripathi, zoo director.The response team, deputed to tackle any untoward incidents, is also closely monitoring prone areas in the zoo through CCTV cameras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-animals-at-byculla-zoo-shifted-to-holding-areas-for-safety/story-AmLX0Avm1z3HJVu81vKC4L.html
04-06-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli residents face water, power problem||The twin cities of Kalyan-Dombivli reported 109 incidents of tree fall since Tuesday night.Although the city received 15mm rainfall, residents living near the creek and in unsafe buildings were shifted to a safer place on Wednesday morning, ahead of cyclone Nisarga’s landfall.Power and water cuts were also reported in several parts of the city. “By Wednesday evening, we removed 59 trees and the work is on to clear the rest. No one was injured,” said Dilip Gund, chief fire officer, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).Fifteen trees were uprooted at Palava city in Dombivli. Seven tree fall incidents were reported in Dombivli. A tree fell at Pendsenagar, leading to a wall collapse at a housing society. A car was damaged in the incident, said fire officials. “It will take at least four days to remove the fallen trees,” said a fire officer from Kalyan.Three families living in a dangerous building at Rambaug in Kalyan (West) were shifted to safer place by the civic body, 25 families living in chawls near Kalyan creek and 36 families from Dombivli creek were also shifted to civic schools. The civic body also carried out announcements in low lying and landslide prone areas like Waldhuni and Netivli asking the residents to move away from their houses and take shelter in the space allotted by the civic body.Around 100 residents, who live in unsafe structures in Dombivli, were also shifted to civic schools. “We had shifted them as a precautionary measure,” said a senior officer of KDMC, who did not wish to be named.Power supply was disrupted in several areas in Kalyan and Dombivli.“Since Tuesday night, there has been irregular power supply,” said Rakesh Patil, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan (West).Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited), Kalyan division, said they had to shut down electricity as a safety measure. “The downpour since Wednesday morning caused several technical issues in the power supply lines. We had to shut power supply in several parts as precautionary measures,” said an officer of MSEDCLSome parts of Kalyan did not get proper water supply. Barave water treatment plant was disrupted on Tuesday night because of electricity problem. It took almost 16 hours to restart the water treatment plant and the water supply was back to normal on Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-residents-face-water-power-problem/story-O1jDJYPctrxdBpZkB6WZWO.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Shrivardhan faces another ‘storm’||Once notorious for being a safe haven of underworld goons and smugglers in the 1990s, Shrivardhan town in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, bore the brunt of Cyclone Nisarga on Wednesday. Known to locals as the birth place of the first Peshwa Balaji Vishwanath and one of the 16 fortified towns to be ceded to Kanhoji Angre, the chief of Maratha Navy, the town lay forgotten till Imtiaz Ghavte, one of the accused in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case, was arrested by two sub-inspectors at the Worli police station. During investigations, Ghavte had named Tiger Memon, who started as a driver in gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s company, as the main conspirator for the blasts. Police said Ghavte told investigators that Ibrahim and his men had been running a gold and silver smuggling business from Shrivardhan since the late 1980s. Investigations revealed that under the guise of landing silver and gold ingots along the coast, Ibrahim’s henchmen like Dawood Phanse landed Research Development Explosive (RDX) and assault rifles, which were used in the serial blasts.Landing agents of Dawood Ibrahim’s company paid ₹50 per box, instead of the usual ₹5 for transporting silver and gold ingots, to Rashid Alware, a truck owner from Shrivardhan, to transport the explosives, said police. Alware was arrested on April 1, 1993 and later convicted for three years. Since then, however, the town located about 170km from Mumbai, changed its image to become a tourist attraction. Its black sand beaches and remnants of the 18th century fortifications have attracted an influx of tourists over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-shrivardhan-faces-another-storm/story-Ffpgr5WVnvO401Q9dpKYLL.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two minor brothers drown in Karnal pond||Two brothers aged 10 and 12 drowned in a pond in Kachwa village of Karnal district on Wednesday morning. Ramesh Kumar, uncle of the boys, said they fell in the pond while playing.Few villagers brought them out and rushed them to a local hospital, where they were pronounced dead on arrival. Villagers alleged that the panchayat was digging in this pond, while there were several other ponds in the village. Kachwa sarpanch Ajay Kumar said the pond was under construction and the boys drowned in a small pit in its corner. Police have sent the bodies to Karnal medical college for autopsy and launched a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-minor-brothers-drown-in-karnal-pond/story-Rf0qHalctxRWkMdJhSA41H.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||CAT dismisses Fatehabad DC’s plea challenging his transfer||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on Wednesday dismissed the plea of Fatehabad deputy commissioner (DC) Ravi Prakash Gupta, a 100% differently abled IAS officer, challenging his transfer as director general, Swarna Jayanti Haryana Institute of Fiscal Management.Gupta, who appeared in person, argued that he was posted as Kaithal DC in 2016, but was transferred as director, food and supplies, Haryana, and special secretary, food and supplies department, within seven months.In 2017, Gupta said, he was given charge of director, medical education and research, Haryana; special secretary, medical education and research department and chief vigilance officer, Huda (now known as Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran). He was posted as Fatehabad DC in December 2019 and transferred from the post in May 2020 during Covid -19 outbreak. He had alleged that his transfers were against IAS (Cadre) Amendment Rules. The state of Haryana, in its reply, argued that his transfer was made keeping in view the Covid-19 situation as “DCs and DMs have to play a pivotal role and as such, some of them were required to be transferred from their districts.”The tribunal in its order also said that “courts do not interfere with transfers which are made in the public interest and for administrative reasons unless the transfer orders are made in violation of any mandatory statutory rule or on the ground of mala fide”.It also noted that Gupta was not the only officer who was transferred. 100% visually impaired Gupta was initially allocated to Chhattisgarh state. However, under policy decision for transfer of disabled persons, he was transferred to Haryana cadre in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cat-dismisses-fatehabad-dc-s-plea-challenging-his-transfer/story-Bnar2dbdbLQPiEff9rAQ4N.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: City’s coast remains clear of major trouble||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Wednesday moved at least 20,000 citizens to safe locations and another 30,000 citizens shifted on their own, following the advisory for Cyclone Nisarga that made a landfall in the neighbouring coastal Raigad district at 2.45pm on Wednesday. Between 8am and 5.30pm, 26.4mm rain was recorded in Colaba and 28.4mm in Santacruz (representative of the suburbs). The highest wind speed in the city, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), was 74kmph that was reported around 1.30pm.The city saw 117 tree falls, including 39 in south Mumbai, 40 in the eastern suburbs and 38 in the western suburbs, from 8am to 6pm in the evening, according to BMC data. BMC also recorded 39 incidents of short-circuits. There were nine house collapses – three in south Mumbai, four in the western suburbs and two in the eastern suburbs.Those who were evacuated and housed in 35 schools that have been turned into temporary shelters will be kept under observation for a day and will be screened for temperature and oxygen levels, to detect symptoms of Covid-19, before being permitted to go home. The BMC said it consulted the Odisha government on how to tackle the situation.Iqbal Chahal, BMC chief on Wednesday, said, “We have rescued thousands of those residing along the coast, and have kept them in temporary shelters. We are arranging food and water for them, as per requirement. Many migrants have gone back to their home states, but we were feeding many more and that system enabled us to arrange proper food for all those who were evacuated.Most of them are from the slums and koliwadas on the west coast, including areas such as Colaba, Worli, Versova, Malad, Mahim, Juhu khardanda and Gorai. More than 2,000 fishermen from Colaba and 150 from Worli were evacuated to safe shelters nearby. In G-South ward alone, that covers parts of Worli and Mahalaxmi, 525 people were evacuated.The BMC officials will now focus on removing fallen trees, electric poles on the roads, check the structural stability of several poles and trees and then continue its drive for fumigating the city for the upcoming monsoon. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the BMC said its disaster response machinery will remain on high alert for the next few days until the cyclonic effect has passed from the city. Over 500 emergency response team members from NDRF, Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) and BMC were on standby. No untoward incident was reported on all six beaches, where fire personnel and lifeguards have been on standby since Tuesday night.IMD has also lowered the rainfall warning for Thursday to moderate. KS Hosalikar, DG of meteorology in IMD Mumbai, said, “We are lowering the rainfall warning to moderate rainfall for less than 24 hours. The cyclonic storm is still there somewhere near Pune, but it will soon settle in.”Heavy rain, however, caused a nullah in Hanuman Nagar, Vikhroli to overflow with silt. The incident came to light when the video went viral. The video was also posted by BJP MLA Ram Kadam. Ajitkumar Ambi, assistant municipal commissioner of N ward (Ghatkopar, Vikhroli), said, “The locals dump their garbage in these drains which led to choking. We cleared it in time.”Tree falls on tracksOne tree fall was reported between Kurla and Vidyavihar railway stations, while branches of a tree fell on railway tracks at Prabhadevi, along with a tree tilting at Mumbai Central station yard on Wednesday. The CR also stopped the toy train between Aman Lodge and Matheran. (Inputs from Aroosa Ahmed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-city-s-coast-remains-clear-of-major-trouble/story-VBIX2Li3GgfviKAaV49uWO.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: SoBo hit more than the suburbs||As the city braced for strong winds and heavy rainfall on Wednesday owing to cyclone Nisarga’s landfall in Shrivardhan in Raigad, the island city of Mumbai was more affected than its eastern and western suburbs. South Mumbai saw more tree collapses and fires due to short circuit. Experts have attributed this to its proximity to the landfall of Nisarga and its narrow geographical outlay that is like an arm extended into the Arabian sea. The southern tip of Mumbai is approximately 96 nautical miles from Shrivardhan. Shubhangi Bhute from Indian Meteorological Department said, “As per IMD forecast, south Mumbai and south of Mumbai was predicted to experience greater wind velocity due to its proximity to the eye and landfall of the cyclone. According to a press release issued by IMD, however, the maximum wind velocity recorded in the suburbs on Wednesday was greater than the wind velocity recorded in the island city. While the island city recorded wind velocity at 50kmph, the suburbs recorded it at 58kmph. However, the highest wind speed in the city was 74kmph reported around 1.30pm by the Colaba observatory, according to KS Hosalikar, director general of meteorology at IMD Mumbai. Corresponding wind velocity for suburbs for 1.30pm was not available until Wednesday evening.Between 8am and 6pm, 117 tree fall complaints were reported in Mumbai of which 39 were from south Mumbai. Of these 39, 24 tree collapses were reported in A ward alone, comprising areas of the southern most tip of Mumbai.BMC on Wednesday morning evacuated over 3,000 residents from Geeta Nagar in Colaba, and another 1,000-odd residents from Ganesh Nagar as part of its measures to evacuate people along the west coast of Mumbai. Chanda Jadhav, assistant commissioner of A ward, said, “This is the tip of Mumbai, closest to location of the landfall of cyclone Nisarga. We had put all precautions in place and evacuated many people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-sobo-hit-more-than-the-suburbs/story-jqLqvllUggpBRFojWincEI.html
04-06-2020||City||Canteen, book stall reopen at Ludhiana railway station||In view of the increasing number of passengers at the railway station here, the authorities have allowed the canteen and a book stall at platform number 1 to reopen. The canteen will, however, sell only packed food and water.The entry and exit points of the railway station are still sealed and no vehicle is being allowed to enter the premises.According to amended rules during lockdown, the passengers can book tickets four hours before their journey, but passengers with waiting tickets are not allowed to enter the platforms.The RPF and police made special security arrangements on Wednesday as the number of passengers increased.According to railway officers, at least 200 passengers from Ludhiana boarded and alighted each train crossing the railway station.Meanwhile, ticket checking staff continue to work without face shields. Therefore, they said, they have minimised contact with passengers and not checking tickets.The staff at platforms are allowing passengers with confirmed tickets to board the trains.Train services were resumed on June 1. On Wednesday, trains running from other stations crossed the railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/canteen-book-stall-reopen-at-ludhiana-railway-station/story-6PPAH11tOljwPZFSggV9DP.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Spurious seed scam in Punjab: One more suspect in police net||Punjab Police on Wednesday arrested one more person linked with the seed scam, taking the number of people in the police net so far to three.Lakhwinder Singh alias Lucky Dhillon, owner of Karnal Agri Seeds of Dera Baba Nanak in Batala, was arrested by the special investigation team (SIT) constituted on Tuesday by DGP Dinkar Gupta to get to the bottom of the scam involving alleged sale of non-certified seeds of new paddy varieties that were being tested/grown by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana.Gupta said Lucky had unauthorisedly purchased PR-128 and PR-129 seed varieties from some farmers who had been given the seeds for trial by the PAU. Investigations show that Dhillon supplied these seeds to Brar Seeds of Ludhiana, whose owner Harwinder Singh alias Kaka Brar was the first person to be apprehended in the scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spurious-seed-scam-in-punjab-one-more-suspect-in-police-net/story-SxkTAsxOrBGqH3DoLn0gXL.html
04-06-2020||City||For Haibowal family, their daughter was alive till Meerut police called them to identify the body||For Seema Rani of Haibowal, her daughter Ekta Jaswal, 19, who had eloped with a man a year ago, was alive till the Meerut police called her on Tuesday and asked her to come to identify the body of her daughter.The family had not lodged any FIR when their daughter had eloped with her lover, Aman alias Saqib Khan. While leaving the house, Ekta had also taken away 150gm gold jewelry and some cash from the home.Seema Rani now regrets their decision for not having reported the case to the police. Lamenting over the death of her daughter, Seema Rani said had she made a complaint to the police, her daughter would have been alive today.Seema said her daughter was a commerce graduate and a part-time event manager. She had come in contact with Saqib Khan, a sorcerer, who had met her daughter as Aman. Unaware of his intentions, Ekta had decided to marry him.“In April 2019, Ekta had left home to attend a function in Himachal Pradesh, but did not return. Later, we had come to know that she had eloped with Aman,” said Seema.“We had talked to her for the last time on May 5, 2019. After it, she had neither picked up our calls nor responded to WhatsApp messages. A profile picture on her WhatsApp account kept on changing, but we had no idea that she had already been murdered and cut into pieces by the accused,” she added.After 13 months of recovering a headless body of a woman from a field in Daurala of Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, the police solved the case on Tuesday with the arrest of Aman alias Saqib Khan and his five accomplices.The girl’s family had lodged a complaint against Saqib Khan at the Jagatpuri police post in 2019. But, as the family had come to a compromise with the accused, they had withdrawn the complaint.After Ekta had gone missing, they did not file a complaint assuming that she was not a minor and had left home on her own will.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-haibowal-family-their-daughter-was-alive-till-meerut-police-called-them-to-identify-the-body/story-dVEqLjx827LSTV0Ww7HdnO.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||As economy unlocks, Shramik trains from Chandigarh see more vacant seats||With businesses and industries opening up in the city as the first phase of the country’s unlocking process begins, migrant labourers seem more willing to stay back rather than going home on the special Shramik trains.More than 98,000 people had registered with the Chandigarh administration expressing their wish to go back to their home states. “But now, a considerable number of migrant labourers are not interested in moving out as industrial and commercial units have resumed operations,” said Yashpal Garg, UT’s social welfare secretary who is also the nodal officer for management of migrant movement, particularly on special trains, from the city. Due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, which came into effect from March 24, several businesses in the city were shut, leaving the migrant workers jobless and eager to go home. In the third phase of the lockdown when inter-state movement was allowed, the UT administration asked people get themselves registered to travel home in Shramik trains. So far, the Chandigarh administration has sent 27 trains on its own and four in coordination with other states.One day before the scheduled departure of the train, telephone calls are made to registered persons asking them to reach the Holding Centre set up in Sector 26 for medical screening before they are allowed to board the trains. One more train is scheduled to leave on June 5.“On Tuesday, about 10,000 persons were contacted through telephone calls and SMS for the train leaving for Mau, Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. Though capacity of the train was 1,600, only 1,300 passengers turned up, with 300 seats going vacant,” added Garg. A similar trend was seen in other trains that departed from here. The train to Nazibabad, Gonda and Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) went with 98 vacant seats. The Shramik special train to Jounpur (Uttar Pradesh) went with 105 vacant seats and in the train to Gaya (Bihar) and Dhanbad (Jharkhand), there were 421 vacant seats.For the special train set to leave on June 5, as many as 6,000 phone calls have already been made but only 800 migrants have booked their tickets so far. “Even though 800 people have booked their tickets, we are not sure if all of them will turn up. This trend has started only since the fourth phase of the lockdown. Earlier, trains ran to their full seating capacity,” he added.Dr Vinod Kumar Chaudhary, professor, sociology, Panjab University, said, “People who are assured of stable income are the ones want to stay back now when the businesses are opening up. These include skilled and semi-skilled workers. Unskilled are still leaving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-economy-unlocks-shramik-trains-from-chandigarh-see-more-vacant-seats/story-qD9AZemBCywJNWq4YGBIBM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh distillery fined ₹10 lakh for violating excise policy||The UT excise and taxation department on Wednesday slapped a fine of ₹10 lakh on a local distillery for violating the norms of the excise policy.The department on May 25 had conducted an inspection at NV Distilleries and Breweries in Industrial Area, Phase 1, and had issued a show-cause notice to the owner after 65 boxes of Crazy Romeo whiskey without holograms were found.A day before that, the police had seized 440 boxes of the same brand of liquor hidden in a milk tanker. Tanker driver had told the police the liquor was being supplied to Gujarat. Inspection had revealed that the brand ‘Crazy Romeo’ made by NV distilleries was meant for sale in Chandigarh only.Additional excise and taxation commissioner Rakesh Kumar Popli said, “The penalty was imposed on NV Distilleries and Breweries of Industrial Area, Phase 1, after hearing their reply to the show-cause notice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-distillery-fined-10-lakh-for-violating-excise-policy/story-raDUgpPG2bQdYYetrjIMPL.html
04-06-2020||City||6 days on, Mohali gurdwara head held on assault charges||Six days after the president of Gurdwara Sri Kalgidhar Sahib, Phase 4, Jatinderpal Singh, was booked for allegedly assaulting a Phase-2 resident, the police on Wednesday arrested him.In addition to Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (an offence is committed by any member of an unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) was also added to the FIR against the gurdwara head.The police have also added the name of assistant sub-inspector Om Prakash in the same case. The ASI was suspended after he had thrashed a Mohali journalist during the same incident at Phase 4 gurdwara on May 22.In his complaint, victim Jaspal Singh had stated that on May 22, he had seen Amarjit Singh, the gurdwara president and a few other people stopping a group from performing kirtan in the gurdwara. When Jaspal tried to intervene, Jatinderpal and his aides had allegedly assaulted him. Jaspal had told the police, “They slapped me multiple times and assaulted me during the scuffle. I was saved by the people gathered inside the gurdwara.”Jatinderpal had in turn alleged that he was being falsely implicated and that Jaspal was a politician and was running a parallel group against him.Phase 1 station house officer Manphool Singh said, “Jatinderpal will be produced in a local court tomorrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-days-on-mohali-gurdwara-head-held-on-assault-charges/story-ltmEChEkoi7xU87C3vSNOO.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gives one-year extension to associated schools||The Punjab government on Wednesday provided extension to around 2,200 associated schools for another academic session 2020-21. Associate schools are private schools affiliated with the Punjab School Education Board. Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said after reviewing the situation due to spread of the covid-19 pandemic in Punjab, the education department has decided to give them a breather for a limited period of time. He added that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has approved the proposal. Singla said during the extension period, these schools will have to ensure the safety and security of students.“Though, the extension has been given to associated schools till March 31, 2021, but schools will have to provide an undertaking to the education department till December 31, 2020 about improvements in their infrastructure and campus area. If any school will fail to meet the required criteria, it will be allowed to continue educational activities only for pre-primary classes on its premises,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-gives-one-year-extension-to-associated-schools/story-g0wY5bdlk0o9EeKuTpAuqN.html
04-06-2020||City||Astrology radio show lands Ludhiana police in soup, local sends complaint to Punjab CM, DGP||A city resident on Wednesday wrote to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta to complain against an astrology radio talk show by Ludhiana deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary with astrologer Ajay Shahi.The complaint came after the Ludhiana police uploaded a post on their official Facebook page about a talk show, “Know yourself through astrology during corona”, on a private radio channel. The post claimed it was an initiative of the Ludhiana police and “Astro Intelligence”. After the initiative drew criticism in the comments, the post was taken down.Dr Amandeep Singh Bains of Dugri, who sent the complaint via e-mail, said believing in astrology was a personal matter. “Hence, police supporting and promoting it is unacceptable. Corona warriors have been working on the frontline for months, and this step of police taking the help of astrologers is inappropriate,” he added.On his part, DCP Chaudhary said he was invited for the talk show to answer callers’ questions regarding the Covid-19 lockdown. He said he was aware that an astrologer was also speaking on the show, but he talked only about the virus and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/astrology-programme-lands-ludhiana-police-in-soup-local-sends-complaint-to-punjab-cm-dgp/story-mLGs0l2izqRyviWx8S1bRN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar debuts at 47 in Times Higher Education Asia University Rankings||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Ropar entered the Times Higher Education (THE) Asia University Rankings this year for the first time at number 47.Sarit K Das, director of IIT Ropar said, “Amid the Covid-19 crisis, this is a positive news. This is a recognition of IIT Ropar’s contribution to the society and nation.”“Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, IIT Ropar is progressively giving solutions to combat the crisis which proof of its commitment to the nation,” Das said.He said the institution’s considerable boost in teaching- learning environment and improvements in its citation impact was a testament to the fast-evolving research reputation.In February, the institute also made its debut on the Emerging Economies University Rankings at number 63, sharing the rank with IIT Madras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/iit-ropar-debuts-at-47-in-times-higher-education-asia-university-rankings/story-erksZv1SeL9VRWTN4NDwEI.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||33% of inmates released from Kapurthala jail over past 2 months||The modern jail in the district has released almost a third of its inmates (1,150) over the past two months, since the lockdown due to covid-19 began in the country. These inmates were either granted bail or parole as a precautionary measure following a direction by the state government, and more prisoners are expected to come out in the next few days. The jail has a capacity for around 3,000 inmates, but was accommodating over 3,500 prisoners two months ago, giving the jail authorities a tough time in ensuring order at the facility. Authorities have stopped lodging fresh violators in the jail to contain the spread of covid-19. A jail officer said that bail and parole were initially for 45-60 days, which is extendable according to the government’s order. Jail superintendent Baljit Singh Ghuman said there were now around 2,400 inmates and a drive to screen them was launched on Wednesday. Nodal officer for covid-19 at Kapurthala civil hospital Dr Sandeep Dhawan said some samples had been taken and a drive was on to screen patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/33-of-inmates-released-from-kapurthala-jail-over-past-2-months/story-6rtCIpYsiQ9j1bhzFQa23L.html
04-06-2020||City||‘Locals rushed to pick up mangoes while NDRF team cleared trees’||As the wind picked up around 10.30am on Wednesday, news came in that cyclone Nisarga, which had already changed course once, may not make landfall on Alibag after all. After first changing course earlier this week, so that its path crossed south of Mumbai instead of passing over the north of the city, the cylone was now expected to make landfall at Murud, almost 54 kilometres (km) from Alibag.Armed with raincoats, mechanical tree-cutters, rope and other equipment, three teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel moved out of Alibag towards Murud.Since May 31, a day after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) raised a warning about a cyclonic storm brewing in the Arabian Sea, NDRF has had four teams in Alibag. Each team has 23 NDRF personnel.To the journalists at the Alibag camp, NDRF inspector (in-charge of Alibag) Mahesh Kumar said on Wednesday, “If you are here to cover the cyclone, I suggest you stop here with my team and I. Two other vehicles are going to be stationed at possible locations of landfall where there is no shelter. For the next four hours, we can promise your safety, but they cannot.”After Mumbai recorded relatively low rainfall on Tuesday night, independent meteorologists said the cyclone was weakening. When the HT team arrived in Alibag on Wednesday morning, the streets were deserted, the sky was darkly overcast and it was drizzling.Four hours later, the wind was loud and chaotic as it rushed through trees and there was the percussion of tin sheds bouncing as the wind tugged at them. A few flew off.At 12.15pm Wednesday, Kumar announced Cyclone Nisarga had made landfall. “I did not expect the weather system would maintain its severe cyclone status after landfall. In fact, it is moving at 110 kmph at the location we are at,” said Kumar after reading out the latest message from IMD off his phone.Information on the impact of the cyclone in Raigad district started coming in to NDRF swiftly. “We carried out extensive awareness sessions across villages and with district officers from March 31 itself, and explained to those being relocated to shelters to keep a track of issues during the cyclone,” said an NDRF officer. Consequently, within 90 minutes of landfall, NDRF had a preliminary list of tree fall incidents, destruction of communication lines as well blocked roads, thanks to information supplied to them by locals, across a 10km radius. “This will help us during our-post cyclone interventions,” said Kumar, who kept updating journalists with news of the cyclone’s path and the infrastructural damage it was inflicting on the area.“When a cyclone makes landfall, one should remember to find the closest shelter. It has to be a concrete structure and one should not leave until the wind speed drops substantially,” said Kumar.Even before the storm had calmed, the NDRF team was loading equipment into their vehicles in preparation of their next step. “It [the cyclone] will stop at 4pm. Based on a meeting with the district collector, the process for estimating on-ground damages will begin,” said Suresh Sharma, another NDRF officer.By 6pm, 26 officers had been divided into groups of two, which fanned out across Alibag, to places that had reported tree fall and road blocks. While civilians picked up mangoes from fallen trees, the officers worked to remove branches and trunks of 44 large trees by 8pm. This was only the beginning of a long night’s work. “Our work will continue through the night. It will take three days to ensure normalcy in this district again, but we have to ensure any threat to civilians is minimised so that they are prepared for the next disaster awaiting them. After all, it hasn’t been the best year so far,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/locals-rushed-to-pick-up-mangoes-while-ndrf-team-cleared-trees/story-5rIUWsKWldn8BhAwsJhO1N.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar man dies as Punjab records 27 new Covid cases||A 64-year-old man from Jalandhar’s Tagore Nagar died of coronavirus at DMCH, Ludhiana, while 27 fresh cases were reported from across the state on Wednesday. The patient who died was undergoing treatment since June 1 and he was a diabetic. With this, Punjab patient tally has gone up to 2,447 and 48 people have died of the virus.Eight fresh Covid-19 cases — two from Amritsar and six from Pathankot — were reported in Majha region, health officials said.In Mohali, seven infections were detected on Wednesday, taking the district’s Covid count to 123.Three more persons tested positive in Hoshiarpur’s hotspot, Nangli Jalalpur village, on Wednesday. They are contacts of the man who had died of Covid-19 on May 17.A pregnant woman and a cop were among three people who tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday in Faridkot district.A 7-year-old girl and a 35-year-old truck driver were found infected in Patiala district. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the girl and her family had returned from Mumbai recently.In Muktsar, two people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Both the patients had come to Muktsar from Gurugram last week.Also, two fresh cases were reported from Bathinda.(Inputs from Patiala, Bathinda, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-man-dies-as-punjab-records-27-new-covid-cases/story-eVzLIkWph8GWGVyL5HnGUN.html
04-06-2020||City||Immigration fraud: Mohali resident brought to Ambala on production warrant||A year after an Ambala City resident registered a duping case, the accused was brought on production warrant from Mohali on Wednesday.The accused, Shiv Kumar, a resident of Mohali’s Handesra village, had allegedly duped Sushil Kumar of Ambala City of Rs 2.5 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad for four months. The case was lodged on July 30, 2019. He was presented in the court and sent to judicial custody. Last week, another accused was arrested from Punjab in a fraud case registered at the same police station.As many as 11 FIRs were lodged in the district last week after the same number of locals were deported from the US earlier last month. Superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal said, “We have so far arrested a travel agent from Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/immigration-fraud-mohali-resident-brought-to-ambala-on-production-warrant/story-R9BCRNwrCBlDpHEQVR2rwL.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid doubling rate up to 19 days from 14: BMC data||In a positive indication in the fight against Covid, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data stated the doubling rate has gone up to 19 days, from 14 days in the last fortnight. The city reported 1,276 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 43,492. Forty-nine more deaths took the toll to 1,417. BMC officials said of the 49 deaths, 36 patients had comorbidities. Two deceased were below 40 years of age, 27 above 60, and 20 between 40 and 60 years. The civic body, in a statement, requested citizens not to ignore any fever or self-medicate, amid the Cyclone Nisarga. Citizens have been urged to keep a watch on symptoms for 7-10 days.In some administrative wards such as E (Byculla), FN (Matunga), G-South (Worli and Prabhadevi) and H-East (Santacruz East), the doubling rate has further risen to 34, 29,27 and 27 days, respectively. Both G-South and H-East wards have been Covid-19 hotspots and reported over 2,000 cases each. A higher doubling rate is good as it reflects the number of days it will take to double the case count. “We are working to increase the doubling rate in Mumbai,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani.He claimed the civic body’s stress on home quarantine, strict containment measures and contact-tracing to break the chain of transmission helped. Kakani said as many as 75-80% cases are asymptomatic or mild, while 15-18% are moderate. It is only 5-7% patients, particularly those with co-morbid conditions, who have serious illness. “While most patients with mild and moderate symptoms recover, even serious patients have gone home after beating the illness,” he said.Meanwhile, Dharavi reported 19 cases on Wednesday, pushing its tally to 1,849. A total of 3.20 lakh people from the area have been screened. India’s largest slum cluster, Dharavi houses 8.50 lakh people. Dadar reported 10 new cases, taking the total to 347. Mahim saw 25 new cases, taking the total to 574.Areas such as G-North (Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim), L (Kurla) and F-North (Matunga) topped the list of cases with 3,196, 2,773 and 2,726 cases, respectively. However, areas such as Chira Bazar (464), Borivli (486), Bhendi Bazar (560) continue to be at the bottom of the list, with the least number of cases.In terms of ward-wise growth, R-North ward (Dahisar) topped the list with 7.9%, followed by P-North ward (Malad) at 6.9% and R-South (Kandivli West) ward at 6.7%. Wards such as E (Byculla) with 1.9%, FN (Matunga) with 2.2% and G-South (Worli and Prabhadevi) with 2.3% continued to record the lowest growth.The latest infographic released by the BMC suggested of the 22,514 recovered patients, the highest number (1,504) of discharged patients were in F-North ward, followed by L ward with 1,488 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-doubling-rate-up-to-19-days-from-14-bmc-data/story-ngtV3hXZgFd04Fs5fyPpAO.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Byculla constable sacked from force for raping a minor||A city police constable who had been convicted by a sessions court for raping a mentally-challenged minor girl has been removed from the police department.In March 2017, the constable, assigned to Byculla police station, had gone to his hometown in Dindori, Nashik rural.On April 3, 2017, the 15-year-old, who lived in the same neighbourhood as the convict, was washing utensils outside her home when he gagged her, brought her to his house, and raped her in the toilet. He then threatened to kill her if she informed anyone.The girl later told her family about the attack and they filed a complaint with the local police. A first information report (FIR) under section 376A (raping a mentally unsound girl) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) and 8 (sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act was registered against the constable. He was arrested the next morning and has been in jail since.“In February this year, he was convicted by a Nashik sessions court and was sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment along with a ₹10,000 fine on the rape charges, and one-year simple imprisonment and ₹1,000 fine for criminal intimidation. Inspector Anil Borse, in-charge of Dindori police station of Nashik Rural police, confirmed the same.“A parallel departmental enquiry was also started against the police constable. The enquiry was completed last week and it too found him guilty of all charges,” said a Mumbai Police officer requesting anonymity.The inquiry report observed that the constable’s actions maligned the police force’s image in society and hence, under relevant sections of the Mumbai Police (punishment and appeals) Act, he was dismissed from the police service on May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/byculla-constable-sacked-from-force-for-raping-a-minor/story-SHXDMjtiD48jzo6QVkruOK.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kinnow growers worried as traders yet to approach them for crop deals||Bathinda Mohit Munjal, a kinnow grower from Fazilka district is a worried man as, so far, fruit traders have not shown any interest in striking a deal with farmers for this year’s crop. Munjal, who has an over 80-acre orchard at Khubban village near Abohar town, says as per the established past practice, kinnow farmers get paid up to 25% of the total estimated yield by May. With farmers expecting a second consecutive bumper crop this year, the coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown has them worried over sale of their crop. Kinnow harvesting starts from November and lasts till March.“Till last year, these informal trade commitments began from April onwards, after traders assessed kinnow production on the basis of fruit flowering. Due to the coronavirus outbreak, traders are out of sight and farmers are worried about the sales prospect of their crop,” Munjal adds. Punjab leads the country in the cultivation of kinnow, with the Abohar belt of Fazilka district alone contributing up to 60% to the state’s total production. The fruit is cultivated on nearly 33,000 hectares in Punjab. Last season, Abohar belt produced more than 5 lakh metric tonnes of kinnow. The mandarin fruit sown in Abohar area finds buyer in many states of the country. Orchardists like Sagar Nagpal say he had a bumper yield last season and earned well from cultivating kinnow over his 50-acre farm. “Last year, a contractor struck a deal as early as in March and I had handsome income from it. Now, when the fruit has started setting on trees and a good crop is expected, no potential wholesale buyer has visited us to date,” he adds. According to Shivam Setia, a leading fruit trader, kinnow market trade may start opening up after August. He admits the trading community is in a ‘wait-and-watch’ mode before investing in kinnow.“Traders are still unable to settle last year’s financial transactions due to the complications caused by the lockdown. The entire supply chain is in a state of financial uncertainty. I have regular supply to Bangladesh and Nepal besides Indian states. This time, no one is really interested in trading at this juncture,” said Setia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kinnow-growers-worried-as-traders-yet-to-approach-them-for-crop-deals/story-ivLjrJWYeqYNt5GpTllqYN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Residents up in arms against containment restrictions in Chandigarh localities||Perturbed over restrictions on movement put by the Chandigarh administration in their localities, the residents of containment zones in Sector 30B and Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, on Wednesday held protests against the administration.To control the situation, the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) reached the spot and assured residents that the UT administration will soon hold a review meeting on the issue.The protest comes in the wake of the death of an 80-year-old woman in the containment zone of Sector 30B on Monday. The woman who tested positive posthumously had allegedly died after an ambulance failed to reach her on time. After that, MC councilor Devinder Singh Babla wrote to the UT alleging administrative lapses.A resident of Sector 30B, requesting anonymity, said, “The administration had assured us that the containment zone tag will be removed by June 4, and we had cooperated with them. We are not ready for further extension of the same.”BAPU DHAM RESIDENTS TURN AWAY RATIONMeanwhile, in pocket 15 of the Bapu Dham Colony, residents refused to take dry ration and vegetables from the administration.“For the last two days we have been protesting against the faulty testing procedures, and the holding of the whole locality under curfew when only a few houses have reported positive cases,” said a resident.The people in the pocket called off the protest only after the local administration assured them that by June 9 a decision will be taken on the issue. “We will start a hunger strike if the administration doesn’t fulfil its promise made today to exclude us from the containment zone,” said the resident.Currently, there are three containment zones in Chandigarh including certain pockets of the Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30B and Kacchi Colony in Dhanas.A senior UT official confirmed that the administration will soon hold a meeting with the local committees of the affected areas and a final call will be taken on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-of-chandigarh-s-sector-30-bapu-dham-colony-protest-against-containment-zone-tag-refuse-to-cooperate-with-admn/story-pHIxvbeGjVBPPOhvllcmAI.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||State gets closer to 75,000 cases, records biggest one-day spike of 122 deaths||Maharashtra on Wednesday inched closer to the grim 75,000 Covid-19 cases mark with 2,560 more infections, bringing the case count to 74,860 — 36.5% of the total cases — 2,07,614 — in the country. Of them, 38,493 are active cases, according to the state health department.It has also reported 122 deaths, highest in a day so far. The toll stands at 2,587. Of them, 57 deaths are from the past two days, while the rest are between April 30 and May 31, clarified the health department.Last Friday, the state recorded 116 fatalities, which was the second-highest single-day figure so far. However, the government had clarified that 70 of them were from the previous 13 days.Of the total deaths, 49 are in Mumbai, 19 in Pune, 16 in Aurangabad, 10 in Solapur, four in Dhule , three each in Navi Mumbai, Ulhasnagar, two each in Thane, Kolhapur, Akola and one each in Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Bhiwandi, Ahmednagar, Nandurbar, Jalna and Osmanabad. In addition, one patient each from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal died in Mumbai.Of the total deaths, 69 were above 60 years of age, while 46 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining seven were below the age of 40 years. Of the deceased, 88 had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, health officials said.Statistics showed that the state has reported 1,452 deaths in the past 18 days. It comes to more than 56% of the total deaths — 2,587. It also means, on an average, 80 deaths a day.The mortality rate has also slightly increased to 3.45% (2,587 deaths on June 2) from 3.27% (1,792 deaths on May 26). It is also more than the national mortality rate, which is 2.80%, with 5,815 deaths till Tuesday, stated the data shared by the state medical education department.However, the state has also succeeded in bringing down the mortality rate significantly from last month. On April 13, the mortality rate of the state was 7.41%. (148 deaths). This indicates improvement of 4.4%, the data showed.Meanwhile, Mumbai also recorded 1,276 cases in a day. Of them, 24,597 are active cases. The city’s toll stands at 1,368.On May 22, Mumbai had reported highest one-day cases — 1,751.The challenge the state is facing is the behavioural change of the coronavirus. It has found that the virus is mutating. “We know nothing about coronavirus. All we know about it is that it is extremely infectious and spreads very fast. The virus is behaving differently and is also mutating. We have found 11 mutants of the virus recently,” said another official, wishing not to be named.Officials said that cases are likely to surge for a few more days after which they are expecting a decline in cases as the state has decided to ease restrictions in three phases. “We are concerned that with more relaxations, more people will step out and get exposed to the virus. This ultimately will result in a surge in cases. We are already experiencing a rise in cases in the districts where there were no cases or were minimal in number, before relaxations were given in the state on May 20,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity. The state health department said that the situation is improving as the compounded daily growth rate (CDGR) for Maharashtra has reduced to 4.17%, as against 7.76% on May 1. The country’s CDGR is 4.74%. The recovery rate has also improved to 43.18%, while the doubling rate has increased to 17.35 days from 9.27 days on May 1.But data shows that the state is getting more than 2,000 cases in the past 18 days (from May 17). In this period, it has also recorded over 44,323 cases. It means on an average 2,462 cases are recorded daily in the state.On May 17, there were 2,347 cases. May 18 had 2,033 new infections, May 19 saw 2,127, May 20 had 2,250, May 21 saw 2,345, May 22 had 2,940, May 23 saw 2,608, May 24 saw 3041, May 25 saw 2,436, May 26 had 2,091, May 27 saw 2,190, May 28 saw 2,598, May 29 saw 2,682, May 30 saw 2,940, May 31 had 2,487, June 1 saw 2,361 and on June 2, 2287 cases were reported.In comparison, the total number of cases registered in April was 10,201.To put the steep hike in further perspective, one should consider that the state’s first coronavirus case was reported on March 9 and it took 30 days for the figure to cross the 1,000 mark.Meanwhile, the state government is set to provide 30 monkeys to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune for clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccines. NIV has asked the state government to get them monkeys for the clinical trials. Considering the demand, the state forest minister Sanjay Rathod has issued directives to the forest department for the same. “I have directed to appoint experienced team to catch the monkeys so that they (monkeys) will not get hurt. They can be safely caught and handed over to the research institute on the conditions such as the project will not be commercialised,” the forest minister said.The health department declared to have conducted 4,97,276 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 4,22,416 people tested negative, said an official.State currently has 3,661 active containment zones. A total of 18,950 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 71.48 lakh people.So far, 33,674 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,71,915 people have been put under home quarantine.The state government has also constituted a committee to decide minimal rates for Covid-19 at private laboratories which is currently Rs4,500 per test. The four-member committee headed by Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer, State Health Assurance Society, will bargain with the laboratories to reduce the rates as testing kits are now being manufactured in the country. Earlier, the kits had to be imported from different countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-gets-closer-to-75-000-cases-records-biggest-one-day-spike-of-122-deaths/story-2bcxA67HZW9D7GewFlYFtO.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||No trains cancelled, routes of five trains diverted due to cyclone||The Central and Western Railway have not cancelled any passenger train services on account of Cyclone Nisarga, till Wednesday evening. However, routes of five passenger trains were diverted to avoid cyclone-affected areas. The diversion was done mainly on trains on Konkan Railway line following a warning by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), as these trains were operating via Panvel, Vasai Road, Igatpuri, Nashik Road and Kalyan railway stations, all of which were affected due to the cyclone.The route diversion was done from Madgaon, Miraj, Manmad and Pune railway stations.No special arrangement was made for passengers as no changes were made in the originating and terminating railway stations of these trains. The railways said passengers were informed about the diversions by text messages. The trains that have been diverted include Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin, Thiruvananthapuram-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram special, Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam special and Thiruvananthapuram-New Delhi special. In addition, five passenger trains including LTT-Gorakhpur special, LTT- Thiruvananthapuram, LTT- Darbhanga, LTT- Varanasi and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT)-Bhubaneswar special train have been rescheduled for post 6pm on Wednesday. Meanwhile, a tree fall was reported on the suburban railway tracks between Kurla and Vidyavihar railway stations. The fall occurred on Wednesday afternoon due to heavy rainfall and winds owing to Cyclone Nisarga. No damage was reported to trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-trains-cancelled-routes-of-five-trains-diverted-due-to-cyclone/story-pbI8BYQthgPdDkkyWINUxN.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga batters coast in Raigad; four dead, eight hurt||Nisarga, classified as a severe cyclone, killed four people and left a trail of destruction — damaged power-supply lines, roads, houses and trees — with winds gusting up to 100-110kmph across Maharashtra’s coastal districts, mainly Raigad, where it made landfall on Wednesday afternoon.A 58-year-old man died after an electric pole fell on him in Alibag and a tree crushed a 10-year-old boy in Srivardhan, while eight people were injured in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, state officials confirmed, as the cyclone battered not only coastal areas, but even inland tehsils. Later in the evening, officials confirmed the deaths of a 65-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man after the tin sheets over their roofs were blown in separate incidents in Pune district.Across coastal Maharashtra, including in Mumbai, 85,000 people were evacuated from their homes.Maharashtra’s seven coastal districts — Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Thane, Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban and Palghar district will continue to remain on alert till Thursday morning. According to a press statement issued by the state government, the cyclone is near Pune after moving on via Alibag-Mumbai-Thane and is weakening rapidly. “With further deep depression, moderate rainfall in Pune and Nashik districts is expected,” it stated.Cyclone Nisarga made landfall between Srivardhan and Murud areas, south of Alibag tehsil — around 9 nautical miles or 90 km by road from Mumbai — between 12.15pm and 12.30pm on Wednesday, said Nidhi Choudhari, district collector, Raigad, after assessing the preliminary extent of damage with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Wednesday evening. The high intensity of the cyclone was felt most for three hours between 12.30pm and 3.30pm, although it completed landfall within two hours (12.30pm to 2.30 pm). While the India Meteorological Department (IMD) rain data for Alibag between 8.30am and 3.30pm was 51.2 mm, the district administration ‘s data showed 84.3mm rain between 8.30am and 5.30 pm for Alibag, while Ratnagiri, south of the landfall site, recorded 45mm during the same period.Besides the evacuation of 50,000 people in Mumbai and Mumbai Suburban districts, 34,933 were relocated in the five remaining districts — 15,080 in Palghar; 13, 245 in Raigad; 1,387 in Thane; 5,156 in Ratnagiri and 65 in Sindhudurg . Private met forecaster Skymet Weather said it was a close shave for Mumbai. “Our observation is that the impact on Mumbai was less because the landfall location was shifted somewhat south of Alibag. There was only light to moderate rains in Mumbai during and immediately after landfall,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate and meteorology at Skymet Weather.The Raigad district administration estimated at least 10,000 tree-fall incidents across affected areas. Power utilities were shut down through most of the district, while structures with tin roofs blown away by high-speed winds were a common sight across all affected areas. Chaudhari said 58-year old Dasharath Waghmare died after an electric pole fell on him at Umte village in Alibag, while a 10-year boy died after a tree fell on him. Uday Samant, guardian minister, Ratnagiri, said: “Four people, including a woman, were injured in two villages in Ratnagiri district. There are reports of huge damages to houses and structures in a few tehsils, including Mandangad and Dapoli, due to the gusty winds. I have asked the district collector to assess the losses in the next two days and compensate them accordingly,” he said.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar reviewed the situation in the morning with district collectors and the divisional commissioner. Thackeray directed the administration to launch rescue operations and survey the losses. Thackeray later thanked the people of Maharashtra and the state authorities in unitedly facing the crisis. “Even as Maharashtra is battling the Covid-19 crisis, the cyclone stormed its coastal part. The state stood unitedly and successfully to face this challenge. I am sure this unity will help us tide over the Covid-19 crisis too,” he said. Kishorraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation, said, “The alert will stay. There has been considerable damage to properties in Raigad district, compared to the other districts.” “The entire district is cyclone hit as it struck us exactly at Diveagar, and later moved towards Alibag and Pen tehsils. The impact was felt as far as Margaon, Khopoli and Karjat (inland tehsils) where tree and electric lines were badly damaged,” said Chaudhari. “Estimated number of tree falls across Raigad is currently over 10,000 trees as per our preliminary assessment, with Roha, Revdanda and Srivardhan being worst affected. Around 15 trees were badly damaged at my office and residence.”The IMD said the maximum wind speed when the severe cyclone made landfall was 100-120 kmph along the district. Mrutunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, said Raigad was the worst-affected district with maximum impact. “Alibag witnessed 100kmph, while Mumbai (Colaba) and Ratnagiri reported 72kmph and 65kmph,” he said. Mohapatra added that storm surge was also highest for Raigad district with levels ranging between 1.8m to 2m. Maximum storm surge was seen at Alibag and Murud in terms of storm surge and wind speed. Areas like Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri and Palghar witnessed storm surge of 0.8 to 1m.“The severe cyclone has weakened into a cyclonic storm and is expected to further decrease into a deep depression by Wednesday night as it moves its course towards north Maharashtra,” said Mohapatra. “This is the first time in history that IMD had issued a cyclone watch for Maharashtra and Gujarat after a low pressure area had formed in the Arabian Sea as early as March 31. This is not done usually throughout the globe, but we gave both governments enough time to take up management,” added Mohapatra.Meanwhile, NDRF officials said every one kilometre distance in Alibag witnessed two cases of tree fall. “Not only in Alibag, but a similar assessment is being seen across all affected coastal districts. We have identified exact locations where fallen trees are being removed and roads are being connected again. A similar exercise is being done for electric poles. However, the entire restoration process will take at least three days,” said Mahesh Kumar, inspector (in-charge of Alibag), NDRF.While NDRF teams began efforts to remove tree branches and barks fallen on major roads across affected tehsils, district officials were directed to finalise further reports of devastation witnessed in Raigad by the end of the day, and simultaneously tend to damaged infrastructure such as roads and communication lines. “Our appeal to all citizens is that they must not venture out even if the wind speed and rains have calmed. They must not leave their homes, while we carry out rescue relief operations through the night so that there is no loss of human life,” said Choudhari.Raigad district information officer Manoj Sanap said, “We have already cleared fallen trees and power lines along major highways such as Alibag-Pen, Alibag-Revas, Goa Highway up to Sukeli, and Murud to Majgaon.” Mobile services were affected in many tehsils in the coastal districts. Tidal waves measuring up to 6-8 feet lashed parts of coastal areas in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts. Tin roofs of the houses and erected on the terraces of residential, commercial structures flew away in some places in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Palghar districts. Power supply was severely affected in parts of Maharashtra owing to the collapse of electric poles and damage of power lines. According to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), 2,68,000 consumers were affected owing to power cuts in eight different talukas. However, Mumbai largely remained unaffected. MSEDCL is yet to estimate its losses, but officials said that it is expected to be a huge financial burden. District officials in Palghar, Ratnagiri and Thane also ordered forced shutdown of transformers to prevent mishaps.NDRF Maharashtra commandant Anupam Srivastava said that no major flooding was reported in the coastal districts. Owing to gusty winds, lot of trees got uprooted due to which roads were blocked in and around some areas of Alibag. “Houses with tin and thatched roofs suffered major damage,” he said. As of Wednesday, he said NDRF will be stationed in Raigad for five days, but will be relieved from other districts in the next two-three days. A total of 20 teams have been stationed across the seven districts since Tuesday. In view of the extensive damage caused in Raigad, two more teams of NDRF will be deployed in the district. One team each from Mumbai and Thane will be shifted to Raigad for relief measures, said Sachidanand Gawde, second in-command, NDRF, Pune. Food and civil supply minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who is also guardian minister of Nashik, took review of the preparations in district and in North Maharashtra. He directed the administration for the timely evacuation of the people to avoid any losses. Nisarga’s eye (region of calm at the centre of a cyclonic storm) was about 80km in diameter and the size of the cyclone was about 500km as captured by radar, encompassing neighbouring Mumbai and Thane districts, according to IMD.“The cyclone track has been the same as forecast by us. It made landfall south of Alibag. The cyclone’s eye diameter was 80 km—centre of the eye crossed south of Alibag in Raigad but rest of eye crossed neighbouring districts. Of course it passed over Mumbai. We never said that Nisarga will hit Mumbai directly, but Mumbai has been impacted by the severe cyclone,” said M Mohapatra.A ship carrying diesel was stranded near Mirya port in Ratnagiri. “The ship was anchored near Pandhara Samudra, when it received the cyclone alert two days ago. It was stranded as the anchor rope detached and later drifted to the shore because of formation of a huge wave. Thirteen sailors, including three foreigners, have been rescued safely. They will be tested for Covid-19 and quarantined for 14 days. The ship is damaged and expected to remain anchored for at least one month,” Samant said. Ahead of Wednesday’s landfall, a total of 4,407 people had been relocated from the coastal resort town of Alibag.However, a survey of coastal villages by HT’s reporter showed that many people had still not left their homes despite a warning by district authorities. HT spoke to residents of three fishing villages, Siddharth Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Alibag Koliwada, who were still at home on Wednesday morning. Local police was spotted going door-to-door, telling people to evacuate as rain and wind speed intensified marginally around 9.30 am.Meanwhile, Sunita Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD, said, “Unlike Amphan this cyclone didn’t intensify rapidly, while in the ocean, but intensified very quickly when it was only 250 km from the Maharashtra coast as winds picked by 20 to 40kmph early morning on Wednesday and made landfall as a severe cyclonic storm”.“Intensification from a tropical cyclone to a category 1 cyclone in case of Nisarga happened in about 12 hours near the coast,” said Mathew Roxy Koll, climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. His team said that this was the first time after 1998 that a severe cyclonic storm crossed the west coast. The 1998 cyclone had made landfall in Gujarat’s Kandla and killed thousands of people, but didn’t impact Mumbai.It is very unusual for a cyclone to make landfall in or near Mumbai or even on the Maharashtra coast. The storms that form during monsoon onset over Arabian Sea usually move towards Oman. Cyclone Phyan, of a much lower intensity had last impacted these districts in 2009 and even Mumbai had recorded extremely heavy rains. The upper level winds steered Nisarga towards Maharashtra coast.According to IMD, landfall is the event of a tropical cyclone coming onto land after being over water. (with inputs from Jayashree Nandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-batters-coast-in-raigad-four-dead-eight-hurt/story-fOKKW4QMCEEV12pnApAQKM.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 patients with suspected TB are at a higher risk, say doctors||The city’s biggest municipal tuberculosis (TB) facility, Group of Tuberculosis Hospitals, Sewree, has reported 23 Covid-19 cases among suspected TB patients in the last month, with four deaths. For doctors at the hospital, the growing number of such cases has become a cause for worry.Due to their compromised lung condition, TB patients are most vulnerable to Covid-19. But considering the similarities between the two diseases, it is extremely challenging to differentiate between the two. Despite being at higher risk of infection, as HT reported on April 20, treatment of TB patients has taken a back seat due to the pandemic.In the last one month, the Sewri TB hospital has received 23 Covid positive patients with suspected TB. Of these, four, all of whom had previously recovered from TB, succumbed to the infection. An 18-year-old Covid-19 positive woman was the youngest to die at the hospital last week.“As Covid-19 mainly affects the lungs and airways, patients with pulmonary TB are most susceptible to the infection. Their X-rays also show similar clouding and it is extremely difficult to identify the differences,” said Dr Lalit Anande, medical superintendent of the hospital.All four Covid victims had a medical history of TB. “Though all four had recovered, their lungs were still weak and their immunity was low. Thus, they contracted the infection easily. The condition of these patients deteriorates fast, especially if they develop pneumonia. We get just a few hours for their treatment before they collapse,” said Dr Anande.The hospital has created a Covid isolation ward for suspected TB patients. Since the outbreak, the ward has treated 67 patients and 10 of them have been discharged. One 52-year-old TB patient who was on the BEAT (Building Evidence for Advance Treatment against Tuberculosis) clinical trial has also recovered from Covid-19.According to doctors at the TB hospital, vitamin C immunisers have provided new hope for patients. Most of these dosages were donated by Bollywood actor Salman Khan a few months ago, prior to the Covid-19 outbreak.“It acts as an antioxidant and builds immunity among patients. It has helped patients with pneumonia. It is not scientifically proven but we have seen huge improvement among patients,” said Anande. “We need to do more research on vitamin C and include it in the treatment of Covid patients,” she added.Aside from the 23 cases among suspected TB patients, 44 medical staffers have also contracted Covid-19 through cross-transmission. One of the staffers, a class IV employee, succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-patients-with-suspected-tb-are-at-a-higher-risk-say-doctors/story-0Co31OKM91RWtw2BH8OdKN.html
04-06-2020||City||Thane records 25.59mm rainfall due to Cyclone Nisarga||The Thane Municipal Corporation recorded 25.59mm rainfall as Cyclone Nisarga passed over the district. There were no casualties, but waterlogging was reported in some areas near Bhiwandi-Kalyan road and as a preventive measure, there was forced loadshedding in parts of Thane district. Overall, 46 cases of tree fall were reported across Thane city, in places like Charai, Kalwa, Kopri, Khopat. In rural areas within Thane district, 14 incidents of tree fall were reported. Ambernath had 12 incidents of tree fall. There were also two incidents of metal sheets — used as roof over houses — flying off because of strong winds.“As a precautionary measure, we had asked for forced loadshedding within Thane district. There were no casualties. Only a few incidents of treefall, which were handled by local authorities,” said a senior official from Thane District collectorate.Waterlogging was reported from areas near Bhiwandi-Kalyan road. “Buildings in low-lying areas experienced waterlogging on Wednesday afternoon. Some nullahs in the vicinity also started overflowing. Water also entered the ground floor of some buildings,” said Taj Khan, 34, a resident of Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-25-59mm-rainfall-due-to-cyclone-nisarga/story-fozva6MK9UkEWvpZIVCaJP.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport shuts down flight ops for over 4 hours||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) had to close its flight operations for three-and-a-half hours on Wednesday due to adverse wind patterns caused by Cyclone Nisarga.According to airport operator Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), CSMIA handled six arrivals and 24 departures in total (including commercial, repatriation and Vande Bharat flights) on Wednesday before closing operations in the afternoon. Due to the cyclone, the airport was scheduled to handle only 20 commercial flights (eight arrivals and 12 departures) throughout the day. It has been handling 50 flights — 25 departures and arrivals each — daily since flight operations resumed on May 25, as opposed to nearly 950 daily flights before the lockdown was imposed. IndiGo and Vistara cancelled majority of their flights operating to and from Mumbai due to the weather warning. A spokesperson from MIAL said, “CSMIA saw a total of 20 scheduled flights which include 12 departures and 8 arrivals. CSMIA connected to 12 sectors which were operated by five airlines —Air India, AirAsia India, IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir.”“In consultation with AAI (Airports Authority of India), considering the strong crosswinds, it has been decided that no arrivals and departures will take place between 14:30-19:00 hours,” read the MIAL statement. Flight operations, however, resumed at 6pm. In the afternoon, an Ethiopian Airlines flight from Riyadh to Mumbai had to be diverted to Ahmedabad and two Emirates cargo flights returned to Dubai due to poor weather conditions. Similarly, a Jaipur-Pune flight was diverted to Surat. Meanwhile, a FedEx (cargo) flight from Bengaluru to Mumbai overshot the runway at CSMIA around 12pm. A senior airport official said, “Secondary runway was in use from midnight due to wind pattern hence the aircraft landed on runway 14. No injuries or damage to the aircraft was caused in the overshooting of aircraft. It was a minor incident as the aircraft remained in the paved area or the runway-end surface area and no operations were affected.” A MIAL spokesperson said the FedEx flight 5033, an MD11 aircraft, was towed away from the runway and there were no disruption in flight operations.Flight operations at Juhu airport was closed from 12pm which would continue till 8am on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-shuts-down-flight-ops-for-over-4-hours/story-Pq035hJbQhe5TFRpXIvVCN.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||BKC’s Covid-19 facility suffers rain damage; Opposition seeks cost report||While the city escaped a major threat from Cyclone Nisarga, the makeshift Covid-19 hospital at the Bandra-Kurla Complex, constructed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) reportedly suffered damages due to the strong winds coupled with heavy rain on Wednesday.As many as 200 patients were shifted from this Covid-19 hospital to the treatment centre at NSCI Exhibition Centre in Worli and Sion hospital, on Tuesday, a day before the cyclone was expected to make landfall. “We inspected the facility site and only the outer compound wall, made of makeshift material, came off. There was no damage to the interior of the facility,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner.Several videos of the damage caused to the BKC facility were shared on social media on Wednesday, which showed the grounds flooded. MMRDA had constructed the makeshift hospital in 10 days at the MMRDA grounds in BKC for treatment of Covid-19 patients and had handed over the site to the BMC last month.“Admission of patients to the BKC facility can be restarted from Thursday evening. We are also planning another facility which is near the first one. This will also be a 1,000-bedded facility.”On Tuesday, MMRDA tweeted, “After #CycloneNisarg, work restarts for second Covid facility at BKC. Nothing happened to Covid hospital 1 and 2 during Cyclone though as a matter of abundant precaution, patients were shifted.”Opposition leaders are now slamming the authorities over the decision to build the makeshift hospital on open ground.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Ameet Satam has written to MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev, seeking all details of the makeshift structure. “There are several irregularities in this makeshift hospital which the authority is trying to hide,” she wrote. “We have been told that a whopping ₹ 8,000 was spent per square foot to construct this facility. I would request you to give me details of the item-wise cost involved in making the facility and also the details of the contractor who made this facility,” the letter said.On June 2, Kirit Somaiya, former BJP MP, tweeted, “I am upset, yet monsoon to start, BKC corona center just started & now with the worry of monsoon, government compelled to shift all patients of BKC to other places !!!!...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bkc-s-covid-19-facility-suffers-rain-damage-opposition-seeks-cost-report/story-QsQMdAP35Eyh18GJRRRkaI.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||SoBo sees heavy rain, suburbs moderate; IMD may lift alert||As Cyclone Nisarga made landfall between Srivardhan and Murud in Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon, it brought rain and wind to Mumbai. Colaba recorded wind speed of 74 kilometres per hour (kmph) and heavy rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said it may remove the orange alert (for heavy rain warning) for the city on Thursday. IMD has forecast light and moderate rain for Thursday, with a maximum temperature of 26 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 23 degrees Celsius.On Wednesday, IMD recorded “rather heavy” rain (48.9mm) in south Mumbai between 8.30am and 8.30pm, while the suburbs witnessed moderate rainfall (23.6mm). The same trend was seen between 8.30am on Tuesday to 8.30am on Wednesday, with Colaba and Santacruz weather stations recording 45.2mm and 23.4mm rainfall respectively. “Since the path of the cyclone was close to south Mumbai, it rained more in that part of the city compared to the suburbs,” said Nitha Sasidharan, scientist at IMD Mumbai.Mahesh Palawat, vice president (climate and meteorology) at private weather forecast agency Skymet Weather, said, “The cyclone was anticipated to reach north of Mumbai two days ago, but changed track to south of Mumbai. As a result, the intensity of rain was witnessed in the southern part of Mumbai.” He said isolated showers were forecast for Friday, followed by clear skies afterwards.As per IMD’s bulletins, the severe cyclonic storm had weakened into a cyclonic storm and lay centred over interior Maharashtra on Wednesday evening. It had moved northeast-wards at 22kmph and weakened into a deep depression over north Madhya Maharashtra, which is approximately 100 kilometres from Mumbai. At 7.30pm, wind intensity was 55-65kmph, gusting at 75kmph. According to IMD, the deep depression will move northeast-wards and further weaken into a depression over the next 12 hours. Wind forecast for this period of time in coastal Maharashtra and Gujarat is 55-65kmph, gusting at 75kmph. After 12 hours, wind speed is expected to reduce to 40-50kmph, gusting at 60kmph. “As the cyclone trajectory moved in the interiors of Maharashtra, it weakened and ended up in a depression. So while rains will continue because of the cyclonic weather system, the intensity of the winds will reduce,” said Sasidharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sobo-sees-heavy-rain-suburbs-moderate-imd-may-lift-alert/story-9RwNDNF0tbRkvgy8mMXnTN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||No immediate plans to open schools in Punjab: Singla||Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday said there are no immediate plans to open schools in the state.Singla said the state government is focusing on online education, particularly content creation and transmission, through television channels and mobile applications. He said any decision on opening of schools (both government and private) will be taken after assessing the Covid-19 situation.“The safety and security of children is our first priority. We will hold discussion the stakeholders before taking any decision,” Singla said even as the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry started discussions with the states and union territories to formulate the guidelines and standard operating procedures for reopening of schools after Covid-19. Though the school education department has switched to online lessons and tests for students of government schools, there have been several issues, particularly with regard to access, connectivity children belonging to economically weaker families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-immediate-plans-to-open-schools-in-punjab-singla/story-foVNGTanrl6ctjCLX27WwM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: ID, Aarogya Setu a must for interstate bus travel||Haryana government on Wednesday released fresh standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding bus travel wherein it is mandatory for passengers planning to travel on interstate routes to have identity cards and Aarogya Setu app in their phones. Also, the number of passengers in a bus cannot exceed 35. The passengers must carry tickets, either in electronic mode or physical form. An official spokesperson said it must be ensured that the staff and passengers do not show any Covid-19 symptoms. “If any such person is on board, he or she must immediately be deboarded and sent home and the people in contact must be home quarantined for 14 days,” the guidelines stated. While the buses will have to be fully sanitised inside out, bottles of hand sanitiser must be kept inside the buses at all times and must be used by the staff at regular intervals. Everyone would have to wear masks at all times inside the bus as well as on the bus stands. The SOPs also make it mandatory to ensure that all passengers undergo thermal screening while boarding. Any passenger having fever will not be allowed to board the bus and the staff deployed for testing will have to use personal protective equipment (PPE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-id-aarogya-setu-a-must-for-interstate-bus-travel/story-PkJ58dRQfgqPVreiUdTZ4J.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||12 rescued, one fireman injured after high-rise at Mumbai’s Cuffe Parade catches fire||At least 12 persons including two children were rescued on Wednesday as a level one fire broke out on 11th floor of a 20-storey building in Mumbai’s Cuffe Parade.During the operation to douse the fire, one fireman was reported to be injured during and was rushed to the nearest hospital, Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said.The fire was reported at 7.20 at Jal Kiran building on G D Somani Road in Cuffe Parade and was extinguished by 7.50 pm. No injuries were reported due to the incident. According to MFB, all residents had evacuated the building and fire was confined in one flat on 11th floor of the building which was extinguished after the power supply was disconnected.P Rahangdale, Chief Fire Officer said, “Due to smoke logged condition in the building and heat some of the building, residents were stranded on upper floors. From 13th and 14th floor, total 10 persons and 2 children were rescued safely.”“While fire fighting operation and during process of ventilation one fireman had sustained minor injury to his right hand thumb and he was moved to nearest hospital,” Rahangdale added. Meanwhile, the cause of the fire is not known yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-rescued-one-fireman-injured-after-high-rise-at-mumbai-s-cuffe-parade-catches-fire/story-lp8THz3N528HUGprpk9XwM.html
04-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram lifts border curbs, but Capital remains off-bounds||The Gurugram police on Wednesday removed barricades at 11 border crossing points to the national capital and said commuters can now travel between the two cities without any restrictions, days after the Haryana government restricted cross-border travel citing rising Covid-19 cases.Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri issued an order late on Tuesday directing the withdrawal of the restrictions “in view of MHA [ministry of home affairs] guidelines on reopening and unrestricted movement of persons and goods.”The ministry on Saturday released details of the first of a three-phase plan--Unlock 1.0--for lifting stringent restrictions imposed over two months back to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plan removed restrictions on inter- and intra-state travel.But even as the Gurugram police cleared the barricades and de-sealed the Delhi border on their side, Delhi Police officers said their personnel deployed at the borders with Gurugram continued checking motorists for movement passes before letting them in. Checks, however, were conducted only intermittently to avoid snarls and to prevent commuters from being inconvenienced, officers said.“Those who did not have movement passes were stopped from entering Delhi. All essential service providers and government employees were let in after seeing their ID cards or movement passes,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. The Gurugram police checked movement passes until 9.30 am on Wednesday, which led to congestion for nearly 20 minutes before they received orders to remove the barricades.Gurugram police commissioner Muhammad Akil said the deployment of police personnel will continue at the border crossing points to control the traffic movement and congestion.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said the restrictions should be lifted in accordance with MHA guidelines. But after the Delhi government announced on Monday that the Capital’s borders will be sealed for a week, the Gurugram administration on Tuesday said one of the crossing points will remain regulated as per previous orders. It said only pass-holders would be allowed to commute. Later on Tuesday evening, Khatri issued his order. Rohit Agarwal, a software engineer, said he left his home in Delhi on Wednesday and planned to stay in Gurugram for a week. He added he was surprised to find no checking at the border. “The government agencies are confused. Every day they come up with a new plan. It is high time that commuters should be given some clarity on the movement so that we can arrange accordingly.”Another commuter said even police are confused and said they are unaware of any fresh orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ggm-lifts-border-curbs-but-capital-remains-off-bounds/story-JbyRfayDpnTMvCsukAwVKP.html
04-06-2020||City||Policeman saves man from drowning in Ludhiana||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Ludhiana police deputed in the traffic wing rescued a man from drowning on Wednesday. Gurdeep Singh, 52, was on duty near the canal bridge in Doraha, when he received an alert that a man in his mid 20s had jumped into the canal. He rushed to the spot and rescued the man with the help of divers. The man was then taken to a private hospital for treatment.ASI Gurdeep Singh is known to have saved nine others from drowning earlier for which he has received awards from the director general of police.In July 2017, he had rescued three people from drowning in two separate cases. “I constantly patrol alongside the railway crossing to manage traffic, as traffic jams are likely when the railway crossing is closed. While patrolling, I keep an eye on the canal to see if anyone needs help,” the ASI said.“I have formed a team of local divers. We have arranged ropes and tubes for rescuing those who are drowning. After administrating first-aid, we rush them to nearby hospitals,” he added.Gurdeep Singh joined the police in 1989 as constable. He was promoted to ASI in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/policeman-saves-man-from-drowning-in-ludhiana/story-VDz95AZqmjA1YzFcHA05HI.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 302 new cases as state nears 3,000 mark||Haryana registered 302 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, biggest single-day spike so far, pushing the state’s tally to 2,954. As per the state health bulletin, 132 cases were detected in Gurugram, followed by Faridabad (69) and Sonepat (28). While 28 cases surfaced in Narnaul, 10 were reported from Karnal, eight from Ambala and Hisar each, seven from Rohtak, six from Nuh, and one each from Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Bhiwani, Fatehabad, Panipat and Panchkula. So far, 23 people have died of Covid-19 in Haryana with maximum (10) fatalities reported from Faridabad, followed by Gurugram (4), Panipat (3), Ambala (2) and Sonepat, Jind, Karnal and Rohtak (1 each), the state bulletin mentioned. In Ambala, five members of a family, who had returned from Delhi, were tested positive. Two locals with travel history to Qatar and a woman working as a domestic help at the house of a Covid patient, were also found infected. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said those testing positive in the district had a history of travel to other states. He said Karnal has so far registered 69 patients, of whom one has died and 27 have been cured. Undertrial among 10 found infected in MahendergarhA rape accused lodged in Nasebpur jail was among 10 persons who tested positive in Mahendergarh. More than 20 people, including a judicial magistrate and 13 cops, who had come in contact with the undertrial have been placed under home quarantine. Though state bulletin mentioned only limited cases, Rohtak and Sonepat administrations reported total 14 new infections. Four persons, who had returned from Mumbai, were among eight new patients found infected with coronavirus in Hisar. Four cases were detected in Bhiwani as well. Covid patient dies of cardiac arrest at PGIMSA 61-year-old coronavirus patient from Jind’s Pillukhera died of cardiac arrest at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak on Wednesday, said Jind civil surgeon Jai Bhagwan Jattan. He was tested positive on May 31, Jattan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-302-new-cases-as-state-nears-3-000-mark/story-xDEDQr82vU6bMRCWkUqVSM.html
04-06-2020||City||Labourer killed in road mishap on Airport Road in Mohali, one booked||A 45-year-old man was killed after a car hit his bicycle near Aerocity on Airport Road here on Wednesday.The victim was identified as Bhajan Harijan, a resident of Sector 68, Mohali, who was working as a labourer in Aerocity. On Wednesday evening, the victim was riding home on a bicycle while his daughter and son-in-law were behind him on another cycle. A speeding car hit the victim’s cycle from the rear and Bhajan was tossed in the air before falling onto the car’s windshield, the police said. Bhajan sustained severe injuries on his head and other parts of the body. Police said the car driver then drove the victim to a private hospital in Sohana and after admitting him there, fled leaving behind his car. Bhajan was later referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he died in the night.ASI Harjinder Singh, the investigation officer, said, “The car was recovered by the police from the hospital parking, and the accused will be arrested soon.” A case was registered against the accused under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-killed-in-road-mishap-on-airport-road-in-mohali-one-booked/story-b2hkLEdF8u1E5mM3IcCKaO.html
04-06-2020||City||Youth Akali Dal accuses Ludhiana MLA Bains of involvement in paddy seed scam||Accusing Lok Insaaf Party chief and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains of involvement in the spurious paddy seed scam, the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) staged a protest and burnt his effigy here on Wednesday.Demanding a probe into the alleged role of Bains in the scam, YAD chief Gurdeep Singh Gosha said Baljinder Singh Bhundri, a farmer from Bhundri village in Jagraon, who has been arrested in connection with the scam, was a close aide of Bains.Gosha said Bhundri had duped farmers by selling spurious seeds of PR 128 and PR 129 paddy varieties with the alleged support of Bains. He said Bhundri had campaigned for Bains during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Bains, however, refuted the allegation and termed them baseless.Bains said neither he nor his party supported any people involved in fleecing farmers. Stating that he himself was a whistleblower, Bains said he had raised the issue of black marketing of paddy seeds on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-akali-dal-accuses-ludhiana-mla-bains-of-involvement-in-paddy-seed-scam/story-E6ApkjUmoFcE6KKu6LF4VJ.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||28-year-old Chandigarh man arrested with 52 gram heroin||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police on Wednesday arrested a 28-year-old man for possessing 52 grams of heroin at the Airport light point here.The accused was identified as Sahil Verma, alias Kaku, of Sector 45, Chandigarh. The police team was patrolling near the Airport light point when they intercepted a Gray i20 car at around 3.30pm. On checking, the police found a green carry bag containing 52 gram heroin.The police said Sahil, who is unemployed, already has two cases registered against him for rioting and theft. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered. Sahil was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/28-year-old-chandigarh-man-arrested-with-52-gram-heroin/story-3IxzVbBYDFaPBqaBpksgrK.html
04-06-2020||City||No expertise, funds to run Covid centre: Thane housing body||A day after the municipal corporation asked housing societies to set up isolation centres in their premises, the Thane District Cooperative Housing Federation said that it is not feasible.The Thane civic commissioner has asked housing societies to set up Covid care centres in clubhouses and multipurpose halls to isolate asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms. The federation has written to the civic commissioner, saying that club house or halls do not have manpower and equipment for a Covid care centre. The federation said that while housing societies are willing to give space for the centre, they cannot operate it.Sitaram Rane, president of the federation, said, “Housing societies are ready to give clubhouses for a Covid centre. But, they cannot operate it or meet the standard set by the TMC for the centres. The directives have asked societies to hire expert doctors and also pay them. Most societies cannot afford this. The directives also say societies should arrange for oxygen cylinders. If a patient becomes critical, who will be responsible?”He said TMC also wants housing societies to ensure the waste generated at the centre be given to bio-waste treatment centres. Housing societies have no experience in handling bio-waste.“It is unfair to give such a huge and costly responsibility to the residential societies,” said Rane.Some housing societies are willing to implement the directives but with proper guidance.Madhu Menon, member of Hiranandani Estates Residents Welfare Association (HERWA), said, “Residents will be safe and comfortable here than in a stadium or community centre. We have space in the club house and can turn it to a Covid care centre.”Kasber Augustine, founder of Thane Citizen’s Forum, which includes many housing societies, said proper training and guidance should be given to the society members. “We do not have expertise for Covid centres. Residents need to be trained in handling such a centre instead of merely asking the directives to be followed,” said Augustine.The Thane Municipal Corporation said proper guidelines will be issues to housing societies which approach them. A civic official requesting anonymity said, “The housing societies can approach us and we will help them set up the centre and also guide them. With Covid cases increasing, such centres need to be set up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-expertise-funds-to-run-covid-centre-thane-housing-body/story-xtvbazErM7pVYLQoyPds6H.html
04-06-2020||City||Murbad reports three positive cases||First three cases of Covid-19 were found in Murbad region recently after a Thane-based man visited the village to meet his relative. The man was infected with the novel coronavirus, due to which, two of his relatives too contracted the virus. The third person from the village who tested positive, works in Ulhasnagar and visited his village after two months.On May 28 (Thursday), the Thane-based man visited his in-laws, residing in Umroli village of Murbad. He left for Thane the next day, but on Sunday he tested positive for Covid-19. His 38-year-old brother-in-law and 17-year-old son tested positive too.In another case, a 23-year-old man who worked in Ulhasnagar tested positive after he visited his hometown in Ambedkar Nagar, Murbad.Taluka health officer from Murbad confirmed the details and said, “These are the first three cases in Murbad. The family members are quarantined and further precautions have been taken. We have distributed immunity-boosting tablets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murbad-reports-three-positive-cases/story-p5ROnQKKv7F11litfhCStN.html
04-06-2020||Mumbai||Hit-and-run: Nurse killed in accident at Ghatkopar||A 35-year-old nurse was killed in a hit-and-run accident on the Eastern Express Highway (EEH), in Ghatkopar, on Monday night.According to the police, the victim Shehnaz Khan is a resident of Kamraj Nagar, in Ghatkopar (East). Khan was crossing the road near Kamraj Nagar bus stop, after returning from a hospital she worked in when a speeding car hit her. The accident occurred on the north-bound stretch of the highway at 11.45pm. Khan was rushed to Rajawadi Hospital, but she succumbed to her injuries. “We are checking the CCTV footages to find the accused,” said Suhas Kamble, senior police inspector of Pant Nagar police station. The police have registered a hit-and-run case against the unidentified suspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hit-and-run-nurse-killed-in-accident-at-ghatkopar/story-A2zVtPCoVZN47bCabZnQjN.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||Covid norms to shape Delhi’s next Master Plan||Covid-19 norms, including social distancing and better preparedness to tackle pandemics, will be among the key focus areas of the Capital’s next master plan (Master Plan of Delhi-2041) — a blueprint for city’s urban development — prepared by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), according to two people familiar with the matter.DDA has asked the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which has been tasked to draft MPD-2041, to incorporate post-Covid norms while planning for housing, mobility and public spaces in the next master plan. It has also asked NIUA to factor in pandemics and new kind of threats while reworking the city’s disaster management strategy, the people said.A meeting in this regard was held a few days ago between DDA and NIUA officials, said a senior DDA official involved in the master plan preparation who asked not to be named. “The issues that were discussed included incorporating Covid norms in future planning,” he said.Until last year, air pollution topped the focus areas for MPD-2041. However, after the breakout of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), DDA officials said the current challenge also has to be considered while making the master plan. “The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way we live; social distancing and protective gear are the new normal now. Now we will have to rethink about the future development in Delhi keeping in mind the post-Covid norms and the emerging situation,” said the DDA official cited above.Delhi reported 1,513 infections on Wednesday -- the maximum in a day so far -- with the total cases reaching 23,645. With nine more succumbing to the disease in the past 24 hours, the toll was 606, according to the Delhi government’s bulletin.  NIUA, which has to submit the draft of MPD-2041 by December, is currently in the process to finalise the chapters of MPD-2041, which will govern city’s urban planning for the next two decades. “DDA has asked us to review the MPD-2041 preparation incorporating lessons emerging from Covid-19 situation. We have to take into account post-Covid social norms in public spaces, mobility, workplaces and housing while laying out guidelines for city planning,” NIUA director Hitesh Vaidya said.Urban development experts say that housing, commercial spaces, environment, transport or mobility, disaster management, including pandemics, are some of key areas that need to be re-examined in view of the new challenges posed by the Covid pandemic.The Covid-19 pandemic has put the spotlight on disaster management strategy in the master plan, which was largely about earthquakes and floods so far. “Based on the learnings from Covid-19, we should also look into disaster management strategy for Delhi and include this new threat. Till now, the focus has been only on flood and earthquakes,” Vaidya said. In the past two decades, Delhi has witnessed outbreaks of diseases such as dengue, H1N1 (another pandemic in 2010) and now Covid-19. However, the current master plan is silent on pandemics. With Sars-CoV-2 virus bringing parts of the world to a halt, experts say the master plan of big cities should have a chapter on pandemic resilience.“Every city should have a plan to deal with pandemics, we can’t be caught unawares. The master plan should also focus on benchmarking health infrastructure,” said R Srinivas, senior town and country planner, Town and Country Planning Organisation -- an urban planning body under the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Health care infrastructure has to be an integral part of planning, said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, adding that Delhi doesn’t have good secondary level health facilities. “There are dispensaries and then tertiary care centres. There has to be a secondary level of health care facilities that can take the load off tertiary centres. Currently, there is uneven distribution of hospitals. Areas such as Dwarka and Najafgarh don’t have a single big government hospital whereas there are two tertiary care centres in South Delhi—Safdarjung and AIIMS. Similarly, Lok Nayak and GB Pant hospitals are located in close vicinity in central Delhi. The master plan should focus on even distribution of healthcare centres,” said Dr Kishore.Urban planning experts also said that housing, especially for poor, public spaces, and mobility are some of the areas, which will have to be re-imagined while factoring in the realities of the post-Covid world.Slums clusters and densely populated residential neighbourhoods have emerged as hot spots for Covid-19 in the city. At a time when the Centre and the state governments focus on housing for all, they point out that there is also the need to review housing for poor. “While planning for housing, we will have to ensure density management so that it doesn’t lead to crowding, as social distancing has become essential now,” Srinivas said. AK Jain, a former planning commissioner at DDA, said it is also time to focus on Transit Oriented Development (TOD), which is mentioned in the MPD-2021 but hasn’t been implemented, and to increase mixed land use developments. “Work from home has to be encouraged, especially now. There is a need to push for mixed land use developments were 50% of the space is reserved for commercial activity. The main focus of the MPD should be to ensure that a sizeable population can walk or cycle to work. Focus should be on planned densification,” said Jain. Anuj Malhotra, mobility expert and knowledge partner to the high-powered committee of the Union ministry of home affairs, said TOD has become extremely relevant in the post-Covid scenario because it addresses both mobility and housing concerns. “Planned mixed-use development near Metro stations will automatically reduce the number of trips or the need for travel, since it will bring residential and commercial developments in close proximity…TOD is the way forward,” said Malhotra.DDA officials agreed that fixing mobility would be a challenge. The restriction on the number of passengers in buses and other public transport modes to ensure social distancing, transport experts say, provides an excellent opportunity to address the problem of crowding in public transport in one stroke.“Though these are testing times, it is an opportunity to address the issue of crowding in public transport—one of the main reasons why people avoid using it…. We should ensure that the travelling in public transport remain convenient even after things return to normal. This can be done by prioritising public transport lane so that buses can cover more kilometers. Also infrastructure should be built in such a manner that it takes load off public transport by making it easier and safer to cycle or walk,,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, transport at the Centre for Science and Environment. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria said, “The impact pandemics can have on economy and livelihood has become more evident now. Healthcare infrastructure has to be integrated with city planning for better and effective management during pandemics. There is a need to have dedicated setup for outbreak management centres in cities which in normal times can work as regular hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-norms-to-shape-delhi-s-next-master-plan/story-tnXtX2PBuYzPxW3JPEzmqJ.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt forms second Covid-19 advisory body||The Delhi government has constituted a second five-member expert committee to evaluate its preparedness to handle an increase in Covid-19 cases, and suggest measures to augment health infrastructure in the city.The committee is headed by Dr Mahesh Verma who is the vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University and former director of Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences. The panel includes Dr Sunil Kumar, medical director of Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, Dr Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council, Dr RK Gupta, former president of the Delhi Medical Association, and Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director of Max hospital.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageA senior government official confirmed that the first committee, formed on March 27 and headed by Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, continues to function. The two panels will execute separate mandates, the official said.The June 2 order, signed by special health secretary SM Ali, constituting the second committee reads that the panel has to submit a report of its recommendations by Saturday (June 6).“We received the orders on Wednesday itself, and the committee has been called to meet on Thursday,” said Dr Arun Gupta.The formation of the new panel comes at a crucial time when the Delhi government is deliberating if health services in the city should be limited to its residents, and if the city’s borders should remain shut — an issue the committee will also consider. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday asked residents of the Capital to weigh in on these matters, and the government will decide on the course of action by next week.In the meantime, Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remain shut.“The moment we open the borders, people from across the country will come to Delhi for treatment. There are about 9,500 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi; currently, there are only 2,300 patients. The beds will fill up in just two days if patients from across the country come for treatment to Delhi. Should we open the borders? Some say, borders should be opened but the hospitals services should be reserved for those living in Delhi till Covid-19 pandemic,” Kejriwal had said in a press briefing on Monday.“We have been given the mandate to evaluate the available health infrastructure, and suggest what the government should do next. This will include the question of whether or not to restrict Delhi hospitals services to the city’s residents. It is not ethical to deny health services to anyone when beds are vacant. But when they are full and it comes to choosing who gets a bed, how do we decide? The committee’s members will look at what can be done,” said Dr Mahesh Verma.Delhi has been recording around 1,000 cases of Covid-19 everyday for almost a week now. This is the third scenario for which preparedness measures had been suggested by a committee the government had constituted earlier.The Delhi government is in the process of ramping up its bed capacity to around 9,800 by mid-June as per the recommendations of the first committee.The previous committee had been set up in March-end and asked the government to prepare for three scenarios —100 cases a day, 500 cases a day, and 1,000 cases a day. “Delhi can expect to start recording around 2,000 cases a day by next week,” said an expert following the trends, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-forms-second-covid-19-advisory-body/story-Dcmmzv44LEKfAXNsMaSIdK.html
04-06-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Stray dog found dead with injuries after woman attacked for feeding it; FIR lodged||Calling out animal cruelty, animal activists registered an FIR and an investigation after a stray dog was found dead in a Greater Noida high rise with multiple injuries.Police said the blood-soaked body of the dog was found on Sunday, about 10 days after a Chinese national, who used to feed the dog, was attacked allegedly by a resident of the same society for feeding the stray, in ATS Green Paradiso, Greater Noida. The incident took place on May 25, when the Chinese national, who works at an electronic company, was allegedly beaten by Amar Pal Singh (60) with a heavy wooden stick while on a morning walk, because she used to feed a community stray dog that had a fight with the pet of the accused. The accused was arrested and his bail was denied and he was later sent to jail on May 30.While Singh awaits trial at the district court, some locals, who did not wish to be named, later stated that anger against stray dogs, which had been brewing among residents for some time, mounted after Singh’s arrest as many residents are against the presence of strays living the highrise. Following the incident, the animal welfare organisation Peoples for Animal (PFA) submitted a police complaint at the Beta 2 police station, Kasna, Greater Noida on Wednesday. The dog was dead on the main road near the high rise on May 31.“We have started investigation, and an FIR was registered against unknown persons on Tuesday. The body of the dog was found outside the high rise. We are looking into the matter to ascertain if the dog was killed in an accident or was beaten to death,” said Sujeet Upadhyay, station house officer, Beta 2 Police station. He added that the FIR was lodged under sections 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc., of any value or any animal of the value of Rs 50) and 120 B (Punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.The doctor who examined the body of the dog said there were injuries and the report was submitted to the police.“I cannot recall exactly where and how many but there were fractures in the left leg. I submitted the report to the police on Tuesday,” said Dr Karan Patel, a veterinary doctor at the Government Veterinary Hospital in Devla, Greater Noida.Activists at PFA said the canine had suffered multiple injuries.“This is a case of animal cruelty. The medical report showed that the dog received multiple injuries due to blunt force trauma. There were multiple fractures and the body was soaked in blood, dumped outside the high rise. We are sharing several pieces of evidence with the police, including messages which were circulated on the high rise’s WhatsApp groups, claiming that they are throwing the stray out and about only how many strays are still left inside which they are working to “manage” soon. There are witnesses saying that the dog was locked inside a room of the society and the next day it was found dead,” alleged Kaveri Rana, president, PFA, Gautam Budh Nagar.The apartment owners association (AOA), meanwhile, claimed that the dog was killed in a road accident, stating that they have substantial proof to support the claim. They added that the society has a policy of no strays and had been asking residents to feed strays outside the society, near a green area.“The stay in question died on the main Kasna-Agra road after meeting with an accident and we have substantial proof. There is also CCTV footage where the dog can be seen running on the road located right after the greenbelt outside our society. We had also apprised the police about the same,” said Sombir Singh, AOA secretary, ATS Green Paradiso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-stray-dog-found-dead-with-injuries-after-woman-attacked-for-feeding-it-fir-lodged/story-7sODYKrrl4qdDx6GIz3RWJ.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||IGI stadium, Siri Fort sports complex may be turned into extended Covid hospitals||With 1,095 new coronavirus cases being reported daily on an average in the past week, the Delhi government on Wednesday identified Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Siri Fort Sports Complex, the Saket Sports Complex, a private hospital, three hotels and two banquet halls among facilities that can be used as extended Covid-19 hospitals or dedicated care facilities, if the need arises.The government also identified at least 13 additional cremation facilities and four burial grounds for Covid deaths (both confirmed and suspected), showed documents accessed by HT.The national capital on Wednesday reported 1,513 new cases -- the maximum in a day so far -- and nine deaths. The pathogen has so far infected 23,645 in Delhi and killed 606 people, as per Delhi government’s daily bulletin. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageOn Monday, as the government announced a series of measures aimed at reviving business and commerce activities and public transport in the city, it also had issued an order directing district magistrates in all 11 revenue districts of the city to identify suitable accommodation for new patients and land for adding capacity to dispose of bodies at a reasonable distance from residential areas, latest by Wednesday.These directions are part of the government’s augmentation plan that aimed at augmentation of bed capacity in hospitals and space required for burial and cremation.On Wednesday, a senior government official told HT that seven out of 11 districts in the city sought more time for the exercise, with most of them citing space constraints.While two of them – South and South-West districts– could identify additional space for burial or cremation, three – South, West and Central districts -- identified potential Covid healthcare facilities and sent preliminary reports to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.Other than the three sports facilities, the hotels and banquet halls identified by the department are located in neighbourhoods that include Chhatarpur, Bhatti Road and Hari Nagar. The private hospital is located in south Delhi’s Madangir, the documents showed. As per the documents, the cremation and burial grounds have been identified in areas that include Aya Nagar, Sultanpur, Chhatarpur, Lado Sarai, Asola and Dwarka.Shashi Kaushal, District Magistrate (north-east), said that there is no additional space in the district where bed augmentation can be planned. “We are short of space to arrange additional beds. However, we are exploring locations for additional graveyards,” Kaushal said.According to data compiled by the Census and the Delhi government, the north-east district comprises only 4% of Delhi’s land area but it is inhabited by more than 13% of the city’s population.The neighbouring districts of Shahdara and East Delhi are equally congested.“We don’t have large empty spaces where such facilities could be developed. There are small community halls where only 20-25 beds can be arranged, which serves no purpose. However, for burial grounds, we are searching for some empty land near Mandoli Jail but till now we have not identified any site,” said Sanjeev Kumar, district magistrate (Shahdara).These districts have a few banquet halls and air-conditioned multipurpose halls but there are issues too, an official in the district administration.“While some of them are not adequately separated by a populous area, the owners of some others are not ready to allow their properties being used for the purpose. We are trying to make them understand the concerns,” said a senior official in the revenue department.An official in the office of New Delhi district magistrate said that they received the DDMA order on Tuesday and issued necessary instructions. “All SDMs were instructed on Tuesday to find additional spaces to accommodate more beds and also for burial grounds. The process is going on and it will take 2-3 days to identify such locations. Our priority is that such places should be away from the residential areas,” the official said.Deepak Shinde, DM north, said, “We have initiated the process. No location has been finalised yet.” Shinde, however, did not explain why the district administration is facing difficulties in finding space.The DDMA officials, however, did not clarify how much additional time could be given to the district officials to finish the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/igi-stadium-siri-fort-sports-complex-may-be-turned-into-extended-covid-hospitals/story-HkHvQtf0QL9IohCoUVD1hO.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||Seven days’ home isolation mandatory for all asymptomatic individuals arriving in Delhi||The Delhi government on Wednesday issued an order making seven days’ home isolation mandatory for all asymptomatic individuals arriving in the city via planes and trains. Interstate buses are yet to resume operations in Delhi.Earlier, asymptomatic individuals arriving in the city were let off but “advised” to update the district surveillance officers about their health regularly for 14 days, as per the last government order on domestic travel issued on May 24.For symptomatic individuals, the old rule continues—immediate Covid testing on arrival, institutional quarantining till the result is out, moving to a hospital or a Covid Care Centre depending on symptoms if positive, and home isolation for 14 days in case of a negative result.“We have taken this decision for aggressive Covid management,” Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Since May 28, Delhi has recorded over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day.“In partial modification of the order issued on May 24… All asymptomatic passengers who enter or de-board in Delhi shall home quarantine themselves for 7 days, in place of 14 days’ self-monitoring of health [sic],” read the order which HT has seen.It further directs airport, railway and transport authorities to provide daily passenger details to the office of the health secretary who has further been directed to share them with district magistrates of all 11 revenue districts in the city so that they can engage teams to help and monitor each home quarantine case.The rule would apply to buses too if interstate road operations resume before further orders are issued.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has maintained that chances of an increase in cases are likely with the government further relaxing lockdown norms from this week, but Delhi’s health infrastructure is prepared for a higher caseload, even as he insisted that people with mild symptoms or no symptoms opt for home isolation and adhere to doctors’ advice.Currently, Delhi has more than 7,500 people in home isolation, compared to around 3,000 patients admitted to hospitals.Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, welcomed the initiative saying, “It can be an effective strategy to fight Covid-19. In fact, this rule should have been enforced on all arrivals after the pandemic broke out and India was yet to implement a lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/seven-days-home-isolation-mandatory-for-all-asymptomatic-individuals-arriving-in-delhi/story-jWvsnySu7VX9ao6mV0iF5H.html
04-06-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar records 25 new Coronavirus cases||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 25 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 521 in the district. Apart from this, there are 32 other patients, who are cross-notified to other states and neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh. Of the new cases on Wednesday, five are from sector 31 and four are from sector 30. “Of 521 positive cases till Wednesday evening, 348 patients have been discharged from different hospitals, eight patients have so far succumbed to the virus and 32 have been cross-notified from other districts and states. As a result, the district now has only 165 active cases,” said district surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre.Dr Dohre further said that four patients – two each from Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Postgraduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) – were discharged on Wednesday, after being cured.He further said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Sunday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 762 patients were screened today and 15 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Of the 32 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the district surveillance officer said that while 13 of them are from Delhi, one patient each is from West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, who have also been found cross-notified in the GB Nagar district. “While three patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 14 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including six from Bulandshahr, five from Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-records-25-new-cases/story-WdLUSpePiQYfUIUjlpadrL.html
04-06-2020||Noida||Covid-19: GB Nagar’s recovery rate is better than other districts sharing borders with Delhi||Gautam Budh Nagar has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 69.75% till Tuesday evening, which is the number of patients cured of infectious disease out of the total infections expressed in percentage, the highest among all districts that border Delhi.According to the figures issued by the district till Tuesday evening, 346 out of 496 Covid-19 patients were cured. Among the other districts that borders the national capital, Ghaziabad came in next with 62.9% (217 out of 345 cases), followed by Haryana’s Sonepat at 63.5% (144 out of 233 cases). Gurugram had the lowest rate at 26.7% (288 out of 1,063 cases) and Faridabad was at 34.8% (169 out of 485).Nationally, this figure is at 48.2%.With the district reporting eight deaths, the fatality rate is 1.41%, better than the national rate of 2.8%. Even in terms of weekly growth rate of Covid-19 positive cases, GB Nagar, till Tuesday evening, had the lowest rate of increase at 35.51%, followed by Sonepat (53.65%) and Ghaziabad (70.30%). Gurugram had the maximum growth rate at 227% while Faridabad recorded 107%. A 100% growth rate means that the cases doubled every seven days. Nationally, the doubling rate is 14 days.Gautam Budh Nagar district was one of the worst affected districts in India, when Covid-19 had begun its march in the country. By the second week of April, the district had 68 cases, the most in Uttar Pradesh with 41 linked to a firm base out of Sector 135.GB Nagar district magistrate (DM) Suhas LY credits the strategic approach adopted by his team of doctors and officials. “Initially, we focused on early identification of the disease, through active and passive surveillance. Then, we started contact tracing, followed by quarantine of all suspected high-risk cases. We also laid stress on ensuring proper isolation of positive cases and containment activity. And above all, we never forgot to ensure adequate sanitization and social distancing norms. All these activities have been effective in controlling the spread of disease in the district,” he said.He added that the district health officials were asked to aggressively test people for the coronavirus. “As a result, the testing index of our district is much better than the national index. While the national figure of samples taken is 1820 per million population, in GB Nagar the samples taken per million population is 4623,” he said.Suhas further said that so far 10,958 samples have been collected in the district, of which 496 tested Covid-19 positive. “While the sample positivity rate in the district is 4.74%, active cases per lakh population in GB Nagar is only 6.11. Also, the Covid-19 case doubling rate in the district is 19.14 days, which is much better than the national doubling rate of 14 days. Also, we have active cases per lakh population is 6.11, which is much better than the national index of 9.7,” he said.Brisbane-based virologist, Dr. Pranav Kumar, who was earlier with a Delhi-based hospital, said that the figures suggested that timely testing and co-ordination between the administrative and health officials. “Often there is a big gap between the reports and medication in India. But, the administration seems following up at every point in GB Nagar district,” he said over phone.Dr. Vivek Gupta, a virologist in Goverment Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), said that administration and health officials are keeping a round-the-clock watch on right from testing to discharge of patients. “Perhaps, this has made the difference,” he said.Delhi witnessed 1,513 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 23,645 . At least 606 people have succumbed to the virus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-gb-nagar-s-recovery-rate-is-better-than-other-districts-sharing-borders-with-delhi/story-tf5khIMWrTCaR2EJg8jyCJ.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||No more Shramik Specials, remaining migrants may take buses back home||The Delhi government on Wednesday said it was unlikely to run any more Shramik Special trains for the time being, as most stranded migrant workers had left in the past month, while the others had decided to stay back as lockdown restrictions were slowly being eased and the economy was opening up, government officials said.The officials said there were too few requests from migrants now to run special trains.Following the uncertainty over the next Shramik Special from Delhi, the few remaining migrants wanting to return home are now pooling in their savings to hire private buses or taking help of NGOs.According to data shared by the Delhi government, of the 4,50,000 migrants who had applied, around 3,10,000 had been sent back free of cost to 16 states so far, in 237 special trains. The officials said 90% of these trains, which were run under a special arrangement between state governments, were bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The remaining were destined to Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, and Odisha. There was a train for Tamil Nadu as well. The government had also arranged 683 buses to send 12,804 migrants to their home states. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the government has sent all registered migrants and also those who had come to their screening centres without registration, to their home states in the trains. Confirming that there might be no more Shramik trains from Delhi now, he said, “We may send more people only if they come forward.” An Indian Railways ministry official also confirmed that the last Shramik special train from Delhi was for Bihar on Sunday. ”No Shramik trains are scheduled as of now from Delhi. There is no demand from the Delhi government as of now,” the official said. A senior government official, however, said they might arrange buses for migrants willing to go back home next. “Some migrants from different states are still willing to go home and have applied for Shramik trains. But it won’t be possible to send them on trains since their number is too low and they are from different destinations. The most efficient way now will be to send them home on buses,” the official said.Officials also said that a number of people who had applied for special trains had decided to stay back also . “The government even tried to contact those who had registered and did not turn up for screening. Many said they had found work in Delhi and had decided to stay back,” a senior official said.One such migrant who decided to stay back is Ranjeet Kumar (39), who used to work at a clothes and bags shop in Karol Bagh. He said he had registered for a Shramik train to Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, but last week got a call from his employer asking him to come back to work. “I wanted to leave, as there was no work and I had no money to send home. I had planned to go back and become a labourer in my village. But my owner called me right before i left to say he is short staffed and promised to pay me extra. So, I changed my mind,” he said.Also read: Documenting the story of India’s migrant distress | AnalysisOn Wednesday, groups of migrants could still be seen outside government screening centres and railway stations inquiring about Shramik trains. On Monday afternoon, Asif, 27, had reached a screening centre in Lajpat Nagar, along five others, to inquire about a train to Bihar. The group, Asif said, works at a construction site in Sarai Kale Khan. “Work has resumed at the site but now the working hours are less and so is the income. We have spent whatever we had saved in the last two and a half months. We have now decided to go home. Someone told us that we can get a ticket from here, but we were told here that there are no more trains,” he said.Meanwhile, around 260 migrants from Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and UP, are looking at NGOs to help arrange buses to take them home..Sunil Kumar Aledia, founder, Centre for Holistic Development (CHD), an NGO that works for the homeless, said that they have arranged for seven buses to take 169 migrants to various districts of Bihar on Wednesday. “We have been getting requests from a number of people from different parts of the city, who were still stuck and have no money to arrange for their travels. We sought help from south district authorities for thermal screening of these people at the Chhatarpur centre, after which they will be made to board the buses,” he said. B M Mishra, district magistrate (South), said, “All the stranded migrants from the district have been sent home. Some NGOs asked us for support for helping with the screening of migrants from different parts of the city and we will pitch in whatever ways we can.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-more-shramik-specials-remaining-migrants-may-take-buses-back-home/story-32wTbdoilRPqqwkBylW1BK.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||Constable dies of lung ailment, result of Covid test yet to arrive||A 32-year-old Delhi Police constable died during treatment at the Safdarjung Hospital early Wednesday morning, a day after he was admitted there for a lung ailment, the police said. As per the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol, the constable was tested for the virus on Wednesday itself and the report is yet to arrive, senior police officers said.The constable, Rahul (known by his first name), was posted in the office of the deputy commissioner of police (northeast) in Welcome area. He had joined the force in 2010. He was suffering from a lung disease for nearly a year and had been on medical leave for the past several months. Almost 85% of his lungs were not functioning, DCP (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said.DCP Surya said that the constable was first admitted to a tuberculosis (TB) hospital in south Delhi’s Mehrauli two days ago. On Tuesday, his condition deteriorated, after which he was tested for Covid-19 at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and he was later shifted to Safdarjung Hospital, the DCP said.“He died during treatment early Wednesday morning. His medical reports to ascertain if he was suffering from tuberculosis or infected with Covid-19 are awaited,” a police officer, who did not want to be identified, said.The constable was from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh.Three police personnel, including two assistant sub-inspectors, have died of Covid-19 so far. More than 500 personnel have tested positive for the virus and the number is increasing every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/constable-dies-of-lung-ailment-result-of-covid-test-yet-to-arrive/story-BnYgdrf7z9BQYB2HJoE2nL.html
04-06-2020||Delhi||Huge gridlock at UP-Delhi border as cops intensify checking, barricade e-way||Thousands of commuters were stranded for hours in a huge gridlock at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border on Wednesday owing to stricter checking by the police and the barricading of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway that diverted all traffic to a single carriageway towards Delhi. The snarls, commuters say, began around 9am and led to long tailbacks that stretched even into the internal roads of Ghaziabad. The problem was further compounded by toll collection from commercial vehicles on the same road where the police check posts were placed. Hundreds of motorists took over 40 minutes to cross the Ghazipur border. The congestion finally cleared up by 2pm, after the Delhi Police eased up on checks.On Monday, the Delhi government had sealed the national capital borders to protect its health care resources even as Covid-19 cases in the city crossed the 20,000-mark. Ghaziabad had placed similar restrictions since April 22, citing a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district which were linked to residents who had travelled to Delhi.On Tuesday, the police had gone easy on the checking, allowing into Delhi almost everyone. The scene, however, was different on Wednesday. Early morning, police placed concrete bollards on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, blocking the entry of vehicles into Delhi. Motorists coming from Meerut, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Raj Nagar and even Noida, found themselves stuck in long snarls, as the entire traffic was redirected to a single carriageway to Delhi.“I had to reach the Supreme Court for urgent work and got stuck in the jam for almost an hour. There was a long queue of vehicles ahead of me,” Shashi Shekhar, an advocate from Indirapuram, said.Both Delhi and Uttar Pradesh police personnel deployed at the border blamed each other for blocking the expressway flyover. But that was not the end of the commuters’ woes. Below the flyover, the police placed barricades and opened only one lane to motorists.While the move allowed the police to check the passes of a large number of motorists entering Delhi, it caused a bottleneck and resulted in the jam getting longer.The Ghaziabad police said the checking of vehicles by the Delhi Police led to the jams. “The Delhi Police were checking vehicles, slowing down traffic. We had long queues on the Ghaziabad side. On our side, we were checking vehicles entering Ghaziabad from Delhi,” Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram), said.Among vehicles stranded in the gridlock were ambulances destined for Delhi.“I am carrying a critical patient to AIIMS from UP’s Sambhal. Our entire journey till Indirapuram was smooth. But from there onwards, the traffic was thick. We got stuck in the jam for more than 45 minutes,” the ambulance driver, who refused to share his name, said.“I have a train to catch to my hometown in Uttar Pradesh from New Delhi railway station. I may miss the train if I am stuck in the jam for another 15-20 minutes,” Navin Verma, a student travelling in an auto-rickshaw from Noida’s Secto 58, said.When the situation threatened to go out of control, around 11am, the police decided to lift the barricades and let vehicles pass through without any checking. The Expressway flyover, however, continued to remain blocked. The chaos continued till around 2pm, after which the police relaxed the checking to avoid further congestion.“Initially, we were only checking vehicles intermittently to spare commuters the inconvenience. But when many complaints were received that no checking was being done at the border, we put up barricades and increased the checking. That caused long snarls. Later, we relaxed the checking to avoid further congestion,” deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/huge-gridlock-at-up-delhi-border-as-cops-intensify-checking-barricade-e-way/story-dR2y6jTgVGxVBq5dOaTBSM.html
04-06-2020||Gurugram||Public spaces to be made friendly for pedestrians, informal sector workers||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to no longer undertake road expansion projects within its jurisdiction, and to instead utilise available space along arterial roads for walking paths, cycling tracks and green belts, authority chief VS Kundu said Wednesday. Speaking at a webinar titled ‘Active Mobility Post Lockdown’, Kundu said though it had been decided earlier this year to halt the expansion of carriageways, the lockdown has ensured there is no going back on the same, and strengthened the GMDA’s resolve to make streets more accessible. The GMDA chief said that the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has had an unprecedented impact on disrupting mobility in the city, as well as posed as a setback for the enhancement of public transport systems in Gurugram. “With the decrease in traffic during the national lockdown, imposed to control the virus’ outbreak, and seeing the need for social distancing, there is no need to expand roads any further. Instead, we will be utilising the same space to create facilities to ease movements of pedestrians and cyclists. This will hopefully offset the increase in use of private vehicles, which we are anticipating,” Kundu said.He added that the GMDA’s comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) for Gurugram, which was delayed due to the lockdown, will now be put through another round of public feedback. “We appeal to experts to help us devise a mobility plan in line with the demands of a rapidly changing world,” Kundu told HT over the phone after the webinar. Organised by the World Resources Institute (India), in partnership with The Raahgiri Foundation, the GMDA and the National Institute of Urban Affairs, the webinar featured transport entrepreneurs, urban planners and administrators. Among the range of topics discussed were changing public mobility trends in the wake of Covid-19 and the need to plan sustainable transport systems that can ensure social distancing, as economies around the world open up. “The irony is that Gurugram, which is where the Raahgiri movement of car-free streets began, has not been able to accommodate the demands of pedestrian-friendly mobility and equitable streets. The lockdown presents a challenge to mobility, as we anticipate an increasing preference for private vehicles in a post-Covid world. But at the same time, we also need to reallocate street space so that those who can work from home continue to do so, while the informal economy is given space to come out onto the streets, where they make their living,” Kundu said, addressing the panel. However, he and other experts on the panel agreed that for a city like Gurugram, this poses an almost insurmountable challenge. According to Robin Chase, a transport entrepreneur based in the US, “Indian cities will have to deal with large sections of the informal economy coming back as streets open up. We urgently need to create spaces for them, and we need to reallocate space away from cars and reserve them for micro-mobility such as electric scooters, which can enable social distancing. The lockdown is a grey area in which these negotiations can be revisited,” said Chase.In agreement with this statement, Kundu added, “It will be a challenge for Gurugram. I don’t mean to be pessimistic, but you have to consider that an entire section of the population cannot switch to sustainable transport within the next few months. We have to do this in a phased manner.” Other experts said that the link between transport advocacy and health advocacy has become much clearer in the wake of the pandemic, which is caused by a respiratory pathogen. Margarita Parra from the Silicon Valley Bike Association pointed out that adopting cleaner means of transportation is imperative. “Early evidence does suggest that poor air quality puts people at a higher risk of mortality due to Covid-19. So we need to act now to reduce vehicular emissions.” This view was echoed by National Institute of Urban director Affairs Hitesh Vaidya, who said the real key is in getting the middle class to change their habits. He pointed out that in order to maintain social distancing, metro and bus services would have to run at between five to seven times their previous capacity, which may not be practically feasible. “This presents two scenarios. Indian cities like Delhi and Gurugram can either make a conscientious shift toward improving walking and cycling infrastructure, thereby reducing dependency on diminished public transport, as cities like London, Bogota, Milan and New York are doing, or it could result in a forced shift to private vehicles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/public-spaces-to-be-made-friendly-for-pedestrians-informal-sector-workers/story-pdD3889zFxh36zBrW1FMHI.html
04-06-2020||Noida||Mild earthquake shakes Noida, epicenter in Greater Noida||A low intensity earthquake measuring 3.2 on the Richter scale struck Noida in Uttar Pradesh late Wednesday night according to information released by the National Centre for Seismology. The earthquake, recorded at 42 minutes past 10 pm, struck 19 km south east of Noida at a depth of around 3.8 km, said NCS.The earthquake’s epicenter was close to Greater Noida in Gautam Budha Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh and its latitude and longitude was recorded as 28.4015 and 77.5185 respectively.This is the latest in a series of earthquakes to hit the NCR region recently. On May 30, a 4.5 magnitude earthquake had hit Haryana’s Rohtak, around 65 km from Delhi, with its epicentre at a depth of 5 km and two earthquakes had hit Delhi on two consecutive days on April 13 and 12. The tremor on April 13 was described as mild with 2.7 magnitude. It was epicentred at a depth of 5 km in northeast Delhi’s Sonia Vihar. The jolt on April 12 was also epicentred at the same location at a depth of 8 km and measured 3.5 on the Richter scale. Another temblor of 3.4 magnitude had hit Delhi on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/earthquake-of-magnitude-3-2-hits-19km-south-east-of-noida/story-LA4ys95SMwDpP82lKoylFM.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Air Marshal B Suresh inspects Halwara air force station||Air Marshal B Suresh, Air Officer Commanding in Chief (AOC-in-C), Western Air Command, visited the Air Force Station, Halwara, on Wednesday. He was received by Air Commodore A Bhadra, Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Air Force Station, Halwara.During his visit, the AOC-in-C inspected vital installations of the base and assessed operational preparedness.He reviewed the measures taken to deal with Covid-19 pandemic. The AOC-in-C said, “Besides, the pandemic, we are also facing security threats from neighbouring countries.”He emphasised the importance of ensuring operational capability through diligent planning and utilisation of resources during these challenging times.The AOC-in-C lauded excellent involvement and commitment to duty of all personnel of the station and advised them to stay fit and be vigilant considering the current security scenario.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-marshal-b-suresh-inspects-halwara-air-force-station/story-oSzRE34Zc7u9aXfYplgORJ.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 1 in Ludhiana: 7,700 people fined ₹15 lakh for spitting, not wearing mask in public||Challans issued to Covid-19 lockdown violators have fetched the district administration Rs 50 lakh so far. Of this, challans worth Rs 15.18 lakh were issued on June 2.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said a total of 5,563 challans worth Rs 12.9 lakh were issued to people not wearing masks and 2,171 people were fined a total of Rs 2.2 lakh for spitting in public. Two others were fined Rs 1,000 each for found violating home quarantine rules.Agrawal said stepping out of home without wearing a face mask or spitting in public will lead to a fine of Rs 500. These challans can be issued by SDMs, tehsildars, naib tehsildars, sub-registrars, police officials or gazetted officials. He said the amount collected from challans was being deposited at the civil surgeon’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/challans-worth-more-than-rs-50-lakh-issued-during-unlock-1-0-in-ludhiana/story-swveZEyLnczks9qv1uoY9I.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Cyclone Nisarga: Rain, strong wind hit city, two die in Pune district||Pune, along with other districts in western Maharashtra, felt the force of Cyclone Nisarga on Wednesday, as rains and gusty winds resulted in the death of two persons, along with trees falling damage to some properties.According to the district disaster management committee, 52-year old Prakash Bhokar died in Haveli taluka when he tried to prevent the tin shed of his house blowing away.The other death, that of Manjabai Navale, 65, took place in Khed, after the wall of a house collapsed. Five people were injured in the Khed incident.Three cattle also died of electric shock as the rains and winds damaged the power network in Mulshi taluka, as per information released by the administration. There were reports of trees falling, tin sheds being blown away and electric poles collapsing across Pune district, as the cyclone moved further towards north Maharashtra after making landfall on the Konkan cost on Wednesday.Pune, Satara and Kolhapur, - three districts in the Western ghats - witnessed incessant rainfall since Tuesday evening.In Pune district, widespread rains lashed the city as Maval, Mulshi, Junnar, Manchar and Velhe talukas also reported a large number of incidents involving trees being uprooted and tin sheds of houses being blown away.Other areas like Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli also witnessed rainfall.According Pune Zilla Parishad chief executive officer, as many as 102 small and big incidents of damage to houses were reported from multiple parts.“As we had moved people from risky places to safer ones, large damage was averted,” ZP CEO Ayush Prasad said.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “Even as the cyclone passed through north Maharashtra after making landfall on the Konkan cost, parts of Pune district witnessed its effect. Areas such as Ambegaon, Junnar, Maval, Bhor, Khed, Velhe and Mulshi talukas witnessed the severity of the cyclone.”Moderate rainfall forecast on ThursdayThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Shivajinagar in Pune witnessed 64 mm of rainfall and Pashan recorded 75 mm rainfall in the past 36 hours since Tuesday morning till Wednesday 5 pm.Anupam Kashyapi, IMD Pune’s director, said the effect of the cyclone will abate by Wednesday night, even as parts of western Maharashtra including Pune will witness moderate rainfall on Thursday. “The impact of storm is likely to last in Pune district till 8:30 pm and by 11:30 pm it will subside. On Thursday, moderate rainfall is expected,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-nisarga-two-dead-as-heavy-rainfall-strong-winds-hit-pune-western-maharashtra/story-gCFBuPs4hPVCo6ijWi2teP.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Pune civic body adds 10k more beds; pvt hospitals admit patients as per capped price||PUNE Two weeks after the state government issued an order of acquiring 80 per cent beds in private hospitals to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, Pune’s overall capacity of beds has increased by at least 10,000 beds.According to officials, the civic body has started the process of acquiring 80 per cent beds from private hospitals. These include 7,185 isolation beds, 2,415 isolation beds with oxygen facility and 384 ventilators for the treatment of people affected with Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.On May 21, the Maharashtra government issued an order to cap prices on beds and ventilators. The price regulation is for 80 per cent of beds for Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients on first come, first served basis. As per the data compiled by PMC, private hospitals have 8,982 isolation beds, 3,091 isolation beds with oxygen and 480 ventilators and the process to acquire these has begun.Out of these, as of June 2, price regulation has been imposed on 3,674 operational beds. The civic body would get 1,981 wall oxygen supply beds and 2,385 beds without wall oxygen supply. In addition, the regulated prices mean 848 more oxygen cylinders, 536 ICU beds and 279 ventilators available for patient treatment at regulated prices.Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner, said, “The state government order is applicable to all private hospitals since the date of the order issued. We have also intimated to them about the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (MESMA), 2017, and we will ensure that private hospitals follow the capping of price on 80 per cent of beds through our health department.”“We have also asked private hospitals to fill up information on dashboard on the number of isolation beds, ICU facility and ventilators,” said Gaikwad.Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Sahyadri Hospital, said, “The notification says that 80 per cent of beds and ventilators will be charged as per the capped rate and prices should be displayed for transparency for patients. The beds will be allowed for both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients so that their treatment is not hampered.”“We have started admitting patients as per the new capped price on first come, first served basis,” he added.The capped price range from Rs 4,000-Rs 9,000 for beds depending on the patient’s medical condition. As per the civic body’s projections, the city will fall short of ventilators and ICU by June-end if the estimated count of patients reaches around 22,000.As per the civic body’s projection, the count is estimated to touch 22,940 cases as of June 30 and the number of active cases by June end would reach 9,743 which would lead to a shortfall of 162 ICU beds and 34 ventilators by the month-end.As of June 2, the civic body has 61 Covid facilities, which have 15,512 isolation beds, 15,484 isolation beds without oxygen and 2,512 isolation beds with oxygen, 580 ICU beds and 288 ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-adds-10k-additional-beds-pvt-hospitals-admit-patients-as-per-capped-price/story-8QxVVXK3i0ptPSUlw0FVbN.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Housing societies face waterlogging due to heavy rains in Pune||With heavy rains lashing the city overnight, many housing societies in Wadgaonsheri area had to deal with waterlogging. The city is receiving rains since Tuesday evening due to the cyclonic storm Nisarga.Water has entered the parking areas of societies like Somnathnagar, Subprabhat society, Ujwal Garden society and Anand Heights causing inconvenience to residents. Some people have said that water has even touched ground floor flats leaving people in a state of panic and reminding them of the non-seasonal rains that created havoc in November 2019.“Due to heavy rains today at Wadgaonsheri there was water accumulated in various societies and houses. Took take (sic) attention I made a video call to PMC Commissioner to show exact situation & made him speak with citizens for understanding their problems,” tweeted Sunil Tingre, Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) of WadgaonsheriMLA Tingre and his party members also helped a senior woman who was stuck at her house at Ujwal Garden society.“It is a common situation in this area. Last year also we faced a lot of problem due to rains,” said Mohan Jadhav, resident of Wadgaonsheri.With the cyclone expected to hit Pune region, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “To deal with the cyclone, Pune district administration has prepared rescue plan for hilly areas of the district. We have issued alert to hilly areas such as Ambegaon, Junnar, Maval, Bhor, Velhe and Mulshi talukas where severity of cyclone is likely to be felt. We have also prepared evacuation plans if required in these areas. People have been asked not to go out of homes.”Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Only the areas at Wadgaonsheri faced flood issues due to rains on Tuesday. The housing societies here are located in low-lying areas and face waterlogging issues during monsoons. PMC staff have been instructed to visit the spot and take preventive measures and they are already on the job. Despite the Covid-19 situation, the municipal administration has almost completed 90 per cent of pre-monsoon work in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housing-societies-face-waterlogging-due-to-heavy-rains-in-pune/story-jkyetqhEqxdLK0hmBhNH8M.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s wonder girl cover drives past lockdown to win cricketing hearts||For Pune’s six and a half-year-old Swara Gurav, the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be a reason to stop cricket practice - the game that she deeply loves. Gurav is using her vacation time by practicing at home and practicing inside a wedding hall. Before the lockdown, she travelled for 65 kilometres on the weekend to play in Pune. “I love to come to Pune and play cricket. Monday is my off day while other days I am practising for one-and –a-half hours. Since there are holidays, I practice in the morning and evening. My favourite player is MS Dhoni,” Swara Gurav said.Gurav is too young to play professionally, but her footwork and stance have already impressed international players and coaches. A video on Twitter featuring Gurav brought praise from Mike Hesson, Royal Challengers Bangalore coach, former India captain Mithali Raj and Jemimah Rodrigues.India A cricketer Tejal Hasabnis who is currently enjoying lockdown at her home said, “Special kid, very skillful, I just wish while growing up she will enjoy what she is doing right now and we shouldn’t be surprised if we see her taking this sport professionally.”Ambade village doesn’t have a ground to practice, but Gurav’s father Sachin Gurav, who is a priest at a temple there, is making all the arrangements for her.“Since the age of three, Swara had very good catching skills. I used to throw a plastic ball at her and she used to catch it. From that point, this journey began,” said Sachin Gurav, who used to play for his village team.Sachin’s financial condition never allowed him to make progress in sports, but for her daughter, he already has a plan ready.“At the age of four-and-a-half she used to play with a tennis ball. I started to take her to Bhor to train under Vishwajeet Tarv who runs a small academy with 35 players at the Jijau Mata school ground in Bhor,” Sachin added.Gurav started to groom under Tarv, where she learned the basics of the cricket game.“Right from her initial days, Swara was a quick learner, whatever is told to her she used to grasp it quickly,” Tarv said.Along with this, Gurav’s father began giving her practice at a wedding hall.“I have installed nets at the wedding hall where I only bowl at her. I keep taking guidance from her coaches Tarv sir and Ganesh Gaikwad sir from Azam Campus,” added Sachin.Training in PuneSince the last six months, every weekend Gurav is training at the Azam Campus, Camp, under Ganesh Gaikwad, head coach at Azam Campus.“I started training her with hanging balls drills and all the basic drills. Her ball sense is one thing which is the most impressive when to come on the front foot and when to go on back foot she knows it perfectly,” explains Gaikwad.“I must say she is a natural talent, gradually we have started throwing down leather balls at her and she has all the potential to become a good cricketer” added Gaikwad.It is just the beginning for his daughter and Sachin Gurav knows a lot more hard work and dedication will make his daughter a player for the future.“Swara still has two years to focus on basics. I hope she can practice with the leather ball regularly,” added Sachin Gurav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-wonder-girl-cover-drives-past-lockdown-to-win-cricketing-hearts/story-epFFVHT5lodfs7VG15w8aI.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Man booked for lockdown digital e-pass fraud in Pune||A man was booked by Pune police crime branch after multiple applications were received by the team of officials handling the digital pass service in Pune with the same credentials.The booked man was identified as Ritesh Lashkare, a resident of Panvel in Navi Mumbai area.The team of 8 officials who receive and respond to requests for a digital pass is headed by Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. The team reported that within a span of a few days, 11 applications with the same mobile number were made. The aadhaar card and medical certificate on the applications were also found to be the same.The applications were in the name of Mangesh Kalaskar, Prashant Mayekar, Sagar Devrukhkar, Tejas Anand Chevulkar, Naresh Sable, Raju Gujar, Swapnil Dhanwade, Anant Dichalkar, Yogesh Bhosale, Sagar Pawar, and Siddhesh Suvre, according to a statement issued by Pune police. All the applications were rejected. They were found to be residents of Thane and Mumbai areas which have a high number of Covid19 cases. All their applications for travel to places including Satara, Kokan, Sangli was rejected by the local police. Therefore, new applications in their names were made in Pune, suspected by Lashkare.“This man is a travel agent. He charged people Rs 1,000 per pass and submitted misleading applications in their name. We are on a lookout for him,” said Police inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Unit 2 crime branch.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offence punishable with life imprisonment), 177 (furnishing false information) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-booked-for-digital-e-pass-fraud/story-1lOIuYyeYsigoFFq7zvJwJ.html
04-06-2020||Pune||Nisarga causes 60 tree-fall incidents across Pune city; 9 areas water logged||The incessant rains due to cyclone Nisarga making landfall on the coast of Maharashtra has led to various incidents of waterlogging and tree falling till 2pm on Wednesday in Pune.In a tree-falling incident in Navi peth, a car was damaged while a rickshaw was damaged in Hadapsar among various other incidents of property damage all over the city.At least 60 tree falling incidents have been reported from various parts of Pune, including fire brigade station and Bhosari colony in Kothrud; Kasturba Hospital and Kasturba Society in Vishrantwadi; police lines in Swargate; Hyatt Hotel on Ahemdnagar road; Ramtekdi in Hadapsar; Nal Stop chowk in Erandwane; Panchvati in Pashan; Pingale vasti and Keshavnagar in Mundhwa; Salisbury park post office; Wadia bungalow and mental hospital corner in Yerawada; Maldhakka chowk in Mangalwar peth; parts of Koregaon Park; Bhandarkar road; PMC Colony, Gunj peth areas, Kondhwa, and Kharadi, among others.At least 9 incidents of waterlogging have been reported from Gangaram Hospital in Yerawada; Sadesatra Nali, Sasanenagar, Tingrenagar in Hadapsar; Lashminagar and Shantirakshak society in Yerawada; DY Patil Park in Lohegaon and Agarwal Hospital in Chandannagar.The information was provided by the fire brigade department which has been receiving multiple calls since the rainfall began lashing the city on Monday.“We have masks, face shields, and hand gloves which are being used while we carry out our work. We do not have PPE kits. We had put across our demand to the health department, but we have not received any yet. So far, no calls have come from the updated containment zones list that was provided by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC),” said Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, Pune.Calls were also received from some areas which were previously in containment zones. However, they were removed from the new list issued by PMC on Tuesday.In the coastal parts of Maharashtra, 20 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed. Of them, Mumbai has eight teams, Raigad has five teams, Palghar has two teams, Thane has two teams, Ratnagiri has two teams, and Sindhudurg has one team of NDRF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cyclone-nisarga-effect-15-tree-falling-9-water-logging-incidents-reported-in-pune/story-VDzFlyyVV6JnYqwis2efiN.html
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Abandoned pit bull saddles Ludhiana MC with ₹6,000 chicken bill||When officials of the Ludhiana municipal corporation caught an abandoned pit bull in Ishar Nagar, little did they know that they would be stuck looking after the ferocious dog with an expensive diet for over two months.The dog was caught on April 3 but two months on the owner has still not shown up to claim him. On June 2, the municipal corporation filed a report against the canine’s owner at the Jamalpur police station and asked the police to find her. “The pit bull eats nothing but chicken. Now, a bill of Rs 6,000 is outstanding with the chicken shop owner,” said an MC official. The dog is being kept in a cage at the MC’s Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre in the Haibowal Dairy Complex.MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “A few dog lovers helped us identify the owner. A woman, who claimed to be the dog’s owner called in May, saying she was a resident of Jamalpur but was stuck in Patna due to the lockdown. She also shared pictures of herself with the dog.”“The woman promised to come and get the dog once domestic flights resume, but she has failed to show up till now. Her contact number is no longer reachable,” Dhalla said.Dhalla said they had been planning to hand over the canine to one of the dog lovers in the city, but then decided against it as the pit bull is too ferocious to be handed over to anyone other than the owner.STAFF IN TERROR OF CANINE “Even the staff members at the ABC Centre do not go near the dog as he is very aggressive. I have given photographs of the dog and its owner to the Jamalpur police,” Dhalla said, adding that if the dog wasn’t taken off their hands soon its diet will have to be changed.Dhalla said if anyone had any leads on the whereabouts of the dog’s owner, they can share it on 98150-91107.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/abandoned-pit-bull-saddles-ludhiana-mc-with-rs-6-000-chicken-bill/story-XUHOkLl2Tslk3wtoaCo2FI.html
