06-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga:Two NDRF officers suffer serious injuries; 7 teams deployed in Shrivardhan taluka||Two officers of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) suffered serious injuries during clearing work in the aftermath of Cyclone Nisarga, at two separate locations along the Konkan coast on Saturday morning. The first case was at Shrivardhan taluka in Raigad, where Inderjeet Singh Chauhan accidentally cut all his five toes and a portion of his foot while using a mechanical tree cutter and had to be rushed to the Shrivardhan government hospital, said officers. “He was given first aid at the government hospital. The amputated portion of his foot was kept in an ice-box. The officer was then rushed to Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai, where he reached at 5pm. A team of orthopaedic, vascular and plastic surgeons were ready there to conduct a surgery. The operation will take six hours,” said Mahesh Nalawade, deputy commandant, NDRF.Presently, there are four NDRF teams at Shrivardhan taluka. Another two from Murud and one from Alibag were diverted for additional operations on Saturday as it is the worst affected taluka in the district.The second incident took place in Dapoli, Ratnagiri, where an officer suffered serious injuries during road clearance duty when an electric pole fell on his head. “The officer was wearing a helmet and the impact was not directly on his head. However, due to the sudden hit, his forehead dashed against the road and he received a serious injury,” said another NDRF official requesting anonymity. “He is stable and is under constant supervision,” he added. Following the incidents, all NDRF teams on duty were issued an advisory that read, “All the commanders and rescuers need to be more alert and vigilant while on work. Unnecessary injury while being casual or by accident need to be avoided. So all are requested and directed to be more careful and alert while performing such risky jobs.”On March 31, seven NDRF teams had arrived in Raigad district in view of the cyclone Nisarga. Each team has 23 members. They first ensured the safe relocation and evacuation of citizens living along the coast, followed by awareness sessions, and finally post-cyclone restoration efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-two-ndrf-officers-suffer-serious-injuries-7-teams-deployed-in-shrivardhan-taluka/story-HLA0U6jCyDSLX3TKqZbDYN.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||City bus service in Ludhiana likely to resume next week||In a major relief to residents, the municipal corporation (MC) has received permission to restart the city bus service and it is expected to resume from the next week. The MC had earlier applied for permission with the deputy commissioner’s office and also sought guidelines from the administration before resuming the service.The officials said buses would be run with 50% occupancy and the contractor would be directed to sanitise the buses on a daily basis. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the contractor is, however, reluctant to run the buses citing losses. The contractor has also asked the MC to revise the fare as the buses would be run at 50% occupancy and the transport is also expected to receive low response.MC additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said, “The MC has received permission to resume the city bus service and it is expected to run the service from the next week. The buses would be run at 50% occupancy and the sanitisation process would be taken up on a daily basis.”The service was put to halt after the imposition of curfew in the state on March 23. After the government had allowed buses to operate in the state, the MC had also sought permission to run the city bus service. Before curfew, the service was being run on four routes in the city and suspension of this facility affected over 3,500 daily passengers. As many as 65 buses were plying on four routes, including Sahnewal to Clock Tower, Kohara to the bus stand, Dugri to the Metro supermarket and the railway station to Meharban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/city-bus-service-in-ludhiana-likely-to-resume-next-week/story-c4mZeozL9yxsPbsDSg59jI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||46-year-old PO arrested for stealing copper transformers in Chandigarh||A 46-year-old proclaimed offender (PO) was arrested for stealing copper transformers from the traffic light of Sector 21/22 here, the police said on Saturday.The accused was identified as Arjun Jha of Madhubani in Bihar, who was staying with his sister in Manimajra. Police said Jha was an alcoholic and an habitual offender who used to steal government properties.Junior engineer Balinder Kumar in his complaint said that he was conducting inspections of the traffic light point in Sector 21/22 that was not in working order. During the checking of CCTV footage of May 30, he spotted a person stealing a small copper transformer that was installed at the light points. A case in this regard was registered on June 4.Police said that Jha was arrested near the petrol pump in Sector 21 and two small copper transformers were recovered from his possession.Jha is involved in eight cases registered in various police stations in Chandigarh, declared a PO in three cases and convicted for stealing iron grills in two cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/46-year-old-po-arrested-for-stealing-copper-transformers-in-chandigarh/story-tOa1CXxgkr2I3jkxaB7TcO.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for selling fake hand sanitisers||The Mumbai crime branch arrested two persons and busted a manufacturing unit of fake hand sanitiser and disinfectant spray in Borivli area, on Friday. The police have seized hand sanitisers and sprays worth ₹3 lakh from them.The arrested accused Himanshu Rajnikant Mehta, 47, and Ritesh Rameshbhai Jangbari, 42, are both residents of Dahisar area. They rented a house in Patelwadi area in Borivli and manufactured products from there. “Himanshu bought raw materials from Bhiwandi and supplied hand sanitisers without a valid licence,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police.Officers of unit 10 acted on a tip-off about the illegal sale of hand sanitiser and they raided the unit. Police arrested both accused and seized several litres of hand sanitisers and raw materials, said assistant police inspector Wahid Pathan. Both the accused are arrested under section 420 (cheating), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others), 274 (adulteration of drugs), 275 (sale of adulterated drugs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They were produced in the court on Saturday and remanded in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-selling-fake-hand-sanitisers/story-hIIKP4iz0tAWMQ3Rtq8DPO.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Federation of the blind condemns DU’s decision to conduct online exams||The National Federation of the Blind on Saturday condemned the Delhi University’s decision to conduct an online open-book examination (OBE) for final-year students from July 1, stating that visually challenged students were more vulnerable during a pandemic as they relied on their sense of touch.The federation has also filed a writ petition in the Delhi High Court challenging the varsity’s decision. The matter is listed for a hearing on June 9. They are seeking directions to promote specially abled students based on their previous performances or to conduct offline exams a week after the university reopens and give equal weightage to the internal assessment as well as the exams.Last week, DU had announced that it will conduct online exams in the OBE format for all final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students as a one-time measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.SK Rungta, the general secretary of the federation, said that the decision to conduct exams amid a pandemic would pose a health risk to students. “Scribes may not be available for blind students or others; they might be afraid for their lives and/or want to adhere to social distancing norms,” he said.He added that since students had gone home during the semester break, many did not have their reading material on hand. “They do not have the necessary devices with them nor the required infrastructure for the exam,” Rungta said. The federation came to this conclusion after surveying 150 students “who unanimously expressed their inability to participate in the exam.”Dean, examinations, Vinay Gupta said that students enrolled under the persons with disability category will be given five hours to complete their exam instead of the three prescribed for others. Through a notification, he directed colleges, faculties, and departments to help students arrange scribes. For those special students who are unable to take the online exams in July, DU will give them another opportunity—in pen and paper mode—once they return to the campus, the administration had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/federation-of-the-blind-condemns-du-s-decision-to-conduct-online-exams/story-vN3AINZtnWkthBGRG5T62O.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dr Inderjeet Singh joins as vice-chancellor of Ludhiana vet varsity||Punjab’s director of animal husbandry, Dr Inderjeet Singh, joined as the vice-chancellor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, on Saturday.He is replacing Dr AS Nanda whose four-year tenure ended on February 15, 2019. However, he continued to occupy the position on ad-hoc basis as the government had not decided on his successor.Dr Singh will take formal charge of the university on Monday. The Punjab government had formed a search and screening committee headed by the chief secretary to select the new V-C in January.The decision to appoint Dr Singh as the new V-C was taken in a meeting of senior functionaries, including chief secretary and principal secretary, animal husbandry, on Thursday. Dr Singh is a native of Haryana and joined Punjab’s animal husbandry department as director in 2018. He has been working in the field of veterinary sciences for three decades.He holds a bachelors and masters degree in veterinary sciences and animal husbandry from Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCHAU), Hisar, and did his PhD in animal reproduction from the University of Liverpool, UK.Dr Singh was the director of Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes (CIRB), Hisar (Haryana), for nearly five years from 2013 till November 2018.Dr Singh said that his focus will remain on improving academic quality, research work and strengthening extension activities.He added that we will also try to help the government in formulating policies regarding the problems being faced by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dr-inderjeet-singh-joins-as-vice-chancellor-of-ludhiana-vet-varsity/story-uJAEiqWEr7uCnIWQbc9QiI.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon arrival expected around June 11, says IMD||The arrival of the southwest monsoon can be expected over the city next week close to its new normal onset date of June 11, the weather bureau said.As a low-pressure area (weather system) develops over the Bay of Bengal around June 8, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said it will enhance rainfall activity over the coast, especially the Konkan region, including Mumbai.“Based on examples witnessed in previous years, and our weather models, when a low-pressure system develops over the Bay of Bengal, it leads to rainfall activity over the west coast due to changing wind patterns and increased moisture incursions. It is a positive development as it will allow the further advancement of monsoon, and most probably it will meet its new normal onset date of June 11 for Mumbai,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Last month, IMD revised its normal onset date for major cities across India and declared that the arrival would be delayed by a day (from June 10 to June 11) and withdrawal date by nine days (from September 29 to October 8). This means the southwest monsoon is likely to have an extended stay for eight days from this year onwards, according to IMD.Independent meteorologists were divided over the possible monsoon onset date.Sridhar Balasubramanian, associate professor, department of mechanical engineering and associate faculty, IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) explained that due to the system over the Bay of Bengal, an offshore trough (weather system due to strong wind currents) would form along with a possible cyclonic circulation (a stream of air flowing at higher altitudes) in the Arabian Sea, close to Gujarat.“Heavy rains to the tune of 90-100 mm is generally seen over Mumbai. Given these dynamics, June 12 is likely onset over Mumbai followed by some heavy rains anytime between June 13 and 15,” said Balasubramanian adding that the offshore trough will extend from Mumbai to Kerala coasts. “Hence, the west coast will generally see heavy rains between June 10 and 15. The heavy rain window for states will be different given the strength of offshore trough. For eg Kerala and coastal Karnataka are likely to see heavy rains between June 10-12. Goa and Ratnagiri belt (south Konkan) may see heavy rains between June 11-13.”Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK said several models were suggesting that monsoon would reach Konkan and Mumbai between June 14 and 16. “Proper rainfall is expected to commence in Mumbai from around 12 June. Arrival over interior Maharashtra is expected through the week starting June 15.”Private weather forecasters Skymet said onset was expected between June 12 and 13.Meanwhile, the IMD also released the lifecycle of Cyclone Nisarga that battered several areas of the Maharashtra coast, and its final trajectory ending up over parts of southeast Uttar Pradesh and adjoining Bihar as a low-pressure system. This was the first time IMD issued a ‘pre-cyclone watch’ at 2 pm on May 31, at the stage when the weather system was a low-pressure area, 80 hours before the landfall as a severe cyclonic storm. “This was the first time in history where we went a step ahead and issued a cyclone warning to both states before the system developed into depression or deep depression, which is our standard operating procedure. It gave both Maharashtra and Gujarat a day more than usual to prepare for its arrival,” said Mohapatra adding that the very first information about the system was provided on May 29, three days before the formation of a significant system.Monitored using observations from various satellites, ships, and buoys (instruments which collect weather and ocean data), IMD provided three-hourly bulletins from June 1 to 2, and hourly bulletins on June 3 and 4, including rainfall, wind warnings, affected districts, location of the system, expected property damage, storm surge, and location of landfall.‘If the location of landfall was more accurate, the response would have been faster’Though the cyclone brushed past Mumbai not causing much damage to the financial capital, the extent of damage was witnessed along southern talukas of Raigad district. While the extent of landfall area, as per IMD’s prediction, ranged from Daman, south Gujarat to Harihareshwar in Raigad, the forecast till 5am, June 3 read landfall would be ‘close to Alibag’. This allowed necessary responsive measures within that area. However, at 10 am June 3, the location was slightly altered to the south of Alibag, forcing a sudden change in responsive measures. Landfall took place at 12.30 pm near Diveagar between Shrivardhan and Murud, south of Alibag but the extent of damages in these areas were only identified three days after landfall as authorities were unable to reach these areas. Deoras said the landfall process as per the radar commenced around 10am, but IMD’s 12pm bulletin expected it to start during 1230 and 1pm. “In reality, most of the process had finished by 1pm,” he said.Mohapatra countered stating that the landfall site was accurate as per the large area provided (from Harihareshwar to Daman). “Even the wind speed after landfall was as predicted. It is a dynamic system and can change dramatically closer to land. However, as in the case of Mumbai, it was better to have heightened safety measures than witnessing losses,” he said.“The landfall hit regions in Raigad district such as Diveagar will also witness proper rainfall from around June 12. This is likely to cause more inconvenience and disruptions in the rehabilitation process,” Deoras added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-arrival-expected-around-june-11-says-imd/story-8DmQ7zzZXEzLLU0P80WdtN.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University teachers’ body seeks appointment of hostel warden on seniority basis||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Saturday said that hostel wardens should be appointed on seniority-basis to avoid arbitrariness.The teachers’ body has written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar regarding the posts of hostel wardens that will vacated this year after completion of requisite terms.In their letter, PUTA said that as per the information available with them, the process of inviting applications from eligible teachers has not been initiated so far. They added that silence on the part of authorities is causing avoidable apprehensions among faculty members who are eligible and want to apply for the posts.“We hope hostel wardens are appointed in the most transparent and fair manner to avoid arbitrariness in order to instill trust and confidence among the faculty. It is also requested that the principle of seniority is followed to ensure fairness and transparency, which will go a long way in building a positive work environment on campus,” the letter to the V-C states.The body has requested the V-C to initiate the process immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-body-seeks-appointment-of-hostel-warden-on-seniority-basis/story-CFH9hrycVO5dJePdnKb7CM.html
06-06-2020||City||Slum-dweller booked for raping 14-year-old in Ludhiana shanty||A slum-dweller has been booked for raping the 14-year-old daughter of a neighbour in the shanties near Shiv Mandir here, the police said on Saturday.At the time of the incident, the girl was alone at her home. The division number 4 police have lodged an FIR against the accused, identified as Dinesh, 30, who is married and a father to two children.In her complaint to the police, the mother of the victim said that when she and her husband came back from work, their daughter told her that Dinesh had barged into their shanty and raped her. The accused had also threatened her to keep mum.Sub-inspector (SI) Manju, who is investigating the case, said as per the girl, the accused had been raping her for the last few months. When her parents came to know about the incident, they talked to the accused who denied the allegations. Thereafter, the family approached the police.The SI added that the police have launched a manhunt to arrest the accused.A case was registered under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/slum-dweller-booked-for-raping-14-year-old-in-ludhiana-shanty/story-zfpNo1SXKbochjJk4S1UIN.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||121 Covid-19 cases in police force in 4 days||In Covid-hit Mumbai, 1,774 Mumbai Police personnel have tested positive for the virus till Friday night. This includes 121 fresh cases over the past four days.So far, 660 Mumbai Police personnel have recovered from Covid-19, and the total number of active cases stands at 1,114.There have been 121 fresh Covid-19 positive cases between June 2 and Friday night, said Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson. On June 1, Mumbai Police had reported 1,526 Covid-19 positive cases, including 993 active ones. While in Maharashtra Police, the total number of Covid-19 active cases stands at 1,498, including 195 officers, till Saturday morning. Mumbai Police accounts for 74.36% of active Covid-19 cases in the state police force.So far, 21 Mumbai Police personnel have died due to Covid, including an officer. Most of the Covid-19 related deaths among the Mumbai Police personnel are from the constabulary division.Over 33 Maharashtra Police personnel has died due to Covid-19, including 63.3% from Mumbai Police.Maharashtra Police has reported two more fresh Covid-19 related deaths, including one each from Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and Mumbai’s Andheri government railway police (GRP).Dombivli GRP officer succumbs to Covid A 58-year-old assistant sub-inspector of police from Dombivli government railway police (GRP) died of Covid-19 on Saturday. The deceased was about to retire from his service on the last date of this month.“He was undergoing the medical treatment at Seven hills hospital, in Andheri. The doctors declared him dead at around 4.30pm, on Saturday,” said a senior official from Dombivli GRP.600 constables donate blood Over 600 police constables organised a blood donation camp at Naigaon police hall in Dadar (E) on Saturday. The constables are from the 2008 batch of Mumbai Police and completed 11 years in service this month. To mark the day, they organised a blood donation camp to help patients in need of blood and are unable to find donors, due to the lockdown.13 booked, 10 arrested for lockdown violations The Mumbai Police have lodged 10 FIRs against 13 people and arrested 10 of them on Friday for lockdown violations. Among these 13 FIRs, a maximum of five is for gathering in one place, three for not wearing masks, one each against shops for operating despite being non-essential service and for using vehicle violating lockdown rules. Five of the FIRs were in central Mumbai, two each in west region and east region, one in south region and none in north region of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/121-covid-19-cases-in-police-force-in-4-days/story-XXCoQZuQxFJ7qsJ23Mi2AM.html
06-06-2020||City||Slums situated behind Ludhiana’s Central Jail a threat to its security: Authorities||Inmates of the Central Jail here seem to have an easy access to mobile phones. As many as 16 mobiles were recovered from them in the past one week raising a question mark on the working of jail authorities.The phones have been recovered even when courts are closed as the courts used to be the places where they managed to get mobiles secretly when they were brought there for hearings.According to jail officials, slums behind the jail have become a threat for the security of the jail. They said accomplices of inmates are suspected of throwing mobile phones and other contraband over the compound wall of the prison. Therefore, we have already asked the district authorities to shift the slums from there to other places.Jail superintendent Rajiv Arora said, “Inmates don’t hesitate to hide mobile phones in their private parts as well. Some inmates have even carved cavities in the floor of barracks and bathrooms to hide mobiles. Some mobiles were recovered from garbage dumps also.”The jail has 2,500 inmates. Earlier, there were a total of 3,400 inmates. As many as 800 inmates were shifted to other jails due to the outbreak of coronavirus.“The jail compound covers over 100 acres of land and we are conducting patrolling the entire day with the help of CRPF jawans and jail security guards. We have recovered contrabands thrown over the wall of the jail by the accused, who manage to hide in the slums,” said the superintendent.On June 2, the Jail officials have recovered 15 mobile phones from the jail and lodged an FIR against eight inmates.One June 3, the officials recovered one mobile phone and 32 packets of tobacco alongside the compound wall of the jail. The contrabands were thrown over the compound wall.Earlier on April 8, 14 mobile phones were recovered from the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/slums-situated-behind-ludhiana-s-central-jail-a-threat-to-its-security-authorities/story-5CNTc814fe6wpiXLRIRLmK.html
06-06-2020||City||Thane records 124 new cases, nears 4,000 mark||Thane reported 124 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 3,919. No death was reported on Saturday.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “Around 124 new positive cases were reported from the city on Saturday and 80 patients were discharged from various hospitals. The total number of patients discharged is 1,750 while the number of active cases is 2,056.”TMC has hired three cardiac ambulances and will hire four more to meet the increasing demand. Malvi added, “At present, the city has 88 ambulances in its fleet, out of which, eight are cardiac ambulances.”Markets crowdedThe start of weekend and opening of many shops led to a huge crowd in Thane markets on Saturday. The Kharkar Ali lane which is a wholesale market for groceries and dry fruits was a complete chaos.There was a lot of crowd in Jambli Naka and Naupada markets too.The Thane Nagar Police said there was no violation of safety rules.Ramrao Somvanshi, senior police inspector of Thane Nagar police station, said, “There are more shoppers today compared to yesterday. However, people are following social-distancing norm and standing in queues outside shops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-124-new-cases-nears-4-000-mark/story-s005H5uO1z43CoAA9soc3J.html
06-06-2020||City||Man who lost job due to lockdown now serves district admin as volunteer||Gurugram: Rakesh Bajaj, who was rendered jobless due to the Covid-19 lockdown, is busy these days making calls to different private hospitals to collect details of admitted Covid-19 patients, number of beds, and availability of ventilators, among others. “It is a recent task that I have been assigned by the district administration, as the number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram has rapidly increased in the past few days,” said Bajaj, 39, who has been serving the district administration as volunteer for the past two months. Not only has he served cooked meals and dry rations to migrant workers, but also ensured their safe departure by Shramik Special trains in April and May, even if it required giving 10-15 hours a day. Bajaj was recently appreciated as an unsung hero by the district administration for his selfless work. “Rakesh Bajaj, a 39 year old man who lost his job during Covid-19 lockdown. He is heading a team of 9 volunteers of QRT with MCG. Never asked for a leave and giving 15 hours a day in the record breaking heat,” the deputy commissioner’s office said in a tweet on May 28.At present, about 500 volunteers are helping the district administration deal with the Covid-19 crisis.Having spent more than a decade in Gurugram working as supervisor with different companies, Bajaj’s last job was with a construction company where he handled workers and labourers at the construction site. Like others, Bajaj could not comprehend the criticality of the situation when Janta Curfew was imposed on March 22. “Till that time, we had no idea that we are heading towards a situation which can cost my job, and leave many people helpless,” said Bajaj. As all the work came to a halt due to the nationwide lockdown and workers started leaving for their native towns, the construction site where Bajaj worked was also shut. His employer asked him to stay at home and gave some money. “I had sufficient saving. I knew that I could sustain for three-four months,” said Bajaj.The situation, however, made him think of construction workers who were dependent on daily wages for survival. A few days after he was laid off, a WhatsApp message circulated by the administration regarding the requirement of volunteers reached Bajaj. “The decision was easy. I applied for it. Everything was in the nascent stage at the time. I was asked to distribute cooked meals at that time,” he said. “I believe if you can’t help people with money then there are other ways to end their plight,” he said, calling these words of his mother, who is a retired school teacher. Bajaj, who has a 12 -year-old son and a 65-year-old mother in the family, devoted almost 15 hours a day to help the needy. He, along with his team of nine volunteers of quick response team, was assigned the duty to provide cooked meals to workers, not only those who were leaving the city but also those who stayed back. Reminiscing some of the moments while working as volunteer, Bajaj said, “It was heart wrenching to see migrants huddled under Rajiv Chowk flyover. Around midnight, we reached there with food, glucose and water to help them. But we couldn’t stop them from moving as they were prepared to walk a distance of 700 kilometres. Every day I watched kids walking with their families, unware of the miles they had to cover.”He was later assigned the duty to ensure proper food supply to people, who were leaving by special trains. “For the past few weeks, since Shramik Special trains started, I was stationed at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in the first half of the day, managing registration of people to their departure via buses to the railway station. Then coordinating with the team to ensure that the migrants get food and water before leaving,” he said. Bajaj now hopes to be able to get job with the lockdown lifting while continuing to volunteer for as long as required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-lost-job-due-to-lockdown-now-serves-district-admin-as-volunteer/story-bZOaEogUCdreOgzAKBEwwM.html
06-06-2020||Gurugram||After worker contracts Covid-19, MCG closes its two branches until next Thursday||A day after a Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said that two branches of the civic body at its main office in Sector 34 will be closed for operations till next Thursday as a precautionary measure.A contractual worker in the accounts wing at the MCG’s main office in Sector 34 tested positive for the virus on Friday evening.Bharat Bhushan Kalra, chief accounts officer (CAO), MCG, said that the worker who contracted the infection had come to work on Thursday morning, and was sent back an hour later when he developed a fever. Kalra said that the worker got himself tested the following day and informed the officials. MCG then decided to close two of its branches until next Thursday, after coming to know about his diagnosis on Friday evening.“As a precautionary measure both the accounts and the audit branches, located in close proximity to each other will be closed until Thursday. Six days will be enough time for workers to start exhibiting symptoms, if they have contracted the virus. Hence, we have asked employees to self-isolate themselves for the time being,” said Kalra.Kalra further said that around 40 workers in the two branches would be tested for the virus before they return to work on Thursday.With the MCG office in Sector 34 closed for operations on the weekend, officials said extensive disinfecting and sanitation work will be carried out on Saturday and Sunday across the three floors of the civic body building, especially on the second floor where the accounts branch is located along with other branches, such as the audit branch, the engineering wing, the establishment branch, and the IT wing.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer(CMO) of the MCG said that officials have been directed to get themselves tested if they are exhibiting any symptoms for the virus.“We have contacted the health department for assisting us in testing MCG employees. All workers at the Sector 34 office have been told to come forward and get themselves tested for the virus if they desire. Tests will be initiated within the next two-three days,” said Singla..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-worker-contracts-covid-19-mcg-closes-its-two-branches-until-next-thursday/story-FgrwWAcNVMWk5znT6O89bM.html
06-06-2020||Gurugram||House owners in Sector 40 pulled up for not regularising guest houses||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) issued notices to 15 house owners in Sector 40 for violating building plans and not registering guest houses with the authority. Officials said that action would be initiated if the owners fail to restore the property as per the original building plan and seek regularisation under the new guest house policy within 15 days.The authority on Thursday also sealed a tennis academy, which was allegedly being run illegally, on HSVP land in Sector 54, said officials.HS Jakhar, sub-divisional engineer, HSVP, said that action was initiated in response to complaints about the violations in Sector 40 and a subsequent survey.“We have issued notices to the house owners and asked them to explain the violations. They will have to restore the properties as per the original building plan, or else, action would be taken. The guest house in sectors can be run only if they meet the new policy requirements. Otherwise, they will have to close,” said Jakhar.Jakhar said that checks will be conducted and action taken against such establishments in all HSVP sectors across the city.Around 3,000 guest houses are operational in the city in private licensed colonies and HSVP sectors. As per the new policy issued last year, guest houses can only be set up on plots, larger than 500 square yards, located along sector roads.In a related development, the authority’s enforcement team sealed a two-acre plot, earmarked for a dispensary, in Sun City township in Sector 54 on Thursday after finding a tennis academy being run on the government property, without prior permission from the authority. The action was taken after a group of residents lodged a complaint with the authority.Jakhar said, “We have sealed the property and matter is being investigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/house-owners-in-sector-40-pulled-up-for-not-regularising-guest-houses/story-9oteIvmKjB6txDO47XAidL.html
06-06-2020||City||4 pregnant women among 16 new Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana||As many as 16 patients, including four pregnant women, tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Saturday. Three others are staff members of the DMC Hospital and the remaining three belong to Amritsar, Fazilka and Delhi. With this, the total number of positive cases in Ludhiana has gone up to 248. Four cured patients were also discharged from the covid care centre at the Residential School for Meritorious Students on Saturday, taking the number of recoveries to 64.The four pregnant women testing positive on Saturday include a 27-year-old from Islamganj; a 24-year-old from Dashmesh Nagar, a 23-year-old from Mundiyan and a 22-year-old from Badi Haibowal. The others cases of infection included five women – a 37-year-old from Doraha (contact of a positive patient); a 53-year-old from New Deep Nagar, Civil Lines; a 65-year-old from Habibganj; and a 48-year-old TB patient from Kot Mangal Singh and two men, a 29-year-old from Jassowal and a 33-year-old from Prem Nagar (husband of a positive pregnant woman). TheDMC Hospital staff members included two women aged 30 and 67 years and a man aged 33 years. They had been working at the emergency and flu corner of the hospital.The Amritsar case is a 60-year-old cancer patient; the one from Delhi is a 27-year-old woman who works in Rauni village in Khanna and the third case, from Fazilka, is a 25-year-old man with travel history to Gurugram, said Ludhiana Civil Surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga.About 47 rapid response teams had screened 294 residents on Saturday, of which 223 have been quarantined, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-pregnant-women-among-16-new-covid-19-patients-in-ludhiana/story-6P2tnvvKyp45MPIyuhlo5O.html
06-06-2020||City||Ludhiana man bludgeons 22-year-old son to death, burns body on roof||A 62-year-old man bludgeoned his 22-year-old son to death in Jagir Colony of Tibba on Friday following a spat over washing utensils. The elderly man put gunny bags on the body and set it on fire on the roof of the house to hide his crime, the police said.Neighbours informed the police after they saw flames on the roof and smelt burning flesh. The police reached the spot and doused the flames, and took the half-burnt body to the civil hospital for postmortem. The victim was identified as Sudhir. His father Parmeshwar Pal, 62, used to work as a security guard at a private hospital, but lost his job during the Covid-19 lockdown.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary said Parmeshwar and his son were living in Jagir Colony, while his elder son lived in Subhash Nagar with his family. His wife is in Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh.The ACP said that on Friday night the father-son duo had dinner. Parmeshwar asked his son to wash the utensils, but he refused. They got into a spat following which Sudhir hit his father with a pan.Sudhir got scared and rushed towards the roof. Parmeshwar took the same pan, followed him on the roof and hit Sudhir on the head. The father then took a wooden log and bludgeoned Sudhir to death.The ACP added that the accused put gunny bags on the body and set it on fire. The neighbours informed the sarpanch of the village after they saw flames on the roof.The police arrested the accused on spot. Parmeshwar told the police that he killed his son in a fit of rage. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-bludgeons-22-year-old-son-to-death-burns-body-on-roof/story-l0jV5TgArddtjlajILNLiP.html
06-06-2020||City||UP-Rera hands over unfinished housing project on Yamuna Expressway to allottees||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera), on Saturday, decided to hand over an abandoned residential project in Greater Noida to its welfare association and appoint a construction consultant.Rajive Kumar, Chairman, UP-Rera, issued an order stating: “The registration of Project ‘Sampada Livia’ (UPRERAPRJ5855) of M/s PSA Impex Pvt. Ltd was revoked in September 2019 under Section 7 of Rera Act. The grounds were non-compliance under Section 4 and 11 of Rera Act, and Rule 14 of UP-Rera Rules, delays in development of the project, fraud and corrupt practices by the promoter and diversion of funds collected from the allottees.”The project has 726 units, of which 355 units have been sold by the original promoter. A project advisory and monitoring committee was constituted on December 6, 2019, under the chairmanship of Balvinder Kumar, member, UP-Rera to oversee the development of the project under the provisions of Section 8 of the Rera Act. UP-Rera issued a public notice on December 7, 2019, calling upon the association of allottees to submit a viable proposal for taking up the remaining development work of the project.“SLB Welfare Association, the association of allottees of the project, comprising over 50% membership of allottees, submitted a proposal to take up the remaining development of the project.,”said Kumar.“After a careful examination of the association’s proposal and the powers conferred under Section 8 of the Rera Act, the Authority has decided to give its approval on authorising the SLB Welfare Association to step in and complete the remaining development, along with the right to undertake the sale of unsold units for mobilising funds for the same,” said Kumar.The action taken by UP-Rera is a monumental step towards completing stuck and abandoned projects in Gautam Budh Nagar. The order is estimated to benefit at least 355 allottees of the project.“To ensure transparency and accountability, UP-Rera will be appointing a project management consultant to monitor the completion progress of the project,” said Kumar.Dr Akansha Aggarwal, president SLB Welfare Association, said, “Several NOC of various departments have expired and also we will have to execute the builder-buyer agreements afresh and hire technical team and construction consultant. This process will take around six months. Thereafter, we will be able to start the construction and complete the project in 4 years in three phases. Presently only 10% of project is completed. Since 2015 there is no construction at site. The builder is in jail.”The project has 10 towers having 25 floors each. Civil structure in six towers has been completed up to 6 to 8 floors. In one tower only basement has been dug up. Work on remaining three towers work is yet to start,” said Aggarwal.“In our proposal submitted in January we had give cost of completion of project as ₹243.59 crores and estimated date of completion as February 4, 2024,” said Aggarwal.The audit report by M/s Currie & Brown Pvt Ltd had reported diversion of funds of ₹47 crore by the builder. “This is breach of trust of allottees and amounts to a criminal offence,” said Abrar Ahmed, secretary, UP-Rera.“The project is located on the Yamuna Expressway. Out of total 726 sanctioned flats, total saleable area is 10,22,790 square feet and out of which 46% or 4,72,495 square feet has already been sold by builder,”said Ahmed.“Total receivable from sold and unsold units is about ₹233.50 crore and receivable from commercial units sale is ₹6.40 crore,” said Ahmed.The association has to submit resolution by June 25 signed by more than 50% of allottees of the project.The Association will also have the freedom to determine the sale price of the unsold units and it can also renegotiate price with existing allottees.A representative of Sampda Livia representative said, “On getting the order copy, we will take legal opinion and challenge the order in front of higher authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-rera-hands-over-unfinished-housing-project-on-yamuna-expressway-to-allottees/story-ymsZh8tLVLMEEQu4hVywHJ.html
06-06-2020||City||Rising cases and number of deaths leave health department officials worried||Ghaziabad on Saturday recorded a surge in number of Covid cases, adding 44 new cases to its overall tally that breached the 400 mark.Officials said that till Saturday , Ghaziabad had recorded a total of 442 cases, with 297 patients being cured till date and nine deaths being reported so far. There were at present 136 active cases in the district.“At least 11 of the 44 patients reported positive on Saturday were already admitted to Covid hospitals. The remaining 33 too were in quarantine and will be shifted to Covid hospitals. The death toll stands at nine till date,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO) of the district.The officials said that five cases on Saturday were from Vaishali, four from Khoda, four from Muradnagar, four from Indirapuram and three from Crossings Republik . They added that the other cases were from media houses, a head constable from Indirapuram police station and one staff of MMG Hospital.According to official records, the first Covid case was reported on March 5 and the figure slowly reached 50 cases on April 22, after about 48 days. The next 50 cases were reported by May 5 in a span of about 13 days.The next 50 cases (total case count 150) happened in another 10 days on May 15 while the district crossed the 200 mark on May 21 in another six days. However, the next 100 cases arrived in just 10 days with the district crossing the 300 cases mark on May 31.The next 100 cases have arrived in a span of just six days and the total on June 6 stood at 442.Though the district has recorded nine deaths due to the virus till June 6, the officials of the district health department said that only three have so far taken in Ghaziabad hospital. The others were added to the district’s list from Meerut.“We have only three deaths which have taken place in Ghaziabad . The Meerut officials are not cross-notifying us and we did not refer these patients here. The patients themselves went to Meerut and also turned positive before they succumbed to medical conditions. The Meerut officials are now uploading these deaths to the online government portal ,” CMO Dr NK Gupta, said.He added that two deaths — of a man from Loni and a woman from Jhandapur — had taken place in Delhi earlier. Of the nine deaths added to Ghaziabad’s tally, three took place in Ghaziabad, four in Meerut and one each at Noida and Delhi.“So, we expect that the patients who died in Delhi will also be added to our tally and the toll will rise in the coming days. Seven of nine deaths (added to Ghaziabad’s tally) which have taken place are related to patients who suffered from diabetes. One patient suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, while one other had respiratory distress. So far they cannot be termed as deaths due to Corona. It may have acted as a catalyst and speed up their comorbid conditions. The death audit report of all patients is awaited,” CMO added.Dr Raj Kumar, the chief medical officer of Meerut district said that any patient from Ghaziabad who dies will be added to the tally of Ghaziabad.“If patient comes for treatment to Meerut and dies, we will be adding them to the tally of Ghaziabad district since they were original residents of Ghaziabad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rising-cases-and-number-of-deaths-leave-health-department-officials-worried/story-ymYZsjxiUfYtXG4aiwJbhM.html
06-06-2020||City||35-year-old man booked for duping woman, concealing marital status||A 35-year-old man and four of his relatives were booked by Bisrakh police for allegedly hiding his marital status from a woman he married last year and then threatening and duping her.The complaint was filed by the 28-year-old woman who only came to know about the suspect’s first marriage last month.“Just before the lockdown, the suspect told my sister that one of his brothers back home was not well and he will have to go back to his home town Azamgarh. He said he would be working there from home. However, for the last few days, he had been dodging her calls and messages. On May 26, a woman, whom he had first introduced as his sister-in-law, picked up her call and told her not to call anymore as she was his real wife,” the woman’s sister said.The woman, who runs a boutique, then went to her house in a high-rise in Greater Noida West, barely 500 metres away from where she lived herself, and confronted them after which she found out about the man’s first marriage. The man, who works as a software engineer with a Noida-based firm, had already been married for at least 13 years and even had two daughters, said the woman’s family.“One of the suspects’ brothers knew my family and he introduced my sister to him after which they got married last year. His family hid his marital status from us, and when she found out the first marriage, some of his relatives even assaulted her and threatened her of dire consequences,” said the sister. “In the last one year, the suspect used my sister to get a gold loan and even pay the instalments of a personal loan. He used her financially and emotionally. She even had to undergo two abortions because he said didn’t want to have children,”Following the woman’s complaint, a case was registered at the Bisrakh police station against the man and his four relatives under sections 147, 323, 495, 504, 506, and 498A of the Indian Penal Code.“The suspect had been detained initially when the matter was brought to us, but the victim’s family didn’t want to pursue legal action then. The official police complaint was lodged later on June 1, and currently, all the suspects are on the run and a search is on for them,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women safety.The police said action can also be taken against the suspect’s first wife who appears to be a part of the fraud, but the woman had not named her in the police complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-man-booked-for-duping-woman-concealing-marital-status/story-FySFdaMWDanftQyQ5JLd0L.html
06-06-2020||Noida||Helpline, Google form launched to track testing details, containment zone plans||Gautam Budh Nagar district has launched a helpline to aid those who conduct Covid-19 tests from private labs. It also released an online link through which residents can send in queries about containment zone plans in certain sectors. Residents have been complaining that the administration is not sharing details of Covid-19 cases in their neighbourhood and the implementation of containment zone provisions was delayed.According to the new plan, if a patient has done her test from a private lab, then she can call on the helpline number 18004192211 to communicate to health officials the details of her test if it is positive for Covid-19. The health officials will then confirm the results with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and then include the case in the Covd count of the district for further action. “If any person gets tested from a private lab, then (s)he must inform us about the results and we will then confirm the report from ICMR before factoring it into our count. With the helpline, this task will become smoother. Our medical team will do the needful,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Apart from this helpline, the administration has also started an online grievance system using Google forms. One can log on to https://bit.ly/3h3kLHE to access the form. Residents can submit their queries related to Covid-19 issues, containment zone queries, sanitisation queries,and even non-Covid health queries on the Google form. A person can submit their mobile phone number, address and the query on the form and get the issues addressed.“We will address all grievances of citizens via this portal. All queries -- be it related to Covid-19 or not -- will get addressed without any hassle. Residents can also get instant information about probable containment zone plan in their area and take needful precautions,” the DM said.Residents had earlier alleged that authorities were a little late in implementing a containment zone plan even after cases are detected in a particular area.“We have demanded that an area must be sealed and made into containment zone with proper coordination with RWAs or social groups. If this portal will work out well, then it will be useful to all residents,” NP Sing, president of district development RWAs (DDRWA), a residents’ umbrella body, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/helpline-google-form-launched-to-track-testing-details-containment-zone-plans/story-AzBe7Wd8v3eDBF618hyP1N.html
06-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad may switch from sector scheme to containment zones in Khoda, Loni and Vaishali||The Ghaziabad health department has started working on a plan to relax restrictions in the three sealed areas of Khoda, Loni and Vaishali based on the emergence of cases in last 21 days and will focus more on containment zones. The officials of the health department said that recommendation will soon be given to the district magistrate to ease restrictions in the areas..The three areas of Khoda, Loni and Vaishali have been placed under the sector scheme since May 10, May 27 and June 1 respectively, with around 8-10 lakh people living in the three localities having their movements restricted to contain the spread of Covid-19.“Our teams are closely monitoring areas in Khoda, Loni and Vaishali. We plan to maintain category 1 and category 2 containment zones. In case any locality in these three areas has had no cases in the last 21 days, we will recommend its opening. Otherwise, the areas will remain as containment zones. A plan is being chalked out and a report will be submitted to the district magistrate, who will take the final call,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of the district.The officials said that category 1 containment are those where a single case has emerged and entitles sealing of a radius of 250 metres. Category 2 containment zones are those where more than one cases have emerged and requires a sealing of at least 500 metres radius with an additional area of 200 metres as buffer zone.Once sealed, only essential activities and people are allowed inside containment zones. There is strict perimeter control and no movement of residents is allowed except for medical emergencies or purchasing/maintaining essential supplies.“Residents in these areas want relaxation in overall sealing as the local economy of the area and jobs of locals have taken a hit. There is no point in sealing and also maintaining containment zones inside the sealed locality. Maintaining containment zones, where fresh cases have occurred, is a better idea,” said Mohit Sharma, resident of sector-1, Vaishali.Ghaziabad district till June 5 had recorded 398 positive cases of Covid-19 with 271 patients discharged and nine deaths so far.According to official records, Khoda accounted for about 58 (four fresh cases on Saturday) cases, including 14 before the sealing was done. Likewise, Loni has 35 cases (no fresh cases), with 21 before the area was placed under sealing. Vaishali on the other hand was subjected to sealing only on June 1 and has a total of 41 cases (five fresh) with 34 emerging before the sealing.Overall, the three localities placed under sealing account for about 31% of total cases in the district. The administration on June 5 had claimed that Khoda was reporting 18% positive cases before the sealing. The number dropped to 12% after the sealing.They had added that Loni’s cases reduced from 10% to 7% while those in Vaishali reduced from 28% to 5% after sector scheme was implemented. However, no corresponding figures of positive cases and number of sampling were provided.“The relaxation in sealing is being reviewed by a committee, led by the chief medical officer. They will submit a report and recommendations,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The officials said that district till June 5 has 105 containment zones, including 85 in category 1.CMO Gupta also maintained that cases have continued to come in on regular basis from Khoda, Loni and Vaishali.“In Khoda and Loni we have contained the spread of Covid-19 infection, else it would have resulted in hundreds of new cases being reported daily considering the density of population. Vaishali has also received with only two casesbeing reported after sealing,” CMO added.Khoda’s executive office KK Bhadana said, “We have three major areas in Khoda from where majority of cases have come. We are hopeful that the district magistrate will review the sealing. People in Khoda have already been under lockdown for about two months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-may-switch-from-sector-scheme-to-containment-zones-in-khoda-loni-and-vaishali/story-EbuFAUGDeWsrlXL4WNDt1I.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Elante opens on June 8, but you will have to wait to dine in||Even as Elante Mall is set to reopen on Monday, restaurateurs there have taken a call to keep their premises closed following disagreement with the mall owners over rent and anticipation of low footfall.Owned by Nexus Malls, Elante Mall was catering to over 70,000 visitors a day before the lockdown was enforced on March 24.However, with UT’s standard operating procedure (SOP) mandating social distancing and that all stores close by 8pm, restaurant owners say they won’t be able to function at full capacity or serve the dinner service, which will translate into losses.Sunveer Sondhi, proprietor of Pyramid and head of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), Chandigarh chapter, said restaurants will stay closed till the rent for the past two months was waived, as even after reopening, they can operate at only 50% capacity to maintain social distancing.Restaurants also have to ensure that tables are sanitised after each customer leaves and air-conditioning needs to be maintained between 24 and 30 degrees Celsius.Proprietor of Chili’s restaurant, Param Toor said, “We are asking the mall management for revenue share model, so that the rent is variable as per the footfall. After we reopen, I expect to get only 10-20% of the nearly 500 customers that we served a day before the lockdown, through dine-in, takeaway and home delivery.” He said they will stay closed for a week or two, as they will only lose money if they reopened.Owner of Sindhi Sweets, Neeraj Bajaj, who is also the president of Chandigarh Business Council, said all restaurant owners were united over the rent disagreement, and will utilise this time to renovate their premises before reopening.As per the SOP, cinema halls and game arcades will remain closed for now.While refusing to comment on the rent issue, the official spokesperson of the mall said, “Elante will open its doors to public on the June 8 as per notification issued by the Chandigarh administration. Elante, home to over 200 brands, will be open from 10am and operate till 8pm. We are absolutely thrilled to welcome all our patrons, whilst ensuring social distancing norms are strictly implemented. While we are confident that all our partners will smoothly resume operations, we also anticipate the re-opening to be a gradual process as SOPs are understood and get adhered to 100%.”BOXHeadline: Steps taken for visitors’ safetySpecialised cameras will check crowdingVisitors need to install and show Aarogya Setu app before being allowed entry to the mallAll washrooms have been equipped with contactless taps and soap dispensersOnly a limited number of people will be allowed on elevators or in stores at a given time||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elante-opens-on-june-8-but-you-will-have-to-wait-to-dine-in/story-ckKceVXBzVqJmBhe4zp2XO.html
06-06-2020||City||Disabled man stabbed to death, set ablaze in Amritsar||A 33-year-old disabled man’s half-burnt body was recovered from his house in Guru Nanak Pura locality here on Saturday. The victim was stabbed to death before being set ablaze, police said.The deceased has been identified as Ramesh Kumar, alias Raju. He was a jewellery artist.Police said the preliminary investigation has suggested that the accused had got the victim drunk before stabbing him to death.The victim lived with his mother, sister-in-law and two daughters. Police said the incident took place in the afternoon when the victim was alone at home.“I got a phone call that my brother had been killed. My husband and I reached the spot and found Ramesh’s half-burnt body was lying on the ground. A bottle of wine was also present in the room. It appeared as if the accused had killed my brother before setting him afire to destroy the evidence. His cellphone and wallet were also missing,” said the victim’s sister Saloni, who lives in a nearby locality.She alleged that three persons, who often came to meet her brother, had committed the crime.Station house officer Anil Kumar said, “It appears that the accused first stabbed him in the neck with some sharp weapon and then set him on fire.”He said the police were trying to ascertain the identity of the accused. A case of murder has been being registered against unidentified suspects, the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/disabled-man-stabbed-to-death-set-ablaze-in-amritsar/story-gGCOT62g7YY1M1jVjnA2QN.html
06-06-2020||City||Four of Pinjore family among 5 fresh cases in Panchkula district||Five fresh cases of coronavirus disease surfaced in Panchkula district on Saturday. While four are from a family in Pinjore, one is from Kalka. All have travel history.With this, the number of Covid-19 cases in the district climbed to 33, of which seven remain active.The family from Abdullahpur, Pinjore, comprising a 65-year-old man, two women, aged 20 and 58, and a seven-year-old child, was tested positive after returning from Maharashtra.The fifth case is of a 41-year-old woman from Friends Colony, Kalka. She had recently travelled to Kolkata, said health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-of-pinjore-family-among-5-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-district/story-EEIqdafhwkgWtejXDee75L.html
06-06-2020||Patna||RJD puts up posters, asks Nitish Kumar why are migrants in Bihar being insulted||The opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Saturday upped its ante against the Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government over a controversial letter, which has since been withdrawn, by the state police administration that had raised apprehensions about a spike in criminal activities because of the influx of migrant workers to their home state.The migrants have been coming back to Bihar over the past month amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions that were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The RJD wanted to make political capital out of the controversial letter by converting it into giant posters and plastering them outside its state party office in Patna, as the party wants to tap the migrant vote bank ahead of the assembly polls slated to be held in October-November.The state police brass withdrew the letter on Friday while conceding it was a mistake.But, RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is also the leader of the opposition in the Bihar, made a spectacle on Saturday by climbing on a ladder and plastering the posters outside the state party office on Beer Chand Patel Marg to take the fight to CM Kumar’s camp.The posters asked tough questions for the state government and blamed it for humiliating migrant labourers when it is incapable of generating jobs for them in Bihar.“Nitish Kumar sharam karo. Shramiko ko samman nahin de sakhtey, toh apmaan kyon (Have shame Nitish Kumar. If you can’t give dignity to labourers, why are insulting them?),” read the posters while taking a dig at the state machinery for dubbing the migrants as criminals.Later, Yadav issued a statement and appealed to all RJD workers to publicise the contents of the letter in a bid to expose the anti-migrant attitude of the state government.“All the workers should put up posters of this letter in their neighbourhoods, panchayats, at block and district level to expose the state government’s anti-migrant streak,” he said.On Friday, Yadav had slammed the state government for issuing such a letter. He had alleged that it was an insult to lakhs of migrants who have returned to their native state and are facing an acute financial crisis because of the Covid-19-induced job losses.The RJD has been hitting out at the state government over the return of lakhs of migrants from various states in the past month, claiming it reflected how the 15-year tenure of CM Kumar had failed in generating jobs for Bihar’s working-class population. The party also blamed the government for its failure to organise an adequate number of trains to bring back stranded migrants from Bihar on time.Political experts are of the opinion that the RJD’s aggressive stand on job creation for migrant workers and their socio-economic rehabilitation is a calibrated strategy to tap the vote bank among the returnees in the run-up to the assembly polls slated to be held in October-November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/rjd-puts-up-posters-asks-nitish-kumar-why-are-migrants-in-bihar-being-insulted/story-LpkvoYbX0j4pNSWzvhboHI.html
06-06-2020||Noida||Pregnant woman dies in ambulance after running between hospitals for 13 hours||An eight-month pregnant woman died in an ambulance here after a frantic 13-hour hospital hunt failed to find her a bed as over half-a-dozen facilities denied her treatment, her family claimed on Saturday.Neelam, 30, and her husband Vijender Singh, 30, knocked the doors of eight hospitals, including government ones, before she died in the ambulance outside a facility in Greater Noida on Friday, the family told PTI.Taking note of the death and the claim, the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration ordered an inquiry into the matter.  A resident of Khoda colony on the Noida-Ghaziabad border, Neelam was eight months pregnant and undergoing treatment at Shivalik Hospital here, a private facility, for pregnancy-related complications, her husband said.On Friday, the hospital refused to admit her and then they were forced to run from one facility to another, he added.  “We first went to the ESI hospital. Thereafter, we went to a hospital in Sector 30 (the Child PGI), from there we went to the Sharda Hospital and then to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. But all refused to admit her,” the man is seen alleging in a video circulating on social media.He said the family also tried to get admission in the private facility Jaypee, Fortis Hospital in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Max in Vaishali, Ghaziabad, but were allegedly told that no beds were available.“Kul mila ke humari ambulance mein hi death ho gayi (ultimately, she died in the ambulance). Finally, we got to the GIMS where she was put on a ventilator but it was too late,” he said.  Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas L Y ordered a probe into the episode.“Additional DM Munindra Nath Upadhyay and Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri will probe the matter. The DM has instructed them to immediately carry out a probe and take action,” an official statement said.This is at least the second instance within a fortnight when a life has been lost in Gautam Buddh Nagar due to unavailability of timely medical treatment.  On the night of May 25, a newborn child had died due to lack of medical support as his father kept running from one hospital to another between Greater Noida and Noida.The district administration had carried out a probe in that matter too and pinned the fault on two private hospitals for alleged negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pregnant-woman-dies-in-ambulance-after-running-between-hospitals-for-13-hours/story-YnD7Sacy0FfuaGgrukWPVM.html
06-06-2020||City||Panchkula’s apex RWA body stops entry of domestic helps in violation of district admn’s orders||The Citizens Welfare Association, which represents at least 37 resident welfare associations in Panchkula, has decided not to “allow maids in their societies until lockdown is completely lifted”, in violation of the deputy commissioner’s orders.SK Nayar, president, Citizens Welfare Association, Panchkula, said: “Recently, we held a meeting with a senior health official, who also advised us to avoid taking services of domestic helps. Representatives of RWAs from various sectors, including Sectors 9, 10 and 15, were present. We were told that only those people should employ maids who can arrange for their stay in their homes.” However, there are a few exceptions, such as Sector 12, where entry of domestic helps has been allowed following the Centre’s Unlock plan this month.Meanwhile, domestic helps are at the receiving end. Sakina, who worked in a number of households in a Panchkula locality, is jobless for three months, and is left with no money to run her household. Searching for work, she daily makes calls or knocks on the doors of a few houses. Yet, nothing has worked out for her yet. Some societies don’t even let her enter the gate.Similar is the situation of hundreds of domestic helps.“Every third day, I get a call from some domestic help seeking work. Some even come to the house. This is completely opposite to the pre-lockdown period, when getting a maid in this sector was a herculean task. That’s how bad their situation is now,” said KP Singh, an advocate who resides in Sector 28, Panchkula.Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said: “There is no restriction on the movement of domestic helps. Maids are allowed to work and no one can stop them. I have already issued orders in this regard.”Another senior official of the Panchkula administration, who did not wish to be named, confirmed RWAs have no authority to stop domestic helps from working in their societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-apex-rwa-body-stops-entry-of-domestic-helps-in-violation-of-district-admn-s-orders/story-wg1nVAzA6qo6xXj2F3hYPJ.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases soar in capital, Delhi govt reads riot act to hospitals||The Delhi government on Saturday warned hospitals not to deny treatment to patients with symptoms of coronavirus as Covid-19 cases in the national capital soared to 27,654 with 1,320 cases.On Saturday, 349 people were declared cured while there are still 16,229 active cases. The national capital has recorded 761 casualties so far, the Delhi government said in its health bulletin.The government also issued a slew of orders including one to all state-run Covid-19 hospitals that no patient with symptoms of coronavirus should be denied admission.“An order has been issued to all dedicated Covid hospitals under GNCT of Delhi that no patient who is having Covid symptoms and id in moderate or severe category be denied admission that the patient is not having Covid positive report,” the government said in its health bulletin.The order came on the heels of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warning hospitals earlier in the day of stern action for “lying about the number of beds” they had for Covid-19 patients. He also accused them of extortion during the pandemic.Kejriwals’ comments during a video address came after a spate of complaints about difficulties that people were facing in hospital admissions.Saturday evening’s order also acknowledged a surge in Covid-19 case and said that the government is in the process of procuring sufficient stock of surgical consumables, oxygen masks, PPE kits, gloves etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-covid-19-cases-soar-in-capital-delhi-govt-reads-riot-act-to-hospitals/story-54U7Z2x1T78wbRAxL9C2iI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn recommends former CJI’s son as public prosecutor in HC||The Chandigarh administration has recommended the name of Ashu Mohan Punchhi, son of former Chief Justice of India MM Punchhi, as its next public prosecutor in the Punjab and Haryana high court.Communication in this regard was sent to the high court (HC) administration on June 2. Punchhi practises in civil as well as criminal matters in the HC. If approved, he will replace senior advocate RS Rai, who has been at the helm for nearly a decade now. As per rules, the name is recommended by the UT administration, but the final nod is given by the HC administration. Rai had resigned in 2017. However, the administration roped him again, as the other name proposed reportedly did not find favour with the HC. Public prosector conducts all criminal cases before the HC and is assisted by a team, ordinarily chosen by him. On the civil side, the UT administration appoints a senior standing counsel, a job assigned to advocate Pankaj Jain these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-recommends-former-cji-s-son-as-public-prosecutor-in-hc/story-aXG5aOT6PwDe8mgGjoNmVJ.html
06-06-2020||Lucknow||With 370 fresh cases, Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally crosses 10K-mark||The number of coronavirus positive cases in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 10,000-mark with 370 fresh cases reported on Saturday even as the number of casualties rose to 268.The number of Covid-19 cases in the state now stands at 10,103 as on Saturday. Principal secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said the number of active cases in the state was 3,927 and the number of those who have recovered and been discharged from hospitals was 5,908.So, far 268 people have lost their lives to coronavirus with 11 more deaths, Prasad said.Prasad stressed on maintaining utmost vigil during the month of June saying it was most crucial since the migrants and others were returning to the state and there is a need to remain alert for checking the spread of the virus.He asked the gram and mohalla nigrani committees to remain alert in ensuring that the migrants and others who have returned strictly follow home quarantine as per the protocol.Warning that legal action will be taken against those violating home quarantine, Prasad said in such cases they will be put into administrative quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/with-370-fresh-cases-uttar-pradesh-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-10k-mark/story-0plfkbkWPrnMkTFespaQgI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||4 fresh cases in hotspot Bapu Dham Colony take Chandigarh’s Covid-19 count to 313||Four people, including a five-year-old boy, tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Thursday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the city reached 313.All cases are from the hotspot Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. With 236 infections so far, this congested locality accounts for 75% cases of the city. Among those infected are three of a family, including the child, a 32-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man. The fourth case is of a 40-year-old man, who tested positive after being admitted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, said officials. With 273 people being discharged so far and five deaths, the number of active cases in the city stand at 35. The recovery rate in the city is 87.5%, much higher than the national average of 48%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-fresh-cases-in-hotspot-bapu-dham-colony-take-chandigarh-s-covid-19-count-to-313/story-Of9dydCIOS0Ve9BlngIUUI.html
06-06-2020||City||Five years on, thousands of Haryana farmers await tubewell connections||Thousands of farmers in the state have been left in the lurch as the Haryana government is yet to issue tubewell connections promised to them five years ago.Till June 3, the state power department had 84,537 pending applications for the connections. It had decided to first grant the connections to those who made payment for the five-star rating motor and estimated cost of connection.As per the department data, total 9,039 farmers have deposited the estimated amount, of which 2,065 connections were given to them till June 3.Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala had stated that the government would give out tubewell connections to 4,868 out of 9,039 farmers by June 15.A total of 1,848 farmers paid the estimated cost in Bhiwani, of which only 376 received connections. This was followed by Sirsa, where 1,499 farmers paid the amount, but only 261 were issued connections. In Sonepat, 88 farmers such farmers got the tubewell link out of 1,232.Farmers’ leader Balbir Takhan said even after paying ₹3 to ₹5 lakh (with estimated cost for poles and transformer), they have been waiting to get tubewell connections for the past five years.“Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced to release connections to 44,000 farmers ahead of Lok Sabha election in 2019, but the promise has fallen flat. Now, the government has declared 4,868 connections by June 15, but the remaining farmers will have to wait. Why is the government playing with our lives,” Takhan added.Juglal Singh, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Garwa village, said he had paid ₹3 lakh two years ago and since then he has been waiting to get a tubewell connection.“I had borrowed ₹3 lakh from a landlord at 18% interest to get the connection. Neither did I get one, nor am I able to repay the loan. Some landlord farmers had got the connection by paying ₹1 lakh extra under the Tatkal scheme. I don’t know when the government will release the connection to me,” said Singh.The power minister had said that rest of the farmers would get their connections later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-years-on-thousands-of-haryana-farmers-await-tubewell-connections/story-JY0Xg9CMBRp2SqFu9Fy5LP.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Shiv Sena (Hind) president, workers booked for lockdown violations||The Moti Nagar police have booked the national president of Shiv Sena Hind, Rahul Dua, and a few others for violating lockdown rules and gathering at their office in the Moti Nagar area to organise a hawan (a fire ritual) to pay ‘tributes to the martyrs of Operation Bluestar’.The FIR is lodged against Dua and other unidentified men accompanying him under sections 188 (orders duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC. “The accused have violated orders by gathering socially without permission, not maintaining social distancing, and not wearing masks. Besides, all organisations were asked to stay at home on the anniversary of Operation Bluestar. However he (Dua) gathered everyone at his office and organised a hawan. Later they also uploaded their pictures on social media,” said additional deputy commissioner of Police (ADCP, city-4) Kuldeep Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shiv-sena-hind-president-workers-booked-for-lockdown-violations/story-mbTObxgD6jDrZDcCZkaujL.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nine IAS officers transferred in Punjab; Khanna is new financial commissioner revenue||The Punjab government on Saturday transferred nine IAS officers and one PCS officer with immediate effect. Viswajeet Khanna has been posted as additional chief secretary (ACS)-cum-financial commissioner revenue and rehabilitation, relieving KBS Sidhu of this additional charge.Kirpa Shankar Saroj will now be ACS social justice and empowerment in addition to ACS NRI affairs; while Anirudh Tewari is posted as ACS-cum-financial commissioner development and in addition ACS horticulture. He will also hold the charge of ACS power and chairman-cum-managing director, Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited, relieving A Venu Prasad.Prasad will now be financial commissioner taxation in addition to being chairman-cum-manginging director, Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd.Sarvjit Singh, who is holding the charge of principal secretary housing and urban development will also hold the charge of principal secretary water resources and mines and geology, in addition to being state nodal officer for Jal Shakti Abhiyan of the Union government.KAP Sinha, principal secretary food and civil supplies will now be principal secretary finance; while Kakumanu Siva Prasad has been posted as principal secretary food and civil supplies. Alok Shekhar, principal secretary GAD has now been given the charge of principal secretary science and technology. Amarpreet Kaur Sandhu will now be ADC development, Mansa.PCS officer Rajesh Kumar Sharma, executive magistrate, Patiala, and in addition OSD on special duty to chief minister Punjab, has now been posted as deputy principal secretary to chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-ias-officers-transferred-in-punjab-khanna-is-new-financial-commissioner-revenue/story-7FYQ0Gs2Zn3Dns6kygtp2N.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ordinances anti-farmer act of Modi govt: Bajwa||Rajya Sabha member Partap Bajwa on Saturday alleged that the recently promulgated ordinances by the Centre regarding trade and commerce of agricultural products are “anti-farmer” acts of the Modi government.“I fear that the central government is looking to undo the social welfare system of governance in India to promote certain corporate interests,” said Bajwa, in a statement.He said, “The Union government, in 2014, had set up a high-level committee, led by former Himachal Pradesh CM Shanta Kumar, to look into restructuring of the Food Corporation of India. And the recommendations of this committee were rejected by farmers across India.”“The committee had recommended steps to dismantle the FCI and its operations in certain states, while diluting coverage of the National Food Security Act. It had also suggested that warehousing should be privatised, and the FCI will encourage entrance of private sector into the food security architecture. The suggestions of the committee showed intent to promote the private sector at the cost of national food security,” he added.“It seems that the recent ordinances are a way for the central government to revive the rejected recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, without the requisite scrutiny. Privatisation of the agricultural sector will ensure death of the MSP system and further increase indebtedness of farmers,” Bajwa added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ordinances-anti-farmer-act-of-modi-govt-bajwa/story-NSa8S2Y7xh1HScc9xx2DgJ.html
06-06-2020||City||Petrol pump employee robbed of ₹23,000 at gunpoint in Ludhiana||Two motorcycle-borne men robbed a petrol pump employee of Rs 23,000 at gunpoint in Chaunta village on Saturday. Batinder Kumar, 28, of Dholanwal village, told the police that he worked at a petrol pump in Chaunta village. On Saturday, two men on a motorcycle arrived at the petrol pump and asked him for an empty bottle to carry water.Batinder said when he entered the office to fetch the bottle, the duo followed him, flashed a gun and robbed him of Rs 23,000 in cash. Before fleeing, they bolted the office door from outside.ASI Harmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had registered a case under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code at the Koomkalan police station. Police are scanning CCTV footage to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/petrol-pump-employee-robbed-of-23-000-at-gunpoint-in-ludhiana/story-QhWBWdGmsnXi8A8AiTKaPI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM reviews progress under UEIP, sets June 30 deadline||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday directed the additional chief secretary (ACS) local government department to accelerate the pace of ongoing projects under Phase-1 of the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP), and set June 30 as the deadline.While reviewing the progress of UEIP, the CM asked the ACS to submit remaining proposals under Phase-1 of the programme to the Punjab Infrastructure Development Program (PIDB) along with proposals for funding under Phase-2 after obtaining the same from the urban local bodies (ULBs) by June 15.He has further directed the ACS to submit weekly progress reports, every Friday. Earlier, the director local government apprised the CM that an allocation of Rs 298.75 crore was made to ULBs under Phase-1 of the plan, but projects worth just Rs 108.44 crore have been undertaken so far, and just Rs 40.89 crore had been spent so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-reviews-progress-under-ueip-sets-june-30-deadline/story-5iZ54gNMxkXNtSz0U0Ya0M.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s USOL students in a tizzy after being told to submit assignments by post within June 10||Many students of Panjab University’s University School of Open Learning (USOL) have expressed concerns after they were told to submit their assignments by post within June 10 through an e-mail sent on Friday.In the e-mail, students were told to send their assignments by post as the department is unable to process them through e-mail due to excessive load. The students expressed concern as they were first told they can also submit their assignments through e-mail by June 5.A postgraduate student of political science said, “I have already submitted my assignments by email. This is total mismanagement. Now, we have to go and get our assignments printed and visit the post office as well. Many students are even rewriting their assignments.”According to a notice circulated by USOL earlier, department wise email i-ds were provided for submission of assignments and personal visits were not allowed. Now, a sudden change of policy has created panic among students.Another USOL student said, “For students living in containment zones, it is not possible to visit the post office. Many students live outside Chandigarh as well. We should have been given more time.”USOL chairperson Madhurima Verma said, “We had told students earlier that they can submit their assignments through emails or send them by post. However, we can’t open the mails due to excessive load. Regarding the June 10 deadline, there is no need to panic and we will accept the assignments after that too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-usol-students-in-a-tizzy-after-being-told-to-submit-assignments-by-post-within-june-10/story-WnnN8bw7DINHhbRehF4llN.html
06-06-2020||City||Cyclist hit by drunk car driver dies in Mohali||A drunk car driver claimed the life of a cyclist in Phase 7 Industrial Area on Saturday night.Police said after the accident, the car driver, Danvinder Singh, resident of Sector 115, Ansal Plaza, Mohali, sped away, but was nabbed from Sector 66 after a chase. Police said the cyclist, Nanhe Lal of Madanpura, Mohali, was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6, but was declared brought dead.As per police, the car driver deals with sale-purchase of cars in Sector 48, Chandigarh. He told the police that he had consumed beer on his way back home. He was medically examined at the civil hospital and later booked under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclist-hit-by-drunk-car-driver-dies-in-mohali/story-Sgdpsdwzzl3mNEWgAU3WxN.html
06-06-2020||Jaipur||Rain lashes parts of Rajasthan, weather to remain pleasant in on Sunday||Several parts of Rajasthan recorded rainfall in the last 24 hours, a Met department official said on Saturday.According to the India Meteorological Department, rain was recorded in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Sikar, Ajmer and Kota.On Saturday, the sky remained cloudy in several parts of the state including the capital Jaipur and the maximum temperature dropped by few notches at most places.At 40.9 degrees Celsius, Churu was the hottest place in the state followed by Bikaner (39.6), Kota (39.1), Jaisalmer and Ganganagar (38.9 each), Jodhpur (38 ), Jaipur (37.7) and Ajmer (36.1).According to the IMD forecast, many districts including Barmer, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Sriganganagar, Ajmer, Alwar, Banswara, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur and Jaipur will experience cloudy sky and strong winds in the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/weather-to-remain-pleasant-in-rajasthan-on-sunday-as-rain-lashes-parts-of-rajasthan/story-LPbz5qgWZFyiXH5A0Zr76O.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Defunct LED streetlights in Ludhiana: Mayor issues final warning to Tata company||With residents’ complaints regarding defunct LED streetlights continuing to pour in and Tata company officials demanding around Rs 3 crore as energy-saving and installation charges, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu organised an all-party meeting at his camp office near the Rose Garden on Saturday and issued final warning to company officials on the termination of the contract.It was decided that the MC General House would approve a resolution to terminate the contract with the company, if it failed to repair the dysfunctional lights by Thursday. It was also decided that no payment would be released till the company repaired all the defunct lights.Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra; leader of opposition and Shiromani Akali Dal councillor Harbhajan Dingh Dang; leader of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillors Swarandep Chahal, councillors Mamta Ashu, Jaspal Sigh, Gurdeep Singh Neetu were among those who participated in the meeting. The councillors raised a hue and cry over the alleged lackadaisical approach of the Tata company officials in taking up the project across the city. They rued that many parts of the city were left in dark during night as the company paid no heed to the problem. The incidents of theft and snatching have also increased in the past. Sandhu said, “I had also conducted an inspection on May 5 and streetlights were non-functional even outside my camp office and MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar’s residence. I have been receiving complaints from different parts of the city and residents are protesting against the MC for the failure of the company in repairing the lights.” Councillors Mamta Ashu and Dr Jai Prakash also demanded action against the officials of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL), who have approved the bills of the company. The mayor said if the company officials failed to improve its working, he would call an MC House meeting next week and a resolution would be approved to terminate the contract with the company.The company officials said the work of repairing the lights was going on and the company was demanding payment of around Rs 3 crore as energy-saving and installation charges. A completion certificate has been issued to the company for Zone B and D areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/defunct-led-streetlights-in-ludhiana-mayor-issues-final-warning-to-tata-company/story-2Rg15pA0v11LkkuziUP6TN.html
06-06-2020||City||Panipat cloth merchant killed, Cong leader among 5 in dock||A 60-year-old cloth merchant was alleged stabbed to death at his residence in the Jawahar Nagar area of Panipat city. The police have booked five persons, including a local Congress leader, in the murder case.The deceased, Gurvachan Singh, was alone in the house when the incident took place on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.In their police complaint, his family members accused Congress leader Prem Sachdeva, his son and three others for the murder.Police said they were also considering the enmity angle as Gurvachan had earlier accused Sachdeva of attacking him, following which the leader had been arrested and released on bail in April.As per the cops, Gurvachan was found with multiple injuries, seemingly from sharp-edged weapons, and was rushed to the Panipat civil hospital. There, the doctors referred him to PGIMS, Rohtak, but his family members took him to a private hospital instead, where he was declared dead.City police station in-charge Rajbir Singh said based on the complaint by Gagandeep Singh (victim’s son), an FIR has been registered against Sachdeva, his son Deepak, and relatives Sachin Mata, Jagdish Mata and local vegetable vendor Prem Chand under sections 302, 34 and 120-B of the IPC.When asked about the motive behind the murder, the SHO said preliminary investigation revealed that both the families were engaged in a financial dispute for the past year.Panipat DSP Vijender Singh said the police have started an investigation and the accused will be arrested soon.Karnal superintendent of police Manisha Chaudhary said as per the complaint, the police have registered an FIR and are verifying the role of the alleged persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-cloth-merchant-killed-cong-leader-among-5-in-dock/story-xGzgeY6AlXS9bQPtvitI1I.html
06-06-2020||City||Civil contractor murder: Cops recover car used in crime||Three days after a 40-year-old civil contractor was shot dead at Ghansoli, police have recovered the car used in the crime. Pravin Tayde was shot at point-blank range while he was riding a two-wheeler with his friend sitting pillion.Preliminary investigation has revealed that the shooter was waiting near the Gamdevi temple in Talavli village on Thursday afternoon. Soon after noticing Tayde on his two-wheeler, the accused walked up to the bike, which was moving slowly, and shot Tayde.The accused fled in a car which was parked nearby. “Based on the CCTV footage, we suspect there were two people involved in the murder, one of whom was waiting in the car. We cannot reveal more at this stage,” said an officer privy to the investigations.Sources said the car was recovered from Kopar Khairane but did not disclose further details, claiming it would hamper the investigation.The crime branch is conducting a parallel probe into the matter.Tayde lived in Talavli village at Ghansoli with his family and was handling some constructions in Ghansoli. Police suspect the motive behind the murder is related to supply of construction material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-contractor-murder-cops-recover-car-used-in-crime/story-YGuZu6aKoQwnld2VwTHRAP.html
06-06-2020||City||Working out in open, gym owners in Ludhiana demand permission to resume business||In their second demonstration in three days, gym owners and trainers staged a protest by exercising outside their respective gyms in Ludhiana on Saturday. A police team confiscated the gym equipment from outside a gym near Issa Nagar Pull in the old city area. Complaining of losses, gym owners demanded permission to resume their business as most other sectors, including markets, hotels and liquor vends had been allowed to reopen.Gym Ekta Welfare Association director Ramesh Bangar said, “We are raising our voice against the discrimination by the government. Similar protests were held in various parts of the city. We ensured social distancing and took all precautionary measures. Yet, police seized equipment of a gym under political pressure. They returned it after some time.”Bangar said since the gyms were closed over two ago, owners had been burdened with electricity bills, hefty rent and salaries of staff. “But the government is not heeding our problems, even when working out helps boost a person’s immunity,” he added.Later, MLA Sanjay Talwar assured the gym owners that he had taken up the matter with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the government will take a decision on the matter soon. On June 4, different associations had staged protests by begging for alms at Jagraon bridge and exercising in the open near Jalandhar Bypass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-out-in-open-gym-owners-in-ludhiana-demand-permission-to-resume-business/story-mYg5xxqF7UZFMMb8kvUpHK.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Details of 35 schools set up as exam centres in Ludhiana not updated on PSEB portal||Officials of the district education department are on their toes to gather details of 234 schools set up as examination centres to conduct Classes 12 and 10 (open school) examinations of the Punjab School Education Board. Earlier, the board had postponed the examinations due to the imposition of lockdown. To collect information, emails were sent to the schools on Thursday asking them to send the data by filling the 16-point pro forma by Friday. But, emails to at least 35 schools bounced back. Even their contact numbers have not been updated by school authorities on the board’s web portal.The officials confirmed that when they tried to contact schools on the numbers uploaded on the school login, they came to know either the school principal or the head has retired or nobody was replying to the calls.Due to this, officials are facing problems in gathering the information and this is delaying the process of compiling the data of the examination centres. On June 2, the board sent a letter to all district education officers across Punjab to send details of examination centres, number of students appearing, availability of rooms, number of teachers on Covid- 19 duty and names of five nearby schools affiliated with the board.The seven nodal officers deputed to gather information also revealed that many schools are not replying to the emails.For Class 12, the board has set up 216 centres and 18 for Class 10 (open school) students. The board is collecting data to conduct the pending exams for Classes 10 and 12. The subjects include physical education and sports, home science, mathematics, economics, music (tabla), fundamentals of e-business, political science, physics, business studies, geography and history.District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “We are collecting details from the schools and will send the information required by the board on Monday. The nodal officers are gathering details and will submit the compiled data by tomorrow. Many schools set up as examination centres are turned into quarantine centres where labour, patients with mild symptoms are staying.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/details-of-35-schools-set-up-as-exam-centres-in-ludhiana-not-updated-on-pseb-portal/story-0NfHSLrX9NUnbP7yyo9AgI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Students living near Panjab University’s regional centres may be allowed to take exams there||Students of Panjab University who live near the varsity’s regional centres may be given an option to take their examinations there. A final decision on this is expected next week, a university official said.PU is planning to conduct its semester examinations in July, preparations for which are underway. As per sources, the option to appear for examinations in regional centres may be given to arts students only.PU has three regional centres in Ludhiana, Muktsar and Hoshiarpur. It also has a rural centre in Kauni. Moreover, the varsity is also planning to use a nearby college as an examination centre.It has been learnt that date sheets have been prepared for the examinations, but are subject to change depending on the Covid-19 situation.A senior professor at the university said, “This is not impossible but the university will have to make great efforts to execute this plan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-living-near-panjab-university-s-regional-centres-may-be-allowed-to-take-exams-there/story-MYwKzNBh0FaWM81ncF6sdK.html
06-06-2020||City||Grateful, ITBP band plays for healthcare staff at Ludhiana civil hospital||Expressing gratitude to doctors and other healthcare staff battling the Covid-19 war, the band team of ITBP 26th Battalion, Baddowal, gave a performance at the Ludhiana civil hospital on Saturday. Battalion Commandant Sudesh Kumar Drall honoured the doctors and other staff members in the presence of civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. Drall said, “The motive of band performance was to express gratitude to the health staff, motivate the Covid-19 positive patients and spread awareness among others to keep themselves and society safe from this deadly infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grateful-itbp-band-plays-for-healthcare-staff-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital/story-wTxWc8egYUcfrYaMyVlbsI.html
06-06-2020||City||Immigration fraud: 11 more cases filed in Ambala district||Days after another flight carrying Indians deported from the US landed in Amritsar this week, 11 more FIRs were registered against agents for illegal immigration in Ambala district on Saturday.Confirming this, deputy superintendent of police Munish Sehgal said, “Eleven fresh FIRs were registered at various police stations in the district taking the total FIRs related to US deportees to 22 in the district. We’ve submitted the fresh details to the SIT constituted earlier this week. So far, we’ve arrested an accused in the case and investigation is going on in the rest of the cases.”As per details, of the 11 FIRs, five were lodged at Naggal police station, 2 at Barara and one each at Ambala city, Naraingarh, Shahazadpur and Panjokhara police stations.All the complainants have been kept at a quarantine facility in Kurukshetra district, but their numbers remain unknown, said deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar.Earlier last week in May, 11 FIRs were registered against travel agents after 167 Indians, including 76 from Haryana, were deported from the US. Home minister Anil Vij had ordered stiff action against those sending people abroad illegally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/immigration-fraud-11-more-cases-filed-in-ambala-district/story-sIGFfJxNycNH7Y8fph1QoL.html
06-06-2020||City||Now, pregnant cow’s jaw blown off by explosive-laden wheat-flour ball in Himachal’s Jhandutta||In a repeat of Kerala-like animal cruelty, a pregnant cow’s jaw was severely injured after being fed wheat dough stuffed with firecrackers in Jhandutta area of Bilaspur district here.The police on Saturday arrested a person for causing grievous injury to the domestic animal.This comes days after a pregnant wild elephant was fed a fruit laden with explosives and died due to it later in Kerala.The Jhandutta incident allegedly took place on May 26, but came to light on Saturday when the cow’s owner Gurdayal Singh uploaded a video of the injured bovine on social media.The video soon went viral and people demanded strict action against the miscreants who fed firecrackers to the cow.Gurdayal blamed one of his neighbours for the cruel act. He alleged that one Nand Lal had fed his cow the dough balls stuffed with firecrackers while the animal was grazing in the field.Bilsapur superintendent of police (SP) Devakar Sharma said the cow was fed a highly explosive firecracker called the ‘aalu bomb’.He said a case under Section 286 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered and the role of the main accused named by the cow’s owner and other people in the case is being investigated.Wildlife officials said it was a common practice among farmers to keep firecrackers in dough balls to kill wild animals, mainly the blue bulls and wild boars, to protect their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-pregnant-cow-s-jaw-blown-off-by-explosive-laden-wheat-flour-ball-in-himachal-s-jhandutta/story-aZB2a6LSqWD1yw4zS8nEUJ.html
06-06-2020||City||Operation Bluestar anniversary passes off peacefully in Ludhiana||The 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar passed off peacefully in Ludhaina on Saturday. Police had already taken all precautionary measures to avoid any untoward incident in the city.The police had put local leaders of various Hindu organisations and Sikh radicals under ‘house arrest’ and did not allow them to move out on Saturday.District president of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) Gurdeep Singh Gosha was rounded from near the Clock Tower and the police did not allow him to move around.The administration had deployed additional 1,000 police personnel in the city to ensure peace in the city. At least 4,000 police personnel were already on lockdown duty.The cyber cell of the police had also kept a tab on social networking sites to check if someone was trying to provoke emotions of people by posting provocative content.Gosha said he was arrested without any reason when he was distributing langar. He said he was first taken to a police station before putting him under ‘house arrest’.Ashok Thapar, president of the Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Brigade Anti Terrorist Front, who was kept under ‘house arrest’ said they had planned to hold a programme to pay tributes to the martyrs, who attained martyrdom in a fight against terrorism at the Daresi ground. But, the police did not allow them to move out and also sealed the Daresi ground.He added members of Hindu organisations, however, lit lamps at their homes to pay homage to martyrs.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “No one was kept under house arrest. Sensing the situation, the police requested leaders of both Hindu and Sikh organisations to stay home. Most leaders voluntarily offered to stay home. Those, who did not abide by the advice, the police rounded up then and took them to their homes.”No protest or any clash was reported in the city, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/operation-bluestar-anniversary-passes-off-peacefully-in-ludhiana/story-MeroCqEOPA7VFonl2VhkoI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Senior citizens’ association, police celebrate elderly man’s birthday in Mohali||A senior citizen living in Phase 10, Mohali, was taken by surprise when office bearers of Mohali Senior Citizens’ Association (MSCA) along with police officers came to his house to celebrate his 91st birthday, on Saturday.Manmohan Singh, a retired principal, was surprised when police vehicles with a birthday song playing stopped at his door and men in khaki walked to him with a birthday cake. A potted plant was gifted to him by Helpage.“This is a small initiative taken by the association to make senior citizens feel loved. The police has played a huge part in instilling a sense of security among the elderly living alone,” said S Chaudhary, president of the MSCA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/senior-citizens-association-police-celebrate-elderly-man-s-birthday-in-mohali/story-O5ODclY14nZUAfUlvfQ7cN.html
06-06-2020||City||Tractor trolley hits motorcycle in Raipur Rani, two friends injured||Two youths were grievously injured after a tractor-trolley hit their motorcycle in Raipur Rani on Friday evening.The complainant, Mohit, 21, resident of Raipur Rani, told the police, that he and his friend, Mandeep, were going to Kakrali on a motorcycle. While he was riding the two-wheeler, Mandeep was sitting pillion.Around 7.30pm, when they reached a brick kiln on the way, a tracker-trolley hit their motorcycle, leaving the two friends injured. The driver ran away after abandoning his vehicle.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tractor-trolley-hits-motorcycle-in-raipur-rani-two-friends-injured/story-CcNc8iqP2roryGZAVbK0yI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gurdwaras reopen two days too soon to celebrate Gurpurab, mark Op Bluestar anniversary||Even as the UT administration has allowed religious institutions to reopen only on June 8, various gurdwaras in the city opened their doors on Saturday to celebrate Guru Hargobind’s 425th birth anniversary and mark the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar.As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for religious places released by the UT health department on Friday, religious places can reopen only from June 8. All gurdwaras, temples, churches and mosques have remained closed since the curfew was imposed in the city on March 24, and any type of religious function and gathering was also banned.On Saturday morning, several devotees stepped inside the Sector 35 gurdwara, many of them without face masks, made mandatory in public places by the district magistrate. Community lunch was also being served here, and also at the Sector 38 and Sector 44 gurdwaras.However, Amarjeet Singh Silvia, vice-president of the Sector 35 gurdwara committee, denied that any religious function took place there. “The routine nitnem banis were read out in the morning. Only around 30 people living nearby and members of the gurdwara committee were in attendance, and a small langar was organised for them,” he said, even as some devotees there confirmed that they had come to celebrate Gurpurab.Police personnel were deployed outside many gurdwaras to maintain law and order in light of the Operation Bluestar anniversary. The cops deputed outside the Sector 38 gurdwara confirmed a small function was held and they ensured that all devotees were wearing masks.The Chandigarh Samuh Gurdwara Prabandhak Sangathan also confirmed that some gurdwaras remained opened. Its president, Tara Singh said, “A call was given by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to celebrate Gurpurab on Saturday. The prayers were completed by 9am at most places and only small langars were prepared while following all safety precautions.”Calling the gatherings unfortunate, chief spokesperson of Kendri Singh Sabha, Gurpreet Singh said, “The restrictions are for people’s safety. There is no compulsion for Sikhs to pray only in gurdwaras. They should stay home till the pandemic is controlled,” he said.The police claimed they received no information from the administration about whether the events were allowed. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, PRO) Charanjit Singh Virk said, “The police didn’t receive any complaints regarding the functions. So, no action was taken.” Besides, he added, the respective gurdwara committees had informed the police that no langar or function was organised except for the ones that the administration had allowed. Cops were also deployed at gurdwaras after Criminal Investigation Department (CID) gave them information of the functions planned there, Virk said.UT adviser Manoj Parida remained unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gurdwaras-reopen-two-days-too-soon-to-celebrate-gurpurab-mark-op-bluestar-anniversary/story-gpwA7v0iPAu0XCg8UMphDM.html
06-06-2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot forms committee to suggest on opening of religious places in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government on Saturday said it will form a committee headed by district collectors to take a decision on opening of religious places which are closed since March due to the coronavirus lockdown. The panel will give its suggestions following which a decision will be taken, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said in a video conference with representatives of religious leaders.Gehlot said the committee will discuss various measures like ensuring social distancing and sanitisation in religious places, according to an official statement. The panel will include the superintendent of police and chief medical and health officer as well as religious leaders, chief mahants and trustees.“We are proud that everyone fully supported the administration and the coronavirus situation in Rajasthan remained under control. It is appreciated all over the country,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ashok-gehlot-forms-committee-to-suggest-on-opening-of-religious-places-in-rajasthan/story-pCN1iYSCldzx67YmdrIiyM.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Random forays: Sports can re-energise the whole world||The crisp sound of a masterly cover drive which has been middled to perfection, the resounding thump of a tennis ball belted to and fro from the baseline, the sudden roar of a packed stadium as a fleet-footed forward nears the penalty area, the pleasing thwack of a shuttlecock swaying back and forth across a badminton net, the graceful gait of a rhythmic gymnast on the bare floor, the sheer drama of a sprinter tearing down a track at the peak of his prowess, the upraised arms of a proud champion, the pumped fist of a world beater, the hugs and huddles of all and sundry: Sports brings all such magical moments to us, year after year, unfailingly and unerringly.Thus, the absence of sports is being felt even more painfully in these times of a global pandemic. For the first time since World War II, the Olympic Games had to be postponed. All sporting activity came to a grinding halt, the world over, unprecedentedly. Hearts sank, heartbeats quietened, moods plummeted and eyes became teary. Not only do sportspersons miss sport when it does not happen, fans and aficionados sorely miss it as well. From couch potatoes who dearly look forward to events such as the Indian Premier League (IPL), to coaches, scribes, managers, assistants, groundsmen, helpers, scorekeepers, referees and umpires, a whole gamut of people miss sporting activities when they do not take place.Fortunately, there are signs that sport is haltingly re-emerging from its hiatus. The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has happily announced that three Test Matches will be held against the visiting West Indians in July, albeit in a bio secure ‘bubble’ or reservoir to be created at the match venues. The Windies team will reside in quarantine like conditions at Old Trafford in Manchester for three weeks. India is likely to play a Test series in Australia under similar conditions later this year. European soccer appears to be limping back to some form of normalcy too, with players like Leo Messi having started training while wearing masks. And Vietnam has allowed spectators to pack football stadia without enforcing social distancing norms, even though people have to wear masks and undergo thermal testing. The US Open Tennis Tournament is still planned to be held in August in New York, though without spectators, and the French Open will take place in September at Roland Garros, after being postponed from May. The tennis magnum opus, Wimbledon, sadly, had to be cancelled for the first time since the World War.Even at the level of the common man, sports can play a rejuvenating role. With lockdown measures gradually being lifted now, it is imperative that everyone gets cracking and indulges in physical exercises outdoors every day. Playing a sport like badminton will enable all age groups to get back to fitness after the forced lethargy of previous weeks. And to keep that sporting momentum going for years to come should be the endeavour of all and sundry. Sport related exercises also help release endorphins which are happy hormones that make us much more balanced in our personalities.It is a proven fact that populations which indulge in sports have higher levels of happiness and an enhanced sense of well being. By encouraging and urging youngsters to play sport on a regular basis, our society can eliminate ills which beset sections of the youth today, including drugs, alcoholism and obsession with social media. The mood of the world has seldom sunk to such abysmally low levels as it has nowadays. People are clutching at straws to sense a whiff of good news from anywhere possible. Sport has the capacity to uplift sagging morale and rejuvenate sunken spirits like nothing else can. Nelson Mandela famously said, “Sports has the power to change the world!” Rousing people from their deflated existence and inspiring them to get going once again will be a herculean task, given the mass hysteria associated with the pandemic. But if one type of pursuit can re-energise, unite and propel humankind towards a happier, healthier, existence, it is sports. Let’s play, as soon as we can!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-sports-can-re-energise-the-whole-world/story-eA8AblMPWYOF3p6l4ldLJP.html
06-06-2020||City||Police constable tests positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Mohali district||In first such case in Punjab’s Mohali district, a 20-year-old constable posted at the deputy superintendent of police (DSP)’s office in Kharar tested positive for coronavirus disease on Saturday.A resident of Kurali, he was tested according to the protocol before proceeding for the basic training course at Police Recruits Training Centre near Hoshiarpur. Though he was asymptomatic, his samples tested positive, said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.With this, the total number of confirmed cases reached 128 in the district, of which 18 remain active. “We have shifted the patient to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. We are tracing his contacts and source of infection. We will also be testing all officials posted at the Kharar DSP’s office,” said Dr Singh.“I will be directing the Kharar DSP to cooperate with the health department,” said Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-mohali-district/story-gYJtPmhnkq6BqvUTSMvJDL.html
06-06-2020||Bollywood||Paatal Lok actor Ishwak Singh: Success of OTT doesn’t mean theatres will be obsolete||Ishwak Singh is on cloud nine. And rightly so since there haven’t been many opportunities for most budding actors during the coronavirus pandemic. But Singh sort of got his Bollywood breakthrough moment with his recent web series Paatal Lok. Produced by actor Anushka Sharma, the nine-episode series has received rave reviews for his performance as Imran Ansari — a soft spoken Kashmiri Muslim police officer — a character that is nuanced and has given the actor the well-deserved adulation from both within the industry and the public.Singh, a Delhi boy, who has been part of Bollywood films such as Aligarh (2015), Tamasha (2015) and Veere Di Wedding (2018), says his recent OTT outing has been a thrilling experience. Not many know that his earlier associated with Asmita Theatre Group in the Capital gave him his first cameo as a doctor in Raanjhanaa (2013). A background in theatre has certainly helped him in approaching characters with sensitivity. “Theatre is certainly the traditional way of approaching the craft. Films are just a modern medium of communicating the stories. Films and plays are different in the ways they are made. We often shoot as per the location and the scenes are broken. But theatre helped me tie the knots in a medium like cinema where the narrative is often fragmented,” says the 30-year-old.   First steps on stage #worldtheatredayA post shared by  ıɹɐsu∀ uɐɹɯI (@ishwaksingh) on Mar 28, 2020 at 4:09am PDTHis character, in the web series, is almost an antithesis to the image of the pot-bellied corrupt police officers that one is used to seeing on-screen. “Ansari believes in the system. He believes in the regime; he wants to be a super cop that straddles both the worlds; he wants to pursue IPS so that he can serve while he also wants to solve high profile cases and do the right thing. The character is endearing and inspiring all at once,” Singh says.But, to get into the skin of his character on OTT, Singh had to take to reading books to be able to enhance his character portrayal. “I’m from Delhi, so I could relate to the environment that is present in the series. I hung out at the outer district police stations and understood the rigorous pressure that police personnel are under. I also tried to witness different processes such as interrogations, investigations so as to learn more about the environment of a local police station.”He says that the onscreen camaraderie between his character Ansari and Jaideep Ahlawat’s Hathi Ram Choudhary is formed on the bedrock of a lot of mentor-rookie relationships that he has lived through and witnessed in life. “The script was very special and it just allowed me to bring forth the best of my abilities. When the two characters are interacting with compassion, kindness, and just simply looking out for each other, all these places are where my personal self came through. I could use my experiences to enrich the moments on screen.” Read More: Paatal Lok review: Anushka Sharma’s show is Amazon’s black-hearted yet brave answer to Sacred GamesAs the debate of OTT vs theatre and theatres continues to gather steam, Singh says that one medium’s success does not negate the importance of the other. “Just because a series does well, it does not mean theatres will become obsolete. The entire experience of watching a movie in a theatre is very personal. It is the most common and interactive form of recreation. We have memories of first dates or family outings to the theatre, and those cannot be substituted by watching movies on a laptop or your phone,” opines Singh, and elucidates that more mediums mean more content for people, and “these translate to more opportunities for filmmakers to experiment with the narrative and the format.”Read More: Abhishek Banerjee, Paatal Lok’s Hathoda Tyagi, says wife, mother refuse to watch show: ‘It’s the best compliment’While he is still reeling under the influence of mass adulation that has come his way, Singh has been quarantining with his family in Delhi. “I was originally quite bothered by the sudden lockdown. I was habitual of going out; reading scripts in cafes, playing cricket. But of late I have taken to honing other skills which has given a sense of stability to my routine. I’m learning a few musical instruments, and also dabbling in martial arts as well as contemporary dance. But as of now, I’m just very happy and busy with the entire experience of Paatal Lok.”Author tweets @Mallika_bhagatFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/paatal-lok-actor-ishwak-singh-success-of-ott-doesn-t-mean-theatres-will-be-obsolete/story-nqH7aJ2fCxvfem2HQAr6fP.html
06-06-2020||Pune||Woman held for helping paramour steal Rs 1.74 crore from husband’s house||A local court in Pune remanded a woman to police custody on Saturday, for aiding her ex-boyfriend in thefts worth Rs 1.74 crore from her husband’s residence in Bibvewadi. The arrested woman is in her 30s and lived with her husband and in-laws in Bibvewadi. The police are on the lookout for the paramour. A complaint was lodged by the brother-in-law of the arrested woman. The family runs a business of spice-mixes (masala).“The woman was married since 2016 and had known the paramour, who is now on the run, from before the wedding. The reason behind the theft is being investigated. She will be police custody till June 9,” said assistant police inspector KB Pavase of Bibvewadi police station who is investigating the case. According to the complainant, on May 31, as the family was heading to Kothrud, the woman allegedly helped the man enter the house, and steal a bag containing Rs 1 crore. She helped him by giving information about where the spare house keys had been kept. She also pivoted or shut down four-five close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in and around the house.The woman had allegedly been helping the man for the past 11 months by slipping him jewellery from the house from time-to-time. She had allegedly aided in thefts of gold and diamond jewellery, cash, and gold coins, said police.However, the thefts came to light only when a bag containing Rs 1 crore cash disappeared from the house, according to the complaint submitted to the police.The total theft, over the past 11 months, is estimated to be worth Rs 1,74,40,000, according to the police.A case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bibvewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-held-for-helping-paramour-steal-rs-1-74-crore-from-husband-s-house/story-WlQqSedGUW1BdspaFNqS7O.html
06-06-2020||City||As cases surge, experts ask J&K admn to home quarantine patients with mild, no symptoms||With the surge in number of Covid-19 cases in J&K, doctors and experts have suggested the administration to home quarantine patients with mild and asymptomatic conditions.In the past ten days, over a thousand infections have been reported from various districts of Jammu and Kashmir, and doctors opine that if this trend continues, as the administration is now planning to open the UT after a long lockdown, the transmission could spiral out of control.Dr Naveed Shah of Chest Disease Hospital, Srinagar, who recently tested positive for the disease, stressed that the government should change its strategy. “So many cases are being detected each day. Where are we going to keep these patients, their families and contacts? We have to alter our strategy of testing and quarantine,” he stated in a tweet.Dr Ijtaba Shafi, one of the health officers posted in Ganderbal district, said it was time to take a call on home isolation of asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients. “Let institutions be demarcated for low/high risk cases only. The surge is alarming. Some expert should speak on this before it’s too late.”Paediatrician and Doctors Association Kashmir president and Dr Suhail Naik said that on an average, one infected person has 50 primary contacts. “Around 200 cases land every day, leading 1,000 into administrative quarantine. India spends ₹2,440 on each person in quarantine centres. Soon, we will have shortage of beds, chaos and confusion. Time has come to stop administrative medicine,” said cautioned Naik.Dr Bilal Khan, a prominent gastroenterologist, said Kashmir has already entered into community transmission and now there is need to do mass testing. Medical experts believe that getting people back from different parts of the globe, especially those from affected areas, has also led to a surge in positive cases.Former faculty at Government Medical College, Srinagar, Dr Khursheed Qureshi, said the government should go for home quarantine, instead of administrative quarantine.In the last four days, J&K witnessed over 400 infections. “We can’t hold the administrative quarantine for much long as it has many loopholes. The administration should pay serious attention towards shifting from this strategy. The virus is going to stay here, so we need to remain prepared for it and how to tackle it. The experience of administrative quarantine didn’t prove much beneficial and it should be tweaked,” said Dr Amjid Ali, senior consultant at Government Medical College, Baramulla.“More than two lakh people have been tested and that is the main reason why we have registered a spike in Covid-19 cases,” a senior official from the administration said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-cases-surge-experts-ask-j-k-admn-to-home-quarantine-patients-with-mild-no-symptoms/story-9GMm4JZ9In5qjUAQl5618H.html
06-06-2020||City||Letters||YOUR SPACEMigrant workers deserve betterMigrant workers face many challenges and discrimination. They are treated as outsiders despite their critical role in nation-building, including construction of highways, metros and skyscrapers. These activities will come to a halt in the absence of migrant workers. It is time to implement the one-nation, one-ration card policy to help labourers get basic necessities. Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee should be enforced to give due respect to migrant labourers.Anoop PanjwaniWake-up call for industriesEven as countries across the globe are working on developing a vaccine to fight coronavirus, we come across immunity building medicines from Kerala and Tamil Nadu, which have been reported to reduce the number of cases within the states. Kerala recently stood firm and showed a striking example of its handling of an unprecedented Covid-19 issue, but migrant crisis is a created one. At a time when Covid-19 can be possibly cured as in Kerala and China, the Maharashtra government ought to have taken care of migrants. Though work in the commercial capital has slowly restarted, the state government is facing shortage of migrants to work in construction and other sectors. With great difficulty migrants were packed off and now we see their shortage. Migrants are guest workers and they ought to have been protected. The present migrant labour crisis is a wake-up call for all stakeholders. Annapurani Shanthi From our Inbox Top priority should be medical healthThe Pune Municipal Corporation has initiated its long-pending process to recruit 97 doctors and residential medical officers to contain the spread of Covid-19 (High no. of cases push PMC to fill 97 med posts, June 2). The government-run Sassoon General Hospital’s administration has decided to recruit doctors. Almost 75 days have passed after the outbreak of coronavirus and no serious action is taken regarding recruitment of doctors and medical staff in hospitals. It exposes the lethargy on the part of government and authorities. The establishment of medical colleges is the need of hour. Top priority should be given to increase the availability of quality health professionals. Civic hospitals should run on public-private partnership.Anoop PanjwaniOnline education has flawsThe decision of educational authorities of several state governments to introduce online education is not a viable proposition. Continued use of smartphones for formal education could be quite harmful to eyesight. There was also a report about a girl who woke up at 4 am in order to go through her lessons for two hours on a smartphone, as her father had to take the phone with him to work! Unless a student can use a computer, which can be placed at a convenient distance from a student, online education is not a workable proposition.CK Subramaniam Indian cricketers are not angels A police complaint has reportedly been filed against former India cricketer Yuvraj Singh for a casteist remark that he made during a live chat recently on social media. Yuvraj stirred up the hornet’s nest after he made the remark towards Yuzvendra Chahal while having a conversation with Rohit Sharma on Instagram. Yuvraj has been facing backlash on social media. Indian cricketers are not angels as they involve in controversies time and again. Both Hardik Pandya and KL Rahul made sexiest comment in a TV programme Koffee with Karan and were banned for a period. Harbhajan Singh is “Singh is King” in controversies. His Monkeygate and Slapgate are talks of the town even now.Muringatherry Ramaswamy J||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/letters/story-q4BWjdgW0bFD2xD1KtFIPP.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Mira Road double murder: Accused killed colleagues over food denial, delay in salary||The 36-year-old man, held for killing two of his colleagues and dumping their bodies inside a water tanker of a bar and restaurant at Mira Road, confessed that he committed the crime over denial of good food and delay in payments.The accused Kallu Yadav, a cleaner at the restaurant, was arrested for the murder of Haresh Shetty, 42, a manager and Naresh Pandit, 58, a waiter. Yadav has been previously jailed in Kolkata in 2013 for two years in a double murder case.On the night of May 31, Yadav, Shetty and Pandit were drinking. After the two slept, Yadav slit their throats with a spade. “Yadav murdered Shetty and Pandit on May 31 night over denial of good food and delay in payments by Shetty. Shetty used to order food from outside while Yadav and Pandit had to eat at the restaurant which is shut for over a year due to repairs. The manager had also delayed Yadav’s salary on multiple occasions. Pandit was killed because he was an eyewitness. The accused used a spade to murder the victims and we are yet to recover the murder weapon,” said senior inspector Sandeep Kadam of Mira Road police station. After the murder, Yadav called the restaurant owner Gangadahar Payyade, using Shetty’s phone, and told him that Pandit and the manager had left for their hometowns. He then fled to Pune. Police traced the number and arrested him on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mira-road-double-murder-accused-killed-colleagues-over-food-denial-delay-in-salary/story-1O8Nny2iVfpi4NJzGeHcUI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Lollitas VS Lalits & Lauras in the time of Tin Pot||Unlock 1.0 might not have contended for competition in Primetime narratives until it beheld the Badshahs of Breaking News squeaking, left right and epicentre. To be battle ready when the cyclone came calling, that is.Nisarga notwithstanding, Unlock 1.0 went about its business. In its ‘Houseful Returns’ narratives, the Bais – Lalitas, Lajwantis & Co – returned to work for the Lollitas, unlock, stock and apparel. The apparel of consequence, that is their ticket to gaining entry into gated societies, being New Normal’s Half Burqa – the mask.Even as the masked life is meant to “Flatten the Curve”, Unlock 1.0 is scripting twists ‘n’ turns to the ‘Flatten the Curve’ narratives as well as certain “fatten” narratives. Of other wars on the trot & Tin Pot Wondered why WhatsApp groups were suddenly looking “fattened” in Unlock 1.0 or why certain email inboxes are bearing the burden of being bloated? If you thought Unlock 1.0 overnight bestirred your Biradri, BFFs & Co to bombard your inbox with missives enquiring about your well-being, perish the thought. The mail inbox may be looking inundated and fattened because war has broken out – nah, not the #Covid19 war outside, but the RWA war inside. Inside gated housing high-rises, plush or pockmarked, whose RWAs (Resident’s Welfare Associations) have been bestowed the title “Tin Pot dictatorships” or “Little Hitlers”.Unlock 1.0 has unlocked a Pandora’s Box.It’s battle lines drawn at the all-desi RWAs – between the top brass and residents with the loudest “bahas” or heaviest bass. A case of Lala jis & Latas VS Lalit jis & Lollitas. They’re warring over whether or not the Bais & Plumbing Wala Bhais are to be allowed into elevators or instead be made to navigate vertical treadmills (read “mountainous stairways”) up to the sixth or seventh floor; whether or not residents have to fill forms as wordy as Modi ji’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ for swearing on oath the Corona-freeness of their house helps; and all that.But what takes the cake (an entire bakery, perhaps) is when the RWAs ruminate over requests such as this emanating from the neighbouring Latikas of Lockdown: “Can you all please not disclose the Covid-positive case in our building, because if the apartment is sealed, my in-laws won’t get going back in Unlock?”It’s also free-for-all war at multi-racial RWAs in tourist states – between RWA top guns who are in-house and home owners who are away yet, with or without business visas, make it their business to plunge into policing of the RWAs. A case of Lavleens & Lalli Singhs VS Lauras & Larrys. What the multi-racial RWAs are warring about is whether or not migrant Indian guards or garbage-wallahs need to be dipped in the holy Ganges river waters before they’re considered Covid-free or hygienic enough to return to work for the Larrys & Co; and whether or not slum-dwelling Bais – Lalitas & Lajwantis – are to be allowed to scrub at the sanitised sinks of the Lauras and Lolas. (So much for all this videshi ‘squeak’ speak on shunning so-and-so, though back home in their countries – UK, USA et al – it’s their Prime Ministers and Princes, populating palaces ‘squeaky’ clean, who’re known to be the celebrity carriers of Covid19, one hell of a leveller pandemic!)It’s tolerable as long as the squabble and slugfest about Unlock 1.0’s dos and don’ts are directly between the warring parties. Where the slugfest spells treble trouble is when third parties find themselves caught in the crossfire. And their inbox is inundated with hate mail – spewing #NewNormal’s new vocabulary titled “Tin Pot dictators”. Ah, here one has to confess, (Shashi) Tharoor couldn’t accomplish that which has been done by Unlock’s lingo-ism labelled “Tin Pot” – driving one to go diving for the dictionary. The curious case of needing nerves of “steel” to survive these times of “Tin” Pot.Of ‘Fatten the Curve’ narrativesThe social media is staging signs of Unlock 1.0 too as Selfie-ism is no longer doomed to stay single and is ready to mingle, albeit with social distancing protocols in place.But Selfie-ism is in for a rude shock in the Unlock. When post-Lockdown’s Lollitas bump into BFFs – Latikas & Co – at “Lala” ki dukaan and want to freeze the Mahakumbh-Ke-Mele-Mein-Miley moment in Selfie-ism’s frame, it just doesn’t fit. Firstly, social distancing stands in the way of Selfie-ism of Unlock’s Lollitas and Latikas. But befitting here to spell the new body language of Unlock 1.0’s selfies. The new etiquette upon bumping into BFFs, Biradri & Co is to feign flinging forward your arms in the air to indicate you’re dying to hug or greet them, but just as the limbs are levitating midway, in an abrupt anatomical deactivation reminiscent of that childhood game, freeze the forearms pronto as though an invisible voice into your ears just did coo – “Statue”.Second, standing in the way of Selfie-ism is a tweaked narrative – Fatten the Curve. For, whilst “Flatten the Curve” narrative unfolded on television screens, in front of the screens rolled out the Quarantined Couch Potatoes’ “Fatten the Curve” narrative.The curious case of Unlock 1.0’s Selfie-ism trying to fit narratives of the unfit.chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-lollitas-vs-lalits-lauras-in-the-time-of-tin-pot/story-4X5OcnaqIxkpjL91oQhaHJ.html
06-06-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Manoj Parida’s bitter tweet irks ChandigarhiansChandigarh adviser Manoj Kumar Parida has been active in disseminating information on Twitter during the Covid-19 pandemic but his remark on Friday did not go down well with residents. “It was sad to see educated people bringing small kids to Sukhna Lake. I really don’t mind these stupid adults’ ‘early departure’, through corona, but risking young innocent lives of future generations is criminal,” he tweeted. Many thought such a tweet from an officer of his standing was uncalled for. Unapologetic, Parida stood his ground saying his remark was just to ‘provoke’ people to think and stay safe in these difficult times.Punjab officers face the heat as green building turns furnaceIn 2010, the Forest Complex in Sector 68, Mohali, was built on the green building principle to conserve energy. A high-performance glass façade was installed to let in adequate light and keep the heat out. Sadly, that has not worked. Punjab government officials are literally facing the heat with the central air-conditioner switched off as a precautionary measure to check the spread of coronavirus. The state headquarters of the forests and wildlife preservation department has no fans either, forcing officials to keep their doors open. One of them said they failed to understand why the AC was switched off when there’s no public dealing.Colleague’s cough sends secretariat into tizzyPanic gripped the UT Secretariat in Sector 9 this week when one of the employees complained of cough and Covid-19 symptoms. He was immediately taken for a test and was said to be in regular contact with senior UT officials amid concern that the office may have to be sealed. Though the employee tested negative, his colleagues were visibly upset with the management over allowing visitors to the office. “There are two entries to the secretariat. At the one from which officers enter, there is some pretension of screening. But at the other, there is no check. We have not seen any sanitisation drive on any floor.”Charity for their own a causeDuring the coronavirus pandemic, both the Congress and BJP leaders have been actively donating masks, sanitisers and food to needy residents of Chandigarh. But every evening, they flood the inbox of mediapersons with press notes, proudly showcasing their charity.To save ₹100, woman loses gold bangleA resident of Zirakpur lost her gold bangle to a gang operating in town. The woman hitched a ride in a cab for Rs 50 after declining an autorickshaw driver charging her Rs 150 to drop her to office. The woman was robbed of her gold bangle en route and ended up paying a heavier price just to save Rs 100. Police have cautioned people to beware of such offers but not many pay heed.Mind your speed on Chandigarh roadsThe Chandigarh traffic police have started using the three recently acquired automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) systems to issue e-challans for speeding. The number of such challans has seen a spike of late. Deputy inspector general of police (DIG), traffic, Shashank Anand took to Twitter to share the highest speed recorded by the system. “The highest speed recorded on a road with a 60km/hr speed limit is 106 km/hr,” he said, adding that the licence of the defaulter will be suspended for at least three months.Health professionals offer healing touchThe administration at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research were in for a surprise when they received a phone call from the health authorities in Jammu that a Covid-19 patient suffering from liver failure, was on his way to hospital. The 40-year-old patient’s samples were taken in Jammu, but the condition worsened the family decided to move to PGIMER, without waiting for test results. The family was on the way when they got a phone call that the patient has tested positive. Dr Vipin Koushal, additional medical superintendent of the Covid-19 hospital in Chandigarh, said that they had swiftly acted on the communication and arrangements were being made to admit the patient and his suspected relatives. However, it took some time to set things right, while the patient waited in their vehicle.Virtually impersonating the Panjab University V-CTwo days ago, Panjab University employees received a spam email in which an impersonator posing as vice-chancellor Raj Kumar asked them for favours. The Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Computer Science Centre of the university swung into action and wrote an email to university employees, directing them not to respond or click on any link provided by such an emails.Checkmate at UT education deptLast week, the UT education department ordered banning the increase in school fee, proving that it’s still in the game of fee during the lockdown. Not only is it in the game, but the UT education department is also winning the battle against the city’s private schools. The order, released under the disaster management Act, which makes it difficult for schools to challenge it, is unlike previous orders with no legal standing.(Inputs by Surender Sharma, Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh, Dar Ovais, Amanjeet Singh Salyal and Srishti Jaswal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-K5Jqv0Abh1N6XA43uP8kJJ.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dearth of cardiac surgeons, cath labs at government hospitals across Punjab, patients at a loss||Heart patients in Punjab have to choose between paying exorbitant bills at private hospitals or travelling to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, in the absence of cardiac surgeons or catheterization laboratories (cath labs) where angiographies and angioplasties are performed at most hospitals and healthcare centres across the state. Surprisingly, there are no cardio surgeons at Government Medical College, Patiala and Amritsar, or at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMC), Faridkot.According to health department , there are only four cardiologists in state-run institutions across Punjab- three in Government Medical College (GMC), Faridkot and one at GMC, Amritsar. GMC Patiala does not have a single cardiologist. ONE OF TWO CATH LABS DEFUNCT The state has only two cath labs, of which only one is functioning. The government medical colleges of Amritsar and Faridkot are the only ones with a cath lab. However, the lab GMC, Amritsar is defunct.In the absence of cath labs, cardiac patients have to either pay around 1.5 lakh per angioplasty at private hospitals or they have to travel to PGIMER Chandigarh.COMMUTE CONSUMES GOLDEN WINDOW A doctor at GMC, Amritsar, pleading anonymity, said, “Patients needing angiography, angioplasty and bypass heart surgery are being referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh. It takes five to six hours to reach PGI while the patients have only have a one hour window to be treated. Unfortunately, many patients don’t make it.”A doctor at GMC, Patiala, also requesting anonymity, said, “In the absence of a cath lab or cardiologist, patients are either sent to private hospitals or PGIMER, Chandigarh. Private institutes charge around Rs 1.5 lakh per angioplasty.”“Sometimes patients from Mansa travel three-four hours to reach GMC, Patial, only to be told to undertake another hour long journey to PGI. The commute consumes the golden window,” he said. NO RELIEF IN OFFING GMC, Amritsar, principal Dr Sujata Sharma said, “We had cath lab and cardiologist but we had to shut down the lab due to some reason. I cannot share anything more than that.”Patiala GMC principal Dr Harjinder Singh said, “A cardiologist is yet to be appointed here. Besides we will soon have a cath lab at super specialty centre at Government Rajindra Hospital. At present, the centre is occupied for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Once the crisis is over, machinery and equipment of the cath lab will be installed.”However, GGSMC principal Dr Dipak Bhatti said, “We have a cardiologist and cath lab here and are performing angiography and angioplasty at the institute.”Medical Education and Research Department principal secretary DK Tiwari and minister OP Soni did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dearth-of-cardiac-surgeons-cath-labs-at-government-hospitals-across-punjab-patients-at-a-loss/story-GWrtsqeAgjU1gZK3w729MJ.html
06-06-2020||City||Rainfed agriculture network launches farmer awareness campaign in Himachal||In order to boost the immunity of the people of the state amid coronavirus pandemic, HimRRA - a state group of Revitalising Rainfed Agriculture (RRA) Network has decided to run a state-wide farmers awareness campaign incorporation with various NGOs, civil society organisations and individuals of the state to motivate farmers to grow food crops in some portions of their landholding along with others crops.Various tools such as video, posters and pamphlets are prepared for information and communication purposes under this campaign to answer questions such as what are the source of good nutrition, why to grow food crops, which crops to prefer, how to grow and process the millets and why it is important to grow local varieties and likewise.Sukhdev Vishwapremi, member of Parvatiy Tikau Kheti Abhiyan said that through this campaign, the civil society organisation will reach out to farmers’ families and request them to keep a small portion of their landholding under food crops cultivation as well as will provide the information on their importance to fight coronavirus.He said that many experts stated that people with good immunity can better fight the viruses. So, it is of utmost importance to prioritise the immunity of individuals to mitigate the potential infection of viruses. Himachal Pradesh is an agrarian livelihood dominated state with 70% of its working population indulged in the same but in the past few decades, priorities were given to cash crops in place of food crops. At present approximately 1/3rd of its total sown area is under horticulture and commercial farming, which is highest in any mountain states of India.To build a sound immune system it is important to consume nutrition rich content such as millets, vegetables, pulses, oilseeds and milk products. Historically, they were the inherent part of the food system in the Himalayan region but over the years the same got replaced with cash crops and people shifted towards processed food, he added.This campaign will be covering as many as 10 districts of the state and will be carried out before the sowing of Kharif crops. Seeing the limitation of physical meetings and discussion, associates of NGOs will reach out to various farming families, Self-help groups, Mahila Mandal, farmers’ club, FPOs and PRI representatives through telephonic calls and messaging tools such as Whatsapp.The campaign had already started in most of the targeted areas in the state. Along with the awareness around the cultivation of nutrition crops, farming families are also motivated to get involved in the various contemporary agrarian livelihood programmes of the Himachal Pradesh government such as “Mukhya Mantri Ek Bigha Yojana”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rainfed-agriculture-network-launches-farmer-awareness-campaign-in-himachal/story-VGkFqyUDe6vBLYY9PdQmPL.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Allow father to meet kids through video call during lockdown: HC to mother||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed a woman to allow visitation access of her two children to her estranged husband through video conferencing during lockdown. The order was issued after the man filed a contempt petition complaining that the woman was refusing him visitation rights of their two children, aged 5 and 2 years, as directed by the magistrate’s court. The man submitted that while previously he was denied visitation on one pretext or the other, during lockdown he was denied visitation on the grounds of Covid-19 pandemic, and urged the court to pass direction that he be allowed to meet his children through video conferencing.A bench of justice SC Gupte while hearing an interim application in a contempt petition filed by a Pune-based man was informed by advocate Aditi Bhat that his wife along with their two minor children — a son and daughter — have been living with her parents since the couple separated. The judicial magistrate first class in the Pune Cantonment, in an order, had directed the woman to give visitation rights to the man twice a week for two hours each and three hours on days of festival. However, despite the order the woman had refused visitation rights, following which the contempt petition was filed for not complying with the magistrate’s order.Bhat further submitted that as Pune was severely affected by Covid-19, it was not feasible for the man to meet his children physically, and asked the court to direct the woman to allow him to meet his children through video conferencing.The woman’s advocate Bhuwan Jayant, however, justified her stand saying the man was abusive and that she did not allow him to meet the children for their safety.After hearing the submissions the bench observed, “Be that as it may, it is a matter of fact that today there is an order of a competent court giving visitation rights to petitioner. It is also a matter of fact that due to the difficult situation prevailing in the state and particularly in Pune, which is seriously affected by the present Covid-19 pandemic, physical access cannot be had as of now.” In light of this, the court directed the woman to allow the man to meet the children twice a week through video internet/phone access and disposed of the interim application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-father-to-meet-kids-through-video-call-during-lockdown-hc-to-mother/story-I0hdCsBzazvs3vDTZVPJMN.html
06-06-2020||City||Himachal to receive heavy rainfall, hailstorm on June 7||Heavy rainfall along with thunderstorms, hailstorms, lightning and gusty winds are very likely to continue throughout Himachal Pradesh as the state’s meterological department has issued a yellow warning for Chamba, Kangra, Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur and Mandi districts for June 7.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorm is likely to occur throughout the state on June 7 and in middle and higher hills on June 8. After this, the weather will remain dry throughout the state.Heavy rain along with hailstorm was witnessed at isolated places of the state during the last 24 hours. Minimum temperatures were two to three degrees below normal and maximum temperatures were six to seven degrees below normal.Maximum temperatures in Shimla was 23.3°C and 12.9°C in Kufri. Manali in Kullu district recorded 21.8°C, Dalhousie 14.6°C and Dharamshala 25.4°C. The maximum temperatures in Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Una were 28.0°C, 29.0°C, 28.8°C and 24.5°C respectively.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at 7.8°C while Nahan in Sirmaur district was hottest at 29.5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-hailstorm-on-june-7/story-b5EXfbcc7544bVtNN37S3J.html
06-06-2020||City||No to new schemes for a year hints at crumbling Indian economy, says Himachal Cong leader||Centre government’s no to new schemes for the remainder of this year is an indication of the mess Indian economy has turned into amid the coronavirus pandemic, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former Himachal minister Sudhir Sharma said on Saturday.In a press statement issued here, Sharma said Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s remark that only schemes announced under Atmanirbhar Bharat will be attended was a cruel joke on the common masses.“It just hints to how bad things have become on the economic front. The situation seems to have spiralled out of control,” said Sharma.“At a time when people are left with no money and the government too hasn’t provided direct monetary help, the restriction on new schemes will definitely result in unemployment reaching its peak,” he added.He said the decision also exposes financial mismanagement and the government’s inability to address the core issues.The Congress leader said that not only there will be a restriction on the new schemes, but the already sanctioned projects will remain suspended till August 31, 2021, or till further order, whichever is earlier.When no infrastructural work is to be undertaken, what the labourers would do, he asked.Sharma asserted that the economic stimulus packages for various sectors announced by the finance minister last month were also beyond comprehension of the common man.“On May 12, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the ₹20 lakh crores economic package, which he said, is 10% of the GDP and would provide an opportunity towards becoming self-reliant. But, how this would be possible without real financial help is not understandable,” said Sharma.It is the common masses who are suffering because of an incompetent government and its poor decision making, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-to-new-schemes-for-a-year-hints-at-crumbling-indian-economy-says-himachal-cong-leader/story-qxpszjMnJXm7mPfOsfZPhL.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||WILDBUZZ: On a dark night, those blood-red eyes||On a coal-black moonless night were a jungle fire to light up the edges of the dark dome, you would in that imagery find an analogy to describe the eyes of a very rare owl of our region. The Mottled Wood owl flashes dark reddish-brown eyes rimmed with eyelids of coral red. Those mysterious and brooding eyes preside over a beautifully mottled and vermiculated face with plumage etchings in reddish brown, black, white and buff. Hence the owl’s poetic Sanskrit name, Raktalochan, or the one with blood-red eyes. The good news for the tricity’s vibrant community of bird watchers, owl lovers and Nature enthusiasts is that a second family of this owl species has been discovered with two growing ‘bacchas’ at the Peermuchalla forests, Zirakpur. The first photographic record from the tricity of a family of four owls came from the haloed groves of the Chandigarh Golf Club in May 2018 following a freakish discovery of one fledgling stranded on the verdant fairways by the caddie of international golfer, Sujjan Singh.The owls in the Peermuchalla forests were discovered by Ranjit Singh, a retired deputy general manager from the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation. Singh has undertaken creditable field work to photo-document birds of the Ghaghar-Peermuchalla range. After the owls gave birth to two chicks in an old, dead tree hollow this spring, Singh was joined by Gurjeet Virk, an owl lover and bird photographer who had taken premature retirement from the Indian Air Force’s accounts wing.Together, they protected the dead tree from being cut down or intruders disturbing the family. Virk makes two trips a day to the nesting tree to ensure the owl family’s safety. They are happy to record that while one chick has begun to fly about and perches next to the father on an adjacent tree, the other chick is yet confined to the nest under Mummy’s care but will take wing soon enough, if all goes well.Mottled Wood owls are endemic to the subcontinent but are one of the least-studied owls in the world. Fortunately, due to the painstaking field work undertaken over seven years by researchers from the Ela Foundation, Pune, Savitribai Phule University, Pune, and Ben Gurion University, Israel, we do have some understanding of their breeding ecology and the possible threats the species is faced with. The resultant study, titled, Breeding Biology of the Mottled Wood owl in West-Central India, was published in the prestigious journal of the Raptor Research Foundation. I spoke to Dr Satish Pande, the lead researcher who has been personally observing and understanding these fascinating owls for 26 years. “We collected 1,033 pellets from the nests of the 15 breeding pairs of Mottled Wood owls during the course of our study. From these, 711 prey items were identified. The major prey types were insects (39.2%) and small mammals (rodents 10.4%; shrews 21.0%). We also identified the remains of birds (11.0%), reptiles (9.4%), bats (3.4%), scorpions (1.1%), amphibians (0.7%), and molluscs (4.1%). In our study area of Pune, owls breed from the second week of February to May. The clutch size is usually two to three white, oval eggs, but one pair fledged four young. Nests are chosen in tree hollows with an opening to the sky. But unusually, we also have some records of this owl taking over the sticks nest of other birds such as one from Uttar Pradesh recently where the Mottled Wood owl pair occupied a crow nest,” Dr. Pande told this writer. When I asked Dr Pande to explain the marked difference in size of the Peermuchalla chicks, ie, one could fly while the other was still in the nest, he said this was due to the fact that the female owl lays eggs at intervals of two days. “So, they hatch also in a staggered time sequence accounting for the difference in growth between siblings from the same clutch,” said Dr Pande. “The species’ habit of nesting in large, old trees, including dead trees, could pose a conservation threat. Wood cutting in rural areas is usually directed toward older trees that are more likely to harbour natural nest hollows used by owls and the preservation of old, robust trees in open areas is usually not a priority in conservation strategies. Old, dead trees are also eco-systems, so we recommend preservation of old trees, whether alive or dead, that stand singly in open habitats. The other threat is from secondary poisoning, ie the owl chicks ingesting dead rodents brought by their parents which were poisoned by farmers.Our study found presence of poisoned rats in three different nests, which resulted in the deaths of four owl nestlings,” Dr Pande explained.“In conclusion, our limited research on this endemic and little-studied species raises several points of immediate concern. Although the research community currently knows little of its ecological status and threats, our data suggest that the Mottled Wood Owl’s breeding capacity could impose constraints on the population, particularly in the face of increased human encroachment in rural areas. Additionally, its apparent inability to nest near human activity could become a handicap if the species is limited by habitat loss to urbanisation or other anthropogenic changes,” warned the study.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-on-a-dark-night-those-blood-red-eyes/story-GIo9xfTO11vhm9mTvPz7PN.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 crisis akin to Mahabharata, must turn challenge into opportunity: Khattar||Likening the coronavirus crisis to the Mahabharata, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in his online address on Post Corona: Self Reliant India to faculty and staff of the Kurukshetra University on Saturday said people will have to implement changes in their daily lives to emerge from the Covid-19 pandemic. “Educational institutions were to open on March 15 after Holi but we suddenly had to declare a lockdown to control the pandemic, which was challenging, especially for students who were preparing for exams,” he said.“Most exams were cancelled or postponed due to the pandemic . There is no clarity on how the situation will return normal but we have to turn this challenge into an opportunity,” he said.MUST CHANGE LIFESTYLE: KHATTAR “The year 2020, is new version of life and we have to adopt it,” he said. He recounted the steps taken by the Centre and state governments to deal with the situation and provide relief to people. He said becoming self-dependent will take time as there was need to make changes in lifestyles.The CM said the government had announced some changes to ensure studies continued during the lockdown and 52 lakh students were receiving online classes introduced by the NCERT and two lakh students were being provided classes through the Siksha Setu App. COLLATERAL FREE LOANSHe said efforts were being made to provide collateral free loans to students.He said the pandemic had affected the life of sportspersons as they were unable to practice and all sporting events had been called off. The chief minister told students that the pandemic had made countrymen realise their strength as developed countries such as the USA had to beg for support from India:”The USA had to beg for support from us and we extended our helping hand. This is our strength,” he said. The CM said that Haryana was ready to extend support to the country during the crises and will fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s expectations and become the growth engine of the country.‘AVOID CHINESE PRODUCTS’Khattar also stressed on the need to cut import and increase domestic production to make India self-reliant.“We should avoid Chinese products and support local products. It is China versus the rest of the world as China is the birthplace of the coronavirus and there is need to isolate it financially,” he said.“Self-reliance can only be achieved if we have self- confidence,” Khattar said, giving the example of former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri.“India used to import wheat before the green revolution but now India has surplus wheat,” he said. Khattar, however, blamed other states for the increasing number of infected persons in Haryana, but said that the government was fighting against the coronavirus and it will win. During his speech, the chief minister did not say anything about the government’s plans to hold examinations of students studying in state universities and colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-crisis-akin-to-mahabharata-must-turn-challenge-into-opportunity-khattar/story-MLo1hPnqCyCpIKzwdsqOVO.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||ROUNDABOUT: Remembering Rama Sharma, a woman of substance||Yes, that was Rama Sharma for you, a pioneering PR woman and journalist, who paved the way for the likes of us of the next generation to join these professions which were once men’s bastions.It is with love and warmth that one remembers this wonderful person who passed away at 85 in her sleep at dawn on May 30 in Mohali. Her only daughter who had been taking care of her for the past many years as her health declined was by her side.Rama was yet another example of a daughter of Partition joining the Indian workforce and excelling at her job. She was a familiar figure for me because like her I came from a huge clan that had migrated from West Punjab in 1947 and had daughters who went for higher education and then made careers for themselves. Born eight years after Partition and though considered a child of free India, my trail too followed the ones tread by people like her and my older sisters.Survivors’ talesJust recently my cousin Kamla, who excelled both as a scientist in the United States and a poetry and fiction writer, penned a poem to the girls of the 1960s in the city named after Goddess Chandi.Recalling a season of suicides as ‘mothers of Partition’ turned upon daughters not pretty enough to fetch a well-placed husband or born instead of the much-awaited male child, the poetess writes about the survivors: “In vengeance, a large number of daughters of the city/Became doctors, engineers, magistrates, teachers and some journalists!” Born in 1935, Rama accompanied her lawyer father, mother and three brothers from Lahore to Moga. Witness to the devastation of Partition and the violence against and disowning of abducted Hindu girls by their own kin, Rama’s parents made her aware of the importance of education and a career. “You have to depend on yourself and no one else,” they told her.After doing her master’s at DM College Moga, first in Hindi literature and then in English Rama got married to a banker. Even though her husband and his family were not very keen on her taking up a job, her mind was made up and she started with teaching before taking up the position of a public relations officer in larger Punjab, stationed at Shimla. Those were times when PR was an all-male domain. Rama would recall with glee the time when she was sent to Kinnaur and the team welcoming her there enquired where the officer was. “I told them I was the officer,” laughed the woman whose forte was wit and repartee till the end.Political reporterWhen we joined journalism in the late 1970s, her Himachal Tourism PRs office opposite the Sector 17 Bus Stand was the meeting place where journalists of the likes of Shekhar Gupta and Vipin Pubby, among others, met regularly for coffee and conversation.And then, even after retiring from her government job, Rama, not the one to sit at home, became the Himachal correspondent for Navbharat Times, thoroughly enjoying her stint at journalism.An upright reporter and a woman of strong beliefs, Rama was never afraid of speaking out her mind. She literally reigned over Shimla and a trip to the Himachal capital was never complete without a cup of coffee with her at the club. Once I recall we got late and it was drizzling. She just made a phone call and lo! a couple of policemen appeared with umbrellas to escort us to the car!Empowering girlsEducation for girls remained Rama’s prime concern and it was with tears that Sanju, her domestic help, remembered her. “She personally took interest in educating me and it was a day of joy for both of us when I completed my BA!” Fiercely independent, she lived on her own as long as she could till her journalist daughter Aruti Nayar brought her to the tricity to live in the same complex as her, but in another flat with a caretaker.For Aruti it is a big loss as Rama had been her only anchor after her father had passed away when she was in school. However, what has been comforting for her is that she was with her mother till the end, taking care of her every need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-remembering-rama-sharma-a-woman-of-substance/story-kJbuPtgGxVJjKT6bElytTL.html
06-06-2020||Pune||Pune youth held for illegal possession of firearms, six ‘live’ cartridges||A youth has been arrested by Dehu road police for illegal possession of three pistols and six live cartridges, on Friday.The arrested accused has been identified as Sachin Mahadev Jadhav ( 26), a resident of Koregaon in Satara district.Jadhav was arrested after crime branch officials got a tip-off that he would be arriving in the area to sell the firearms and cartridges to another person.According to the police, Jadhav has a criminal past and was into the business of selling firearms. The crime branch officials are trying to find out the main source, who gave the firearms to Jadhav and whether he was running a gang supplying firearms to criminals in the region.The crime branch officials under additional commissioner Ramnath Pokale is investigating further in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-youth-held-for-illegal-possession-of-firearms-six-live-cartridges/story-FK4mr2xln3cnal0O2lmhnM.html
06-06-2020||Pune||As normalcy returns to Pune, Mandai, Tulshibaug open, autos ply||Normalcy returned to Pune city, which had reported Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 case on March 9. On Friday, the city opened up slowly but surely as vehicle rush was seen in some parts. Mandai, Tulshibaug and a few clothing stores also began operations. Autorickshaws too plied on city roads.Nitin Pandit, secretary, Tulshibaug Merchant Associations said, “Tulshibaug, which is a one stop shop for women in the city opened with 50 per cent shops on Friday. We will be following the odd-even formula as suggested by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).”While one would often see rush at Tulshibaug during pre-Covid times, on Friday, only a handful of customers were spotted.Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “Covid-19 is here to stay and we have to learn to live with the virus and return to normalcy by taking adequate precautions. I took a lot of efforts to help restart business at Tulshibaug and Mandai.”While hawkers too resumed business at Tulshibaug, PMC anti-encroachment department head Madhav Jagtap said that no illegal hawkers were allowed. “We conducted a drive at Tulshibaug and the arterial roads on Friday, and checked the licences of all hawkers. Only legal hawkers are allowed to resume business,” he said.Autorickshaws too returned to the roads on Friday. Sayaji Jadhav who owns an autorickshaw said, “We resumed business on Friday. For the last two months there was no income and for how many days can we sit at home? I have kept a transparent plastic cover as a curtain between the passenger seat and driver seat. However, there are less passengers and I did only two trips on Friday.”Rohit Kamble, an auto driver said, “I kept a mask and sanitiser in the auto. There are less passengers and it will take some time for business to peak. In order to earn money, I need to wait for customers,” he said.Tanaji Lavate who is a senior citizen said, “My family is not allowing me to drive the auto as senior citizens are more prone to the infection. I will start to ply the auto next month. Many of my friends have resumed business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-normalcy-returns-to-pune-mandai-tulshibaug-open-autos-ply/story-VsN4EZ6wPQsv6nhGUPzZwK.html
06-06-2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath inaugurates 28 sub-stations of UPPTCL||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated 28 sub-stations of Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited (UPPTCL) through video conferencing.“In the last years, the UP Energy Department has succeeded in strengthening the trust of the common man by promoting a better work culture. Power Corporation has achieved very good success in the state in ensuring power supply amid the lockdown,” said the chief minister.He said that the power corporation has worked towards making arrangements for distribution of electricity within the state to every citizen, supply of electricity to district headquarters for 23 to 24 hours, 20 to 21 hours power supply in tehsil headquarters, 17 to 18 hours power supply in rural areas and 20 to 21 hours power supply in Bundelkhand region as well.“Whether it’s the resolution of Prime Minister, through which the biggest goal was to achieve the goal of lighting every single house with UPPTCL,” he added. “Over 1 crore 24 lakh families, who never witnessed what electricity is, after independence...by providing free electricity connection to them, work was also done to light up their homes. Efforts are being taken to be able to supply 24 hours of electricity supply to each house under power for all,” said Yogi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-inaugurates-28-sub-stations-of-upptcl/story-7hc9hUiAP3KZpEA5riYNtN.html
06-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 16 new Covid-19 cases , state tally at 938||Sixteen more people tested positive for coronavirus in Jharkhand, taking the total number of cases in the state to 938, according to a bulletin on Saturday.With these new patients, the number of active cases rose to 521, while 410 people have recovered from the disease, it said.Seven people died of the deadly virus in the state.“The number of female Covid-19 cases is significantly less as the total number of infected people rose to 938, including 127 females, in Jharkhand,” the latest bulletin said.Sixteen more Covid-19 cases were added to the overnight tally of 79 new ones, it said.Of the total number of cases, 570 patients are between 11 and 30 years of age, while 290 are in the age between 31 and 50 years.A total of 55 patients are between 51 and 70 years, and only eight are above 70 years of age.A total of 93,377 samples were collected till Friday, while 81,500 were tested at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences and Itki Arogyashala in Ranchi, MGM Medical College in Jamshedpur and Patliputra Medical College and Hospital in Dhanbad.Nearly five lakh migrant workers have reached Jharkhand from May 1, and there are 654 migrants among the state’s total Covid-19 cases, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-records-16-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-938/story-AIPs16JtoHhFHVPrjg5F6M.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Market committee employees hold strike in Haryana, demand Sonali Phogat’s arrest||A day after Tik Tok star-turned-BJP leader Sonali Phogat thrashed Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh with a slipper during a visit to the Balsamand Mandi in Hisar, market committee officials across the state went on strike on Saturday and demanded the arrest of the BJP leader.Market committee officials, farmers and commission agents raised slogans against Phogat outside the Hisar grain market.Hisar’s Congress unit also extended support to Sultan and staged a protest in the city demanding the BJP leader’s arrest .Sultan Singh had admitted himself to the civil hospital for a medical examination after the assault.On being asked if the women commission will take action, state commission for women vice-chairperson Preeti Bhardwaj said they had not received any complaint from either party. A case was registered against Sonali Phogat under Sections 147 (rioting),149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (hurting public servant to deter him from duty), 353 (criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506(criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sultan Singh was booked under sections 354 (Assault or criminal force against a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/market-committee-employees-hold-strike-in-haryana-demand-sonali-phogat-s-arrest/story-ANoBAx2tKjaUiJMI2beXfM.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala caught driving with tinted windows, let off with a challan||Punjabi singer Moose Wala , who is wanted in two cases registered under the Arms Act, was let off with a challan after he was caught driving an SUV with tinted glass windows in Nabha on Saturday afternoon.Moose Wala was not arrested though two of his vehicles, one of which was being driven by Moose Wala himself, were stopped. Nabha SHO Sarbjeet Singh Cheema said, “We issued him a challan under the Motor Vehicles Act as Moose Wala had used black-tinted glass in his Land Range Rover SUV. Another Mahindra Scorpio in his cavalcade was challaned for the same offense.”Moose Wala has so far not applied for bail in either case.On being asked why no arrest was made despite Moose Wala being wanted in two cases registered under the Arms Act, Nabha deputy superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar Chhiber said, “Moose Wala told SHO that he was already out on bail in both cases. Therefore, as per the procedure, we asked him to leave after issuing a challan”.“The singer claimed that he was already on bail and was on his way to shoot a song in Malerkotla,” the SHO said. On being told that Moose Wala had not applied bail so far, SHO said he was not aware of the fact.Moose Wala was taken to the DSP’s office at local administrative premises in a police vehicle and was handed over his vehicle. The challan copy will be presented before Nabha court on June 8 for deciding the final penalty, police said.In a brief interaction with the media at the DSP’s office, Moose Wala said “Police have issued a challan, and that’s it.”NO LOOK OUT NOTICE Meanwhile, Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said no look out notice had been issued against the singer as investigations were still on in the matter.On May 4, Barnala police had booked Moose Wala and eight others in for violating curfew after a video of him firing an official assault rifle went viral on social media. Seven cops, including a DSP, have been suspended in the matter.On May 5, Sangrur police booked Moose Wala, his friends and some cops after another video of the singer surfaced where he was seen firing from a private pistol at Ladda Kothi shooting range.Police stations in Barnala and Sangrur added provisions of the Arms Act in the first information reports (FIR) on May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjabi-singer-sidhu-moose-wala-caught-driving-with-tinted-windows-let-off-with-a-challan/story-0pdjmiIK9n0fqXa9pQqqIK.html
06-06-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC issues notice to state tourism minister for defying quarantine norms||Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday issued notice to state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj and sought reply from the state government within three weeks on a public interest litigation (PIL), alleging Maharaj had violated quarantine norms and attended the state cabinet meeting on May 29, following which chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and two cabinet ministers, Madan Kaushik, and Harak Singh Rawat, had to self-quarantine themselves on June 1. Maharaj had attended the cabinet meeting on May 29 and two days later he tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive. Besides CM Rawat and some other ministers, a few senior bureaucrats from the state were also present in the meeting.Earlier, Maharaj’s wife had tested Covid-19 positive on May 30. The following day, Maharaj, his two sons, daughters-in-law and along with 17 of his staff members tested Covid-19 positive.On May 20, the Dehradun district administration had pasted a notice on Maharaj’s personal residence to adhere to quarantine norms after two of his guests had come from Delhi amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.Maharaj had said that the portion of his house, where the quarantine norms were enforced, was separate from where he lived with his family, including his office and the guest room.Advocate Gopal K. Verma, who appeared on behalf of the petitioner Umesh Kumar, cited in the plea that Maharaj had attended the cabinet meeting in violation of the quarantine notice issued by the Dehradun district magistrate (DM) at his personal residence.The PIL accused the state government of adopting double standards by booking the general public for violating quarantine norms, while a cabinet minister such as Maharaj was allowed to blatantly violate the rules.“Why no action should be taken against Maharaj?” advocate Verma asked.Cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said the state government would evaluate the court’s notice and make a submission within the stipulated three weeks.Dehradun district authorities had said on June 1 CM Rawat and two other Cabinet ministers, Kaushik and Rawat, didn’t need to go under self-quarantine.The DM had cited that all three were low risk and could carry out their daily work, but they would have to follow the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on May 18 on precautionary measures to be taken at a workplace to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Opposition Congress has also accused Maharaj of negligence and demanded that he should be booked under an ‘attempt to murder case’ for posing a health risk to others.“Maharaj, who holds a responsible position as a state Cabinet minister, has shown gross negligence, despite the DM’s notice,” said Garima Dasauni, spokesperson of the Congress’s Uttarakhand unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-issues-notice-to-state-tourism-minister-for-defying-quarantine-norms/story-JW7vKjtfWzA7yHdX4N8KyN.html
06-06-2020||Patna||Covid-19 testing facility in all districts of Bihar by June 15: Mangal Pandey||Bihar Health Minister Mangal Pandey on Friday asserted that the number of Covid-19 testing is increasing continuously in the state and said that around 5,000 tests are being conducted at 26 centres in Bihar.“The number of Covid-19 testing has been increasing continuously in the state. Currently, the capacity to conduct the test is about five thousand. At present, four thousand patients are being tested with RT-PCR machine and the remaining tests are being done through CV net machine and True net machine at 26 centres in the state,” said Pandey.During the high-level meeting, the Chief Minister instructed the Chief Secretary and other officials attending the meet to ensure that all districts conduct testing by June 15.Pandey further said that the target of conducting ten thousand tests daily would be achieved by June 20.“Apart from CV net machines, cartages have also been brought for in the state. A Cobas machine, which has the capacity to perform more than a thousand tests daily, has arrived in the state. At the same time, two RNA extractor machines have been installed at RMRI and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna. Also, an additional automated RNA extractor and RT-PCR machine is being sent to Shrikrishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH), Muzaffarpur, which will be operational in the next one week,” Pandey said.“Apart from this, 35 True Net machines have been installed in the state and 22 machines are being installed. In addition, 30 more True Net machines will be installed in various districts of the state by June 15. Thus a total of 87 true net machines will start functioning in the state,” added Pandey. He said that additional and 20 True Net machines from other sources will also be installed in various institutions. The Health Department has thus ensured a programme to achieve the target of ten thousand tests by June 20, 2020, and conduct tests at all district centres.Currently, there are 21 thousand 35 (21,035) isolation beds in the state. A comprehensive plan has been chalked out to increase the number of these isolation beds to 40 thousand and necessary guidelines have been given to high officials in this meeting. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-testing-facility-in-all-districts-of-bihar-by-june-15-mangal-pandey/story-GvpqQB6xtWof4OlgH3WC8J.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Tests for Covid-19 have not stopped, Arvind Kejriwal says amid criticism||Testing of samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has not been stopped, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday after a number of complaints from people who say they have symptoms but have not been able to find out if they are infected.Arvind Kejriwal said if there are last-minute teething problem, they will be sorted out.“As of today, 5,300 samples have been tested. Tests have not stopped. There are 42 labs, including government as well as private facilities, in Delhi which test samples,” Arvind Kejriwal said.“There were six laboratories which were not working properly. Shouldn’t we take action against them? We took action against them,” he added.But 36 labs are still working, he pointed out. “We just took action against six of them. Why are they being protected?” he asked.“If people have to get tested they can go to any government or private hospitals’ flu clinics. They can go to the 17 testing centres of the Delhi government. They can also go to the private labs,” he said.The AAP leader also claimed that Delhi is conducting the highest numbers of Covid-19 tests and the government’s biggest priority is to save lives. Even though the testing capacity is ramped up, it will be limited, he added. “If all asymptotic people turn up to get tested, the system will collapse. People are scared and this fear has to be rooted out. They want to get tested because of this fear,” he said.He urged all those who are asymptotic not to insist on being tested for Covid-19.“If asymptotic people will insist on getting tested, testing for those in a critical condition will stop,” he argued and requested them not to go to labs.At least eight testing centres were banned by the Delhi government on Thursday and the administration issued notices asking them to explain why their documents were not in order and the reason for now following guidelines on who can be tested. The move is expected to have shaved off at least 4,000 daily tests from the capital’s capacity.These labs have been asked not to pick up individual samples but samples sent by various hospitals and other agencies will continue being processed in these labs, the statement added.A doctor at Sir Ganga Ram hospital, who asked not to be named, said the lack of testing could be causing people with no or mild symptoms not being identified for Covid-19.“Asymptomatic carriers are a huge number that runs the risk of infecting others. You need to open up testing criteria because these people otherwise will keep spreading the infection without knowing,” the doctor cited above said.“Then there are people going for surgeries, or dialysis or chemo patients, who may be carriers and run the risk of infecting health care workers. Why is it difficult to understand that we need to expand not just testing labs but also testing criteria, and not restrict it,” the doctors said.The testing criteria was made stricter earlier in the week when the city administration said only symptomatic close contacts will be tested for the disease, replacing a previous rule that allowed for asymptomatic close contacts of a confirmed patient to be eligible for a test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tests-for-covid-19-have-not-stopped-arvind-kejriwal-says-amid-criticism/story-koqUOTNY0LIbU0fLYl9HsN.html
06-06-2020||Bangalore||Foundation to be laid for Kempegowda statue in Bengaluru on June 27||Foundation will be laid for the 108-ft tall mammoth bronze statue of city’s founder Kempegowda near international airport here named after him, on June 27.The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the Kempegowda Development Authority on Friday.“As June 27 marks the 511th birth anniversary of Kempegowda, so the date has been fixed, after discussing with the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa it will be finalised,” Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also the the vice-president of the Kempegowda Development Authority, said on Friday evening.He said famous sculptors Ram V Sutar and Anil R Sutar, who designed and constructed 27-ft Mahatma Gandhi statue between Vidhana Soudha and Vikas Soudha here have been given the contract and an agreement would be signed with them at the earliest.The 597 feet statue of Sardar Patel, “the statue of unity” in Gujarat, considered to be the worlds tallest, was designed by Ram V Sutar.Noting that the statue of Kempegowda is expected to cost about Rs 66 crore, the DCM said, the model of the statue was ready and it would be finalised once the Chief Minister has a look at it.“We want to complete the work in one years time.” A 23-acre land in front of the Kempegowda International Airport has been identified for the construction of the statue and the Bengaluru International Airport Ltd has also agreed to it, he said.“The area around the statue will be specially developed.The total cost will be about Rs 80 crore and it will be one of the prime attractions,” he added.Ashwath Narayan also said a plan worth Rs 41 crore has been prepared to develop Kempegowda’s tomb at Kempapura in Magadi taluk in Ramanagara district, and the area surrounding the tomb, including the village lake, will be developed.“For this, we need to acquire some land that will cost an estimated Rs 17 crore.” Kempegowda, referred as “Nadaprabhu”, was a feudatory ruler under the erstwhile Vijayanagara Empire who founded Bengaluru in 1537.He is revered by the Vokkaliga community that is dominant in Old Mysuru and other parts of southern Karnataka.The move is being seen as an attempt by the BJP to reach out to the dominant Vokkaliga community, seen as vote of JD (S), and to Congress to some extent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/foundation-to-be-laid-for-kempegowda-statue-in-bengaluru-on-june-27/story-C9HZu1fTd9woil0ezkbOjM.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Labour shortage from Nepal may upset Himachal’s applecart||Himachal Pradesh’s Rs 4,000-crore fruit economy largely depends on ‘sturdy’ labourers from Nepal. However, this time most labourers will give the apple harvesting season a miss owing the coronavirus pandemic.Apple growers say their business, which constitutes 89% of the total fruit economy, will suffer as Nepalese labourers, who have been the backbone of Himachal’s apple industry for around six decades, have not returned to the state after winter owing to the pandemic.They are also staring at huge losses owing to transport and market issues.An apple grower, Naresh Sharma of Dhano village in Theog, said, “The yield of apple crop is less than normal this season largely due to unfavourable weather. The shortage of labourers has added to our woes.” Normally labourers return to Nepal in November and start returning to Himachal Pradesh in March-April for apple harvesting, which continues till October. LABOUR CONCERNED ABOUT GOING HUNGRY Labour contractor Satish Begta says, “Besides the threat of Covid-19, fear of being quarantined is discouraging most labourers from return to the state.”Another contractor said the Nepalese workers fear that they may die of hunger if they are not able to earn during quarantine and as such are not keen on returning to work.“The government should build relief camps for the migrant workers with arrangements to provide food and necessary facilities. A portal must be created for the labourers to get themselves registered with the government,” he said.Himachal Pradesh is one of India’s major apple producing regions, with around 90% of the produce going to the domestic market.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the government was in touch with labour contractors to ensure return of the labourers.“Many labourers had returned to Nepal, but some are still here. Labourer from Uttar Pradesh is also coming. We will ensure labour is available during the apple season,” he said. As per the state horticulture department, this season apple production in the state was 25-30% less than last year’s record harvest of around four crore boxes.Besides Shimla district, which alone accounts for 80% of the total apple production, most apple cultivation is concentrated in Kullu, Mandi, Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur and Chamba.Agro commodities trading house Adani Agrifresh has targeted to procure 23,000 tonnes of apples this season.Besides Adani, other prominent private trading houses like CONCOR, Reliance Fresh, Mother Dairy, Big Basket and Dev Bhoomi are also procuring apples.DEMAND FOR INDIAN APPLES HIGHTrade insiders say the apple market scenario this season indicates that imports from China and Washington have gone down and the demand for produce of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, which is of a superior quality, will capture the market in Delhi and Kolkata.Growers fear the non-arrival of ‘ladanis’, the fruit wholesale buyers who come from other states like West Bengal, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, can also upset their applecart.“The lockdown has resulted in piling up of stock and there are close to 200 workers at our three facilities in Rohru, Rampur and Sainj in Shimla district,” said an official of Adani Agri Fresh Ltd, which is engaged with around 20,000 apple farmers in the state.He said several workers, a majority from Nepal, have returned to their hometowns and the company has arranged for workers to stay back comfortably.According to Economic Survey 2019-20, a total of 6.64 lakh tonnes of apples were marketed in the state till December 2019 against 3.68 lakh tonne in 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labour-shortage-from-nepal-may-upset-himachal-s-applecart/story-GiXoejh1gcEhmkhwlgCZkL.html
06-06-2020||Dehradun||‘Better sooner than later’: BJP on Congress slashing its MLAs salaries||The Uttarakhand Congress has agreed on the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s two-month-old decision of slashing 30% of the salaries of all the hill state’s legislators because of the deepening economic crisis triggered by the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Congress’s Indira Hridayesh, the leader of the opposition in Uttarkhand assembly, said on Thursday that her party lawmakers have agreed to the 30% pay cut.“All our 11 members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) have agreed to the state government’s decision of a 30% salary cut. We’re supporting the government amid this economic crisis triggered by the pandemic.”Hridayesh, however, took a dig at the government. “It’s a dangerous trend that the government didn’t take the opposition into confidence before taking such a crucial decision. It’s unacceptable in a democratic system,” she alleged.Earlier on April 8, the state government had announced the 30% salary cut for all the 70 lawmakers. However, the Congress had accused the government of not taking the main opposition into confidence before it took such a ‘unilateral’ decision.On Thursday, the party had a change of heart and wrote to CM Rawat and Speaker Premchand Agarwal, acceding to the state government’s decision.In Uttarakhand, an MLA is entitled to a monthly salary of Rs 45,000, while that of a minister is Rs 45,000. CM Rawat draws a monthly salary of Rs 90,000.On Friday, the state BJP described the Congress’s decision as “better late than never”.“We welcome the Congress’s decision on the matter. Though they are late, they’ve agreed in the end,” said Ajendra Ajay, spokesperson for the BJP’s Uttarakhand unit.Ajay however, termed the Congress’s accusations of not taking the opposition into confidence as illogical. “It’s a lame excuse for not giving up 30% of their salary in the fight against the pandemic. The Congress MLAs should support the government instead of making such ridiculous excuses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/better-sooner-than-later-bjp-on-congress-slashing-its-mlas-salaries/story-hexjsMCAM5w30gmDc31mHK.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Over 1,700 Mumbai Police personnel infected with Covid-19, 121 new cases in last four days||In coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-hit Mumbai, 1,774 Mumbai Police personnel tested positive till Friday night, including 121 fresh cases over the past four days.So far, 660 Mumbai Police personnel have recovered from SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, and the total number of active cases stood at 1,114. On June 1, Mumbai Police had reported 1,526 Covid-19 positive cases, including 993 active ones. There have been 121 fresh Covid-19 positive cases between June 2 and Friday night, said Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson.So far, 21 Mumbai Police personnel has died due to Covid-19, including an officer. Most of the Covid-19 related deaths among the Mumbai Police personnel are in the constabulary division.While in Maharashtra Police, the total number of Covid-19 active cases stood at 1,498, including 195 officers, till Saturday morning. Mumbai Police accounted for 74.36% of active Covid-19 positive cases in the state police force.So far, 33 Maharashtra Police personnel has died due to Covid-19, including 63.3% from Mumbai Police.Maharashtra Police has reported two more fresh Covid-19 related deaths, including one each from Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and Mumbai’s Andheri government railway police (GRP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-1-700-mumbai-police-personnel-infected-with-covid-19-121-new-cases-in-last-four-days/story-TJKxvyHBPsfdae60TPKELM.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai, suburbs record heavy rain; tree falls, waterlogging reported in many areas||Heavy rains accompanied by thundershowers lashed the city, especially the suburbs, on Saturday morning as several trees were uprooted and roads water logged in several areas.Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) attributed the weather pattern to pre-monsoon showers. Between 5.30am and 8.30am, the Santacruz weather station, representative of Mumbai, recorded heavy rain at 64.9mm and Colaba received moderate rain of 18.6mm moderate rain.IMD classifies heavy rain between 64.5mm to 124.4mm, while moderate rainfalls in the range of 7.6mm to 35.5mm.“There was an intense spell of rain and windy conditions over Mumbai for about 45 minutes to an hour, especially the suburbs on Saturday morning due to a cloud patch over the city,” KS Hosalikar, IMD’s western region deputy director general, said.“As monsoon approaches, such rain incidents are likely to be more frequently,” Hosalikar said.Humidity levels were at 93% in south Mumbai and 96% in the suburbs. Heavy showers were recorded across various parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region including Dombivli, Thane, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai.Several incidents of tree fall and waterlogging were reported from areas like Vile Parle, Juhu and Borivali after pre-monsoon showers lashed several parts of the city.This is the second time in the first week of June when water logging has been reported during pre-monsoon showers.Officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) disaster management cell said waterlogging was reported at Dahisar subway, near Sindhi Colony in Sion West and Gandhi Market in Sion.City bus operator BEST had to divert at least half a dozen buses because of the waterlogging.“DIVERSION Dahisar subway flooded hence buses of route 207,208,707Ltd,720Ltd etc diverted via Sudhir Phadke bridge, Daulat Nagar from 6.50 hrs,” BEST tweeted.“Due to water logging at Gandhi Market and Sion Road no 24 ,buses diverted via Bhai Daji road and Sion Circle,Rd no. 3 respectively from 6.45 hrs onwards (sic),” it said. “Reports of tree fallen at 1..Vile parle (East) Milan bridge road route 339 diverted 2. Vile Parke east nr Bhutta high school & Mahila Sangh buses diverted via WEH 3.Juhu NS road -Rt 256 diverted (sic),” it added.BMC is yet to provide details on the number of trees which fell after the rains.Over the past six days, June 1 to 6, the suburbs have recorded 166.5 mm rain while 180 mm has been recorded in south Mumbai. Partly cloudy conditions have been predicted for the rest of the day with the possibility of light to moderate showers in the evening or night, said IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-suburbs-record-heavy-rain-tree-falls-waterlogging-reported-in-many-areas/story-YZq2Op3QN8MXM6vmXrpjPL.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Odisha-returned combine operator tests positive for Covid-19 in Moga||A combine operator, who returned from Odisha on June 3, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday.Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said the person belonged to Dadahoor village in Moga district and was home quarantined upon his return. He was admitted to the community health centre at Bagahpurana after he tested positive. “There are now four active cases in the district,” he added.TWO DELHI-RETURNEES TEST POSITIVE Two Delhi-returnees tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda and Fazilka districts on Saturday.District authorities said both patients were in home quarantine since their arrival to their respective places.One patient belongs to Maur in Bathinda whereas the 64-year-old woman is a resident of Jalalabad in Fazilka. Both are being treated at government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/odisha-returned-combine-operator-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-moga/story-a0LupzoWq0ZWgfJB6ERIGJ.html
06-06-2020||Kolkata||Ahead of state polls, Mamata warns TMC against corruption in relief work||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday warned her party against “politicising relief work” for the coronavirus pandemic and Cyclone Amphan and corruption in the public distribution system.Mamata Banerjee also instructed TMC leaders to intensify political campaign on social media highlighting her government’s successes in the past nine years.She gave those instructions during an internal meeting of the party, held over videoconferencing, on Friday evening. The meeting went on for nearly three hours as state and district-level leaders, including district-unit presidents and select members of the state assembly and Parliament, attended it.Mamata Banerjee inquired from the leaders about the situation on the ground and made some organisational changes at the district-level. She stressed on the need to reach every door with the government’s success stories and avoid doing anything that could earn the party a bad name.“She said that the party must not get involved in the relief work—leaving it to the administration—and that the relief for Covid-19 lockdown and Cyclone Amphan must reach all victims, supporters of all parties,” a Lok Sabha member of the TMC, who did not want to be named, said.“She also said that the government will take strong action against people corrupting the ration distribution system and the party would not stand by anyone found involved,” the lawmaker cited above added.Her meeting came in the wake of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launching its 2021 electoral campaign, branded as ‘Aar Noi Mamata’ literally meaning no more Mamata, and calling for the toppling of the TMC regime next year. Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to address a virtual rally of the state unit of the BJP on June 9.Incidentally, all of the TMC’s opponents in Bengal – the BJP, the Left and the Congress – have targeted the Mamata Banerjee government and her party for corruption in providing government relief due to Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan.Referring to the BJP’s increased political activities, Banerjee told her party that they too must start the campaign and revive public relations – through social media and at their localities – and activate the booth-level units for this purpose.“She said we needed to stand by the people on the ground and take our success stories to every door. She gave special thrust on countering BJP’s propaganda on social media,” said a district unit president of TMC.No TMC leaders spoke on record because it was an internal meeting.The TMC chief also warned the party against infighting.“Don’t comment against the party staying in it. I am telling this particularly to leaders in Kolkata. If you want to go, the door is open,” Banerjee reportedly said during the videoconference on Friday.Her warning came in the wake of a series of incidents where senior party leaders, including ministers, were found criticising their colleagues.Reacting to the news of CM Banerjee’s warning to her party against corruption, Left and BJP leaders said it was nothing more than a mockery of the reality.“TMC is corrupt, top to bottom. Who listens to such things?” Sujan Chakraborty, the leader of the Left parties in the assembly, asked.“If she was concerned about corruption, she should have long ago acted against the corrupt filling up ranks in her party,” the BJP’s national secretary Rahul Sinha said.The TMC won 211 of the state’s 294 assembly seats, while BJP won only three in 2016 elections. However, the BJP emerged as the state’s principal opposition party in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, winning 18 of the 42 seats, while the TMC won 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/ahead-of-2021-state-polls-mamata-banerjee-warns-tmc-against-corruption-in-relief-work/story-7pCYYpSTU2EwG3mI8D8vFO.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police’s order for action against fake news is legal: Maharashtra govt||Justifying the Mumbai Police’s order that stipulates criminal action against anyone spreading false and fake information on social media, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court that reasonable restrictions can be imposed to safeguard public order.A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Amjad Sayed was on Friday hearing two public interest litigations (PILs) challenging the legality of an order dated May 23, passed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations).The order said that action would be taken against any person, who spreads incorrect, fake information on social media.It further said that any person who holds the ‘Admin’ position of any social media group, shall be held personally liable for dissemination of any false or incorrect messages circulated in the group.According to the petitions filed by advocate Sheshanath Mishra and independent journalist and co-founder of NGO ‘Free Speech Collective’ Geeta Seshu, the order violates the rights of citizens guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India (right to freedom of speech and expression).Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the government, however, contended that the order is “perfectly” legal in view of Article 19(2) of the Constitution, which authorises the government to impose reasonable restrictions upon freedom of speech and expression in the interest of public order.The court noted that the issue requires to be examined even though a plain reading of the order reveals that its validity is effective only till June 8, 2020 and directed the government to file an affidavit within three weeks.The petition filed by Mishra claimed that the police order aims to muzzle the voice of common citizens and prevent them from criticising the government’s handling of the pandemic.Seshu’s counsel Mihir Desai argued that the police have not followed due procedure prescribed under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-s-order-for-action-against-fake-news-is-legal-maharashtra-govt/story-B2FHM7cXfBcTqvZzzJPB8L.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Former Delhi Police commissioner Ved Marwah dies||Former Delhi Police commissioner Ved Marwah died in Goa on Friday, Goa Police said. He was 87.Marwah was the police commissioner of Delhi from 1985-88 and served as the third director general of the elite National Security Guard from 1988-90. He was a former governor of Manipur, Jharkhand and Mizoram.“We are deeply saddened at the loss of a great leader of the police force. Sh. Ved Marwah, IPS led the force from the front through difficult times and served as a Governor to 3 states. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family. @goacm,” the Goa DGP’s official Twitter handle said.Former chief election commissioner S Y Quraishi expressed shock at Marwah’s death.“I am shocked to know that Shri Ved Marwah former CP Delhi passed on. He was once my boss as JS Women’s Development, the best I ever had. He was President @StStephensClg Alumni Assn. I was VP with him. Pray for peace for his soul. @CafeSSC,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/former-delhi-police-commissioner-ved-marwah-dies/story-IUL6ANAgJfYeNlRdQe0NWM.html
06-06-2020||Jaipur||Locust attack in Barmer district in Rajasthan||The farmers in Chohatan and other villages of Barmer district in Rajasthan were seen clanging utensils in an attempt to scare away the swarms of migratory locusts invading their fields and eating away crops.“We urge the centre and state government to find a solution to this, as soon as possible. Our crops are destroyed,” said locals.The locust attack is another blow to farmers already reeling under the impact of Covid-19 lockdown.Recently the Agriculture Department used drones to monitor the movement of the locusts in Jaipur’s Samode.Dr Om Prakash Choudhary, Commissioner, Agricultural Department said, “We will use drones to monitor locusts in the terrains which are difficult for us to access.”The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper. They are known to devour everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to food supply and livelihoods of millions of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/locust-attack-in-barmer-district-in-rajasthan/story-I9yX25O0Ic3tLiQbYsa8gO.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||AIIMS patient kills self; cops cite his battle with cancer||A 22-year-old man allegedly ended his life inside the emergency ward of the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) on Friday morning by hanging himself from the grill of a staircase. Police said the man, a resident of Gopalganj in Bihar, was a cancer patient and was under treatment for the past five years. He probably killed himself because he was upset over his illness, police said.The Hauz Khas police station got a call around 6.15 am that a man hung himself inside the hospital. “The body was sent for autopsy. During the preliminary enquiry, it was learnt that the man was under treatment for the past five years,” said a senior police officer.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said inquest proceedings were underway and the body was handed over to the relatives after postmortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-patient-kills-self-cops-cite-his-battle-with-cancer/story-yg38J17MpmOPw2jDDnq7AO.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Charge sheets filed against 19 for murders during Delhi riots||The Delhi police on Friday filed two charge sheets in connection with the murder of two men during the riots that broke out near Shiv Vihar, north-east Delhi earlier this year. The charge sheets were filed in the murder of two persons—Aqil Ahmed and Musharraf—whose bodies were recovered from the drain in Johripur.The police have charged 10 people for the murder of Ahmed, a mechanic, who was allegedly waylaid by the mob at Jal Board Puliya, Bhagirathi Vihar, and was murdered, while he was returning home at New Mustafabad on February 26.Police have also charged nine people for the murder of Musharraf, a labourer and auto driver, stating that the rioters dragged Musharaff out and bludgeoned him to death. The reports were filed before Duty Magistrate Richa Parihar who posted the matter for June 18, for cognizance.A senior police official said: “We recovered a phone of one of the accused , which showed a conversation on a WhatsApp group where one of the accused claimed they had killed two men. The reference was to Aqil Ahmed and Musharaaf. Since the chat messages were sent at the same time as the occurrence of incident, it is crucial evidence”. This person, who asked not to be named, added that “78 charge sheets have been prepared”.According to a police statement, four bodies were recovered after the violence near Johripur Nala following which four FIRs were filed. Investigation revealed that a “WhatsApp” group was created in the intervening night of February 25-26, with the alleged rioters as members. “Two active members of this WhatsApp group were located and joined in the investigation,” the police said.“Based on oral evidence and the WhatsApp chat, the identity of the perpetrators was fixed,” it added. Till now, the police have filed nine charge sheets in three days in the Delhi riots case that lasted 3 days and resulted in the death of 53 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/charge-sheets-filed-against-19-for-murders-during-delhi-riots/story-spv3OHuqy0bNzGXEpjaf7I.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Adesh Gupta takes charge as Delhi BJP chief||Adesh Gupta, a councillor from West Patel Nagar, took charge as the new Delhi BJP chief on Friday, replacing North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari.Soon after taking over, Gupta hit out at the Delhi government for not testing enough people for Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and indulging in a blame game instead.He alleged, “The Coronavirus test has been stopped in eight labs citing non-compliance. But what additional testing arrangements were made before the ban was imposed? The government should reveal its plan to increase testing in future. The situation in Delhi is constantly getting worse.”Gupta said that BJP will continue to raise these issues in the days to come. Meanwhile, an organisational reshuffle, which has been long overdue, is likely in the coming days. “We will put in place a new team soon. It will be a mix of new and old people. Our aim is reach out to all the sections, especially those living in slums and unauthorised colonies. These are area where we need to strengthen our cadre,” said Gupta.Senior BJP leaders say that Gupta is an old hand and is aware of the key issues. Shyam Jaju, in-charge of Delhi BJP, said, “It is a help to have someone who knows the cadre well. He has risen through the ranks. He knows the problem areas and will be able to fix those in no time. This is important to strengthen the cadre and start work for next election.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/adesh-gupta-takes-charge-as-delhi-bjp-chief/story-wR2tCKkk3lscIzm7jhL2xL.html
06-06-2020||City||Nine killed as SUV collides with truck in UP’s Pratapgarh||Nine people, including three women and two kids, were killed when the SUV in which they were travelling collided head-on with a truck near Wazidpur village under Nawabganj police limits of Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh on Friday. Of the group, only one person survived with serious injuries.Pratapgarh superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Singh said the accident occurred around 5.30am while the victims were on their way to Bhojpur, Bihar, from Rajasthan.The lone survivor, Banti Paswan, was rushed to Lucknow for treatment. Locals said the truck driver managed to flee the spot.Four among the dead were identified as Chitranjan Kumar, 30, his wife Bindu, 29, daughter Komal, 12, and Surya Dayal—all residents of Mewat in Haryana.Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath conveyed condolence to the families and directed officials to ensure proper treatment of the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-killed-as-suv-collides-with-truck-in-up-s-pratapgarh/story-Ad0Fz4NHXJN6zpnk6VnbzH.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Rain brings mercury levels down in Delhi||Thundershowers accompanied by lightning, gusty winds of up to 50 kmph were recorded in various parts of Delhi-NCR and north-west India on Friday. Light rain and cloudy skies are expected in Delhi -NCR and rest of the northern plains over the weekend also, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities.The inclement weather is because of a western disturbance that is affecting the western Himalayas and moisture incursion due to cyclone Nisarga, which hit the Maharashtra coast on Wednesday. “Many places in NCR got thundershowers. Palam recorded wind speed of 50 kmph. Light rain and thunder is likely over the weekend. There is no forecast for a heatwave for some time now in Delhi. Maximum temperatures may rise by three to four degrees Celsius after Saturday, but we are not expecting a heat wave till June 15, and after that, a heat wave is unlikely. Delhi may get rains again after June 10 due to the likely formation of a low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning, gusty wind over the north-western region during the next two days and some heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand, eastern Uttar Pradesh and southern Rajasthan during the next 24 hours, IMD said in its Friday bulletin.Southwest monsoon has advanced into the central Arabian Sea, Kerala and Mahe and some parts of Karnataka. Conditions are becoming favourable for its advancement into parts of central Arabian Sea, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rain-brings-mercury-levels-down-in-delhi/story-AVg1VJgDScexJ6qFe77cmJ.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi plans to ramp up city’s Covid beds over three weeks||The Delhi government on Thursday finalised a plan according to which five government hospitals, dedicated to Covid-19 treatment in the city, will increase their cumulative bed capacity by 9,000 to 13,870, including 750 beds with ventilator support, in three phases over the next three weeks, officials said.Currently, these five hospitals together have around 4,500 beds and 300 ventilators to treat those infected with the SARS-CoV 2 virus.The augmentation plan – drafted after the city touched 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day on May 28 – requires the five hospitals to have 4,470 beds in the first phase (by June 11, which has already been met), 4,650 more in the second (by June 18) and another 4,750 in the third phase (by June 25), according to government documents that HT has seen. The five government hospitals are Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (2,170 beds), GTB Hospital (4,500 beds), Lok Nayak Hospital (6,000 beds), Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital (600 beds) and Satyavati Raja Harish Chandra Hospital (600 beds).Senior government officials said the five hospitals (with added space capacity) collectively will have to have 110 beds with ventilator support in the first phase, 270 ventilator-supported beds in the second and 370 such beds in the third.Of the 13,120 remaining beds (excluding those with ventilator support) under the augmentation plan, 9,880 beds must have oxygen facility of different capacities and 3,240 beds must be kept available for recovering patients whose health may need to be observed for a few days, the documents said.Between May 28 and June 4, Delhi recorded an average of 1,219 cases a day, the government records showed. The government is expecting a further spike in these numbers as Delhi’s economic activities and public spaces have opened up in a phased manner.On Friday, Delhi recorded 1,330 Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 26,334. The death toll went up to 708. Of the 15,311 active Covid-19 cases as on Friday, 10,255 are in home isolation.In another order issued earlier this week, the government directed all private hospitals with more than 50 beds to dedicate 20% of the total beds to Covid-19 patients. With this, the government hopes to add another 2,643 beds for Covid treatment at 42 private hospitals, another set of government documents showed.The order is applicable to 117 hospitals and nursing homes in the city built on land procured from the government at subsidised rates. But apart from the 42, the rest are yet to give estimates to the government, a senior official said.On Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said hospitals that fail to earmark 20% of their beds for Covid-19 treatment will have to offer up the entire hospital to combat the pandemic. The government has also allowed such hospitals to increase their total bed capacity by 25%.Currently, the city has 10 Covid-dedicated hospitals, which collectively provides around 4,000 beds and 130 ventilators. The hospitals are Max Super Speciality Hospital, Apollo Hospitsal, Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Mahadurga Charitable Trust Hospital, Batra Hospital, Fortis Shalimar Bagh, Venkateshwara Hospital, Moolchand Hospital and Saroj Super Speciality Hospital.Apart from these, the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Chhatrasal Stadium, Siri Fort Sports Complex, Saket Sports complex, more than 20 hotels and banquet halls have been identified by the revenue department as facilities that can be converted into Covid-19 hospitals or quarantine facilities, should the need arises, the senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-plans-to-ramp-up-city-s-covid-beds-over-three-weeks/story-khTKOZ5pnfC0x4Z8Ap3uwN.html
06-06-2020||City||Delhiwale: Staying at home, which is roadside||A man without a house. How could he possibly stay at home, like all of us citizens were repeatedly instructed to do during the beginning of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown?“This is my home,” muttered the grey-haired gentleman, while holed up one afternoon on a central Delhi roadside. He spoke his halting words in a rather uncertain tone, as if he were ready to be challenged for this assertion.Rakesh, as the man introduced himself, was lying on a threadbare carpet spread along the pavement like a bed sheet. His head was plopped up on a makeshift pillow rustled out of his chappals.He seemed at ease in a setting that, despite being so public, seemed very private, as if all these shaded trees, this green grass on the grounds beside the road, and the chirping of invisible birds were created for his comfort. Rakesh made it a point to disclose, without any prompting, that “once upon a time I used to live in Ambedkar Nagar, in a pakka kamra (concrete room).”This encounter took place in late March, just a couple of days before the lockdown began. By then people were already being exhorted to... well, stay at home.Rakesh faintly smiled and said he had heard of coronavirus and that he was scared of catching the infection. But then he looked up at the blue sky, while still lying down, and breezily said that “I’m still living and maybe God will look after me.”He had walked over to this spot an hour before, after having a lunch of dal-chawal at Sai Baba temple, some distance away. “I always have my day-time meal outside the mandir... it is served free there everyday to many people like me.”While walking to this spot, Rakesh said he had thought of “nothing except that I was tired and I wanted to lie down in some quiet place.”This particular stretch, a side-road that goes past Humayun’s Tomb, was completely quiet. Totally free of traffic at the moment of this interaction. There was nobody else except for a dog sitting atop an unknown person’s centuries-old stone grave.Rakesh informed he was a native of Ayodhya, in UP, and had been living in Delhi for some years. He requested the interlocutor not to urge him to talk about his past. Instead, he explained that he sometimes works as a waiter in wedding banquets and parties “but now all is over because of the bimari (sickness) and I have no work.” He stayed silent when asked to explain if he meant by ‘bimari’ some health problem he was suffering from, or the general threat of the coronavirus pandemic.He later got up, and sat cross-legged, casually clasping his palms. He spent the next few moments silently, and puzzlingly gazed upon his unusually long fingernails, as if they were lines of some difficult poem he was trying to understand.“I will now walk for some time... at night I will sleep by the road or under the flyover,” he said, rolling up his carpet. Soon he walked away.It’s been more than two months since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhiwale-staying-at-home-which-is-roadside/story-QjVGnkgOzaP1IySToDNsiI.html
06-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 86 new cases||Navi Mumbai recorded 86 new Covid cases on Friday, taking the toll to 2,643. Four deaths were also reported.Among the new cases, Turbhe recorded 25 cases, Airoli 19, Kopar Khairane 12, Belapur 7, Nerul ward 5, Vashi 7, Ghansoli eight and Digha three. Four children tested positive on Friday. Panvel recorded 29 Covid cases on Friday, taking the tally to 637.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-86-new-cases/story-PZBuctaFn7CVY1WQcKdRUJ.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||All shops in Kalyan-Dombivli open shutters, civic officials show rulebook||Shops in Kalyan-Dombivli were opened on both sides of the roads on Friday morning as shopkeepers were confused. “There was lot of confusion among shopkeepers on the rules. Shops were opened on both sides of the roads in the morning and later police and civic officials arrived and allowed only shops on one side of the road to open,” said Rakesh Mutha, president of Shopkeepers’ Association, Kalyan (West).Ulhasnagar saw the same problem as shops started opening and people came out to shop. Ulhasnagar camp no 5 saw lot of people out on Friday morning as shops reopened.“Since it has started raining, I wanted to buy plastic sheets for my balcony.The market was crowded but all of them had taken safety precaution,”said Gaurav Surve,39, a residents of Ulhasnagar. A day before the unlocking phase began, shopkeepers approached the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), asking to allow shops open based on their categories and not odd-even basis.A senior official from KDMC said, “The shopkeepers’ association wanted to allow shops to open as per their categories. We told them that it was not possible because these are guidelines from the state. There was confusion among shop owners which our officials and the police are trying to clear out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-shops-in-kalyan-dombivli-open-shutters-civic-officials-show-rulebook/story-RSXhLxus5ByPlyvG8kx6DP.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||158 samples of sanitizers sent for testing after complaints: Haryana health minister||Health Department authorities in Haryana have collected 158 samples of sanitizers from across the state and sent them to a laboratory for testing following complaints that some shopkeepers were selling poor quality product at exorbitant rates.There were complaints of adulteration, Health Minister Anil Vij told reporters on Friday.State Drug Controller of Food and Drugs Administration Narendra Ahuja said 158 samples of sanitizers of various companies have been collected.The samples have been sent to a Chandigarh-based lab for tests, he said in a statement.Vij said there were complaints that some shopkeepers were selling a 500 ml bottle of sanitizer at exorbitant rates, as high as Rs 650.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/158-samples-of-sanitizers-sent-for-testing-after-complaints-haryana-health-minister/story-Cy88T8bM45t02r8AWw4FRO.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||316 fresh infections take Haryana Covid-19 tally to 3,597||Haryana on Friday recorded 316 fresh Covid-19 cases, 153 of them from the worst-hit Gurugram district, taking the total number of cases in the state to 3,957, officials said.Of the new cases, 59 were reported from Faridabad district, 22 from Charkhi Dadri, 14 from Palwal, 12 from Kurukshetra, 11 from Rewari, nine from Hisar, seven from Karnal, six from Ambala, four each from Rohtak and Narnaul, three each from Nuh and Fatehabad, two each from Jind, Jhajjar and Sirsa and one each from Kaithal, Panipat and Panchkula, as per the health bulletin.Total active COVID-19 infections in the state stand at 2,364 while 1,209 patients have recovered. With 1,227 active cases, Gurugram district alone accounts for over 50 % of total active cases in the state. As many as 945 more people have tested positive in the state in the last three days with Gurgaon and Faridabad accounting for 72% of these cases.SIX CASES IN AMBALA Six people, including a 9-year-old girl, have tested positive for the virus in Ambala.Chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “A 75-year-old woman from khatik mandi and a 9-year-old girl from Barara, who had returned from Delhi have tested positive. Besides, a Karnataka returnee and another person who returned from Maharashtra are among the new cases.” The samples of a Dubai-returnee and a Nahan resident have also turned out to be positive. The tally in Ambala now stands at 76 of which 29 are active cases. SEVEN FRESH INFECTIONS IN KARNAL Seven fresh infections have been reported from Karnal, taking the total number of cases in the district to 81, deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said. The new patients include a 47-year-old woman from Shiv Colony, two youths aged 20 and 25 from Ward Taraori, a 27-year-old man from Mukhapuri village, a 28-year-old man from Preetam Nagar, a 26-year-old man of Bhaini Khurd village and a 24-year-old man from Banso Gate locality of Karnal city.“All patients had a travel history to other states and have been admitted at Mulana Medical College and Hospital, Ambala,” the DC said. Active cases in the district are 42.FOUR CASES IN PANIPAT Four people have tested positive for the virus in Panipat, taking the number of cases in the district to 70, officials said. Health department officials said all patients have a travel history to Mumbai.CMO Sant Lal Verma said the new patients include a 58-year-old woman from Ughrakheri village, a 16-year-old girl and two men from Beholi village. The fourth patient is a 65-year-old man from Sector 11 of Panipat city. They have been shifted to BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonipat. The family of infected persons have been quarantined and their samples will be sent for testing. KURUKSHETRA RECORDS FOUR NEW CASES Four people, including two women, have tested positive in Kurukshetra, taking the number of active cases to 26. CMO Sukhbir Singh said the infected persons include a 32-year-old woman from Umri village, a 37-year-old woman from Barna village, a 58-year-old man from Thaska Mirji village and a 42-year-old man from Mohan Nagar. They were in contact with already positive cases and have been admitted at Covid19 hospital in Mulana of Ambala district.50-YEAR-OLD MAN TESTS POSITIVE IN KAITHAL A 50-year-old man tested positive in Siwan village of Kaithal district, taking the number of infected persons to 34. CMO Rakesh Sehl said the new patient had recently returned from Gurugram and his family members have been quarantined. He has been admitted at Covid 19 hospital in Agroha of Hisar district.A 21-year-old youth has tested positive in Yamunanagar. Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said, “The youth, who is a resident of Delhi, came for some labour work at a factory in Yamunanagar on June 1 with two of his friends and he has tested positive.” The total cases in the district are now 10 with only one active case.LESS THAN 30 % PATIENTS ADMITTED IN HOSPITALSAs many as 12 Covid-19 positive patients, constituting less than 0.6 % of the total active cases in Haryana, are critically ill and have been put on ventilator and oxygen support. Statistics showed that less than 30 % of total Covid-19 patients were admitted in 12 health institutions across the state as on Friday.“This meant that about 70% patients in the state are in home isolation or were quarantined at paid isolation facilities as most of them were either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms,’’ a health official said.As per the revised guidelines issued by Union ministry of health, persons clinically identified as a very mild case or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer were eligible for home isolation provided they have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and quarantining the family contacts. The Gurugram district administration has also arranged paid isolation facilities in budget hotels for those who do not have enough space at home to get quarantined.“Moreover, out of the 12 critically ill Covid-19 patients in the state on Friday, only four were on ventilator and eight on oxygen support,’’ an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/316-fresh-infections-take-haryana-covid-19-tally-to-3-597/story-pQA7YRl2gvdFJHTfsExd3M.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Head constable tests positive for Covid after death; Mumbai Police toll at 20||A 54-year-old head constable posted at Dahisar police station who died on Thursday morning, was tested positive for coronavirus the same day at night. The head constable is a resident of MHB Colony in Borivli and is survived by his wife and 14-year-old son. With the head constable’s death, the death toll in Mumbai Police rose to 20.On May 27, the head constable went on leave after he developed fever and approached a physician for treatment. “The physician said he had viral fever and gave medicines. He recovered from the fever in two days, but on May 30, he could not breathe. We tried to get him tested at a private clinic, but the authorities said they have run out of forms for the tests and asked us to come next day,” the head constable’s wife said.On June 1, his health condition worsened, and he was in need of oxygen. He was admitted to Bhagwati Hospital and later shifted to Karuna Hospital – both of which are located in Borivli, where he passed away on Thursday after developing pneumonia.“Though he had diabetes, his blood sugar level was under control. He went for his duty despite the Mumbai Police permitting personnel above 50 years with pre-existing health conditions to go on leave,” the head constable’s wife said.She also alleged that there was delay in her husband’s leave sanction. “My husband wanted to go on leave from May 20, as he was unwell but was granted leave only on May 27,” she further alleged.However, Hanif Mujawar, senior inspector of Dahisar police, refuted the allegations. He said, ”He never made a formal application asking for a leave. If he had made an application I would have been surely updated about it.”This is the second death in Dahisar police. On May 26, a 53-year-old head constable died of respiratory ailments at JJ Hospital though he did not suffer from any pre-existing condition. A day later, he was found Covid-19 positive.Mujawar said aggressive testing would be conducted to prevent more deaths in the police force.1, 499 infected, 31 dead in state policeUntil Friday morning, the Maharashtra Police reported 1,499 active cases, –1,304 constables and 195 officers. The police force also lost 31 personnel to Covid-19. While 30 of them are constables and assistant sub-inspectors, one was a 32-year-old assistant police inspector who had diabetes and blood pressure.5 RPF personnel test positiveFive railway protection force (RPF) constables tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, and seven more constables were home quarantined as a precautionary measure, said officers.On Monday, the five constables – staying at the RPF barrack at Carnac Bunder – went for tests after they developed Covid-119 symptoms. After their reports came positive, they were admitted to Jagjivan Ram Hospital at Mumbai Central, and their condition is stable, a statement issued by RPF revealed. The number of cases in RPF now stands at seven, even as a total of 18 personnel are home quarantined.Atul Pathak, inspector general of RPF (Central Railway), said,” We are closely monitoring every case to ensure the wellbeing of our staff. Personal care is very crucial to stay healthy. The staff are always sensitised about this aspect.”15 arrested for lockdown violationsThe Mumbai Police on Thursday lodged 12 first information reports (FIRs) against 27 people and arrested 15 for lockdown violations. Most of the FIRs were registered for gathering in public and not wearing masks.(With Inputs from Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/head-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-after-death-mumbai-police-toll-at-20/story-jLTdcrZqd3fR7wdl180bcP.html
06-06-2020||City||Thane records five Covid deaths, 152 new cases||Five people died of Covid and 152 new cases were reported on Friday in Thane. The total number of positive cases in the city is 3,795. So far, 113 people have died of Covid-19 in Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) jurisdiction.The Wagale Estate ward reported 39 cases on a single day, the highest in the city.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Five people, including two women and three men, died. A 50-year-old woman, who was being treated in Kalsekar Hospital, and a 66-year-old man admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa died. They were from Mumbra. Two deaths are of Sawarkarnagar residents -- a 63-year-old woman admitted to Bethany Hospital and a 43-year-old man admitted to Lifecare Hospital. The fifth death is of a 60-year-old man from Lokmanyanagar, who was admitted in Kalsekar Hospital.”Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal has given directives to complete the survey of the entire containment zones in four to five days. The survey will focus on screening people for fever and contact tracing. He took an update of the ongoing survey in all nine wards through video conference on Friday. Malvi said, “He asked the medical team to quarantine all those who have fever or low oxygen level and ensure these residents isolate themselves. He has also agreed to increase manpower for survey if needed. Thermal scanning of those going to Mumbai for work will be conducted at entry and exit points of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-five-covid-deaths-152-new-cases/story-fXU2avJ3Appcy8aIC4kMBO.html
06-06-2020||City||Kalyan records 52 new Covid cases||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 52 new Covid cases on Friday, taking the city’s total number of positive cases to 1,328.The eastern part of Kalyan has the highest number of Covid-19 cases, with a total of 428 cases recorded till now. Out of the 52 cases recorded on Friday, 23 are from Kalyan (East).“In most cases in Kalyan (East), the entire family is infected as people live in small rooms and chawls. The civic body is regularly surveying areas and sending the infected to quarantine centres,”said an officer of health department, KDMC.In Ulhasnagar, 40 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded on Friday, taking the total positive cases to 482. The city has recorded 20 deaths till now. In Ambernath, 17 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded, taking the total case count to 304 and the city has recorded seven deaths till now.Badlapur recorded seven new cases on Friday, taking the total cases to 273. The city also saw eight deaths due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-52-new-covid-cases/story-JWBo9T7vhvw36e2JZ5tJ5K.html
06-06-2020||City||Coronavirus pandemic: Panel advises devotees to reconsider Haj visit||Haj pilgrims were advised to cancel their applications to visit the holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia and collect a complete refund of the amount paid by them earlier.The circular was issued by the Haj Committee of India (HCOI) on Friday, even as it awaits a notification from the Saudi Ministry of Haj as well as the Centre about the provisions for the pilgrims this year. HCOI said it is very difficult to make arrangements owing to the coronavirus pandemic and is thus advising pilgrims to avoid going on Haj.This year, around 1.75 lakh people were expected to leave for Hajj from India from June 25, of whom 1.25 lakh registered through HCOI, while around 50,000 through private tour operators (PTOs).Maqsood Ahmed Khan, chief executive officer of HCOI, said that owing to a lot of queries by pilgrims, the committee decided to issue a circular, asking pilgrims to cancel their visit. Khan added that the committee is of the opinion that it will be difficult to make arrangements for Hajj at a short notice. “On our end it is very difficult to make arrangements, and we would advise pilgrims to not go for Haj this year,” Khan said. “A cancellation charge of ₹5,000-7,000 was levied in previous years, but this year there will be no cancellation fee and a full refund will be given,” said Khan. Even if either of the governments cancel the pilgrimage altogether, those who applied for the visit will be provided with the refund, however it will be done so only within a year, Khan said. Zafar Jamal of Federation Haj PTOs of India said that by Ramzan, they fill their quota of 50,000 pilgrims. However, owing to the pandemic, this year only 30% of pilgrims registered with them.“We are awaiting details from the Saudi government, which is expected to be out on Saturday. Then we will take a call on what needs to be done. There may be a change in the quota and the pilgrimage may become even more expensive in that case. Even we would advice pilgrims to not to go for the pilgrimage this year,” said Jamal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-pandemic-panel-advises-devotees-to-reconsider-haj-visit/story-dKkbrtAd7zXvLes9yhN5GJ.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||As Mumbai lifts lockdown restrictions, buyers allege shops flouted norms; no clarity over rules, say owners||Even as the state permitted shops and markets, other than those selling essential items, to operate from Friday on odd-even basis, shopkeepers claimed that there were no clear guidelines in place. As a result, many shops remained open in the first half of the day, leading to huge crowds at markets and traffic on roads, as well as violation of social distancing norms. “I went to a stationery shop today. Though there were only three people, none of them were wearing masks nor were they following social distancing norms. Also, in our area, shops were open on both sides of the road, owing to which there were scores of public on the streets. Some were having tea and samosas. With the other institutions also set to open from June 8 onwards, the number of cases will only increase drastically,” said a Ghatkopar resident, who did not wished to be named.Haren Mehta, a member of traders’ body Akhil Ghatkopar Vyapari Mandal, said some of the customers who visited his garment store on Friday were even shopping for small celebrations.“There is no concept of essential or non-essential items anymore. After 70 days of lockdown, everything becomes essential because people have run out of things. But this odd-even concept can cause further losses to businessmen, who are already suffering from the past two months,” said Mehta.Shopkeepers in the western suburbs said that while larger showrooms that cater to ethnic and traditional wear saw only one or two customers on Friday, there were huge crowds at stationery, toys, shoes and hardware stores.“Consumers are unsure about when the situation will normalise. So they are stocking up stationery, games and toys to keep their children busy, as well as home clothes. However, party wear, cosmetics and imitation jewellery shops did not get a good response as consumers consider them as non-essential items in current scenario,” said Shailesh Trivedi, who owns an ethnic wear showroom at Malad.Trivedi added that for cloth and garment showrooms, it would be difficult to abide by sanitisation and distancing norms..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-mumbai-lifts-lockdown-restrictions-buyers-allege-shops-flouted-norms-no-clarity-over-rules-say-owners/story-BeLQO4cwwXDy7ngQpLIMZN.html
06-06-2020||City||Day 1 of unlockdown: Mumbai doesn’t let its mask slip, shops with caution||Scores of buyers were seen thronging shops and markets in the city on Friday, Day 1 of reopening of shops and markets under the government’s Mission Begin Again to ease lockdown restrictions in Maharashtra.Garment stores, hosiery stores, bedsheets and curtain vendors, tailor shops, department stores, cake shops, chaat shops and kitchen-ware stores on one side of the road were open from 9am. Many street vendors also sold garments and footwear. Many areas, especially crowded parts of central and south central Mumbai, including Dadar, Parel, and Byculla, and the western and eastern express highway saw bumper-to-bumper traffic. Following the state’s announcement on May 31 to start ‘Mission Begin Again’ in three phases from June 3, June 5, and June 8, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation chief IS Chahal on June 2 issued a circular chalking out the ‘unlock plan’ for the city. As per this circular, from June 3, shops and markets have been allowed to remain open between 9am and 5pm. Trial rooms and exchange or return policies in stores will not be allowed. Malls and shopping complexes are not included in the plan. Taxis, auto-rickshaws, and private vehicles were allowed to ply from Friday. Sunita Joshi, chief facilitator of BMC’s shops and establishments department, said, “It is upto the wards to ensure social distancing rules are followed, and to take shut the shop if these rules are violated. Together with shop owners’ associations, wards have to draft a plan to implement the alternate (roads only on one side of the road to open) rule.” Many wards came out with circulars for crowd control in their areas, by listing out names of roads that will follow odd-even rules. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G-North ward, which covers areas of Dadar, a popular shoppers’ zone, issued a circular asking all shops to shut down before 8pm, the state-imposed curfew timing.Viren Shah, president of the Federation of Retail Traders’ Welfare Association, said, “We have strictly asked shops to follow social-distancing rules, use sanitisers and masks. Individual shopkeeper, as well as area-wise associations, will monitor the situation.” Some goods were at a higher demand than others, and it will be some time before business takes off for certain goods. According to Shah, plumbing material, sanitation material, masks, umbrellas, raincoats, undergarments, nightwear, T-shirt, trackpants, baby products, toys, indoor games and kitchenware were in demand. Sarees, trousers, wedding outfits, designer wear and branded clothing saw very few takers.A shopper who was buying plastic water bottles from a kitchen-ware store in Dadar said, “I have not been able to refrigerate any water in summer. This purchase was pending for the past three months, as no shops sold water bottles.” Another shopper who was giving measurements to a tailor shop in Dadar, which is also a garment store, said, “I am trying to complete all chores that were pending for a few months now, one by one.”Shopkeepers are relieved to restart their business. A shopkeeper selling hosiery items said, “Business had come to a standstill for two months. I am not expecting many customers right away. But when people see my shop open, they will remember to come here if they need anything at another time.” Markets in Dahisar and Borivli were not crowded. Harish Pandey of New Link Road Association from Dahisar said, “There not much movement considering many housing societies have restrictions on timings to step out.”Lamington Road in south Mumbai, too, did not attract many buyers. Mahendra Hemdev, a shopkeeper from Lamington Road, said, “Most customers come to this market from far-off places. With local trains shut, very few could turn up.” Shops in Colaba also opened, but to very few customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-1-of-unlockdown-mumbai-doesn-t-let-its-mask-slip-shops-with-caution/story-DbtAHpHB4gK6tvkQZePVoN.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Rs 3.87 crore Axis Bank heist in Palghar solved after 7 years||While interrogating the case of a 2019 heist at a gold loan firm, police solved the case of another Axis Bank heist case of August 2013, in which six men looted the cash van when the cash was being loaded in it, at Sriprastha,Nallasopara(W) branch of the bank. One of the accused in the gold loan firm case also confessed to committing the bank heist. The police were investigating the September 20, 2019 heist of Rs 1.75 crore from a private gold loan firm in Nallasopara, in which four accused were arrested by the local crime branch in Palghar on Thursday. “The four accused are remanded in police custody till June 15 by the Vasai court, and one of the accused in the gold loan theft confessed of the Rs 3.87 crore Axis bank heist of August 28, 2013,” said Dattatray Shinde, SP, Palghar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rs-3-87-crore-axis-bank-heist-in-palghar-solved-after-7-years/story-cgocwoa3Dkn6cigHV90IhP.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||E ward doubling rate is 42 days; BMC says because of testing||For the first time since March, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in a ward – E (Mumbai Central, Byculla, Kamathipura) – has increased to 42 days, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data till Wednesday. The E ward has seen 2,775 cases till Thursday.The doubling time or rate is the number of days taken for the cases to double. The overall doubling time in the city is 20 days, higher than the country’s 16 days. The city’s average doubling rate was 11 days till May 24.While the data on number of cases in all wards is available till Thursday, the doubling rate numbers are as of Wednesday. Following the E ward is F-N ward (Dadar, Sion Koliwada) with 2,805 cases, where the doubling rate is 32 days. The G-S ward, which covers Mahalaxmi and Lower Parel, has 2,287 cases and the doubling rate is 30 days. The H-E ward that covers Santacruz has a doubling rate of 29 days, with 2,535 cases. The doubling rate of G-N ward, which recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and includes India’s largest slum Dharavi, has increased to 27 days. The number of cases is 3,316.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner in-charge of G-S ward, said, “The change is because we have conducted aggressive testing of around 6,000 people, which helped us identify 1,541 positive cases. We managed to screen around 4.5 lakh people in all slum pockets. We have also placed more than 6,300 people under institutional quarantine. Private physicians joining hands with BMC in screening helped in early diagnosis.”Experts are not sure of the reasoning. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), testing is allowed only for people with symptoms, those with travel history, or contacts of infected people. However, as 80% of patients are asymptomatic, there is a possibility that a large number of patients are going undetected, which can decrease the doubling rate. “As we aren’t doing adequate number of tests, the doubling rate will increase. This data doesn’t provide a three-dimensional view of the situation in the city. It is just an eyewash while many patients are unidentified in the crowd,” Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/e-ward-doubling-rate-is-42-days-bmc-says-because-of-testing/story-BMmkRlW7U5uqoP0Whno05J.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||About 12 lakh migrants return home from Maharashtra||The state government on Friday said that around 12 lakh migrant workers had returned to their home states from Maharashtra through 826 Special Shramik trains. It has also said that they have spent around ₹100 crore on train ticket for these labourers.State home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “The state government has sent 11,90,990 lakh migrant workers to their respective states through 826 trains so far. These are those who have been stuck due to the lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus outbreak in the state. The state has spent around ₹100 crore on trains tickets for these workers.”The Special Shramik trains were started by Railway Ministry from May 1.Most numbers of trains, 450, had departed for Uttar Pradesh, followed by 177 for Bihar and 49 for West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/about-12-lakh-migrants-return-home-from-maharashtra/story-YRgfCqQSNm0aToq6vNQVjM.html
06-06-2020||City||2 weeks of relaxations crucial: BMC||MUMBAIWith restrictions on shops and travel in the city and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) eased on Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expecting a surge in Covid-19 cases, especially if citizens don’t follow social distancing norms and other guidelines. Civic officials said the next two weeks would be crucial and they are bracing for all scenarios.On Friday, Mumbai saw 1,149 cases and 50 deaths, taking the count to 46,080 and toll to 1,519. Of the 46,080 cases, 25,768 are active cases. According to BMC, the recovery rate of the city as of Friday is 41%, death rate 3.3% and doubling rate is 20 days, from 12 days on May 15.Starting Friday, BMC allowed shops, markets to remain open on alternate days between 9am and 5pm daily, except Sundays. Owing to this, several parts of the city saw crowding on the streets, as the lockdown was relaxed after almost 80 days.While civic officials don’t rule out a spike, they haven’t worked out any estimate. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer of BMC, said, “We do not have fresh projections for the upcoming period, but in the next 10 days, we will know the trend. Our main focus is to control the cases in the slums, where the chances of spike are more. Overall, if we do not observe social distancing and follow all norms, there can be a surge in cases. We have been clear that those above 50 years of age or having other ailments should stay home and avoid coming out. However, the picture will be clear in the coming days.”BMC had in April anticipated that by the end of May Mumbai might have around 75,000 cases, however, it later revised the projection to 45,000 cases by the end of May. By May 31, Mumbai had less than 40,000 cases, which the BMC claimed was a result of its rigorous contact-tracing and focused testing. BMC officials said their efforts ensured the positivity rate went up to 20% as of Thursday, from 3% in the first week of April.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said they don’t have any projection like earlier, adding they will have to wait for the trend to emerge.In terms of preparation, the civic body plans to have close to 1 lakh beds identified, from the current 80,000+, by augmenting the capacity at Bandra-Kurla Complex, NESCO etc. Currently, the active beds are over 16,000 in Mumbai, followed by over 47,000 beds in Covid-Care Centres where high-risk contacts are quarantined.Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, tweeted, “Our hospital bed capacity for Covid patients has increased from 3,500 beds to 9,000 beds in 45 days. Additional 8500+ beds are being available through Jumbo facilities. A total of 2,500 beds are ready and 900 more ICUs and ventilators are getting added.”Meanwhile, Madhav Sathe, microbiologist and former professor at Nair Hospital, said, “The exact trend after the relaxations may be known only after at least 10 to 15 days, but, overall, there is a slight chance of a spike. At the same time, I am optimistic, considering many are developing antibodies to fight the virus. The actual spike can only come when the lockdown is completely lifted and local trains start, but by that time a huge population of the city might have developed anti-bodies. Currently, it is said that around 18-20% of the population have developed anti-bodies. The complete lockdown will be lifted by government only after knowing the results of the current relaxations. If the spike, if any, can be handled, there might be further relaxations, and if not the same will prevail for a longer period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-weeks-of-relaxations-crucial-bmc/story-jRuTjSc1pzlGkR4CciVjlO.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Manimajra man held for not wearing mask||A resident Manimajra was held for not wearing a mask in public, the police said on Friday. Shubham Kumar of Mori Gate, Manimajra, was arrested near Kishangarh chowk while he was roaming about without a mask, thus disobeying the lockdown orders issued by the district magistrate. Shubham was later released on bail. A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manimajra-man-held-for-not-wearing-mask/story-waoIa1vgQF7kNNjdFcAmEI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Be ready to conduct examinations: Panjab University V-C to department heads||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Friday directed heads of all departments of the university and its regional centres to be ready to conduct examinations.This was discussed during an online meeting of the V-C with heads of all departments of the varsity and its regional centres on Friday.Raj Kumar directed them to be ready to conduct the examinations after the summer break which will conclude on June 15. The varsity is planning to conduct its semester examinations in July.He also asked the department heads to prepare for the admission process for the new session keeping in mind all the guidelines issued by the government in regard to the Covid-19 outbreak.Facilitating students during the admissions, placement, research, and training process was also discussed in the meeting.All the chairpersons of the departments were asked to chalk out a plan for the next academic session.The time and process for hostellers’ return was also discussed during the meeting. A large number of students had left the hostels in March when the university had suspended classwork in the wake of the Covid outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/be-ready-to-conduct-examinations-panjab-university-v-c-to-department-heads/story-AwFF9CY1beqPciIjZsZF8H.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Bodies of two waiters found in water tank of hotel; one held||A 30-year-old waiter from a hotel at Mira Road (West), was arrested from Pune on Friday evening for murdering two of his colleagues on June 1. Decomposed bodies of the waiters with stab injuries were found inside the water tank of the hotel in the early hours of Friday. The deceased, 48-year-old Haresh Shetty and Naresh Pandit, 52, had stab wounds and head injuries. “The suspect, Kallu Jadhav, who also worked at the same hotel has been arrested from Pune. We will interrogate him to find the motive behind the murder once he reaches Mira Road station,” said Shantaram Walvi, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Mira Road station.According to Gangadhar Shetty, owner of the hotel, he received a call from the Haresh’s phone informing him about the murder on Thursday night. “Due to the lockdown, the establishment was shut but the staff stayed inside the rooms of the hotel,” said Shetty. The police traced the number and the call was made from some location near Nallasopara. The murder was committed on June 1 and the bodies were dumped inside the 10,000 litre tank, used to store water for use of the hotel and the municipality, said police. The bodies were fished out by the Mira Bhayander civic fire brigade personnel around 1am on Friday. More than four persons could be involved in the crime. Police is scanning the CCTV footage of the hotel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bodies-of-two-waiters-found-in-water-tank-of-hotel-one-held/story-qJh4Acq1FBXieCB6oPtRqL.html
06-06-2020||City||Ludhiana residents protest against defunct streetlights, distribute candles||Raising slogans against the municipal corporation (MC), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders and the residents of ward number 54 staged a protest against defunct streetlights in the area and distributed candles among residents and shopkeepers here on Thursday evening.The residents lashed out at the civic body and alleged that there had been a spike in snatching and theft cases due to the darkness in the area. They stated that two such incidents had been reported recently.A woman’s gold chain was snatched by miscreants in Ambedkar Nagar on May 27. In another incident, a thief took away parts of an electricity meter installed outside a flour mill in Ram Nagar on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.The thief was caught on the CCTV installed outside the mill.Manpreet Singh Manna, who is a relative of area councillor Surinder Kaur, said, “While the MC has failed to get LED streetlights installed on the main roads, the old lights (sodium vapour lamps) have been lying defunct since December. We have told mayor Balkar Sandhu and MLA Surinder Dawar about the problem but to no avail.”The lights are lying defunct at various places including Mohar Singh Nagar Road, Benjamin Road, Khud Mohalla, and the road outside division number 2 police station.Alok Kumar, the flour mill owner, said, “The civic body should resolve the problem at the earliest as the residents are deeply troubled. They are afraid to even step out of their houses after sunset.”“A few days back, a gang of thieves stole mobile phones from one of the houses in the area. Even the CCTV cameras do not work properly in the dark,” he added.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “I had conducted an inspection in the past and know that streetlights are lying defunct in different parts of the city.”“A meeting of the MC general house will be scheduled soon to take action against the Tata company, which has taken up the project to install LED street lights in the city,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-protest-against-defunct-street-lights-distribute-candles/story-w09iVHw56EEfUtUE0xtiDO.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Colleges across Ludhiana celebrate World Environment Day||Taking necessary precautions in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, colleges across the city celebrated World Environment Day on Friday.Sarita Bahl, principal of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women, Kidwai Nagar, along with the non-teaching staff observed the day on college premises while following the social distancing norms. Under the theme ‘Biodiversity’, they fed the birds and filled earthen vessels with water for them. They also planted a sapling and watered the plants. The Eco Club of BCM College of Education organised a collage-making activity and a poster-making competition online to sensitise the students about the current environmental crisis. The BEd, BEd special education and MEd students planted saplings, made posters, and e-collages on the assigned theme.To spread environmental awareness, GNDEC School of Architecture held an online best out of waste competition wherein students made useful articles out of waste material. Jaya Verma stood first and Bhavjeet Singh second. The third position was shared by Kanav Soni, Deshna Aggarwal and Gurleen Kaur. World Environment Day is celebrated on June 5 every year for encouraging worldwide awareness and action for the protection of the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/colleges-across-ludhiana-celebrate-world-environment-day/story-iqW1cluyU9YAyaNWtfTkCN.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga destroyed 1.5 lakh rare mangrove saplings at Raigad||Close to 1.5 lakh rare mangrove saplings and hundreds of trees were destroyed when cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Raigad district on June 3, said forest officials on Friday.The mangrove cell said the state-owned nursery at Akshi Creek, south of Alibag, was right in the path of the cyclone. The 28-acre nursery had rare species like Bruguiera cylindrica, Sonnertia alba, Rhizophora mucronata and Bruguiera gymnorrhiza.“This is the largest mangrove nursery in the district where sturdy mangrove species have been destroyed, showing the intensity of the cyclonic winds,” said Karishma Kawade, range forest officer (Alibag). “Full mangroves have been uprooted and found a few metres from they were originally located,” she said.Damage to isolated patches of mangrove were also reported from the coastal tehsils of Alibag, Murud, Tala, Mhasala, and Srivardhan. Mangrove cell officers from Raigad said Avicennia marine, the most common mangrove species along the Maharashtra coast, were damaged along creek ends.Mangroves are a natural buffer, shielding landward areas against cyclones and rising sea levels. Raigad has the maximum mangrove cover and accounts for almost 40% of Maharashtra’s mangrove area (121 sq. km of 302 sq. km). “While the trees faced the major impact of the cyclone landfall, their protection and presence reduced the impact on property and livelihood during the cyclone,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).Phansad Wildlife Sanctuary, spread across 6,979 hectares in Raigad district, recorded more than 200 tree fall cases in addition to 1.10 lakh tree fall cases reported from village and semi urban areas. “A preliminary assessment shows there has been massive damage to the bird habitat in Phansad where thousands of nests have been destroyed as this was the nesting season,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. So far, there are no reports of animal casualties or injuries due to the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-destroyed-1-5-lakh-rare-mangrove-saplings-at-raigad/story-qFxpCRVNyzVnxaQqZqAYKN.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Flamingos make their way to Panje wetland, first time this year||For the first time this year, flamingos have made their way to the endangered Panje wetlands in Uran.The Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) confirmed that flocks of flamingos had made their way to Panje between Thursday and Friday. “The impact of severe cyclone Nisarga and heavy rain in the Uran region had scattered flamingos from congregated habitats and most likely moved them to this open space in Panje, reinstating the fact that it is an important wetland,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS.Spread across 213-hectare (ha) core and 157 ha buffer area for migratory bird roosting, Panje holds up to 1,50,000 birds (migratory and resident) during winters.While there have numerous reports of lesser flamingos spotted at Talawe wetlands, Panje remained dry throughout this year, as most of the high tide inlets to the site had blocked by construction, said environmentalists alleging that work for the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone was allowing environmental violations to happen. “It is a delightful sight to see these birds return, but the area continues to face threats as the local police are stopping the fishing community from entering Panje. The site needs immediate protection,” said Nandkumar Pawar, environmentalist.Ornithologist and naturalist Sunjoy Monga said he had received reports of about 1,000 to 1,200 flamingo numbers at Panje. “There is no reason that the state can provide for not declaring Panje and Talawe as sanctuaries or conservation reserves anymore. The events this year stand testimony of why they need to be protected,” he said.Meanwhile, the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (Cidco) said protecting Panje was not under their jurisdiction anymore. “The area belongs to NMSEZ and any decision regarding its protection or destruction is in their hands, not ours,” said Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/flamingos-make-their-way-to-panje-wetland-first-time-this-year/story-hwcGFgsVSx5BlHqjxm7WwJ.html
06-06-2020||City||LPG-fired crematoriums develop technical snag in Mira-Bhyander||At least two of the four LPG-fired crematoriums in the twin cities of Mira Road and Bhayander recently developed technical snags amid a rush for cremating Covid-19 victims. As the number of Covid-related deaths is rising, the disease has claimed more than 30 lives in the twin cities. As per the protocols, the bodies are wrapped in three-layer plastic suits while being cremated and during the process, some of the molten plastic jams the mechanical parts of the conveyer and other systems inside the compartment, causing technical issues, said a Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC) officer. To stop the spread of coronavirus infection, the three-layer plastic suits are not opened and are directly burnt, he said.The gas-based crematoriums reduce the waiting time and the funeral rites are completed in less than an hour compared to the traditional method of using wood, etc which take around three hours and cause pollution, said Hasmukh Gehlot, deputy mayor, MBMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lpg-fired-crematoriums-develop-technical-snag-in-mira-bhyander/story-DnN3qWW10YrMeneZSi8DJP.html
06-06-2020||City||Six men planning to commit robbery nabbed in Ludhiana||The Sahnewal police on Friday arrested six men who were allegedly planning to commit a robbery. Police have recovered an illegal countrymade pistol, sharp-edged weapons and three motorcycles from their possession.Those arrested have been identified as Ashish Kumar of Mahadev Nagar; Shiv Kumar, alias Shiva, of Karamjit Nagar, Kuccha Lohara Road; Bablu Kumar of Karamjit Nagar, Kuccha Lohara Road; Sharan Kumar of Jain Colony; Kushal Shukla of Jain Colony; and Vishal Gautam of Hargobind Nagar.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskaranjit Singh Teja said the accused were nabbed near Pawa village during special checking. The ADCP said the accused used to rob commuters at gunpoint. Shiv Kumar is already facing trial in two cases of kidnapping and liquor smuggling. Besides, Ashish Kumar has a case of assault registered against him.A case under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at the Sahnewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-men-planning-to-commit-robbery-nabbed-in-ludhiana/story-huPs3KewWasixTQmHXIyVL.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Newborn found abandoned in Panchkula||A four-day-old baby was found abandoned outside Shishu Grah in Panchkula. Krishan Dhull, deputy chairman of Haryana State Council for Child Welfare, said that the baby would be taken care of and Shishu Grah was the baby’s new home. A separate caretaker has been assigned to look after the child, he added. The infant’s sample for Covid-19 test has been taken and reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/newborn-found-abandoned-in-panchkula/story-YM7yMCjCO2FU30KKdyBlPK.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai is second on global list of coastal cities at risk||Future climate projections show that among 136 coastal cities across the world, Mumbai is second-most at risk to climate-induced sea level rise and extreme weather events. Guangzhou in China tops the list and Kolkata was identified as seventh-most at risk. A study of the economic impact of inundation was carried out by researchers from Basque Centre for Climate Change (BC3) in Spain, and Oxford University, London School of Economics, and Liverpool Oceanographic Centre in the United Kingdom. They assessed projected damages and suggested graded solutions for worst-case scenarios in their report. Titled “Comparing urban coastal flood risk in 136 cities under two alternative sea-level projections”, the study was recently published in the international peer-reviewed journal Ocean and Coastal Management. “We found that Guangzhou followed by Mumbai and New Orleans (in Louisiana, USA) face the highest risks in both scenarios among 136 global coastal cities,” said Elisa Sainz de Murieta, corresponding author from BC3, in an e-mail interview to Hindustan Times. She stressed the importance of identifying measures that are appropriate to the specific needs of each city. “It is essential to avoid damages to households and main infrastructures, but it is also important to understand that risk will increase with time,” said Sainz de Murieta.Annual average damages to property and livelihood in Mumbai could exceed US $100 billion in 2050, in the absence of strong mitigation and adaptation efforts due to increasing risks. This may further rise to $328 billion by 2070 and $734 billion by 2100. These projections were made under a standard assessment scenario of RCP8.5 and 1m global sea rise, said the study. RCP, representative concentration pathway, is a measure of greenhouse gas concentration and RCP8.5 imagines a worst-case scenario in the absence of climate-change policies.Sainz de Murieta clarified that the scenarios they’ve studied are “pessimistic”. “A scenario compatible with the Paris Agreement would translate in a global sea-level rise of 26-55 cm by 2100. RCP8.5 is a pessimistic scenario that could reach 4.3 degree Celsius temperature increase as compared to the pre-industrial era,” she said, adding that the second scenario considers a more dramatic situation based on larger contributions to global climate change. “These are not the most likely scenarios, but show how climate change could impact coastal cities if mitigation commitments are not ambitious enough to comply with targets,” said Sainz de Murieta.The report comes at a time when Nisarga, classified as a severe cyclone, struck the Maharashtra coast as one of the strongest cyclones since 1891. Though its impact on the country’s financial capital was limited, it brought to the fore the need for Mumbai to set up measures to tackle such events in the future. Analysis of a second scenario with increased risk predicted damages could be 2.8 times more than the current estimates for Mumbai, highlighting annual average losses of US $245 billion by 2050, US$636 billion by 2070, and US $1,355 by 2100, with larger contribution of faster-melting of ice sheets. “Our intent was to highlight that often only likely damages are considered and we ignore those risks that have a small probability. However, as the Covid-19 situation has shown, having a small probability does not mean it cannot happen. We argue that this information could be used, for example, for stress testing measures or infrastructures, but it should be taken as a warning and should not be ignored,” said Sainz de Murieta.The paper suggests authorities analyse the impact of disaster projections and build adaptive measures that keep in mind worst-case scenarios. The other option was providing co-benefits, said Sainz de Murieta. “For example, mangroves protection, which in addition to coastal protection offer additional services like supporting livelihoods and improving biodiversity. Preventive measures, such as early warning systems and social protection policies are also cost-effective options,” she said.City-based independent experts said increasing frequency of storms, cyclones and extreme weather events are all connected directly and indirectly to climate change, and therefore likely to increase. “All these cumulatively have severe impact on humans and land. After all, all that happens on land is a direct attribute of what happens in oceans since the latter governs most of the climate and not the land,” said marine biologist Deepak Apte.Environmentalists said Mumbai’s coastal road, Navi Mumbai International Airport, and the underground Metro-3 project were examples of projects that were planned without considering the impact of the rising sea level. “In addition to curbing mangrove destruction, such unplanned projects make us more vulnerable to such disasters,” said environmentalist Debi Goenka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-is-second-on-global-list-of-coastal-cities-at-risk/story-aZVUw4vmeqsJ28Bc6en0XL.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Cancel board exams, Yuva Sena writes to CBSE, ICSE heads||Shiv Sena’s student wing Yuva Sena has written to the heads of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) boards demanding the cancellation of Class 10 and 12 board exams which are scheduled to take place in July. “Students are under a lot of stress due to the current crisis and rescheduling exams is only going to add to the pressure. We have requested both the boards to cancel the remaining papers, and mark students on the basis of their previous performance in internal assessments,” said Sainath Durge, core team member of Yuva Sena. On June 3, the state government wrote to the heads of these boards requesting them not to conduct exams in July as per the schedule and push them further or to mark students on the basis of their internal evaluation for the entire year. While eight papers of ISC (Class 12) exam have been rescheduled, six papers of ICSE (Class 10) have been pushed further. As per the board’s revised schedule, the papers for ICSE would now be held between July 2 and 12 while ISC exams would be held between July 1 and 14. Similarly, CBSE announced that all the remaining papers for Class 12 would be conducted between July 1 and July 15. Parents said it would be fair to cancel exams altogether. “Especially in a city like Mumbai, the risk would remain for the next few months and we don’t want our children to take all that stress,” said a parent from Andheri. On Saturday, state government officials and heads of both boards would meet virtually to arrive at a decision in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cancel-board-exams-yuva-sena-writes-to-cbse-icse-heads/story-UIoPHGLAklO3kgO9f7AmaO.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra spent ₹330 crore to send migrant labourers home: State to HC||The state government on Friday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it arranged 822 Shramik special trains and numerous buses for migrant labourers who wished to return to their home states during the lockdown, till June 1. The state, in its affidavit sought by the court on the procedure and number of migrants sent back, informed the court that it had spent around ₹210 crore towards food packets and drinking water, ₹97.69 crore towards train fare and ₹21 crore towards bus fare while sending migrant labourers back to their native states through the Shramik special trains and buses free of cost. The state submitted that as the lockdown was being lifted in a phased manner and industries were starting to function there was no more need for Shramik special trains and buses anymore.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AA Sayyed, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Centre of Trade Union and others, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state government, along with local civic authorities and NGOs, had ensured that the needs of migrant labourers stranded in the city and state were taken care of adequately.Kumbhakoni informed the court that the procedure adopted for sending back migrant labourers through Shramik special trains and buses had been initiated since the end of April. Migrants wanting to return to their native places were asked to fill up a form provided at the local police station through a leader. On receiving sufficient applications, the state sent a request to the concerned state to permit the applicants to return home. The state further added that while awaiting the responses of the states, which took time, the migrants were kept in relief camps where they were provided with food, water and medical screening free of cost. The affidavit further stated that the migrants were given fod packets and water for their journey in trains and buses as well. Kumbhakoni concluded his statement saying that after June 1, there was no need for any more Shramik trains as industries were becoming operational and normal train services were resumed, hence migrants could avail those services if they wished to return to their home states.After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know if the petitioner had a rejoinder to the state affidavit and permitted them time till Tuesday (June 9) when the matter will be heard again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-spent-330-crore-to-send-migrant-labourers-home-state-to-hc/story-2PzLRi6gu4MjCM5Erv4DdI.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to set up innovation hub on campus||Panjab University is planning to set up an innovation hub on its campus which is being funded by Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA).The varsity has received ₹7.5 crore as the first instalment against the grant of ₹50 crore sanctioned by the ministry of human resource development last year.The grant consists of two components, ₹15 crore for the innovation hub, 50% of which has been received by the varsity, and ₹35 crore for research, which is awaited. PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “The grant from RUSA will have a positive impact on the growth as well as ranking of the university. This is also a blessing for the fund starved university where very little was available for research, infrastructure and innovation.”“The proposed hub will offer a unique blend of skill development and incubation possibilities for startups. It will not only cater to students from the university, but also from colleges across Chandigarh,” he said.Rajeev K Puri, university coordinator for RUSA, said, “This grant will be spent on setting up a state of art incubation centre; for skill development; setting up of pre-incubation centres in various departments and improving students’ soft skills.”The incubation centre will also support startups through loan or seed money so that students’ proposals as well as new innovations can be transformed into industrial platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-set-up-innovation-hub-on-campus/story-Ii8N79VnCWypRA1I2jiVVO.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Showers bring down Mumbai’s AQI to 18, lowest so far in 2020||Overnight showers on Friday helped Mumbai bring down its pollution levels to an all-time low for this year, with the air quality index (AQI) dipping to 18 for PM2.5 — breathable particulate matter of 2.5 micron size.The AQI, measured by System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), had dropped to 22 on Wednesday, when Cyclone Nisarga brushed past the city. On Thursday, it had further fallen to 19. An AQI of 15 has been predicted for Saturday.An AQI between 0-50 falls under the ‘good’ category. While the suburbs recorded 28.4mm rain from 8.30pm on Thursday to 8.30am on Friday, south Mumbai recorded 12mm rain during the same period. Over the past 24 hours (8.30am Thursday to 8.30am Friday), 62mm and 53.2mm of rainfall has been recorded in south Mumbai and the suburbs.“With more rainfall activity and continuous wind speed under the present pre-monsoon conditions and the effects of the cyclone, Mumbai may break its cleanest air day record soon,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR. The cleanest air day so far for Mumbai, since SAFAR began air quality monitoring in June 2015, has been September 4, 2019, when the AQI was 12.Meanwhile, the weather bureau said the city and suburbs can expect light rain or thundershowers during evenings or night over the weekend. “South-westerly winds with developing monsoon conditions towards southern parts of India, and the remnants of Cyclone Nisarga as a low pressure system over MP are helping sporadic rain and windy conditions during late evenings in Mumbai,” said an official from the weather bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/showers-bring-down-mumbai-s-aqi-to-18-lowest-so-far-in-2020/story-CLQewfO0NzR3MqQwOHLlUN.html
06-06-2020||City||Two deaths, 52 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Friday reported two deaths and 52 new coronavirus cases, taking the state’s case tally to 2,558.Amritsar topped the chart with 20 fresh cases followed by Ludhiana nine, Jalandhar eight, Patiala four, Gurdaspur three, Kapurthala and Tarn Taran two each, and one each in Bathinda, Faridkot and Moga and Muktsar. FIRST COVID DEATH IN TARN TARANA 45-year-old Patti resident succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in Amritsar on Thursday night. Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said the patient was suffering from chronic diseases such as asthma and liver infection. His report came on Friday morning. A 48-year old resident of the Bholepur area of Pathankot district died of coronavirus at Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, on Friday. His swab samples were taken for testing after his death.One more person, a resident of Khadoor Sahib, who had returned from Dubai on May 27, also tested positive. 20 CASES IN AMRITSAR The district on Friday reported 20 fresh cases of which 10 are fresh community spread cases. With this, the district has so far reported 440 cases of which 327 have recovered and eight have died.The wife and son of an infected persons tested positive for the virus in Gurdaspur. Besides, a man from Batala also contracted the infection. His samples were taken during random sampling.9 MORE CASES IN LUDHIANA Nine more people, including a pregnant woman and a 12- year- old boy, tested positive of coronavirus in Ludhiana. The 26-year-old pregnant woman hails from Kuldeep Nagar, Rahon Road. The district now has 235 Covid-19 cases, of which 160 patients have been discharged. A 10-year-old girl tested Covid-19 positive in Bathinda on Friday. She had come in contact with a coronavirus patient in her neighbourhood in Rampura town. One case was also reported from Muktsar.A 24-year-old pregnant woman tested positive for the Covid-19 in Faridkot district on Friday. The district now has five active cases.A 27-year-old man, who returned to Moga from Kuwait last month and was in a quarantine facility, tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Friday. The person belongs to Rajiana village in Baghapurana. A 59-year-old man from Sheikupur and 68-year-old woman from Begowal in Kapurthala district also tested positive. Eight persons tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Friday. Eight patients, including four woman, are in the age group of 27-55, said officials. Four people contracted the virus at Amloh sub-division of Fatehgarh Sahib district on Friday. They have been admitted to Gian Sagar hospital in Banur.(Inputs from Bathinda, Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Patiala and Faridkot)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-deaths-52-new-cases-in-punjab/story-TP9jYEHhNYNYlLDmgfhbcM.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab education dept cancels agreement with society running 3 Adarsh schools||The Punjab government has annulled an agreement with a private association, Sukhsagar Avenue Welfare Association, to administer three of its Adarsh Schools in Faridkot and Moga. The decision comes after an inquiry conducted by a retired additional session judge BC Gupta found irregularities in the working of the society. “It was found that the salary bills claimed by the society were not completely paid to the employees concerned and it was not operating schools following guidelines set under the PPP mode scheme,” the report states.The schools in question are two Adarsh schools at Pacca village and Midu Maan village in Faridkot district and one Adarsh school at Ransih Kalan village in Moga districtAdarsh Schools provide free and quality education to the poor and needy in rural areas and operate under the Under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode, with private partners bearing 30% of the total expenses and the state school education department, the remaining 70%. Director general school education Mohammad Tayyab said respective district education officers will now take control of the management of these schools. In addition to the irregularities found in the working of the school, Narinder Singh Randhawa, chairman, Sukhsagar Avenue Welfare Association is facing three criminal cases, including charges of raping a teacher and misappropriation of funds. He is also facing inquiries on allegations that he admitted ‘ghost’ students to get extra funds from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-education-dept-cancels-agreement-with-society-running-3-adarsh-schools/story-wzJuq4h9KoZSMwgCviggBM.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt to act against its employees for remaining absent without permission||In a notification released on Friday, the Maharashtra government tightened its grip on employees stating the disciplinary action will be taken against employees who are found to be absent without seeking prior permission. The action will be initiated under the Maharashtra Civil Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1979. Starting June 8, it has also asked employees to be present in the office for one day every week. “A roster will be prepared by departmental heads on which employees are to be present on which days,” the notification states. Apart from those on medical leave or those who have taken prior permission, the state has made it imperative for all employees to report on the specified days. “It has been observed that many employees have also left for villages or have taken leave without permission. This is putting undue stress on the staff present in the office. It is imperative to stay loyal to the government work and that work be distributed equally across employees,” the notification read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-govt-to-act-against-its-employees-for-remaining-absent-without-permission/story-64LVjX2nXTmDEWBnbdlanN.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali man held with 500g opium in Chandigarh||A 32-year-old Mohali resident was arrested for possessing 500 gram opium, the operation cell of Chandigarh Police said on Friday. The accused was identified as Doongar Mal Maurya, alias Ajay, who is a resident of Phase 9, Mohali. He was arrested from the Valley of Animal Park, Sector 49C, Chandigarh, on Thursday. A case under the Narcotic Drugs Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-man-held-with-500g-opium-in-chandigarh/story-g0nZrZsr26gyE3UiP3XSpK.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray visits cyclone-hit Raigad, announces ₹100 crore for immediate relief work||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday visited areas affected by Cyclone Nisarga at Alibag in Raigad district and announced ₹100 crore for immediate relief work after holding review meetings. Eight of the 15 tehsils in Raigad district, which was the worst hit by the cyclone on Wednesday, are still without electricity and telephone connectivity, and roads leading to them have been blocked owing to tree falls. Hundreds of villages in Harihareshwar, Diveagar and Shrivardhan, where the cyclone made landfall, have been witnessed massive destruction, with people losing their houses. Thackeray said the Rs100-crore fund was being released to enable the administration to extend immediate relief for basic needs of citizens. He said officials have been told to arrange for food and shelter for villagers who have lost their houses. “This is not a package, but an immediate relief to deal with issues being faced. The actual relief package will be announced once the spot assessment is completed and the quantum of losses is finalised,” said Thackeray after interacting with some of the affected villagers. “Not only Raigad, but even other districts will be given assistance. Villagers have been asked to send photographs of the damage to their houses to enable officials to complete the survey at the earliest.” Thackeray also directed the energy department to deploy additional workforce from other districts for restoring electricity, following which the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) formed teams headed by executive engineers at its Bhandup, Kalyan, Nerul and Kolhapur divisions to be sent to Raigad. “We have been in darkness for three days. The environment, too, has suffered a huge loss with more than two lakh trees being uprooted. Around 15,000 electricity and other poles have collapsed. We have been able to clear the national and state roads, but are finding it difficult to clear interior roads. We need more manpower and machinery in the district,” said Padmashree Bainade, resident deputy collector of Raigad. Bainade said the relief announced by the state will be utilised for repairing and rebuilding damaged houses. “More than one lakh houses have been damaged in the district. Our priority is to release the funds that will help people start repair works,” she said. Meanwhile, two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and three teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are in Raigad to clear the roads. “Till Friday evening, 536 trees, 87 electric poles and 243km of roads in Raigad were cleared,” said Sachidanand Gawde from NDRF, Pune. “By tomorrow [Saturday], we will have an estimate as to how many more days will we needto ensure complete restoration.”Thackeray later met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai and discussed various issues, including relief package for cyclone-hit citizens and measures to be taken while extending lockdown relaxations in the state. Pawar, according to leaders from NCP, discussed the quantum of the relief package that is expected to be announced next week. NCP leader and MP from Raigad, Sunil Tatkare, had submitted a memorandum to Pawar on Thursday, stating the losses are worth more than ₹5,000 crore. “Pawar has taken stock of the situation from all cyclone-hit districts after party ministers visited almost all the affected districts over the past two days. He wants the relief to be announced immediately. Once the estimated figures of losses are submitted by district authorities by Monday, the relief package is expected to be finalised by the cabinet next week,” said a NCP leader, who did not want to be named.Thackeray, meanwhile, said the decision over approaching the Centre for aid, will be taken after the assessment of damages is completed. “Union home minister Amitji Shah held a video conference ahead of the cyclone, while Prime Minister Narendraji Modi spoke to me twice. They have assured us all support in combating the calamity. After assessing the quantum of losses, the state will decide on approaching the Centre for financial assistance,” said the CM.While praising the people of Raigad, for bravely facing the cyclone, Thackeray said they should not forget that the crisis of coronavirus is not yet over. He said there was a possibility of cases rising during monsoon and people should also be careful of the potential threat of monsoon-related diseases. However, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who visited Maval on Friday, said the state has sought Central government’s assistance and a Central team will visit the state to assess damages. “Raigad and Pune have faced major damages. We will hold a meeting with elected representatives and district officials to decide on relief measures,” Pawar said. CM takes ro-ro service to Alibag Three months after it was inaugurated, the roll-on/roll-off (ro-ro) service made a trip from Ferry Wharf in Mumbai to Mandwa in Alibag, when chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and other government officials visited Raigad on Friday. While the service was inaugurated on March 15, the ro-ro passenger ferry could make only a few trips before the lockdown was announced in the state on March 23. The large passenger-vehicle transport ship can carry 145 vehicles and 500 passengers during a single trip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-visits-cyclone-hit-raigad-announces-100-crore-for-immediate-relief-work/story-ou21WYXgYcbMa70ZMjoxwO.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||2.12 lakh tests conducted in Mumbai, 20.40% positive: BMC||A total of 2.12 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the city so far, with 20.40% of them positive, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Percentage positivity is the number of people testing positive from among the total number of tests conducted The positivity percentage for the city has doubled over the past month. On May 3, the figure was 8.74%, with 93,500 tests and 8,172 positive patients. It was 11.6% on May 13, when the number of tests was 1.27 lakh and Covid-19 patients in the city was 14,781. The percentage was 16.5 on May 21, when Mumbai had conducted 1.53 lakh tests and the case count was 25,317. As of Friday, the city has recorded 46,080 cases.Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner, tweeted on Thursday night: “Almost 19 private labs have been involved in testing by @mybmc. That is how Mumbai has done 2.12 lakh tests so far, which makes it 16,304 tests per million population, highest in India.” The high positivity percentage is being attributed to targeted testing and early identification of suspected Covid-19 persons. A senior civic officer said, “It indicates that we are targeting the right pool of individuals. This also means we are able to remove them from the community at the right time due to early identification. Our contact-tracing efforts have been fruitful.” As of June 3, BMC has traced a total of 8.45 lakh contacts, of which 1.92 lakh were at high risk. While 3.52 lakh are presently in home quarantine, 27,891 are in BMC’s institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-12-lakh-tests-conducted-in-mumbai-20-40-positive-bmc/story-1KCtx2LtaPQtb4thLJRBaP.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||State proposes to change name of environment department||On World Environment Day, the state government proposed changing the name of its environment department to include climate change. The decision on the name change will be taken soon, at the state cabinet meeting.The renamed department of environment and climate change will focus on afforestation, conservation of forests, prevention of land degradation, reducing air pollution, rejuvenating rivers, safeguarding and cleaning water bodies as well as coastal fronts like beaches, said environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday. Thackeray also declared Rs 100 crore would be earmarked for these initiatives.“On Environment Day, we have proposed to change name of the department. We have also decided to evolve and adapt to the needs of today’s times of climate change and the urgent requirement of its mitigation,” Thackeray said.The revived department plans to focus efforts on afforestation, conservation of forests, solid waste management and preventing run-offs of the same, and land degradation. It will also assist departments of industry and transport and other relevant departments to reduce air pollution and improve the state’s air quality index (AQI). The department also plans to include ongoing works of river rejuvenation program and focus on marine biodiversity, safeguarding and cleaning water bodies and coastal fronts such as beaches.The department will further work in sync with other departments to promote efficient use of energy, reduce wastage and emphasise production of renewable energy by innovative means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-proposes-to-change-name-of-environment-department/story-JCdDrszUOgqxHmcF1gkcHJ.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 80,000 Covid-19 cases; govt expects spike as curbs lifted||The state’s Covid-19 count crossed the 80,000-mark, with 2,436 new cases recorded on Friday, and the government expecting a further spike as the phase-wise lockdown relaxations have begun. Maharashtra, with 80,229 cases, accounts for 34% of the total cases — 236,037 — in the country. Of these, 42,215 are active cases, according to the state health department. The state also recorded 139 fatalities on Friday, taking its toll up to 2,849. Of these deaths, 27 were from the past two days, while the rest are from April 21 to June 2. Mumbai, the worst hit city in India with 46,080 cases and 1,519 fatalities, saw 1,149 new infections and 54 deaths on Friday.The state, meanwhile, allowed inter-district movement of people in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and opening of shops and marketplaces in red zones as part of its ‘Mission Begin Again’. Private offices, too, will be allowed to open, with up to 10 per cent of their staff, from June 8. With these restrictions being lifted in phases, state health officials expect the increase in Covid-19 cases to continue.State officials, who did not wish to be named, said there could be a surge in cases in the next few days as more people will be exposed to the virus after the curbs have been lifted. “Our concern is the rise in cases as more people will come out even in red zones… We are focussing on augmenting the health infrastructure to deal with the situation,” said a senior official, who did not want to be named.The state has already witnessed this trend over the past fortnight, with cases in several districts suddenly recording a spike. Sindhudurg, for instance, had only 10 cases on May 20 and now has 105 cases; Parbhani had nine cases and now has 77 cases; Gondia’s count has gone up from three cases to 68; Beed has 51, up from five; six cases in Gadchiroli have gone up to 41; Bhandara’s count of seven now stands at 38; and Chandrapur has 30 cases, up from five on May 20.State health minister Rajesh Tope, however, said the recovery rate has also been improving and now stands at 43.81%. “On Friday, 1,475 patients recovered and were discharged from various hospitals. So far 35,156 patients have recovered. We have succeeded in bringing down the mortality rate to 3.55%,” Tope said. The state has augmented its bed capacity to 25,000 in 2,576 hospitals, while the isolation bed capacity has been ramped up to 2.5 lakh.Senior IAS officer Bhushan Gagrani said there is no surge in cases for now, but admitted that there could be a sudden rise. “There is no surge in cases in the state at present, as it comes with geometric of exponential progression. However, rise in cases is likely to happen after fresh relaxations. This is why we have graded the relaxation,” Gagrani said.The health department, in its data released on Friday, said 5,22,946 tests have been conducted at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of these, 4,42,717 people tested negative.Maharashtra’s fatality rate has increased to 3.55% (2,849 deaths on June 5) from 3.27% (1,792 deaths on May 26). It is also more than the national mortality rate, which is 2.80% with 6,075 deaths till Wednesday, stated the data shared by the state medical education department on Friday.The state has, however, succeeded in bringing down the mortality rate significantly in the past two months. On April 13, the mortality rate of the state was 7.41% (148 deaths). The state currently has 3,479 active containment zones and a total of 18,026 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 69.18 lakh people.While 30,291 people have been kept in institutional quarantine across the state, 5,45,947 people have been put under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-80-000-covid-19-cases-govt-expects-spike-as-curbs-lifted/story-IAfhkLdWf0KfZ0Dsm5p5EJ.html
06-06-2020||City||With 15 fresh cases, Chhawani Mohalla is Ludhiana’s first containment zone||The densely-populated locality of the city’s Chhawani Mohalla has become the first containment zone of the Ludhiana district.The decision was taken after 15 contacts of deceased Pritpal Singh, 53, who died at DMCH on May 29, also tested positive for coronavirus.As many as six contacts of the Chhawani Mohalla man were also found infected on Thursday. Among them is a 29-year-old man from Meharban village, who works at a shop run by a relative of Pritpal in Gandhi Nagar.Other contacts include four males aged 52, 40, 21 and 13, and a 43-year-woman, all residents of Chhawani Mohalla.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said that since a total of 15 cases had been reported from Chhawani Mohalla alone, the district administration and the health department has declared it as a containment zone.A curfew-like situation will be maintained in this area and no person will be allowed to leave or enter, stated a communiqué issued by the public relations department.In the communiqué, Agrawal stated that the entire area had been sealed and only essential services will be allowed here.According to civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, only essential and medical services will be provided in the area. The health department will conduct intensive house-to-house checking, surveillance, contact tracing and sampling in the area. If more cases are found positive, they will be taken to a health facility as per the protocol.The primary focus will be the high-risk population including elderly, children and pregnant women.The house-to-house surveillance and contact tracing will continue for 14 days. If not more than one case was found in a week then restrictions in the containment zone will be lifted.Chhawani Mohalla is a densely-populated pocket with a population of nearly 17,000, said area councillor Surinder Atwal.In the meantime, heavy police force has been deployed in the area and movement of vehicles has been restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-15-fresh-cases-chhawani-mohalla-is-ludhiana-s-first-containment-zone/story-YKwl4Yu7m3RDDuhnSgvsoJ.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||CASH-FOR-JOB SCAM: Punjab govt okays appointment of 61 college lecturers||The Punjab higher education department has okayed giving appointment to 61 college lecturers who were selected by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) 18 years back in 2002 when Ravi Sidhu was its chairman.Higher education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said that 16 appointment letters have already been given to such candidates and those lecturers found eligible would also be given appointment letters provided they submit documents.Bajwa said the issue of recruitment of the lecturers was stalled for a long time due to the matter being sub-judice.“But now with the court giving its judgment, the departmental committee has found 61 college lecturers eligible,” said Bajwa.During the tenure of former Punjab Public Service Commission chairman Ravi Inder Singh Sidhu, who was arrested by Vigilance Bureau in case of corruption in recruitment, the personnel department had cancelled the selection of the college lecturers through a notification on May 16, 2003. The move was challenged by 69 selected candidates who filed different writ petitions in the Punjab and Haryana high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cash-for-job-scam-punjab-govt-okays-appointment-of-61-college-lecturers/story-p8OJFZaXNZg3lEpL2SlAXK.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Ola, Uber now available for essential trips||Mobile application-based cab aggregators Ola and Uber have started services for essential requirements for citizens in the city as well as outstation journeys within the state. However, there is no classification of travel for essential requirements. Uber said the passenger will be required to carry documentation as proof of purpose of travel, whereas Ola has stated that no documentation will be required. The cabs will operate with only two passengers. Earlier, mobile app-based cab services in the city were available for only emergency commuting such as travel to hospitals, railway stations and airports. “Along with Mumbai, Ola will also be offering its services across major cities in the state such as Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Solapur and Amravati. Citizens across these cities will be able to book both city and outstation trips; intra-state only for essential travel needs,” read a statement from Ola. Both the cab aggregators have introduced compulsory safety and hygiene standards including wearing of mask by both passengers and drivers inside the vehicle, deep sanitisation of cabs before and after the rides. Ola will also set up zones where cabs will be fumigated and drivers will be screened every two days. Services of these online taxi aggregators were suspended in March in view of the pandemic.Fliers can use cabs to and from airportPassengers flying to and from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will now be able to get pick up and drop facilities. Due to safety measures, the airport had restricted the movements of private cabs since May 25, however, it resumed the same from Friday. “CSMIA understands growing concerns among passengers for safe transport once they exit the airport. The airport has thus placed stringent measures to screen drivers and fumigate prepaid taxis and local cabs entering the airport premise. The airport has deployed a team for the same,” said airport operator Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL). An MIAL spokesperson said, “Drivers will undergo thermal checks and will be provided with an informative pamphlet detailing guideline on social distancing and sanitisation by the airport executives. In the event of the driver recording a higher temperature, the driver will be asked to undergo medical consultation, and his details will be entered in the records by the airport executive.” MIAL said with the relaxation of lockdown norms in the city and revival of services of prepaid taxis and local cabs, the airport is allowing Ola, Uber, Meru, black and yellow taxis to operate to and from the airport but with stringent measures. (Inputs from Neha LM Tripathi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ola-uber-now-available-for-essential-trips/story-SnKwFlD20Su0l7Ccw9k4pK.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two thefts reported in Chandigarh||Two thefts were reported from Chandigarh on Friday, police said. In the first case, Ramesh Chander, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, said ₹ 15,000, a ceiling fan and some documents were stolen from his house. Chander is employed with Punjab Police and posted in Jalandhar. He owns a house in the city and visits occasionally.In his complaint, he told police that unidentified persons entered his house by breaking the backside window pane on Wednesday. A case has been registered under Sections 380 (Theft in dwelling house) and 457 (lurking house-trespass by night, or house-breaking by night, in order to the committing of any offence punishable with imprisonment) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sarangpur police station.Another theft was reported by Balinder Kumar, a resident of Sector 20, Chandigarh. Kumar is a junior engineer in the Chandigarh electrical department. He said a copper transformer was stolen from the traffic light in Sector 21/22, Chandigarh, on May 30. A case has been registered under Section 379 (theft) of IPC at police station 19, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-thefts-reported-in-chandigarh/story-iRvY6obI9qHClDnnRJFdRM.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Centre releases ₹2,866 crore as GST compensation to Punjab||Amid the coronavirus crisis, the Punjab government has received some financial relief as the Centre on Friday released ₹2,866 crore as goods and services tax (GST) compensation to the cash-strapped state.The amount, which has been given for the months of December 2019, and January and February 2020, is compensation for revenue losses incurred by the state government due to implementation of the GST regime. The fund release is expected to provide much-needed relief to the state which has been reeling under a huge dip in tax and non-tax revenues due to the coronavirus-induced national lockdown.“The GST compensation was pending and the government had made repeatedly requests the Union finance ministry for its release,” a senior official said. The Centre had on Thursday night announced the release of compensation of ₹36,400 crore to the state and union territories. Under the new indirect tax regime, the states have been guaranteed a 14% year-on-year growth in their GST revenue over the financial year 2015-16 base and they are to be compensated by the central government for any shortfall. Punjab’s monthly protected state-GST, which was ₹1,567 crore and ₹1,787 crore in financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19 respectively, stood at ₹2,037 per month in 2019-20 after the guaranteed year-over-year increase.Punjab has been among the states with the highest shortfall in revenue collection so far and dependent on compensation to some extent. However, the state government has managed to pay salaries to its employees, release funds to local bodies and incur additional expenditure on Covid-19 management despite the financial constraints.The state authorities have been relying on market borrowings to meet the spending needs in the past three months, auctioning the government securities worth ₹4,600 crore this year so far. Of this, a sum of ₹1,600 crore was raised by the state on June 2 through its 10-year paper. Last month, the centre also allowed a reforms-linked increase in borrowing limits to states from 3% to 5% of gross state domestic product (GSDP) for 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-releases-2-866-crore-as-gst-compensation-to-punjab/story-1QbKsFGEKqkYueDEkO4PVM.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Societies start framing rules for house help to resume work||Several big housing societies across the city which had suspended the services of household help for residents when the lockdown began have now started framing rules to allow the entry of helps and drivers in their premises. However, many smaller housing societies are yet to take a call on the matter. Some are awaiting decision from the management on whether helps can be allowed again.The development comes as the Maharashtra government on Thursday announced Unlock 1.0 after two months of lockdown and set some guidelines to be followed in the state.However, some societies in south Mumbai fear that it will be difficult for them to find help as many household workers have left for their hometowns. “There is a shortage of people because a lot of them have left for their hometowns. Also, as transportation is shut currently, we will need to find people from vicinity which will be difficult,” said Sanjay Dube, chairperson of the managing committee of Ashok Gardens society at Sewri.Dube added that as of now maids haven’t resumed their services, but the committee will be forming an advisory on the basis of government protocol which will include sanitisation, separate entrance and elevators for maids as well as social distancing norms. “As of now, we might have drivers and car cleaners resuming in a day or two without being allowed to go up to the flats,” said Dube.Bhavin Mavani, secretary of Raheja Vistas Co-operative Housing Society at Chandivli, said as of yet they haven’t received requests from residents to allow maids in society premises. Before the lockdown, maids and other helps from the society were trained to maintain basic hygiene before the pandemic broke out.Currently, the society has decided to allow only full-time helps, whereas the entry of drivers and cleaners has been restricted to parking area.“Even for those who want to get full-time help to stay with them, we have asked for a fitness certificate and are checking that they do not come from containment zones. Even after they enter the society, they have to be quarantined for 14 days,” said Mavani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/societies-start-framing-rules-for-house-help-to-resume-work/story-oGaLFjUWnJHO4mPTst0F5N.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||2.5 lakh saplings to be planted in Chandigarh this year||The UT administration celebrated World Environment Day and launched the Greening Chandigarh Action Plan 2020-21 on Friday. The UT forest department, on the occasion, announced its plan to plant 2.55 lakh saplings this year. The plan launched by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore is an annual feature. The saplings will be planted by various departments. The UT forest department will plant 70,000 saplings and the horticulture wing of the engineering department will plant 30,000 saplings. The municipal corporation will plant 50,000 saplings, while the rest will be planted by other stakeholders such as non-government organisations(NGOs), schools, and resident welfare associations (RWAs).Debendra Dalai, UT chief conservator of forests, said that the city had preserved about 46% of the total area under the forest and green cover. “Due to Covid-19 and prevailing lockdown conditions, we have witnessed how nature has started healing, it has made us realise how we can contribute to maintaining a balance in nature,” he said.A ceremonial plantation activity was also conducted by the forest department at Nagar Van.As many as 970 school students participated in online activities such as inter-school mobile video making, poster-making, and poetry contests. An online green quiz was also organised by the UT environment department in which 1,100 students participated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-5-lakh-saplings-to-be-planted-in-chandigarh-this-year/story-gtIJgmUXtPZ24ZBabUfpBK.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||Now, tenants demand house owners to reduce rent||In the backdrop of the Covid-19 crisis which had resulted in job losses and pay cuts, many tenants are now demanding house owners to revise their leave and license agreements in favour of lower rentals.This year, forget the annual increase in rentals, the existing tenants and house owners are back on the negotiation table discussing the lowering of rents.According to Ashutosh Verma, who is a senior executive in a multinational firm, a 30% pay cut in his May salary has disrupted his monthly budget. “It is a very insecure job market and I am forced to cut down on expenses. I will shift to another place if the rent in which I am currently staying is not reduced,” said Verma. Verma who has rented an apartment in a high-end gated community complex in Parel is paying Rs 1.25 lakh as rent and has asked for its reduction. Owners too have acknowledged the issue and have started the process.Flat owner Chandramohan Sharma, who has given his 3-BHK apartment on rent at Juhu says that he is ready to reduce his rent by Rs 20,000. “I had given my apartment [on rent] for Rs 90,000 per month and now I am willing to reduce it to Rs 70,000. However, the tenant is insisting that he will not pay more than Rs 50,000 monthly,” said Sharma.Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, companies and businessmen have suffered great losses. Many companies have reduced the salaries of their employees and have also started terminating the jobs.Vishal Kadrekar, proprietor, Fair Value Property, a well-known brokerage firm, said that more than a dozen tenants have approached him demanding that their current agreements be revised. “Tenants are complaining that they will not be able to afford the existing rents in the current situation and hence we have opened talks with the owners,” said Kardekar. Kardekar said that this will continue throughout the year. “Owners will have to settle for lower rents as the economic situation is bad and tenants will be very cautious on renting apartments with higher rents,” he added. According to Liases Foras, a real estate research firm, there are at least 5.50 lakh houses in Mumbai that are put on rent. “The condition of the rental market will only worsen in the coming days especially due to job losses and salary cuts. There will be a reduction in rentals,” said Pankaj Kapoor, CEO, Liases Foras.In Mumbai, rentals for a 1-BHK house will start from Rs 15,000, 2-BHK from Rs 25,000 onwards and 3-BHK Rs 35,000 onwards and go till Rs 1.50 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/now-tenants-demand-house-owners-to-reduce-rental/story-bRWccD9p9A7YE1MD89KOvK.html
06-06-2020||City||Cong leader, husband, 3 sons booked for abetment to suicide in Sangrur||A day after a Sangrur resident, Sanjeev Kumar, 50, died at the Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, after having consumed a poisonous substance, police have booked Congress leader and a member of Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission, Poonam Kangra, her husband, Darshan Kangra, and three sons for abetment to suicide. The sons are Vikasdeep, Rajan and Anmol. Kumar was a ward attendant at Sangrur civil hospital. “Poonam, Darshan and their sons had threatened my husband after his refusal to our daughter marrying Vikasdeep. Vikasdeep eloped with our daughter on the intervening night of June 2-3 and the family started harassing us. He consumed poison on June 4,” alleged Chanda Rani, 47, wife of Kumar.“The accused used to bully us, claiming that they are part of the government and our family could not harm them. My father was facing humiliation and he was forced to commit suicide,” said Bablu, Kumar’s son. Relatives of Kumar also protested with the body at the Mahavir Chowk in the town, seeking the arrest of the accused.All five accused have been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC at the City Police Station-1. DSP (rural) Satpal Sharma said raids were on and the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-leader-husband-3-sons-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-in-sangrur/story-GwOoeXer2GlQrJss9WOWnJ.html
06-06-2020||Mumbai||More vehicles out, cops begin random checks||As vehicular traffic on roads of the city soared on Friday after the state government allowed inter-district movement in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and reopening of shops, the traffic police have started conducting random checks. “As movement in MMR region has been allowed, we have initiate random checking of vehicles from Friday onwards as e-pass is not a requirement now. The shops have been opened up and hence the traffic has increased,” said a senior traffic police official when asked about the situation on the ground.Increase in private vehicular traffic city was witnessed on the western and express highways which connect the island city to the suburbs. Similar scenes were witnessed during the morning peak hours at the Sion-Panvel highway, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Road in central Mumbai, King Circle, Kala Nagar flyover. Slow-moving traffic was also reported on the toll plazas of the city as the number of vehicles approaching Mumbai increased from neighbouring areas such as Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira Road and Vasai.The traffic police are expecting a further surge in traffic as local train services are yet to begin and BEST buses are running at half of their capacity. People are also taking their private vehicles out over public transport as a safety measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-vehicles-out-cops-begin-random-checks/story-f3QYmW3xNWOxfRVX99Od6O.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Centre’s agri marketing reforms attack on federal structure: Captain Amarinder Singh||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday rejected the “so-called” agricultural marketing reforms approved by the Centre two days ago, dubbing them as yet another brazen attempt to erode the federal structure of the country.The CM warned that these changes could pave the way for disbanding the minimum support price (MSP) regime as well as the foodgrain procurement system, triggering unrest among the state’s farmers. “The present system has been working successfully for almost 60 years. We will not allow this. Agriculture is a state subject. This is encroachment of federal structure. We will challenge it,” he told reporters at a press conference held via video-conferencing.Amarinder said the Centre’s habit of taking sudden decisions and forcing them on states, without taking their views into account, was violative of the federal framework. The Union cabinet had on Wednesday given its approval to three ordinances to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potato from the list of essential commodities and also allow the farmers to sell their produce directly or through e-trading to buyers of their choice, instead of remaining confined to mandis.Amarinder, in his first reaction to these changes, strongly opposed the move, stating that if farmers from several other states start coming to mandis in Punjab to sell their produce because of better price, where the local farmers would go? “The fees collected by the mandi board from procurement are used for constructing link roads and other development works. These will be affected,” he said.The CM said that Punjab would fight any steps to weaken the federal structure of the country through such direct and detrimental interference in the well-established agriculture produce marketing system of the state. “The Centre has no powers to make any legislation to deal with the dynamics of agricultural production, marketing and processing,” he later added in a statement, describing the Farming Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, as a “highly ill-conceived” move.KISHOR KEEN TO WORK WITH CONG, NOT IN TALKS WITH SIDHU OR AAPAmarinder said that (political strategist) Prashant Kishor had expressed willingness to work with the Congress for the 2022 state assembly polls in Punjab. “Kishor and I are very close. He is like a family member. I talked to Kishor and he said he will be quite happy to come and help,” he said, denying reports that the political strategist had turned down the Congress request to help shape its poll campaign.The CM said he had discussed the matter with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who left the decision (on Kishor) to him. “Before talking to Kishor, I took the party MLAs into confidence and 55 of the 80 legislators are in favour of bringing him in,” he said. Amarinder further said that Kishor also denied being in any talks with Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu for his entry into the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). “Sidhu is very much a part of the Congress and has been in touch with the party leadership,” he said. Political circles have been abuzz with talk of Kishor approaching Sidhu, who quit the state cabinet last year following differences with the CM, to join the AAP. Both Sidhu and Kishor have kept mum so far. ‘KEEN TO CONTEST 2022 POLLS’ The two-time CM also reiterated his intention to contest the next assembly polls, but said the decision on leading the party rested with the Congress president. He had earlier called the 2017 battle his last election.SIT TO PROBE ILLICIT LIQUOR TRADEThe CM also announced the constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the illicit sale and smuggling of liquor during the lockdown period. The three-member SIT will be headed by water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, he said in response to a query.Agreeing that such large-scale illicit sale of liquor and smuggling from other states could not have been possible without the involvement of some insiders, Amarinder promised action against all those involved. “Liquor was sold illegally during curfew. I have got a report on all illegalities committed by liquor vends and distilleries,” he said, waving a sheaf of papers.On the seed scam, he said there were clear indications that spurious seeds were sold. “The PAU had produced nearly 3,000 quintals of PR 128 and 129 varieties of paddy seed on trial basis, whereas 30,000 quintals had been sold in the open market to farmers by unscrupulous dealers. This clearly indicated that spurious seeds were also mixed to these new varieties to fleece innocent farmers,” he said, adding that the SIT headed by an ADGP-level officer would get to the bottom of the scam.GOVT TO APPEAL AGAINST HC ORDER ON SCHOOL FEEChief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said the state government will appeal against the high court ruling allowing private schools to charge fee from students for the lockdown period. He also ruled out opening of the schools without getting a clean chit from medical experts. “I will not compromise the health of children at any cost,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-s-agri-marketing-reforms-attack-on-federal-structure-captain-amarinder-singh/story-rHZsNfkOsQ6mIX550GiKuK.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||No compromise on MSP: SAD president Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said that his party will never compromise on the issue of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and assured marketing for farmers produce, especially for paddy and wheat. In a coordination meeting with the BJP on Thursday, SAD had conveyed to the saffron party’s Punjab unit that his party will go to any extent to fight for the country’s federal structure and interests of the farmers. Sukhbir had also expressed displeasure over certain decisions taken by the Union cabinet.“SAD will never tolerate any deviation from the principle of assured marketing and MSP,” reiterated Sukhbir in a media address, claiming that he had already ensured that there’s no compromise on federalism, Sikh panth, Punjab’s interests and the farmers as these formed the four pillars on which the edifice of the SAD stood. “We have ensured that this regime will continue in its present form, in addition to opening up new possibilities and creating new platform to increase competition for the farmers’ produce,” he added.The former deputy chief minister also lashed out at what he claimed was the anti-farmer, anti-Punjab and anti-Panth Congress party for creating confusion on the issue of farmers interests. “Amarinder Singh’s only contribution to Punjab, Panth and the farmers has been his betrayal of all three by breaking the sacred promises made to them on oath of the sacred scriptures. The only thing he will be remembered after 2022 is the withdrawal of the free power facility to farmers during his last tenure as the CM,” he claimed. “Our workers and leaders have spent lifetimes fighting against the Congress repression and injustice against Punjabis in general and the Sikhs and peasants in particular. We will continue to follow the policy of zero tolerance of any step that hurts Punjabis, the Sikhs and the farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-compromise-on-msp-sad-president-sukhbir-badal/story-WSnOijpoIuxXyzw4X1WFBM.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University among top 8 finalists for THE’s Technological Innovation of the Year Asia Awards 2020||Chandigarh Chitkara University is the only institute from India to have made it to the top eight finalists for the category - Technological Innovation of the Year for the Times Higher Education (THE) Asia Awards 2020. Announcing the shortlisted Universities in 10 categories, THE’s chief knowledge officer, Phil Baty said, “Once again we were delighted that so many universities, from an impressive number of countries and territories, submitted their best and most inspirational stories to us for this year’s THE Awards Asia. We have now whittled down 250 excellent entries to a final 80. We have already excluded many brilliant entries to reach this stage.”Terming the shortlisting as “the recognition of the flourishing research and innovation ecosystem of the University on a global platform,” university pro chancellor, Dr Madhu Chitkara, said, “We are proud of the Augmented Virtual Reality Lab of the University – a pioneer in the region to make the otherwise unaffordable AVR technology highly cost effective and readily available to the masses.” The director of the state-of-art lab in the region and the project head Dr Archana Mantri, vice chancellor of the University, named the initiative as “AVR Innovations: From Dusk to Dawn”. The lab offers multi potential AVR and game-based solutions in the areas of military training, K-12, engineering education and neurological studies. The lab has launched many commercial solutions and is using them to economise the technology for increased use in education and training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-among-top-8-finalists-for-the-s-technological-innovation-of-the-year-asia-awards-2020/story-8EWQjn39mtBVDJFr6LoPDJ.html
06-06-2020||City||Ambala jail inmate booked for Patiala carjacking||Police have booked an Ambala jail inmate Gurwinder Singh, alias Guri, for planning a June 3 carjacking from a Samana resident, Mandeep Singh, on the Patiala Samana Road on June 3. Gurwinder is in jail in a murder case. SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “We have arrested the main assailant Gurpreet Singh, an Ambala resident, who snatched the vehicle on Gurwinder’s orders. Gurpreet has confessed that Gurwinder arranged the gun for the crime.” Sidhu added that the jail inmate will be brought on production warrant to Patiala. Both the accused have been booked under Sections 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 392 (robbery) of the IPC and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-jail-inmate-booked-for-patiala-carjacking/story-WMoAIACwDCvkecqau6wo8O.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Incommunicado for months, Sidhu ramps up presence in lockdown||After going incommunicado for months, cricketer-turned-politician and Congress MLA from Amritsar (east) Navjot Singh Sidhu became active in public life, amid covid-19 lockdown, by sharing his videos on social media. He also increased the number of meetings with the public at his residence to either help with ration or providing medical equipment for covid-19 frontline warriors. He shoots these interactions and uploads them on his own YouTube channel, Jittega Punjab (Punjab Will Win) that he launched on March 14, or on twitter. “The channel is meant to air and share his views with the people of Punjab in a simple and understandable form,” he had said at the launch. His twitter followers, at 6.8 lakh, outnumber the 37,000-odd subscribers to his YouTube channel. A team of professionals runs his social media presence. In some videos, he is seen targeting the Congress’ present regime in Punjab indirectly, saying the ‘fight against system is still going on’.On the recent row over liquor policy, he has shared his old videos of press conferences and speeches where he expresses dissent against the state government. He, however, has not posted any fresh material expressing dissent, and continues to maintain his distance with the media. On Wednesday late evening, he posted a fresh video in the form of a documentary film to depict his political career.His wife, Navjot Kaur Sidhu, though, has been more vocal. On the recent hike in MBBS fee in the state, she had tweeted on Thursday, “Shame on the government who forces doctors to protest by sitting on roads. Doctors should refuse to treat such leaders who have no respect for them. Bound to happen when decision makers are not so educated. Only toppers from all professions should be eligible for fighting elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/incommunicado-for-months-sidhu-ramps-up-presence-in-lockdown/story-WsGJ527zs5RGThTvkq5eSI.html
06-06-2020||City||Ludhiana woman may have set her husband on fire before immolating herself: Police||Three days after a senior couple allegedly set themselves on fire at their house in Haibowal on June 2, police suspect it was not a suicide pact and the woman first immolated her husband and then herself.While the woman, Chanchal Jain, 60, had died, her husband, Sunil Jain, 65, had suffered 80% burns and continues to struggle for his life at a hospital.Police said preliminary investigation revealed that Chanchal was depressed as her husband was paralysed and bed-ridden, and she also used to frequently quarrel with her two daughters-in-law.Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Haibowal police station said while the couple’s two sons and their wives were living on the ground floor, they lived on the first floor of the house.The SHO said following the questioning of all family members, they had found that Chanchal was depressed due to her husband’s failing health.Besides, spats between her and her daughters-in-law were a routine affair. They quarrelled even on Tuesday morning, hours before the self-immolation, and the police were even called in.But, the cops had left after issuing them a warning and on taking an assurance from the trio that they’ll live cordially.The SHO said prima facie it appeared Chanchal first set her bed-ridden husband on fire and then immolated herself. Police are waiting to a take statement from Sunil, who remains critical.“We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statements of the family members,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-may-have-set-her-husband-on-fire-before-immolating-herself-police/story-psipwCSRPvc1ttTpfx0FkI.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt tells five Covid hospitals to augment bed strength in three weeks||The Delhi government on Thursday finalised a plan according to which five government hospitals, dedicated to Covid-19 treatment in the city, will increase their cumulative bed capacity by 9,000 to 13,870, including 750 beds with ventilator support, in three phases over the next three weeks, officials said.Currently, these five hospitals together have around 4,500 beds and 300 ventilators to treat those infected with the SARS-CoV 2 virus.The augmentation plan – drafted after the city touched 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day on May 28 – requires the five hospitals to have 4,470 beds in the first phase (by June 11, which has already been met), 4,650 more in the second (by June 18) and another 4,750 in the third phase (by June 25), according to government documents that HT has seen.The five government hospitals are Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (2,170 beds), GTB Hospital (4,500 beds), Lok Nayak Hospital (6,000 beds), Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital (600 beds) and Satyavati Raja Harish Chandra Hospital (600 beds).Senior government officials said the five hospitals (with added space capacity) collectively will have to have 110 beds with ventilator support in the first phase, 270 ventilator-supported beds in the second and 370 such beds in the third.Of the 13,120 remaining beds (excluding those with ventilator support) under the augmentation plan, 9,880 beds must have oxygen facility of different capacities and 3,240 beds must be kept available for recovering patients whose health may need to be observed for a few days, the documents said.Between May 28 and June 4, Delhi recorded an average of 1,219 cases a day, the government records showed. The government is expecting a further spike in these numbers as Delhi’s economic activities and public spaces have opened up in a phased manner.On Friday, Delhi recorded 1,330 Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 26,334. The death toll went up to 708. Of the 15,311 active Covid-19 cases as on Friday, 10,255 are in home isolation.PRIVATE HOSPITALS AND OTHERSIn another order issued earlier this week, the government directed all private hospitals with more than 50 beds to dedicate 20% of the total beds to Covid-19 patients. With this, the government hopes to add another 2,643 beds for Covid treatment at 42 private hospitals, another set of government documents showed.The order is applicable to 117 hospitals and nursing homes in the city built on land procured from the government at subsidised rates. But apart from the 42, the rest are yet to give estimates to the government, a senior official said.On Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said hospitals that fail to earmark 20% of their beds for Covid-19 treatment will have to offer up the entire hospital to combat the pandemic. The government has also allowed such hospitals to increase their total bed capacity by 25%.Currently, the city has 10 Covid-dedicated hospitals, which collectively provides around 4,000 beds and 130 ventilators. The hospitals are Max Super Speciality Hospital, Apollo Hospitsal, Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Mahadurga Charitable Trust Hospital, Batra Hospital, Fortis Shalimar Bagh, Venkateshwara Hospital, Moolchand Hospital and Saroj Super Speciality Hospital.Apart from these, the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Chhatrasal Stadium, Siri Fort Sports Complex, Saket Sports complex, more than 20 hotels and banquet halls have been identified by the revenue department as facilities that can be converted into Covid-19 hospitals or quarantine facilities, should the need arises, the senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-plans-to-ramp-up-city-s-covid-beds-over-three-weeks/story-QEF2XuOqFsKvkNFv4f88KO.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Total active cases in Delhi breach 15,000 mark, govt comes out with patient care guidelines||Delhi on Friday recorded 1,330 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the number of active cases or those still with the infection past the 15,000 mark. The total active cases on Friday were 15,311.As of Friday, a total of 26,334 people had contracted the infection, a health bulletin by Delhi government said.Of the 15,331 patients, at least 3,899 — or around 25% of those infected — with severe symptoms, like elevated respiratory rate and low oxygen saturation, have been admitted to Covid-19 hospitals. At least 1.5% of those infected needed to be admitted to the intensive care unit, data showed.There are 10,255 Covid-19 positive people who are under home quarantine in the city. This is almost 67% of all those currently living with the infection.On Friday, another 58 fatalities due to the virus were added to the cumulative total, taking the city’s death toll to 708. According to the bulletin, 25 of these deaths happened on June 3.Delhi fatality rate on Friday stood at almost 2.7%.To keep pace with the increasing number of cases in the city, the Delhi government is working on augmenting healthcare facilities in the city. The government said it is also trying to ensure quality of care through a set of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the admission of Covid-19 patients.The SOPs state that a patient has to be brought into the hospital’s triage area within 15 minutes of reaching the health hub. The new rules say that a patient has to be provided a bed or sitting space in the area within 60 minutes, he/she must be given something to eat and a course of action for further admission or transfer has to be taken within 3 hours.In case the patient needs a higher level of care, the hospital has to ensure his/her transfer and if they have to be sent to a Covid Care Centre then the hospital has to facilitate the transfer in communication with the nodal officer of such centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/total-active-cases-in-delhi-breach-15-000-mark-govt-comes-out-with-patient-care-guidelines/story-Gqny2OdbiB1iZQmrOWguxL.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s infrastructure projects hit hard by labour migration||Slated for completion in March this year, the flyover projects in Shastri Park and Seelampur would have put an end to the traffic woes of lakhs of people living in the trans-Yamuna area.But the wait for “seamless connectivity” between northeast and east Delhi—the two projects, worth ₹303 crore in total, are part of the Delhi government’s plan to decongest east Delhi—has now become longer.While traffic is back on GT Road, on which the two projects are planned, work on the sites is moving at a snail’s pace. According to the Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD) officials, the number of workers at both the sites has dropped from 300 to just 100-120 since the lockdown was announced in March to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Residents of northeast Delhi, who were eagerly awaiting the inauguration of these flyovers, are disappointed. Aftab Ahmad, a resident of Jafrabad, said, “The stretch is riddled with bottlenecks and traffic jams are routine. The projects have constantly been getting delayed for one reason or another—be it riots or lockdown,” Ahmad said.All major infrastructure projects in Delhi are in the same boat. Reverse migration and the uncertainty over the migrants’ return has adversely impacted the timeline of infrastructure projects, such as India Trade Promotion Organisation’s (ITPO) Pragati Maidan redevelopment project, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s Phase-4 project, the Barapullah Phase-3 project, etc.Despite the Delhi government allowing construction work to resume in May, the agencies involved are struggling to get labour. With just 10-15% work remaining at the two flyovers, PWD officials said they were trying to arrange additional labourers and hoped to complete the work by July this year, the new deadline for the projects. “This project is a priority for the Delhi government. The pace is slow because of the shortage of labour,” a PWD official said, requesting anonymity.According to officials of the Delhi government, the exact number of migrants who have left the city is unknown as many walked and cycled back to their home states during the initial days of the lockdown. A total of 450,000 migrants had applied on the government’s portal to be sent back home. The Delhi government sent 310,000 of them back home to 16 states in 237 special trains. Of the remaining workers, some decided to stay back when lockdown norms were eased, and the government is making efforts to send the others back home via buses.According to various government agencies, most construction workers in Delhi belong to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Jharkhand. Government agencies involved in five major infrastructure projects in Delhi said that the strength of this workforce has dropped by 50-75%, resulting in delays.At the Pragati Maidan redevelopment site, the number of workers has dropped from 3,800 to 350-400 since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, LC Goyal, chairman and managing director, ITPO, said. “We are making all efforts to re-mobilise labour so that construction work can start while ensuring social distancing and other norms at the site. We are revising the timelines,” he said. The ₹2,700 crore project was slated for completion in March 2021.A major part of the ITPO redevelopment project is the ₹777 crore traffic regulation project, which is being carried out by the Delhi PWD. The construction of a 1.2-km-long tunnel between Purana Qila Road (near Pragati Maidan Mathura Road) and the Ring Road (near Pragati Power Station), and the construction of six underground U-turns on Mathura Road and Bhairon Marg are part of the project.Once the project is complete, motorists travelling from Noida, Ghaziabad and south and east Delhi will have signal-free access to India Gate and Mathura Road, and vice versa.The tunnel, PWD officials said, was to be completed by June this year. “Earlier, there were nearly 600 labourers engaged in construction work, but now there are only 320. It is certain that the June deadline will be extended by a few months as around 30% of the work is still pending,” one of the officials said, requesting anonymity.But this is not the first time that construction work has stalled for a considerable duration in the city. Work was affected in November last year when construction activity was banned because of a rise in the pollution levels.“We could work during the day in December, but the government lifted the ban on construction activity at night only in February this year. This adversely impacted the pace of construction work. There was a similar situation in 2018-19 when work had to be stopped during the peak pollution season,” Goyal said.The biggest challenge that construction firms and contractors are facing is getting labour back. Shapoorji Pallonji E&C, which is involved in several construction projects in the National Capital Region (including ITPO’s Pragati Maidan), said that before the lockdown on March 25, they employed 10,000 construction workers across the Delhi-NCR.“Depending on the volume of work, the number of workers at each project site ranged from 150 to nearly 4,000. Currently, we are left with only 15% to 20% of the original workforce strength,” a spokesperson of Shapoorji Pallonji E&C said.At all major infrastructure project sites, construction firms are making arrangements for labourers’ boarding and lodging. “Although organised players like us were taking care of these workers by providing them with wages, rations and medical facilities both before and during the lockdown, there was growing anxiety among the workers with news of the lockdown getting extended,” the spokesperson added.A labour contractor said, “People were getting restless and wanted to go back. A total of 150 people were working under me before the lockdown at the ITPO site, but just 10-15 of them stayed back. Once the special trains started operating, all the migrant labourers wanted to leave. It is difficult to arrange for labourers now.”The DMRC, which had started construction work on its Phase-4 in December last year after a delay of nearly three years, confirmed that the pace of work had slowed due to the reverse migration of the labour force.According to officials of DMRC, work had started at the Haiderpur Badli Mor Metro station (part of Janakpuri West-RK Ashram corridor). They had made arrangements there for the workers to stay. “Before the lockdown, DMRC employed about 3,500 workers. Presently, the number varies between 1,000 and 1,500. However, we are continuing work with the remaining workforce but the pace of work is suffering. The deadlines will have to be modified accordingly,” Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said.Government agencies have now asked contractors to make arrangements to mobilise labour. But a sub-contractor working with a government firm, requesting anonymity, said, “It is difficult to get labour. We are trying to source it from nearby areas. But due to the border restrictions, it is difficult to meet the demand.”PWD officials said that the contractors have started arranging some labour from nearby areas, but they are mostly unskilled people. At PWD’s Barapullah Phase-3 project, which connects Ring Road with the UP Link Road near Mayur Vihar Phase -1, a PWD official said, “Earlier nearly 500-600 labourers used to work at the site, depending upon the requirement. But currently, only 300 labourers are available. This has severely reduced the pace of the work,” the official said.With a large percentage of the migrant workforce gone from the Capital, it is difficult to say when it will return, Sachidanand Sinha, a professor at the Centre for the Study of Regional Development at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said. “They will return for sure as there is not much work available in their home states. Moreover, this is a lean period in agricultural activity. People will need money and will return to cities to earn their livelihood, but it is difficult to say how long it will take. If states like UP, Bihar and Rajasthan (from where most migrants are) provide them with more employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), then it could delay their return to cities,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/city-s-infrastructure-projects-hit-hard-by-labour-migration/story-Ekqdecpd2d0bnbe7eLdriI.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi family moves high court for hospital bed, man dies before hearing||The family of 80-year-old Motiram Goyal, who tested positive for Covid-19, had moved the Delhi High Court on Wednesday, seeking directions to the Delhi government to arrange a bed with a ventilator for him in a state-run hospital. However, by the time the matter came up for hearing on Friday, Goyal had died.The Delhi government’s counsel told the court that the day they received the plea, they had arranged a bed for Goyal. But when they called to inform him, they got to know that he had already died. Additional standing counsel Anjum Javed for the Delhi government told the court that the petition was filed on Wednesday. They received it on Thursday and when he called the counsel for the petitioner on Thursday to inform him that a bed had been arranged, he was told that the patient had expired on Wednesday. According to advocate RPS Bhatti, who represented the Goyals, the court said that matters with medical emergencies should be dealt with on the same day. However, the order is yet to be uploaded on the website of the Delhi High Court. According to Anil Goyal, the son of the deceased man, they admitted his father to Jain Hospital at Vikas Marg on May 25. Motiram Goyal was suffering from high blood pressure, nervousness and was also failing to recognise his family.However, after a week, his father tested positive for Covid-19, allegedly due to the negligence of the hospital, a charge denied by the hospital.“I admitted my father to the hospital on May 25 and a week later he was found positive, even though there were no symptoms. The hospital authorities kept my father beside a Covid-19 patient because of which my father was infected. Following this, they asked us to shift him to some other hospital,” Goyal alleged.Sangeeta Jain, the director of Jain Hospital, refuted all charges of negligence and said that they were not a designated Covid-19 hospital. She added that Goyal had come in with several co-morbidities and in a confused state, following which he was admitted to their hospital.“The patient had come in with several co-morbidities. He was being treated well. But when we conducted a Covid test, we found he was positive. Since we are not a designated Covid-19 hospital, we asked him to shift to another. Hence, their allegation that they have contracted the virus from the hospital is baseless. In fact, we took the best care of the patient when the family was struggling to get a bed,” Jain said.Goyal’s family alleged that the newly launched Delhi Corona app, which ostensibly displays the number of beds available for Covid-19 patients in government hospitals, was of not much use, as the hospitals denied them admission citing non-availability of beds.Anil Goyal, who works in a cycle repair shop, shared screenshots of the app with HT, which showed beds were available in certain hospitals. However, when the family called, these hospitals refused admission stating that they did not have beds available.“From May 31, since my father tested positive, my son and I called several government hospitals and even went to them seeking admission for him. However, all the hospitals denied having beds, even though the app showed beds available.“We also called several government helplines of both the Centre and the Delhi government and registered complaints on the non-availability of beds. However, no one gave us a solution as we struggled, even though various private hospitals could have admitted my father under the EWS category,” he said.Anguished, they moved the Delhi High Court on Wednesday, while, he alleged, his father languished in Jain Hospital with no one to take care of him and no permission to meet his family. Anil Goyal said that they also wrote about their problem on social media and emailed to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, but did not get a response.“My son sent an email to the CM and also posted a message on Twitter tagging him, but we did not get any response. When my father died on Wednesday, we could not even see him one last time as the hospital authorities had packed his body and even covered his face. When we went to the cremation ground and tried to open the body bag, the people at the crematorium said that they would not conduct his last rites if we did so,” Goyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-family-moves-high-court-for-hospital-bed-man-dies-before-hearing/story-EaHO2ANsym9u0vRTTaxNiJ.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Air pollution dipped by 79% during lockdown in Delhi, on rise again||Pollution levels in Delhi-NCR -- which had come down by around 79% during the initial phase of the lockdown, mainly owing to no industrial activity, reduced on-road traffic and a pause on construction activities -- is on an upswing again as the city gradually opens up, a study by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has found. Of the six mega cities where PM 2.5 levels were studied during this period, Delhi saw the steepest rise of four to eight times, as compared to two to six times in other cities, the analysis shows.CSE studied the PM 2.5 levels of six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru — during both the initial and last phases of the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. According to the findings, while the PM 2.5 levels in other cities dropped by 45-88% in the initial lockdown phase and witnessed a pollution spike of 2-6 times on opening up, Delhi saw both the steepest drop and sharpest spike .“In Delhi-NCR, one of the major factors that led to the drop in pollution was a 97% reduction in overall traffic and 91% reduction in trucks and commercial vehicles entering the capital during April, as compared to the pre-lockdown months of December-January,” the study found.It said, as compared to 84,399 heavy vehicles entering Delhi in January this year, only 7,942 plied in the city during April, when the lockdown was in full effect.PM 2.5 (ultrafine particles that can enter the lungs and blood stream) is the most prominent pollutant in Delhi-NCR as well as in other major cities across the country. Between March 25 and May 18, when the nationwide lockdown was implemented without any major relaxations, the pollution levels in the national capital reduced drastically and remained in the “satisfactory” category for most of the time. After May 18, however, as lockdown rules were eased, the pollution graph started climbing again. From May 18 to June 5, the air quality index of Delhi has remained in the ‘moderate’ category. On Friday, the AQI levels was recorded as 111 in the moderate category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The pollution levels were also kept in check because of the increased Western Disturbances that crossed Delhi during and after the lockdown period. Though not all Western Disturbances brought rain, the increased wind speeds helped blow away pollutants. Sunita Narain, director general, CSE, said the analysis clearly shows that the nation needed an intervention at such a massive scale — where movement across the country was completely restricted, and all industrial activities stopped functioning — to clean our air and lungs. “It tells us clearly what the key sources of air pollution are — emissions from vehicles and industry,” she said.The study states that Delhi has an approximately 12.1 million registered vehicles, of which 4.6 million are private vehicles. Of these, only a fraction plied during the lockdown period. Also, visits to workplaces reduced by 60%, while retail and recreation activities reduced by 84%. Besides, activities in residential areas increased by 29%. Cycling and walking increased from 14% to 43%.“The challenge lies in the fact that on opening up, we are likely to go back to the old habits. Today we are re-opening without any plan to keep the air clean. We need to set an agenda including prompt implementation of BS-VI for cleaner fuel, augmentation of public transport, create infrastructure and promote incentivised cycling and walking and introduction of cleaner battery-powered para-transit modes,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy and head of air pollution and clean transportation programme at CSE. Brijmohan Das, atmospheric sciences researcher at IIT-Delhi, said that restrictions on human activities such as vehicular movement and industrial activities contribute a major chunk in the city’s pollution levels . “This should be an eye opener for us. Without human presence, the environment heals itself and pollution levels reduce to satisfactory. Apart from the effects of lockdown, the high wind speed and rain in May and June has also helped the air quality,” Das said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-pollution-dipped-by-79-during-lockdown-in-delhi-on-rise-again/story-IiYzv36wFsqgnxQ7EdRWsJ.html
06-06-2020||Delhi||Call on reopening malls, hotels, borders on Saturday, says Delhi govt||The Delhi government will on Saturday take a call on whether malls, places of worship, hotels and the borders should be opened or stay shut, and also decide if hospital beds should be limited for Delhi residents. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called a high-level meeting on Saturday to discuss the remaining parameters of unlocking Delhi under the Centre’s phase-1 guidelines and preparedness for handling Covid-19 patients. Till Friday evening, the government had received more than 7.5 lakh responses from people regarding the opening of Delhi’s borders, which were shut for a week on Monday, and limiting city hospitals to residents of the Capital. “Earlier it was decided that the decision on the first phase of unlocking the city -- opening of malls, dine-in restaurants, places of worship and hotels -- would be taken on June 7 (Sunday). But now both decisions, including border sealing and hospital beds, will be taken on Saturday,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. On Friday, Delhi recorded 1,330 new Covid cases, taking the total to 26,334. Also, as many as 25 new deaths were recorded, taking the toll to 708. Out of the 15,311 active Covid cases as on Friday, 10,255 had mild or no symptoms. “The move to seek suggestions from the public by the Delhi government received an overwhelming response. Till 5 pm today, the Delhi government received around 7,00,000 WhatsApp messages, 5,000 emails, and 53,000 calls. More than 7.5 lakh people have sent their suggestions on the appeal of the CM,” a statement from Kejriwal’s office read. A government spokesperson said the present situation in Delhi will be reviewed keeping in mind public suggestions. “Experts and doctors will also be consulted on Saturday, other than top officials of the government,” the spokesperson said.On Monday, Kejriwal in a digital press briefing, had allowed barber shops and salons to operate. Kejriwal had also allowed markets to open on all days of the week . The order, however, remained silent on the opening of malls, dine-in restaurants, places of worship and so on. A senior health official said hotels may not be allowed to operate since they are being requisitioned to be developed as Covid care facilities. Kejriwal had also announced the sealing of the borders for a week starting Monday, with essential services remaining functional and government officers continuing to travel on their identity cards.On Thursday, Kejriwal, in an interview to TV news channel News18 India, said he was in favour of opening all borders but expressed concern over Covid beds getting filled within two days if patients from across the country keep coming for treatment in Delhi. “About 60-70% of patients in Delhi’s hospitals at any given point of time are from other states. We have so far got about 5-6 lakh suggestions and some of them are really interesting. Some people suggested Delhi government’s hospitals should be reserved for residents of Delhi while Central government hospitals should be opened to all. The specialised facilities such as transplantations should also be opened for everyone,” Kejriwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/call-on-reopening-malls-hotels-borders-on-saturday-says-delhi-govt/story-c2H4ZWFs1UW36rdxNcV3pN.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||25% fixed electricity charges for two-and-a-half months to be waived in Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Chandigarh administration will waive 25% fixed electricity charges for two-and-a-half months up to June 15 for all categories given the scenario during the Covid-19 lockdown.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore took the decision on Friday at a daily review meeting.Residents and commercial units have been demanding the waiver after hardships faced during the two-month lockdown period.Fixed charges for commercial users being paid separately over and above the consumption charges range from ₹30 per kW per month to ₹200 per kW per month.Significantly, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had turned down the demand for waiving the fixed charges component of the electricity bill in its tariff order of May.The JERC in its May order had stated: “The electricity department has to incur expenditure towards the capacity charges of power purchase and operation and maintenance, which are fixed in contrast to the energy charges which are payable for purchase of energy per unit. These expenses have to be recovered from the consumers and this is done by having a two-part tariff. Thus, the recovery of these expenses from the tariff is also levied on two-part tariff basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/25-fixed-electricity-charges-for-two-and-a-half-months-to-be-waived-in-ut/story-yZZtCw98d4awJ4LI6IRBAN.html
06-06-2020||Gurugram||153 test Covid-19 positive in Gurugram, tally crosses 1,500||With 153 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases being reported on Friday, the total count of infected persons in Gurugram now stands at 1,563. It includes a contractual worker deployed at the accounts wing of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), who has been tested positive for coronavirus.According to the state health bulletin, the total tally stands at 1,563, of which 1,227 are active patients, who are either hospitalised or under home isolation, while 332 have recovered from the illness. A total of 40 patients were discharged on Friday — the highest single-day discharge. The number of coronavirus fatalities stands at four.Data shows that in the three weeks, from May 18 (when the total count was 211) till June 3(when the total count was 1,195) , cases have multiplied by more than five times. From May 28 onwards, the city has started reporting a sudden spike in the number of cases. Acknowledging the surge in cases, a senior official in the state government said, “Positive cases are rapidly increasing. This is because we are tracing people who have been missed due to poor reporting of data in the past. In this process, we are getting many new positive patients who are asymptomatic in nature. It has led to the surge in numbers,” said the official.On Friday, VS Kundu, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority(GMDA), also the monitoring in-charge for the Covid-19 in Gurugram, issued a statement, saying that criminal action will be initiated against any hospital that refuses treatment to a Covid-19 positive pregnant woman. Health official said that they are often getting cases where private hospitals are refusing to treat Covid-19 positive pregnant woman.On the other hand, MCG has closed its main office in Sector 34 till Monday after a positive case was reported. Officials said that all employees on the second floor, where the accounts branch is located, will be tested for the virus. They also said that other officials who suspect they are exhibiting symptoms can also volunteer to get themselves checked as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/153-test-covid-19-positive-in-city-tally-crosses-1-500/story-zn9FcdV4XCiOru37mbNUML.html
06-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana ropes in senior officials of different government agencies to tackle Covid-19 spread in Gurugram||With around 43% of total Covid-19 cases in Haryana reported from Gurugram, the highest for any district, the state administration has brought all hands on deck to control the fast-spreading transmission of the deadly virus in the city. Breaching the mark of 1,500 cases on Friday, Gurugram’s current test positivity rate is almost at 47%. In a bid to tackle the situation, the administration has decided to divide all crucial tasks related to Covid-19 — collecting lab reports, contact tracing, timely hospitalisation/home isolation — among at least 14 officials of different government departments instead of giving all responsibilities to only the health department. Out of the total 3,597 cases in Haryana, 1,563 cases are from Gurgram.Officials from Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran, Gurugram district administration, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), and Haryana Roadways have been roped in to streamline data collection and take up other efforts. From the declaration of positive patients by a lab to their contact tracing, all such duties will be shared by different government agencies. It will help us in managing the data and strengthening the infrastructure,” said Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner.Under the plan, the MCG will liaison with all private labs for timely updates of test reports. “The test reports will be segregated from our end zone-wise,” said Dr Ashish Singla, medical officer, MCG. The administration has divided the district into seven zones to handle cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in different containment zones.The list of positive patients will then be shared with urban Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Community Health Centres (CHCs), who will work in coordination with the HSVP for contact tracing.A 25-member control room has been set up by the HSVP for contact tracing. Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP and Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate Officer, HSVP are the designated in-charges, will rope in their employees for the task. The list prepared by the HSVP will be shared with additional deputy commissioner Prashant Panwar’s team which will then monitor the health of contacts through telephonic calls.“We have identified 40 people who will contact people with links to a positive patient,” said Panwar. “Some of them will operate from Vikas Sadan and a few from remote locations. They will inquire about the health condition of the contacts. More than 1,000 calls will be made in a day. In case, if a team member finds a persons has some health issues, we will be immediately coordinate with the ambulance and hospitalisation team,” he said.Sonal Goel, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL), has been designated as the supervisor for tertiary care of Covid-19 patients in private and government hospitals. Her team has prepared a reporting format using which precise data on the number of beds available for symptomatic patient in private hospitals will be collected.“There been a lack of transparency in the past, therefore, we will be circulating a format to 23 private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients and those who have designated beds for patients, and data will be collected from them daily,” said Goel. “Once the data is final, it will be available in the public domain for Covid-19 patients to choose hospitals as per their criteria and availability of beds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-ropes-in-senior-officials-of-different-government-agencies-to-tackle-covid-19-spread-in-gurugram/story-ydnDOYSj52R9IE1qfje8kL.html
06-06-2020||Gurugram||MCG to conduct its first meeting in nearly four months||After nearly four months, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be conducting its House meeting via videoconference on Monday.As per mayor Madhu Azad, all councillors were asked to share two agendas that can be put forward for the meeting for discussion earlier this week. She said that most councillors wanted two agendas to be discussed in the upcoming meeting.“I have received the agenda list from 23 of the 35 councillors. The remaining councillors are expected share their agenda by Saturday. While recognising the problem related to Covid-19, we feel it is now time to start shifting our focus towards restarting development projects as well,” said Azad.Azad said that two agendas — first, to increase the standard for selecting contractors for sanitation works, and second, appointing three officials to coordinate with councillors of each ward with development work, horticulture, and sanitation — are likely to be put forward for discussion on Monday.“We have been receiving a lot of complaints from residents about unsatisfactory work being carried out by contractors across all the four zones of MCG. We want to increase the parameters and qualifications before finalising contractors for sanitation works next time onward to ensure that high standards are maintained,” said Azad.The tenure of MCG contractors for sanitation was due to end in April. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Haryana government across the state decided to extend tenures of all sanitation contractors by another year.The last House meeting took place at John Hall in Civil Lines on February 3. MCG had considered hosting the June 8 meeting at the same venue with social distancing norms in place. However, Azad said that since a minimum of 60 councillors and officials would be present at the meeting it was decided to hold Monday’s meeting via videoconference.Azad further said that all councillors have been asked to present Covid-related issues from their respective ward for discussion after the conclusion of the House meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-conduct-its-first-meeting-in-nearly-four-months/story-aRvR9rpDOV7gbyraRCq7OL.html
06-06-2020||Noida||Lockdown haul: Noida police collect ₹5.92 lakh in fines, penalise 57,961 vehicles||The Gautam Budh Nagar police has penalised 57,961 vehicles under the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act and collected over ₹5.92 lakh in fines from them for various violations of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Police commissioner Alok Singh said over 7,000 people in the district were arrested for breach of peace. “Since the lockdown was announced on March 25, we have seized 1,845 vehicles that were plying in the district without passes or valid reasons. As many as 1,994 cases against 8,416 people were registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant,” he said.Singh further said during different phases of the lockdown -- the country is currently in the fifth phase -- the police have checked 1,92,864 vehicles. “Of them, fines against 57,961 vehicles were issued, while 1,845 others were seized. Till Thursday evening, the police have collected ₹5,92,500 in fines imposed on these vehicles,” he said.The police chief also said so far, they have filed five cases of misuse of social media and booked five persons in connection with spreading fake news. “Keeping a close watch on the black marketeers, we have lodged as many as seven cases under the Essential Commodities Act against nine shopkeepers resorting to black marketing during the lockdown. Five of them have already been arrested,” he said. Talking about the Noida-based security and fire safety solutions company, Ceasefire, which became a super spreader of Covid-19 till the third week of April, Singh said till then, of the total 162 employees of that company, 57 ha contracted the virus. “By the time, the police started containing the spread, the employees had spread the virus to persons in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, besides districts in Uttar Pradesh such as Meerut, Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad. But, we successfully traced all direct and indirect contacts of these employees,” he said.Singh said his force has started creating a database of everyone who lives or works in the district to trace Covid-19 cases systematically. “We are maintaining the chain of sources as even a minor break in this chain could worsen the situation,” he said.Giving details about Tablighi Jamaat members, whose congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March was identified as another super spreader, the police chief said altogether eight cases had been lodged against 74 persons, under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act. “Of the 74 members and their contacts, only three tested positive for Covid-19,” he said.The police chief said aerial checking is also being done with drones in containment zones. “We have issued fines in 158 cases of violations of lockdown norms, based on reports given by these drones. The drones have also found 1,119 persons not wearing masks and they, too, have been fined,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-haul-noida-police-collect-5-92-lakh-in-fines-penalise-57-961-vehicles/story-CALALO0NH90LmbCyX9Ie6I.html
06-06-2020||Noida||As businesses suffer, shop owners want odd-even system to be scrapped||As businesses in Noida fail to attract enough footfall despite markets being open, owners now want work to resume for all six days of the week, instead of alternate days as per the present odd-even system. The previous phase of the lockdown had allowed markets to open while maintaining norms of social distancing and necessary precautions. In order to avoid overcrowding, business owners and officials alike came up with the odd-even system while keeping aside Sunday as a fixed off day for sanitisation purposes. Earlier this week, business owners, however, changed the off day to a weekday as they did not want to loose out on the Sunday rush of buyers.“We saw some significant footfall when the markets first opened as people stepped out to purchase things they wanted during the lockdown, such as appliances or clothes. However, the rush soon ended after the first couple of days. People are no loner stepping into the markets as before, because of which businesses are unable to pick up pace,” said Anita, a stationery shop owner in Savitri market.Business owners feel that the odd-even system is cutting into the revenue and, as such, they want authorities to reconsider the system. “One set of people never gets a chance to open their shops on Sundays. This is unfair. If the odd-even system is supposed to continue for the long run, we need to come up with ways to ensure that everyone gets an equal opportunity to do business. Either Sundays need to be alternated for the business owners or we need to come up with a uniform system for everyone,” said Amit Jain, who owns a wristwatch showroom in Sector 18.Taking note of the predicament of the shop owners, the Sector 18 market association has requested the administration to allow for a six-day working week.“In Lucknow, markets with dividers in between can open shops for six days. In Sector 18, no two showrooms are exactly opposite of each other. There is enough space to maintain social distancing and we can open up for six days without flouting any social distancing norms. This way, owners will not face any losses. Therefore, we have requested the administration to consider the situation,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association.The district administration is yet to issue any specific guidelines for malls, which are supposed to open from June 8.“A decision can be taken only after reviewing the situation and guidelines will be issued accordingly. There are various methods that were being considered for the gradual opening up of businesses and the odd-even system was the most suitable for urban areas,” said district labour commissioner, PK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-businesses-suffer-shop-owners-want-odd-even-system-to-be-scrapped/story-XTAYKo90EPqXhEwY1K9CyH.html
06-06-2020||Pune||Cost of Covid-19 testing to reduce in Pune, says medical education minister||After the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) removed the price cap on Covid-19 testing, the state government is now negotiating with private laboratories who have priced each test at Rs 4,500 which was the initial cap fixed by the state government. Maharashtra medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said that while the prices have come down to half in Mumbai the state government would try to bring down the prices in Pune as well. While addressing the media on Friday, Deshmukh said, “We have been able to negotiate with labs in Mumbai and have convinced them to bring down the price by half to around 2,500 to 2,000 in Mumbai. We would try to do the same for Pune. As the number of people seeking these tests has gone up, we believe it would also be affordable for labs to bring down the price furthermore.”Deshmukh also said that there has been a slight drop in the number of people testing positive in proportion to the tests, which are being conducted as per the ICMR guidelines, however, multiple efforts are being made to further bring down the number of tests and also the mortality rate in the state which is also one of the worst affected states in the country.“The fight against Covid19 is not inside but outside the hospitals. I salute and congratulate all health workers who are at the forefront of this war and sadly we have lost a few health workers in this war and the state government stand by them and their family,” he said.Deshmukh also said that in a post-Covid-19 situation, the state government mulls the idea of starting a rating system for government hospitals wherein the lack of infrastructure in health facilities could be highlighted.“The government is also prioritising filling in all the vacant posts of nurses and doctors in government colleges and hospitals,” he said.According to Deshmukh, Maharashtra only had four viral research and diagnostics laboratories (VRDL’s), but now has about 80 of them which is the highest in the country. These VRDL’s are located across the state’s nooks and corners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cost-of-covid-19-testing-to-reduce-in-pune-says-medical-education-minister/story-5c4W0ZCaU7ddyJmfN36W0J.html
06-06-2020||Pune||Nine deaths, 182 fresh Covid-19 positive cases in Pune on Friday||The city reported nine deaths and 182 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the count of progressive positive cases to 7,447 and the death toll in the city to 369.Of the nine deaths reported on Friday, one includes a man from Mumbai. The city also saw 170 people discharged after being declared as cured of the infection, taking the count of such cases to 4,675. Currently, there are 2,402 active cases in the city, of which 183 are critical patients. The deaths include five from Sassoon general hospital including a 49-year old female from Mithanagar, Kondhwa, who also suffered from diabetes. She was admitted on June 4 and declared dead the same day. Another death includes that of an 80-year old female who resided in the Camp area and was admitted on May 26. She was declared dead on June 4. The patient also suffered from diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart ailments.The third deceased from the hospital was a 63-year old female residing at Ghorpadi, she was also suffering from high blood pressure. The patient was admitted on May 30 and declared dead on Friday. The fourth deceased is a 72-year old female residing at Kondhwa who was also suffering from high blood pressure, heart, and kidney ailments. The patient was admitted on May 28 and declared dead on Friday. The fifth deceased from the hospital is a 64-year old female residing at Koregaon Park and was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure. The patient was admitted on June 2 and declared dead on Friday.The other deceased included a 61-year old male residing at New Nana peth who was also suffering from renal failure with severe Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) and Covid-19 pneumonia. The patient was admitted at Ruby Hall on May 14 and was declared dead on Friday. Another death was of a 78-year old male reported from the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, the patient was admitted at the hospital on June 1 and declared dead on Friday. He was a resident of Laxmi nagar and also suffered from hypertension and Parkinson’s disease.A second death from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital was reported on Friday of a 45-year old male residing at Kondhwa Khurd. The patient was admitted to the hospital on May 29 and declared dead on Friday. The patient also suffered from diabetes and MODS with Covid-19 positive and LRTI. A resident of Santacruz, Mumbai was also reported dead from Noble hospital in Hadapsar. The 74-year old patient was admitted on May 29 and was declared dead on June 4. The patient was reported dead due to Covid-19 positive pneumonia with ARDS, MODS, hypertension, and IHD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-deaths-182-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-in-pune-on-friday/story-hwuFwCdP9flrfzhSU6G0ZP.html
06-06-2020||Pune||14 of 26-member family test negative in Pune after index case contracts Covid-19; docs point to time of contact testing||Fourteen members of a family tested negative for Covid-19 infection after their 60-year-old relative contracted the virus. On contact tracing the family, 12 of the 26-member family tested positive for the virus, including the senior citizen. Doctors caution that the number of negatives was possible because of test timing, which is usually the next day. The highest chances of infection is on the fourth or fifth day.The patient who was admitted at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH) showed initial signs of sore throat and sneezing. The patient got himself tested and result showed positive. Soon, the family was contact traced and only 11 tested positive. Those who tested negative were mostly young and did not report any comorbidity.When the patient’s condition was deteriorating, the family also opted for Ayurvedic treatment after consulting the treating doctor. The Ayurvedic treatment was done under Dr Yogesh Bendale of Rasayu Ayurved clinic. Dr Bendale said, “The real strength of Ayurveda lies in its multi-system biology approach and patient-centric approach. It acts in sync with body’s own defence mechanism and thus can be of a great use in critical cases as well. He believes that body’s immune system plays a critical role in management of Covid-19 infection. Currently, in absence of any potential and effective antivirus therapy, the main focus of treatment is towards providing symptomatic management and supportive therapies, while the body fights with the virus. Thus, when we are so much dependent on body’s own defence mechanism, it becomes pertinent to boost the endogenous mechanism and accelerate recovery.”After undergoing Ayurvedic treatment along with conventional medicine, the 60-year-old, who was admitted on May 12, was discharged on May 24.Dr Parikshit Prayag, Covid-19 specialist at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said, “The time of testing is very crucial as most of the close contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient are tested the very next day, whereas the highest chances of infection is on the fourth or fifth day. It is very less likely that the virus may show symptoms on the very next day. Also, as the pandemic grows within the community, it becomes difficult to keep track of the source of the infection and so cluster handling becomes difficult. The current guidelines do not state for repeat testing of asymptomatic close contacts, but only symptomatic ones.”He said that while the chances of any person being infected remains the same irrespective of age or comorbidity condition. However, the way the virus behaves in body differs. Dr Prasad Rajhans, intensivist at DMH and also a part of the Pune’s task force for Covid-19 said, “There could be multiple reasons why someone who despite coming in contact with a positive person would test negative. It depends on multiple factors like immunity of the individual. asymptomatic carriers, timing of the swab collection and test and also the sensitivity of test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-of-26-member-family-test-negative-in-pune-after-index-case-contracts-covid-19-docs-point-to-time-of-contact-testing/story-nDY2mn3QaqjHjTtVa9RYaO.html
06-06-2020||Pune||PMC issues notice to Poona Hospital for turning away two patients||Pune Municipal Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Friday issued a show cause notice to Poona Hospital and Research Centre for denying the treatment to two patients on June 4.Gaikwad issued the notice to the hospital and asked it to submit a reply within 24 hours or face action under the law. When contacted, the hospital, Naresh Dave, public relation officer of the hospital said, “We are conducting an internal inquiry and will submit a reply to the municipal commissioner in the stipulated time.”In its notice the PMC said that two non-Covid patients aged 60 and 75 came to the hospital on Thursday for treatment, but were asked by the hospital to go to another hospital. The patients then went by auto to Bharati Hospital located at Dhankawadi as Poona Hospital denied them treatment, the notice said.The notice mentioned the names of the patients as Ramesh Vaitagar (60), a resident of Market Yard and Parvati Pawar (75), a resident of Parvati Paytha.Gaikwad said the hospital administration was expected to provide treatment to the patients and should have checked availability of beds in the ICU (intensive care unit). They should have guided the patients as to which hospital had ICU beds and then sent them there by ambulance. The hospital failed to follow this standard procedure and failed in its medical ethics, Gaikwad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-issues-notice-to-poona-hospital-for-turning-away-two-patients/story-bNwAfztu5F5Tjbe12VpwYL.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Termination of physical training instructors: HC asks Haryana to maintain status quo||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Haryana government to maintain the status quo in the case of termination of service of 1900-odd physical training instructors (PTIs) working in Haryana schools. The Supreme Court on April 8 had set aside their selection and asked the state to complete fresh recruitment process within five months. They had approached the high court on June 3, demanding that till the time selection is completed, they should not be removed and further the apex court had asked for a new selection and not their removal and they can compete in the selection process.The government counsel had told the court that petitioners were still working against their respective posts even as the termination orders had been passed on May 27. The high court asked the state to respond to the plea by June 9 and ordered that till the time status quo be maintained.As per state an advertisement for the recruitment of PTIs has been issued on May 15 by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission and the last date to apply for the same is June 10 and as per Supreme Court order entire selection is to be completed within a period of five months from the date when commission starts working after the present lockdown is over.It was in April that the apex court had upheld the decision of the high court and quashed the appointment of 1,983 Physical Training Instructors.A single-judge bench in September 2012, had set aside the selection of these teachers made by the commission in October 2010. They were recruited in pursuance to a 2006 advertisement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/termination-of-physical-training-instructors-hc-asks-haryana-to-maintain-status-quo/story-gaE2fhYCuaa68UKVZgqz3I.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Singer K Deep’s family seeks financial help for his treatment||The family members of eminent Punjabi folk singer K Deep (80) have requested the Punjab government for financial help, saying they are unable to managing escalating costs of his medical treatment. KK Bawa, chairman, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation Limited (PSIDC) and Malkit Singh Dakha, chairman, District Planning Board, visited K Deep at his house on Friday and assured him of help.Bawa and Dakha said they informed Tejveer Singh, principal secretary to the Punjab chief minister of the matter, who asked the deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, to look into it. Government support would be provided to the singer soon, they added. K Deep had slipped and fallen at home in February this year, hitting his head on the floor because of which he had internal haemorrhage in the brain, said his daughter, Gurpreet ‘Billy’ Kaur. Since then, he had undergone two major surgeries, the first one in March at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and later at Deep Hospital.Daily expenditure on the singer’s treatment was around Rs 22,000, and till date, the family had spent close to Rs 16 lakh, Kaur said, adding that she had financial problems as she was taking care of her father all by herself and that she had requested the state government for help. Kuldeep Singh, popularly known as K Deep, is famed for the duets he sang with his wife, singer Jagmohan Kaur. The duo is known for their comedy characters Mai Mohno and Posti. Born on 10 December 1940 in Rangoon (then Burma), the K Deep belongs to Aitiana in Ludhiana district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/singer-k-deep-s-family-seeks-financial-help-for-his-treatment/story-aroFM3FJbwtEry394Tt8AP.html
06-06-2020||Pune||In public without a mask? Now pay Rs 200 fine in PCMC||Coming down heavily on those who fail to comply with Covid-19 (coronavirus) guidelines, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to impose a penalty of Rs 200 for those who don’t wear a mask or face cover in public.The fine for not wearing a mask in PCMC is less as compared to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), where the penalty is Rs 500. “This decision was taken by the standing committee members as most people are not receiving salaries on time due to the Covid-19 crisis and are already under financial strain. Hence, the fine was kept to Rs 200,” said Santosh Londhe, standing committee chairman.“Though the civic body has not been collecting fines so far, however, with the issued order, it is a must to wear masks in public. The PCMC will follow this rule strictly,” added Londhe.States like Punjab, Haryana, Assam has also imposed ban of Rs 500 for not wearing mask in public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/in-public-without-a-mask-now-pay-rs-200-fine-in-pcmc/story-1UNcPgI5zLkWFetni6nf3N.html
06-06-2020||Pune||Cleaning of nullahs 95 per cent complete, claims Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation||Ahead of the monsoon, 95 per cent of nullah-cleaning work is complete in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) as of Friday claim civic officials. There are a total of 152 big and small rainwater nullahs, in Pimpri-Chinchwad.The pre-monsoon nullah cleaning work which generally starts from January, slowed down due to the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic this year. “In a few more days, all the nullahs will be cleaned. This time we have used more machines for the cleaning work. It helped us to complete work despite less manpower,” said Dr Anil Roy, medical officer of health, PCMC.Most of the nullahs were cleaned by JCB’s and poclain machines, he added.“Wherever there were small nullahs, manpower was used as machines cannot be handy in those places, but we have used less manpower this year as compared to the previous year,” said Roy.“Many of the big nullahs were not safe for workers as there were many bushes inside so machines were very helpful. At many places work also got delayed as poclain machines were not available as we have hired it from the construction department,” added Roy.During the PCMC general meeting on Thursday, Shravan Hardikar, municipal commissioner, had informed that the nullahs where more water logging takes place were cleaned earlier this year.Rainwater nullahs in PCMCA zone (Nigdi Pradhikaran): 25B zone (Chinchwad): 13C zone (Pimpri): 33D zone (Rahatni):12E zone (Bhosari): 21F zone (Nigdi) :15G zone: (Thergaon) 9H zone: (Kasarwadi) 24Total: 152||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cleaning-of-nullahs-95-per-cent-complete-claims-pcmc/story-tQf7sBS411zDOSo65HVyWM.html
06-06-2020||Pune||18-year-old from Pimpri-Chinchwad accuses family of four of molestation, physical assault||The Bhosari police have booked three brothers and their father for attacking an 18-year-old girl and molesting her at Phugewadi in Sanjaynagar on Friday morning. The three accused brothers allegedly had a fight with the victim’s brother on Thursday and the fallout of the incident is because of the grudge they had against the 18-year-old girl’s brother. The four accused have been identified as Shailesh Eknath Hake, 30, Rupesh Eknath Hake alias Jeeva, 27, Eknath Hake, 67, and Nilesh Eknath Hake, 36. According to the police, Shailesh and Rupesh had a fight with the victim’s brother after which all the others including their father came to him, armed with rods and sticks. They attacked him mercilessly after which she tried to intervene. The brothers including the father molested her and attacked her with iron rods which left her with head and leg injuries. Police inspector S Awatade said that the four accused have been booked on charges of physical assault and molestation of the 18-year-old victim. The accused are still at large and a team of detection branch personnel has been sent to nab the accused. The police have also sent a team to the nearby district to find the accused who reportedly are hiding in the nearby areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-accuses-family-of-four-of-molestation-physical-assault/story-P1PasE5kfjksWbbnsB2KmN.html
06-06-2020||Pune||BJP state president rejects Bajaj’s criticism of national lockdown||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) state president Chandrakant Patil on Friday rejected the criticism against the national lockdown measures by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and said the criticism had no merit and everyone in a democracy was free to express an opinion.Patil was briefing reporters on the achievements of the Modi government’s completion of its first year in the second term.Patil was asked by reporters whether he sensed disappointment in Indian industry with the Modi government’s measures, as reflected in the recent comments made by Rajiv Bajaj, managing director of Bajaj Auto, on the economic fallout of Covid-19. Bajaj, in his social media interaction with senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, had said that the national lockdown had managed to flatten the GDP curve and not the Covid-19 curve.Reacting to this criticism, Patil said, “The Prime Minister took the lockdown decision at the right time which helped us face the situation much better than other countries. India’s population is equal to that of the most-affected 14 countries. If we compare the number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths in these countries, India has been in a better position. Significantly, the lockdown helped us ramp up our medical facilities.”Acknowledging the adverse impact of Covid-19 on the economy, he said, the central government took various steps to boost economic activities and the PM had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package amounting to 10 per cent of the total GDP.“Everyone in a democracy is free to express an opinion,” he said while dismissing the criticism of the government.The BJP state president also questioned the credibility of the recent IANS C-Voter survey which had placed the popularity of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at the fifth position among chief ministers, far ahead of BJP chief ministers. “We first need to check who conducted the survey. All BJP chief ministers are top rankers and are performing well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-state-president-rejects-bajaj-s-criticism-of-national-lockdown/story-7Zg5RiUq0LwdfkEYtRbsGJ.html
06-06-2020||Pune||Pune Cantonment Board to open on June 8; virus zones stay locked down till month end||The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has decided to open area that falls under its jurisdiction on June 8, 2020, after nearly two-and-a-half months of lockdown. The decision was taken during a specially convened meeting by the board administration where the general body passed a resolution to the effect. The lockdown will be implemented on a staggered basis in the non-containment zones. Seven containment zones will be under lockdown till June 30. These are, Bhimpura, Modikhana, Bacchu Adda, Ghorpadi, New Modikhana, Gawli adda and Shivaji market.According to the proposed staggered system, establishments to the left side of the road will be open on one day, and those on the right will open the next day.The PCB elected board members said that lifting restrictions in the area where there were no Covid-19 patients was essential to kick-start the economy and revive the losses.PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said that the board took the decision in the larger interests of the cantonment residents and also took the losses of the business community into consideration. “The lockdown will be lifted in a staggered way and we are working out an odd-even system to implement the unlocking of the area. However, strictures will remain in place for the containment zones,” he said.Kiran Mantri, PCB elected member said “We had requested the administration to open up the area as financial losses are affecting citizens. However, the necessary precautions like social distancing and restrictions will be maintained until the situation returns to normalcy,” she said.Similarly, elected member Vinod Mathurwala reiterated that lockdown had created a financial emergency in the area and residents were losing livelihoods. “We are putting in place a system where all the precautionary and guidelines of the state government will be followed,” he said.Meanwhile, Kumar has given orders to increase screening of patients in the area so that the rapid spread can be curbed. “We have got nearly Rs 2 crore from the administration to carry out the anti-Covid-19 measures in the cantonment area,” he said.Kumar added that an intensive care unit (ICU) has been set up at the Pune Cantonment hospital with the help of the funds. The Cantonment Board has successfully treated 240 patients so far despite challenges like financial difficulties.So far, three people in the PCB area have died after testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cantonment-to-exit-lockdown-on-june-8-containment-zones-to-stay-locked-down-till-june-30/story-yJH4qakjTY0qoUtFSBZanN.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||100 locally transmitted Covid cases in Amritsar in 17 days||Amritsar has reported 100 community transmission cases of coronavirus in 17 days, where the where the patient had no travel history or been in proximity to an infected person from outside the state.The district has recorded 440 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 327 patients have recovered.Of the 440 cases, 123 cases, including eight deaths, were cases of local transmission. As per records, 27% of the total cases are that of community transmission.Fourteen cases of community transmission surfaced on Friday alone.‘PEOPLE FLOUTING SOCIAL DISTANCING GUIDELINES’Social worker Indu Arora says, “A two month lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of the disease. However, now that relaxations have been announced people are not following precautions.”“People are not wearing face masks and tossing social distancing norms to the wind, leading to greater community spread. The administration should step up surveillance and increase restrictions,” Arora says.Maninder Kaur, a local, said, “Now, almost every locality of the city has a Covid-19 case. Despite the community spread, people are still not serious about social distancing. They can be seen crowding around shops.”CASES DETECTED AT FLU CORNERSCivil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “The patients who had contracted the infection through community transmission were tested at flu corners after they exhibited influenza-like symptoms. Their close contacts also tested positive.”“The health department and the district administration are trying to trace patients’ source of the infection. We are testing around 500 samples daily and since more people are being tested, asymptomatic cases are also being diagnosed,” Kishore said.“The number of cases is also increasing because relaxations have been allowed and people are not following social distancing norms. The situation is under control and we are working on stepping-up surveillance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/86-locally-transmitted-covid-19-cases-reported-in-amritsar-in-16-days/story-AeiYV45WXzuTpVALI9I69L.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||In Covid times, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, gives students option to choose exam dates||Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda, will give students the option to appear in examinations on dates of their choice.Vice-chancellor RK Kohli said on Friday that according to the University Grants Commission guidelines, the CUP will hold semester exams from July 6 with a novel initiative to reduce stress on students.He said the test slots will be allocated where students can enrol themselves on first-come-first-serve basis.Kohli said there will be four exam schedules in a day, including on weekends, for the convenience of students.“The university will only release the examination schedule and students will have the flexibility to choose dates to write their tests. A total 140 students can appear for the exam in one slot while strictly following the medical protocol in view of the coronavirus outbreak,” Kohli said.The vice-chancellor said a dry run of the novel initiative was tested successfully earlier this year. The practice to help students manage exam-related stress will be a regular feature.CUP sources said the exam system will also benefit students in a situation when dates of UGC entrance tests and other exams clash with the university’s academic schedules.Faculty members say as it is students are under stress due to the prolonged lockdown caused by the pandemic, so the university’s initiative is a positive reform.“If a student wishes, the CUP will allow her or him to take more than one or even all four exams on a single day. To handle the possibility of repetition of question papers, the university has developed an automated paper setter,” the V-C said.“An in-house exam system will take care of generating separate question papers of the same subject taken on different days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-covid-times-central-university-of-punjab-bathinda-gives-students-option-to-choose-exam-dates/story-MMyqFPPiIouExJgmWX71pK.html
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||TikTok star-turned-BJP leader Sonali Phogat thrashes official with slipper in Haryana’s Hisar||TikTok star-turned-BJP leader Sonali Phogat landed in a controversy after she thrashed Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh with a slipper during a visit to the Balsamand Mandi in Hisar on Friday.Videos of her slapping and hitting Sultan Singh with a slipper were widely circulated on social media as police personnel at the spot remained mute spectators.Phogat had a heated exchange with the market committee secretary after farmers alleged that Sultan Singh was creating hurdles in the procurement process.In the video, Phogat can be seen hitting Sultan and saying, “How dare you abuse me?”While addressing mediapersons in Hisar, Phogat said she had thrashed the market committee official after he made derogatory remarks against her as she entered the Balsamand Mandi. “ I visited Balsamand mandi along with a few farmers and the Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh to inspect the arrangements for starting gram procurement there. Sultan told me that I am a charming lady and I should not be roaming in the mandis for farmers. I tried to control my anger but his words pinched me so I thrashed him. He sought unconditional apology from me. Now, I have filed a complaint against Sultan Singh,” Phogat said.Hisar deputy commissioner (law and order) Joginder Sharma said they have received complaints from both BJP leader Sonali Phogat and mandi secretary Sultan Singh. “We are verifying the facts. Strict action will be taken. Sonali Phogat has alleged that the official made derogatory remarks against her and tried to assault her,” the DSP said.In his complaint to the police, Sultan Singh said Phogat had visited his Hisar office and asked him to be present at the Balsamand Mandi. “On reaching there, she asked me when procurement for gram will be started. I told her Hafed officials are not ready to initiate procurement due to lack of arrangements at the mandi. A shed will be needed there for procurement to begin. After talking for 15 minutes, she started abusing me for not starting the procurement process. She even accused me of not helping her during the assembly election. When I told her that I belong to Narwana and have no connection with Adampur, she started thrashing me,” he claimed. Phogat had contested the 2019 Haryana assembly elections from Adampur and lost to Congress’s Kuldeep Bishnoi.BJP state chief Subhash Barala condemned the attack on the market committee official. He said,“ We are waiting for a probe and only after that we can talk about Sonali Phogat.”Congress spokesman and former Kaithal MLA Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, “These acts (have been) done by a BJP leader. Is it a crime to do a government job? Will (chief minister Manohar Lal) Khattar take action against Phogat?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tiktok-star-turned-bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-thrashes-official-with-slipper-in-haryana-s-hisar/story-YsDUDctNnsaGEJqabW9dMO.html
