10-06-2020||City||Man shot dead by attackers who had come to kill an acquaintance||Gurugram A 31-year-old man was shot dead by a group of assailants, who were hired to kill his friend over an alleged financial dispute, in Farrukhnagar on Tuesday night, the police said. No arrest has been made in the case yet. The victim has been identified as Anil Kumar, who lived in Patli village of Farrukhnagar. According to the police, the incident took place around 8.45pm, when the Kumar and the friend, Amardeep Sethi, were consuming liquor at the latter’s plot in Patli. They were approached by a man, who asked Sethi for a bottle of country-made liquor and returned after being informed that Sethi was no longer in the business of selling liquor. However, getting suspicious of the man’s behaviour, Sethi followed him, a police official said.“He saw at least three persons in an SUV, who were armed, and ran to a secluded spot. The accused persons then entered the plot and fired indiscriminately at the victim,” the police official said.In the police complaint, Sethi named one Vikas as a suspect. “I had introduced Vikas to a friend and both had an agreement regarding distribution of liquor during the lockdown. One of Vikas’ cars, carrying a consignment of liquor, was caught by the police in Jhajjar and since then, he had been insisting that I pay ₹60,000 for the loss. I had told him that I had no role in it. Since then, there had been enmity and he had threatened me. The accused had come to attack me and I managed to escape,” he said in the FIR.The police said that Kumar was rushed to a private hospital, where he was declared dead, adding that he suffered at least six gunshot wounds. The assailants fired at least 10 gunshots, some of which hit a wall, the police said. A case has been registered against the accused under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and section 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Farrukhnagar police station, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-dead-by-attackers-who-had-come-to-kill-an-acquaintance/story-YLRRxlHl71NJGH5oxmxhKL.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||From 33 to 118 in two weeks: Surge in Covid cases worries Karnal admn||A sudden spurt in the number of coronavirus cases has become a cause of worry for the Karnal administration. The district saw its tally rising from 33 to 118 in merely two weeks, besides registering a death. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Wednesday convened a meeting of all stakeholders, including nodal officers and senior doctors of Karnal medical college. Directions were issued to contain the virus spread in the district, especially in Karnal city. As per the health officials, the cases increased soon after the government relaxed the curbs on movement post-June 1. District administration faced tough time in detecting infection as people having travel history to other states often showed reluctance in disclosing their details, officials said.The administration has now issued directions and made it mandatory for the people coming from other states to disclose their travel history, or face criminal cases.Karnal DC said, “Cases increased after we started random sampling. We are testing around 250 people daily.”“Since most of the patients have a history of travel to other states, the administration is encouraging people to disclose their details and get themselves tested if they develop any symptom,” he added.About the preparations, especially in the hospitals, to deal with the situation if cases continue to rise, the DC said, “There is no shortage of beds as of now. Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College has 450 beds and the administration has also identified Covid care centres with 500 bed capacity where asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients can be kept.” As per the data, 10,224 people, including 1,125 foreign-returnees, have been examined for Covid-19 in Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-33-to-118-in-two-weeks-surge-in-covid-cases-worries-karnal-admn/story-w80hvReSdKCopyfZNAsVEO.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Residents of The Palms form team, take onus of contact tracing||Residents of The Palms condominium in South City 1 have come together and formed a seven-member team to carry out contract tracing of people testing positive for the virus in their society on their own.Residents say they were forced to resort to this measure after concerned officials failed to turn up to carry out contact tracing exercise after a resident tested positive for Covid-19 on June 6.“Last week, the first Covid-19 case in the condominium was detected. We subsequently informed authorities to take charge and start the contact tracing process. However, after no official from any of the concerned departments turned up for two days, perhaps due to the high load of Covid-19 cases, we started getting worried. We realised that some residents could have come in contact with the person and, hence, it was vital to start contact-tracing on an immediate basis,” said Brigadier (retired) Brijendra Singh, a member of Palms Apartment Owners Association (PAOA).Singh said that one resident — Minakshi Tewari, who had last month undertaken a five-hour online contact tracing course from John Hopkins University — volunteered to help carry out the task.“As time was running out, we decided to hand over the contact tracing responsibility to Tewari and put in place pre-emptive measures. She was soon able to identify those who came in contact with the Covid-19 patient and advised them to take necessary safety steps like quarantining themselves and disinfecting their premises. Just a day later, a second case was detected in the condominium, in another tower. But this time we were able to start contact tracing right away and saved crucial time in cautioning those who interacted with the person,” said Singh.Singh said that in the first Covid-19 case in the condominium, officials from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) turned up for sanitising and disinfecting purposes three days after the issue was reported. For the second case, no official from any public body has so far turned up at the premises.Singh also gave the example of a domestic help who was identified during the contact tracing process and had returned to her native place in West Bengal, but was unwilling to self-quarantine. He said that the local administration in Dinajpur district, West Bengal, was informed about this development and they subsequently took necessary action.Contacted, Tewari said that her daughter — who is studying infectious disease epidemiology at John Hopkins University at Baltimore, Maryland in the United States of America (USA) — told her last month to enrol for the five-hour course as a precautionary measure.“My daughter had informed me about this course and I opted for it out of sheer curiosity. When authorities failed to turn up for the second day after the first Covid case was detected, I decided to volunteer for contact tracing. We realised there would be more such cases in the locality and it was important that a team for contact tracing is formed to limit the spread of the virus,” said Tewari. Tewari said that so far six other residents have volunteered and completed the five-hour-long online course, and a team of seven members under the ‘crisis management team’ has been formed to look after the contact tracing process for future cases, if they occur in the condominium.On June 4, divisional commissioner Ashok Sangwan directed HSVP to coordinate contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. Prior to this, the district health department used to carry out this task.Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer, HSVP declined to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-residents-of-the-palms-form-team-take-onus-of-contact-tracing/story-O70R5Hig5eAeSF3ck8jJWJ.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Will join BJP if Vij becomes CM: Meham MLA Kundu||Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, on Wednesday said he would join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) if Anil Vij becomes the chief minister (CM) of Haryana. Calling the home minister, who also holds health portfolio, the “most honest” person who is “perfect” for the CM’s post, the MLA said, “Yes, I will join the BJP. I had withdrawn my support from corruption and a corruption-supporter CM, not the BJP.” Interacting with mediapersons at the residence of a local leader in Yamunanagar, he said, “Vij is the most honest person in this government and he wants to work with honesty. But he is not being allowed to do so. Every file sent by him is bounced back by the chief minister’s office. His every action is reversed by the CM.” “He (Vij) is made to work like a laachar (helpless) and those who claim honesty have put up a network of corruption that has made the condition worse in the state,” Kundu said. He also spoke about the popularity of Manohar Lal Khattar, the de-notification of Dadupur-Nalvi canal and the recent controversy involving Sonali Phogat. Balraj Kundu had withdrawn his support from the BJP-JJP government in February alleging corruption in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-join-bjp-if-vij-becomes-cm-meham-mla-kundu/story-uJ9ST3rMtTfvuS7YB27afP.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram deputy commissioner tells officials to crack down on people without masks||The deputy commissioner of Gurugram on Wednesday asked officials to crack down on people who continue to not wear masks in public and penalise them ₹500, as per the provisions of the Haryana government.The directions were issued in view of a rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, with the total reaching 2,546 cases on Wednesday. Over the last week, over 100 cases are being reported daily in the city every day.Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner (DC), said that officials designated to conduct checks should collect challan books from the civil surgeon of Gurugram and ensure that violators are penalised.The Haryana government has allowed administrations to impose a fine of ₹500 on those not wearing a mask or spitting in a public place, in view of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The penalties obtained from the violators should be deposited in government treasury under the head of ‘0210-01-800-92 other items’.Khatri said that wearing masks in public places is mandatory due to the coronavirus pandemic. “The mask can be made of cloth or it may be bought from the market, but it is necessary for the residents to wear it while on streets, roads or other public places,” he said, adding that violators must be asked to pay the penalty, failing which the police must take action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Officials, who have been authorised to enforce the directions, are sub-divisional magistrates in respective areas, ACPs, tehsildars, nayab tehsildars, block development officers, executive engineers of MCG, Zila Parishad, SHOs, civil surgeons, health officers and other officials designated by the deputy commissioner.Earlier this week, Gurugram police commissioner had also asked all SHOs to regularly monitor CCTV camera footage in their areas to spot people not wearing a mask so that they can be tracked real-time and booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-deputy-commissioner-tells-officials-to-crack-down-on-people-without-masks/story-KXpW42yaF9l1WXiCwNmpzH.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||IMFL likely to get cheaper in Gurugram from Thursday, beer to remain expensive||Liquor vendors in the city are likely to reduce the price of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) from Thursday after the Delhi excise department withdrew its 70% ‘special corona fee’ levied on the Maximum Retail Price (MRP).Liquor vend owners said they will have to reduce prices for IMFL, failing which people may start buying liquor from Delhi and subsequently, affecting their businesses.The prices for liquor increased by up to 40% across the district on May 6, when the liquor vends reopened. Since Haryana does not have MRP on liquor bottles, shopkeepers were selling liquor for higher prices than usual.Shop owners said IMFL will get cheaper but beer will remain expensive, as the price had been increased by almost 40% due to multiple factors. “The city cannot compete with the beer prices in Delhi with the current excise duty and policy,” said Deepak Kumar, who is managing a liquor vend at Sector 51 said. He said that price of high-end whiskeys will reduce from ₹3,400-₹4,000 to around ₹2,500, while bottles costing ₹1,000 would now be sold for ₹800. HC Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said that due to the competition with the neighbouring national capital, liquor vendors are likely to reduce the liquor price. “The prices have to be competitive. Else, the state will suffer huge revenue losses,” he saidThe excise department charges a Covid cess of ₹10-₹30 on each bottle. The minimum retail sale price is inclusive of this cess. The shopkeepers, however, increased the prices to make a quick buck.The Haryana government on March 26 had decided to temporarily shut liquor vends across the state as part of its preventive measures to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/imfl-likely-to-get-cheaper-in-gurugram-from-thursday-beer-to-remain-expensive/story-C1egwqLsVU3AOtE3Rm503N.html
10-06-2020||City||Noida: Teen girl goes missing, family alleges police inaction||Noida: The family of a 14-year-old girl, who went missing from her house located under the Phase 2 police jurisdiction on June 8, has alleged that the Noida police have not taken any action in the case and have not filed an FIR.The incident had come to light Monday afternoon. In his complaint to the police, the father of the girl stated that he was asleep at the time of the incident while his wife had gone out for buying groceries.“When she came back around 3pm, she woke me up as our daughter was nowhere to be found. Instead, we found a phone in our house that didn’t belong to any of us. When we checked the number, it seemed to belong to someone from Himachal Pradesh,” said the father.The family lives in a rented accommodation. The father said on the floor above theirs, construction work was going on. The family members suspect that at least two of the construction workers might be involved in the disappearance of their daughter as two of them haven’t been back to work since and may have taken the girl, who is a 7th standard student of a private school, with them. The father said that the workers would sometimes come to their house to drink water.“The family has been running from pillar to post but no action has been taken against their complaint. Even the law says that a case has to be registered after 24 hours. They are scared that their daughter will come to harm because of delay in police action. They also have a suspect’s phone with them. If cops want, they can easily trace the girl and whoever has taken her,” said Vishal Gautam, the family’s lawyer.He said that if the police continue with their lax attitude, the family will directly approach the court for a magisterial inquiry.The matter was, however, later brought to the notice of senior police officials.“We will speak to the family and ensure that necessary action is taken soon,” said deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Harish Chander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-teen-girl-goes-missing-family-alleges-police-inaction/story-JmRFIHoGphoLtqHxm4rvkI.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||Excise dept waives off liquor licence fee for first quarter||The excise and taxation department has decided to waive off liquor licence fee for restaurants and bars operating in the district for the current quarter, officials said on Wednesday. The restaurants and bars have been shut since March 25, when a lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 was first imposed. Although restaurants can reopen now with 50% capacity, bars remain shut.Anurag Rastogi, principal secretary, excise and taxation, said, “We have decided to waive off the licence fee for a quarter as these establishments were closed and have suffered huge losses,” he said.The Gurugram Restaurants’ Association had sought financial relief from the excise department last month. They had submitted applications for waiver of fee for running bars for at least six months and sought permission to exchange expired beer without the imposition of any fee or goods and services tax (GST).Inderjeet Banga, the owner of Prankster and Pirates of Grill and the head of the Gurugram chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), welcomed the decision. “We had demanded that the government should waive off liquor licence fee for the lockdown period and allow us to pay the licence fees monthly, instead of annually,” he said.The department is yet to take a decision on a monthly licence fee structure, said officials.The liquor license fee for a five-star hotel in the district is ₹25 lakh per annum, while it is ₹18 lakh per annum for bars and restaurants, and ₹10 lakh for microbreweries. It has to be paid in April, but the process was suspended due to the lockdown.Pushpendra Yadav, director, Quaff microbrewery, said that the move would provide some relief to the sector as they have suffered huge losses and many establishments would have been forced to shut, subsequently leading to large-scale unemployment, if relief was not provided. “We are relaxed after hearing the decision but still we have to prepare for the setups once the operations are restarted and we will have to follow all the guidelines to ensure social distancing. It will take time for our businesses to normalise,” he said.Most restaurants in the city have not resumed the dine-in facility till now, fearing low footfall and increased losses. Some restaurants and bars in the district have already closed permanently due to the ongoing crisis, association members said.Lalit Ahlawat, director of Soi Hospitality in CyberHub, said that they should be granted six months leeway to pay licence fees when the operations are in full swing. “The hospitality sector is already facing a catastrophic situation with revenues plunging drastically amid the Covid-19 outbreak. One quarter would not be enough and the department should waive off the licence fee for at least six months. The situation has been compounded due to the recent lockdown measures. To revive the economic situation, the government will have to support this industry as we have been one of the revenue-generating sectors,” he said.Restaurant owners also said they will have to pay their staff in advance to call them back from their home state and the waiver should be extended for another quarter in such circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/excise-dept-waives-off-liquor-licence-fee-for-first-quarter/story-sU1Z2rV5ssobEZrvQiw5kL.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Over 10% Covid-19 patients going untraced due to incomplete contact details||More than 10% of Covid-19 cases confirmed by private labs in the city are going untraced due to incorrect contact details provided by people, causing an impact on surveillance and contact tracing, officials said on Wednesday.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), which was earlier this week given the task to liaison with the private and government labs for Covid-19 test reports, has been facing trouble due to inadequate contact details of the suspected cases tested in private labs. According to the officials, there are 10 teams to trace such people and assistance from the local police is also being taken. “Every day, we have at least 10-12% of such Covid-19 positive reports where initial details for verification are missing. The address is incomplete, there are incorrect phone numbers or somebody getting tested in Gurugram shares his/her domicile address given in the ID card. It becomes difficult for the team to trace such people and their high-risk contacts, who can potentially transmit the virus to others,” said Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, MCG, who is also designated as officer for management of Covid-19 test reports.According to her, 10 teams, comprising two members each, have been deployed to reach out to those people who have given correct mobile numbers but incomplete addresses. “Our teams coordinate with the primary health centres (PHCs) and the local police to trace such people in two to three days,” said Kaur.The MCG additional commissioner said that in many cases, neither the physicians prescribing tests nor the private hospitals and labs involved in taking samples are taking complete address or contact details of the suspected patients. “These crucial details are missing on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal where labs have to upload the test results,” she said.A meeting was held with the lab representatives on Tuesday to discuss the matter, said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. “The issue of incomplete contact details of patients was raised in the meeting with the labs functional in Gurugram,” he said.Currently, six private labs and three government labs in Rohtak, Sonepat and Nalhar are taking samples from Gurugram.HT tried reaching out to two private laboratories for comment, but they did not respond. the others could not be reached. Residents are even giving their samples at private labs of Delhi, accredited by the ICMR. An ICMR study in April predicted that a Covid-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures such as social distancing are not implemented.Since Gurugram in the past 10 days has seen a record surge in the coronavirus cases, Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, assigned different government departments for the management of Covid-19 situation in the city. MCG is designated to handle test reports. Once the reports are uploaded by the labs on the ICMR portal, teams deployed at the MCG segregate reports based on the four zones of the city. The list of the positive patient is shared with the nodal medical officer of that particular zone, who further coordinate with the PHC team (PHC) to home visit or make a telephonic call to the person infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Earlier this week, Haryana home minister Anil Vij had written a letter to the Union health minister, Dr Harsh Vardhan, mentioning that labs in Delhi, which are taking Covid-19 samples of Haryana residents, are not sharing reports properly with the authorities concerned, resulting in delay of contact tracing and surveillance activities, besides creating mismatch on ICMR portal and state portal. On May 31, the Director General Health Services (DGHS) Haryana issued notices to 18 private labs of Delhi, approved by ICMR for doing Covid-19 testing in the national capital, for taking samples of Haryana patients without keeping Haryana health department in the loop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-over-10-covid-19-patients-going-untraced-due-to-incomplete-contact-details/story-ibTDVJDiDpmjFUC8EVtJ8L.html
10-06-2020||City||Govt may have to shut local health centres to arrange staff for Covid hospitals||To deal with rising Covid-19 cases in the district, the Ghaziabad health department has decided to open a 200-bed L1 category Covid hospital (for non-critical positive cases) for which they will need to rope in medical teams from the health centres at Muradnagar, Modingar and Bhojpur areas. The officials said in the future, if more Covid-dedicated facilities are opened, then they will have to shut down the urban health centres as well in order to find medical personnel to man the new hospitals.Under the three-tier dedicated health care facilities to deal with Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has identified different health centres under L1, L2 and L3 levels with L1 catering to non-critical Covid-19 patients, while L2 and L3 will deal with more complicated and critical cases. The 200-bed facility is proposed to be opened at Divyjtoti College in Niwari and will cater to L1 category patients (non-critical). Currently, the health department has a 76-bed L1 ESI Hospital and a 60-bed L1 facility at Mariam Hospital in Nandgram.“Divyajyoti hospital will become operational in another one or two days and we will deploy teams from the community health centres (CHCs) at Muradnagar, Modinagar besides a team from the primary health (PHC) centre in Bhojpur. This diversion of staff will pose issues with regard to the treatment of non-Covid patients at the CHCs and PHC. The staff members of CHC Dasna are presently deployed to look after the operations at Mariam Hospital,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.The health department has proposed a total of about 4,000 Covid beds in the district, on the directions of the state government. The officials said each team deployed at a L1 hospital will have 25 members, while a team deployed at a L2 hospital will have 53 members.“If we open other Covid facilities and draw staff from our urban health centres or dispensaries. This will again affect non-Covid patient care at dispensaries. Both L1 hospitals that are presently operational are almost full,” the CMO said.In all, officials said that they can cater to about 900 to 1,000 Covid patients with the available staff, but at the cost of treatment given to non-Covid patients at CHCs and PHCs.Apart from the government Covid facilties, officials said they have also given an authorisation to two private hospitals, one in Vaishali and the other in Vasundhara, to operate as paid Covid facilities.The Ghaziabad district, till June 10, has recorded a total of 541 Covid-19 cases with 342 persons being discharged from different hospitals after treatment. The number of active cases is 182, and the death toll 17. Of the 14 patients found positive on Wednesday, three cases are from Loni while one each was reported from Vasundhara, Indirapuram and Khoda besides other cases in different areas.The officials are also worried about increase in number of cases related to severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). The officials said to deal with SARI cases, which can also prove fatal when manifested with Covid-19, they have come up with a 30-bed ward at MMG Hospital for SARI cases. The CMO said SARI cases have increased from 5% at the end of May to 10% this week, which is cause for concern.“Since the cases of SARI are on the rise, we have come up with a special ward at the MMG hospital to treat such patients. The patients will be the ones who are identified during surveillance in different areas or even those who come for availing of treatment at government hospitals,” Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-may-have-to-shut-local-health-centres-to-arrange-staff-for-covid-hospitals/story-mNxQ6DE2acUgG6ImZMVa1I.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||EPCA asks Delhi, NCR states to submit report on COVID-19 biomedical waste||The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority on Wednesday asked pollution control boards of Delhi and NCR states to furnish information on Covid-19 biomedical waste generated in various hospitals and quarantine centres. In a video conference, EPCA chairperson Bhure Lal asked the representatives of Delhi Pollution Control Committee and pollution control boards of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to submit their report in two to three days. The reports must contain information on how much Covid-19 biomedical waste is being generated in various hospitals, quarantine centres and houses of coronavirus patients and how it is being treated, Bhure Lal said.He said the authority had inspected some biomedical waste treatment facilities and hospitals in Delhi-NCR and compiled data before the lockdown came into force on March 25. “The exercise has resumed and we have now asked the states to furnish information related to Covid-19 biomedical waste too. They have been asked to submit their reports within three to four days,” he said.The EPCA is expected to submit its report to the Supreme Court next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/epca-asks-delhi-ncr-states-to-submit-report-on-covid-19-biomedical-waste/story-WpFpAcEhGIeoTQcYzF59sK.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana khap warns of stir if Sonali Phogat not arrested||One of the Haryana’s prominent Khap bodies, Binain Khap, on Wednesday held a meeting in Jind’s Danoda Kalan village and demanded the arrest of TikTok star-turned BJP leader Sonali Phogat for thrashing Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh during her visit to Balsamand mandi last week. The khap members said if their demands weren’t met, they would launch an agitation on June 12. The meeting, chaired by khap president Nafe Singh Nain, passed a resolution condemning the incident and described it as an insult of ‘Khap’s son’, Sultan Singh, who hails from Saccha Khera village of Jind district, where this khap wields influence.“We will give a memorandum to Hisar superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia and deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni on June 12 to arrest Phogat. If our demands are not met, we will go on a protest,” he added.UNDER PRESSURE TO STRIKE COMPROMISE: SECY Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh, who was also present in the meeting, claimed that many people were mounting pressure on him to strike a compromise with Phogat. “Her supporters had also thrashed me. I will accept whatever decision the Khap body makes in this issue,” he added.WOMEN PROTEST IN HISARMeanwhile, a group of women held a protest in Hisar and sought arrest of Sultan Singh. They said Singh had used indecent language to address Sonali Phogat and other women politicians of Haryana. “Sonali had to thrash Sultan Singh as he used derogatory remarks against her. A woman cannot tolerate such a slur on her from anyone,” said one of the protesters. The police should arrest him, otherwise we will start an agitation in Hisar, the women said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-khap-warns-of-stir-if-sonali-phogat-not-arrested/story-QqJMFKlDotyJ7fQn7IyRpN.html
10-06-2020||City||Resident’s body demands waiver of home loan interest for lockdown period||For providing relief to homebuyers, Noida Estates Flat Owners Main Association (NEFOMA) has suggested waiver of interest amount during the moratorium period on EMIs payable to banks and other financial institutions .“In the Covid-19 crisis, people are experiencing salary cuts or losing jobs, hence they are not in a position to give regular EMIs with hefty interest. Association has written to prime minister demanding waiver of interest for the lockdown period,” Anu Khan, president, NEFOMA, said on Wednesday. “The association has also sought amendment in section 24(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, removing the 5 years limitation in claiming deductions on interest on home loans.”“Presently RBI’s repo rate is 4 percent however banks charge 7.35 to 9.25 percent on home loans, which means spread charge is 3.35 to 5.25 percentage points, and processing fee extra,” said Khan. “Apart from that banks pays depositors between 2.75 to 4 percent as interest on seven days to 3 years in fixed deposit. In 2019, there is a sharp reduction in FD returns to depositors. But there is no reduction to the lending rates both on the retail side and as well as in construction line.”One of the Gaursons Realtak project allottee Jagbir Singh Bisht said, “Banks were earlier directed not to demand instalments for three months. But I deposited the EMIs because on delayed payment I have to pay interest even on three months interest. The waiver demand is justified and will provide much needed relief to us.”Rajinder Sharma allottee of Supertech project echoed similar views and said, “The central government should take decision of waiver to provide relief to us.”However Pankaj Gupta allottee of ATS Allure has different viewpoint and said, “Waiver demand is not justified. If banks are forced to waive the interest then banks will demand that banks should be allowed not to pay interest during lockdown period to FD and other depositors. “Gupta said, “Best practical solution is that allottees should get the three months interest added to their loan. This will increase one or two instalments. This will help in overcoming the present financial crisis of allottees.”Gautam Budh Nagar lead district bank manager Ved Ratna said, “Waiver is not practical approach.” He said RBI has already refused this demand. Some persons had moved Supreme Court and now the matter lies with the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/resident-s-body-demands-waiver-of-home-loan-interest-for-lockdown-period/story-m5zCcxiYIyIVEvhKphp0TI.html
10-06-2020||City||No let-up in cases, Khoda to remain a containment zone||For a month now, residents of Khoda locality in Ghaziabad have been confined to their homes in light of the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases from the locality, turning it into a containment zone. District officials say they are unlikely to lift these restrictions as cases are still being reported from there. Officials estimate that about 285,000 people are living in the congested slum colony, most of them engaged in factories and other small time jobs in the three surrounding cities of Ghaziabad, Noida and Delhi. Khoda was sealed on May 10 and placed under the “sector scheme” -- 50 of the 52 routes in and out of the locality were sealed to all except essential services personnel. At the time, the area had 14 Covid-19 cases, which rose to 64 on June 9. Three deaths due to the virus have been reported so far.Through the month of June, residents have been complaining that the sealing was adversely impacting their daily lives.“It is time that Khoda is unsealed and only those areas from where cases are emerging should be sealed and converted to containment zones. We forced to sit idle at home and face the risk of losing jobs. Traders, too, are sitting idle as only essential supply shops are allowed to open from 7am to noon,” Rajendra Singh, councillor from Shiv Vihar, said.Traders have demanded for that be allowed to open shop as they are suffering huge losses.“Markets have been closed for nearly three months since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. It is getting difficult to pay the rents. People are forced to take loans from friends and relatives to survive. A majority of residents who are not employed in offices or factories have shops in Khoda. At present, they are surviving with great difficulty,” Yogesh Bhati, a trader from Mangal Bazar, said. Social activists said it is not proper to place such a large population under sealing for a long time.“Covid-19 cases will continue to rise further. For Khoda, it would be better to create containment zones rather than putting the entire population under lockdown. Apart from other arrangements for essential supplies, administration should also arrange for dedicated helplines for Khoda residents for redressal of their grievances,” Sandhya Gautam, a Noida resident and coordinator, National Alliance for Maternal Health and Human Rights, said. “Unlike high-rises, whose residents’ voices are always heard by authorities, demands from poor people like us fall on deaf ears. The administration should look into our issues and address them,” she said. Khoda’s nagar palika executive officer KK Bhadana said he has sent some suggestions for relaxation in sealing but a final call rests with the district magistrate.“We have suggested that markets be allowed to open on alternate days and some more entry/exit points be opened. The district magistrate has to decide. At present, we have four major areas -- Rajiv Vihar, Indira Garden, Azad Vihar and Hayat Nagar -- from where most number of Covid-19 cases have been reported,” he said.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad, said it would not be appropriate to lift the sealing in Khoda completely.“Cases are still rising. Some relaxations could be made in internal localities but we will not recommend a complete de-sealing . Otherwise, there is a risk that cases will rise, especially given the large size of the population. We are primarily focussed on containment. Our teams are taking up surveillance and sampling exercises as well as sanitisation measures,” he added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We will review the situation in Khoda soon and decision on likely relaxations can be expected in the next two or three days.”Similar to Khoda, localities such as Loni and Vaishali have also been sealed since May 27 and June 1, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-let-up-in-cases-khoda-to-remain-a-containment-zone/story-IAMBkh4B1xM2u1kQQrxh8N.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||As cases, deaths surge, Gurugram medical chief transferred to Nuh||As the number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities continued to mount in the city, the Haryana government on Wednesday transferred chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia with immediate effect. Punia has been transferred to Nuh health department, in the same capacity. Punia was replaced by Dr Virender Yadav, civil surgeon, who was serving as the chief medical officer of Nuh. HT on Monday had reported that senior state officials had decided to transfer Punia following the rapid surge in coronavirus cases and deaths reported in the city.The state health department on Wednesday issued an order stating that the governor of Haryana has made the transfer with immediate effect. Punia took charge as civil surgeon, also called as chief medical officer, of Gurugram health department in July 2019. He was transferred from Sonepat and he replaced Dr BK Rajora in Gurugram. Punia along with his team of seven doctors was handling the Covid-19 crisis since February. The number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram saw a sudden spike last month and touched 1,000 cases on June 2 and doubled in the next six days.“In Gurugram, the focus will be on testing and cutting the chain of transmission. The time gap between sample collection and test reports has to be brought down to 24-36 hours and quarantine measures has to be strengthened,” said Yadav, who will be joining the Gurugram office from Thursday evening. Yadav has served in Faridabad, Charkhi Dadri and Karnal, before taking charge of Nuh health department on February 1 this year. Nuh was one of the worst-affected Covid-19 district after the Tablighi Jamaat incident was reported in April. More than 200 people with links to Markaz were traced in Nuh. Currently, the district has 56 active cases, out of the 111 total Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/as-cases-deaths-surge-gurugram-medical-chief-transferred-to-nuh/story-B0ynbrCUddciOt8GdfLuUO.html
10-06-2020||Noida||Bring migrant workers back: Noida’s garment units tell UP govt||More than a month after the garment manufacturers in Noida were allowed by the state government to resume operations (during the third phase of the nationwide lockdown) city apparel units are still struggling to get back on their feet. According to industry owners, these units are facing acute workforce shortage caused by a mass exodus of migrant workers to their home towns during the lockdown.If garment exporters in the region are to be believed, the workforce shortage will not only hit their productivity but will also lead to major losses in their annual turnovers. Keeping such concerns in mind, the Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC) in a letter to the principal secretary (MSME and export promotion) on Thursday requested the state government to arrange an adequate workforce and said the Noida garment industry needs over two lakh workers immediately.In response to the letter, Navneet Sehgal, principal secretary (MSME and Export promotion) said a list of over 65,000 workers who will resume work soon has been sent to NAEC on Saturday. He added that the government had reached out to these workers who have agreed to come back and work. “ In a day or two, these workers will report to their respective apparel units,” said Singhal.In its letter, NAEC had said the industry needs tailors and other support staff and the requirement of two lakh workers is likely to be double in the next few months. “Also, another five lakh workforce will be needed for the mega Apparel Park at Sector-29 near Yamuna Expressway, which is likely to come up soon. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has already initiated the process of land allotment to the readymade garment investors, to set up nearly 150 apparel units there,” the letter read.Lalit Thukral, president, NAEC, said they had received the list of workers from the principal secretary along with their contact details. He added that despite being the second-highest employment provider (after the agriculture sector) in the state, the garment industry has so far failed to fill the gap between demand and supply. “Most of our workers have gone back to their home towns. When we reach out to them asking them to resume their jobs, most of them say that being with their families at this time of crisis is more important for them rather than making a living miles away, “ he added.He further said the Noida cluster alone hosts nearly 3,000 readymade garment production-cum-export units that employ over 10 lakh workers and export garments worth around ₹20,000 crores annually. “But these units are now unable to resume operations fully because of the shortage of workers. We are facing a severe workforce shortage after many workers returned to their home towns,” he said.Manoj Sahu, who runs a garment export company in Noida, said without state government’s intervention in bringing the workers back, resume complete operations is almost impossible for apparel manufacturers in the district. “Most of the workers at garment factories have returned to their home towns. When we ask them to resume their jobs they refuse our offers and prefer to be with their families. We have been allowed to operate with the full workforce now, but only two lakh workers have started working in garment factories so far,” he said.Another garment exporter Roshan Baid said the workers’ unwillingness to work in city-based industries will lead to major setbacks to all apparel exporting units. “After almost zero production in April, the exodus of workers can reduce our production by as much as 50%. Some workers are so adamant about not coming back that they have now started refusing our offers of higher wages as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bring-migrant-workers-back-noida-s-garment-units-tell-up-govt/story-gE3NbnXZYkWsUxbUm1LJNP.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram municipality to hold meet, take stock of Monsoon preparedness||Cleaning of all sewer and stormwater drains by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) since June 2019 will be reviewed during the civic body’s monsoon preparedness meeting on Friday.This was decided during a meeting held between the councillors and engineering wing at the MCG’s sector 34 office on Wednesday.As per MCG officials, Mayor Madhu Azad, who chaired the meeting, directed engineering wing officials to submit a ward-wise detailed report on all sewer and stormwater drains that were cleaned since June 2019.She further directed engineering wing officials to also check all rate calculations and estimates that were given during the allocation of tenders for cleaning of sewer and stormwater lines that have received objections from various councillors at their respective wards.“I have asked the engineering wing to prepare a report on the status of all drains in the city by Friday so that the same can be presented before MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh for further scrutiny. Aside from this, a discussion was also held on preparing a mechanism to regulate and monitor the deployment of super sucker machines,” said Azad.Singh was scheduled to attend the meeting on Wednesday but could not make it as he had to attend a state-level meeting instead, said MCG officials. Hence, another meeting has been scheduled with the MCG commissioner, councillors and engineering wing officials on Friday to take stock on monsoon preparedness.Due to Singh’s absence, a thorough review of MCG’s status in regard to monsoon preparedness was deferred to Friday while decisions on cancelling contracts of few tenders that may have been allocated with discrepancies was also pushed forward by two days, said an official who attended the meeting.The meetings are taking place after nine councillors of the MCG alleged that the civic body is under-prepared for the upcoming monsoon season and that there are various discrepancies with the existing measures taken in regard to the cleaning of drains. They alleged that if the situation does not improve, then the city may witness a similar scenario as the July 2016 deluge, popularly referred to as Gurujam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-municipality-to-hold-meet-take-stock-of-monsoon-preparedness/story-mh51BpGMUN8imuOnqawkmM.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 deaths, 84 new cases in Punjab||SANGRUR/JALANDHAR/AmritsarPunjab on Wednesday reported two deaths and 84 new coronavirus cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,879‬.Sangrur district recorded its first death from the virus when disease when a 70-year-old man succumbed to the disease in a Patiala hospital, health officials said. Meanwhile, 11 new patients were tested positive for Covid-19 in the district.“The deceased Mohammad Bashir was hailing from Malerkotla town. He was also suffering from tuberculosis and was on ventilator for the past five days,” said civil surgeon Dr Raj Kumar.Out of 11 patients, four are family members of Bashir and two policemen from Sangrur town. Jalandhar reported 10th coronavirus death after an 86-year-old man, Dev Dutt Sharma, a resident of Moti Nagar, died. Besides, three more people of age group 46-64 years tested positive of novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Wednesday. A 53-year-old man tested positive of novel coronavirus in Kapurthala district on Wednesday. SHO AMONG 44 TEST POSITIVE IN MAJHA Nineteen people, including a station house officer (SHO), tested positive for Covid-19 in Pathankot on Wednesday, officials said. Pathankot deputy commissioner (DC) GS Khaira said, “Nineteen of 245 people whose reports were received from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19.”“A 32-year-old SHO at Pathankot Division’s Number 1 Police Station was among the 19 people to test positive. A four-year-old boy has also tested positive,” the DC said, adding that the health department was tracing the contacts and source of infection. So far, the district has recorded 113 Covid-19 cases, of which 52 are active,” the DC said.13 INFECTED IN GURDASPURGurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Kishan Chand said, “On Wednesday, 13 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported. One patient is a resident of Gurdaspur, one of Kamo Nangal village, two of Dhaliwal and nine of Batala. All patients are the direct contacts of previously diagnosed Covid-19 patients.”12 MORE POSITIVE IN AMRITSARAmritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “12 people were tested positive for Covid-19 out of which 6 are fresh community transmission cases. Five people are the contacts of Covid-19 patient while a man, who had returned from Mumbai recently, was also tested positive. The district’s total is now 527 and out of them, 383 have recovered.”FOUR NEW CASES IN PATIALA Four persons tested positive for the virus in Patiala on Wednesday. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the positive patients include 16-year-old worker of marriage palace at Nabha and 55-year-old woman, who is contact of earlier tested positive patient from Nabha. Two other include patients from Samana and Sangrur.One case was reported from Barnala. Three men, including two returnees from other states, tested positive for coronavirus disease in Mohali on Wednesday, taking the district’s total count to 140. Of these only 25 cases remain active.Seventeen people, , including an employee working in a prominent cycle manufacturing unit of the city, two pregnant woman and a foreign travellers were tested positive of Covid-19 in Ludhiana. (Inputs from Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohali and Kapurthala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-deaths-84-new-cases-in-punjab/story-eh1o6c2zRJzea6Emzhs57I.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud case: HC asks jail authorities to submit health details of Wadhawans||The Bombay high court (HC) directed Maharashtra government to give details about the health status of HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan, arrested on charges of money laundering in the PMC Bank (Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative) fraud case. After the Wadhawans sought bail on the grounds that Arthur Road jail had Covid-19 infected inmates and they had an apprehension of contracting the virus due to their medical condition, the court directed jail authorities to submit details of the measures put in place to protect prisoners from contacting the virus.The bench of justice Bharati Dangre while hearing the bail applications of the father-son duo was informed that as there had been numerous cases of Covid positive inmates and jail staff in Arthur Road and as they had some medical conditions, they apprehended a threat to their lives, hence sought bail. Advocate Amit Desai for the Wadhawans informed the court that if they were granted bail, they would observe self-quarantine and will be available at the given address. However, public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde opposed the applications on behalf of the state and said that sufficient measures were put in place by the prison authorities for the safety of the prisoners, hence the apprehensions of the applicants were unfounded.After hearing the submissions, justice Dangre observed that the Wadhawans were safer in the jail rather than being outside it. She, however, directed the jail authorities to submit details of the precautionary measures put in place for the safety of prisoners after positive cases were reported in the jail. She also asked the authorities to submit a report with details of the barracks in which the Wadhawans were kept and posted the matter for hearing on June 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-case-hc-asks-jail-authorities-to-submit-health-details-of-wadhawans/story-wpG98n2ztdWtL3HQVWsZbN.html
10-06-2020||City||Street vendors in Indirapuram say cops force them to shut by afternoon||Street vendors in Indirapuram said they are being made to shut shop by mid-afternoon daily, by the beat police -- an action that is also affecting their livelihood and earnings. The vendors said policemen often chased them away by 2pm and do not allow them to operate from 9am to 9pm, as permitted by the district administration.On June 7, the district magistrate had said that shops will be allowed to open from 9am to 9pm from June 8. Till June 7, grocery shops were allowed to open from 10am to 4pm while fruit/vegetable shops were allowed to open from 10am to 2pm.“The police do not allow us to operate after 2pm and they drive us away. They sometimes make off with the weighing scales to prevent us from carrying on with our business. So when evening comes, and people step out to make purchases, we lose out on the business,” Amit Kumar, a vendor at Kala Patthar, said.The traders’ association members have written to the district magistrate, police officers and the chief minister about the issue.“We sent a letter on June 8 to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, highlighting that small vendors are not being allowed to operate after 2pm. We have also highlighted that markets should be allowed to open on all days, same as liquor shops operating all days from 9am to 9pm. The administration must also consider problems of markets in Vaishali , an area that has been sealed since June 1,” Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti , Indirapuram, said.Social activists have also raised the issue and also spoken to police.“The vendors are mostly dependent on directions from the local police. When I observed the closed shopsand required as to the reason, vendors told me that police were troubling them. Vendors in areas of Ahimsa Khand 2, near Aditya Mall road and Kala Patthar are facing this problem,” Alok Kumar, a social activist from Indirapuram, said.Anshu Jain, circle officer of Indirapuram said she will be issuing directions again to the local police stations and police posts. “We are trying our level best to communicate directions to the lower rung officers. I will look into the issue and ask officers to implement the directions of the district administration,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/street-vendors-in-indirapuram-say-cops-force-them-to-shut-by-afternoon/story-azN9dwFudrQE0vwJgcqM4N.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: 12 more days for restoration of power supply, says MSEDCL||It will take another 12 days to restore electricity supply in parts of Raigad and Ratnagiri that were hit by Cyclone Nisarga which made a landfall in Raigad last Wednesday.Officials from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Limited (MSEDCL) said a team of 209 engineers, 1,255 technicians and 1,154 workers has been mobilised to restore electricity in these districts and that priority is being given to restore power supply for Covid care centres. Of the 1,976 villages in Raigad, supply to 820 villages has been restored and in Ratnagiri, of the 4.21 lakh consumers, 3.77 lakh have got back power supply. MSEDCL supplies power to 2.20 crore people in the state. “We are undertaking restoration on a war footing but it needs a lot of technical expertise. We expect the work to go on for another 10 to 12 days,” said Dinesh Waghmare, managing director, MSEDCL.Close to 2 lakh homes, 15,000 electric poles and lakhs of trees were destroyed owing to the cyclone.Tanmay Bhagat, a resident of Shahabaj in Raigad district, said that the family of nine have been living without power supply for seven days already. “Every time we ask officials, we are told that it will take four to five more days. It has been very difficult for us here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-12-more-days-for-restoration-of-power-supply-says-msedcl/story-rBmvDG4KmOG52QruFxCXfL.html
10-06-2020||City||Ludhiana police seize 10.9 quintal poppy husk in two separate cases||In the past 24 hours, the police here have recovered 10.9 quintals of poppy husk being smuggled in trucks in two separate cases.With the arrival of paddy sowing season, poppy husk peddling is also gaining pace in the state. As paddy cultivation is a labour-intensive job, farm labours are served poppy husk to battle fatigue.In the first case, the rural police arrested two persons, including a notorious drug peddler, and seized 10.5 quintal poppy husk that was hidden in a truck under apples trays. However, two other accused managed to escape.ASI Gursewak Singh said based on a tip-off, the police established a check-point at canal bridge in Bharowal Kalan.The accused have been identified as Mohd Latif of Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir, Jasvir Singh of Sidhwan Bet, Satnam Singh and Kaku, both from Sangowal village in Jalandhar.The police have impounded the truck and booked the accused under sections 15 and 25 of the NDPS Act.Similarly, Sahnewal police arrested two persons and recovered 40kg poppy husk that they were ferrying in a truck from Peepal Chowk near Giaspura.Investigating officer Raghubir Singh said both the accused, identified as Mohan Singh of Patiala and Harinder Singh of Ludhiana, were arrested and the truck used was impounded.The accused have been booked under sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-seize-10-9-quintal-poppy-husk-in-two-separate-cases/story-arZtznceuD0Q5Zoi1Gxf1H.html
10-06-2020||City||Notice served to 5 private hospitals in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has issued notices to five hospitals that had shut down in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. These medical facilities have been instructed to start operations immediately and failure to do so will attract strict legal action.The notices have been issued under the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act ( MESMA) 2011.NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “Due to the shutting of regular hospitals, several non-Covid patients are facing difficulties in getting treatment. The hospitals and clinics must start functioning immediately. I have hence ordered all hospitals and clinics in NMMC that have shut down, should open immediately, and provide treatment for illnesses other than Covid-19. We have also issued notices to five hospitals in Vashi, Kopar Khairane, Nerul, Airoli, and CBD Belapur.”The commissioner warned that if any hospital is found not providing treatment to patients, strict legal action will be taken against and their registration will be cancelled.Meanwhile, BJP MLA Ganesh Naik has threatened to launch an agitation if corrective measures are not taken to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in Navi Mumbai. He demanded that the NMMC hospital in Vashi, which has been declared a dedicated Covid hospital, be converted back into a regular hospital as the monsoon is about to set in and non-Covid patients are already facing problems.“Since a 1,200-bed Covid facility is coming up at the Cidco Exhibition Centre, the NMMC hospital in Vashi should now treat regular patients,” said Naik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/notice-served-to-5-private-hospitals-in-navi-mumbai/story-ODEFGgVd5xHnVJmve1ajJO.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Shift to cash crops, deficit rainfall to blame for agrarian crisis in Marathwada: IIT-B study||A gradual shift towards cash crops at the expense of food crops and deficit rainfall over the years are the primary reasons behind the agrarian crisis in Maharashtra’s drought-hit Marathwada region, according to a study conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B).Published in the Environmental Research Letters in May, the study analyses the role of rainfall deficits and cropping choices in loss of agricultural yield in Marathwada. The study by a team of research scholars in the civil engineering and climate change departments has found that between 1998 and 2014, the acreage of crop cultivation in Marathwada has skewed rapidly in favour of cash crops. For example, in the Kharif season, the cropped area for the water-guzzling sugarcane crop was almost zero hectares (ha) in 1998. However, since 2002, the acreage of the crop has risen steeply. By 2014, sugarcane occupied almost 1ha cropped area. “The total acreage under the few Rabi crops is about 14% of the main, monsoon-fed Kharif acreage. We observe an increase in acreage under sugarcane, cotton and soybean in the Kharif season, and, wheat and chickpea in the Rabi season with a simultaneous decrease in other crops such as sorghum and pearl millet in the Kharif season, and, sunflower and safflower in the Rabi season,” read the study.Marathwada region is a cluster of eight districts-- Aurangabad, Beed, Hingoli, Jalna, Latur, Nanded, Osmanabad, Parbhani - lies to the east of Maharashtra and records a significant number of farmer suicides. In 2017, a researcher from the University of California, Berkeley, had found that temperature during India’s main agricultural growing season has a strong positive effect on annual suicide rates, particularly at Marathwada.However, the recent study by IIT-B researchers refuted the claim stating that rainfall deficit rather than increasing temperatures had a direct impact on the farmers’ distress in the region. “We aimed to understand and analyse how crops are sensitive to temperature and rainfall. We sought to understand the role of soil moisture and groundwater after the monsoon on the crop yields. What we found is that a shift towards cash crops at the expense of drought-resistant food crops as well as a rainfall deficit can be attributed to the crisis in Marathwada,” said Mariam Zachariah, a research scholar from the department of civil engineering and the co-author of the study. The data used in the study were received from the central government.Based on the study findings, researchers have suggested that encouraging farmers to revert to drought-resistant food crops such as sorghum and pearl-millet, could help ease the burden on farmers. “The agrarian crisis in the region is a much more complex problem with social aspects to it. However, based on our findings, going forward gradually shifting to the food crops is one of the ways the agrarian crisis can be handled, scientifically,” said Zachariah. However, Anand Pole, secretary-general of the Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture, doesn’t completely agree with the findings of the study. “Along the Godavari, wherever water is available, farmers have moved to cash crops such as sugarcane but that is not true for all farmers. At places where water is not available, farmers are still growing food crops such as jowar, bajra, toor dal among others,” said Pole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shift-to-cash-crops-deficit-rainfall-to-blame-for-agrarian-crisis-in-marathwada-iit-b-study/story-p8O4vrrF4W5lR06jRWdagO.html
10-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai sees highest one-day spike with 156 new cases||Navi Mumbai witnessed its highest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 156 new cases, including 16 children, reported on Wednesday. The total number of Covid positive cases in the city now stands at 3,219. The city also saw five deaths on Wednesday, taking the total toll to 101. As many as 67 people also recovered and were discharged on Wednesday.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has seen a steady rise of cases since the past few days. Four days ago, NMMC had recorded a high of 128 cases on a single day.An NMMC official said, “The city has seen its highest one-day spike on Wednesday with 156 cases. Among the 16 children, the two youngest are a four-year-old from sector 14 in Kukshet and a five-year-old boy from Chinchpada. Turbhe reported the highest number of cases at 40, followed by 32 in Airoli. Recovery rate is 59% with 1,915 having recovered so far.”Meanwhile, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) recorded 26 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the number of total cases to 817. On the same day, 21 patients tested negative and were discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-sees-highest-one-day-spike-with-156-new-cases/story-Yb3SK5Rzt8SoYZHr9xNTFJ.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||After a lull, fresh swarm of locust is back in Nagpur||District agriculture officers are facing a new challenge after a fresh locust swarm hit Nagpur district, intensifying containment efforts from Tuesday night onwards.The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), under the Union agriculture ministry, said Maharashtra had witnessed a sharp decline in locust swarms between June 3 and 8 owing to a change in wind direction due to Cyclone Nisarga. Though the short-horned grasshoppers were pushed towards Madhya Pradesh (MP), a fresh swarm was spotted moving across six of the seven ranges of Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) between Monday and Tuesday, and thereafter across villages adjoining forest areas in Ramtek tehsil in Nagpur on Wednesday.“The wind direction over eastern Vidarbha region had changed from northwesterly to southeasterly under the impact of Cyclone Nisarga last week. This pushed the majority of locust swarms either towards west MP or deeper into forest regions adjoining Maharashtra and MP. Combined with this, effective spraying efforts by district officials ensured minimal damage to farms,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, LWO.Over the past two to three days, though there has been rainfall, the wind direction is favourable for the pests to follow their original trajectory towards farmlands adjoining forests towards Nagpur, said Gurjar. “However, the size of the swarm is small and control efforts have been initiated by local officers. It should not take more than two days to contain their further movement,” he said.Divisional joint director agriculture Ravindra Bhosale said unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) were being used to track the movement of the crop-munching pests while the fire department was spraying three different pesticide solutions — chlorpyriphos, fipronil, and deltamethrin. Pesticide solution of 1,200 ml in 500 litres of water is being used across each one hectare.“We located the swarm in Ramtek tehsil around 11.30 pm Tuesday. After travelling several villages, the swarm had settled in Ajni village, between Ramtek and Mauda tehsil of Nagpur district,” said Bhosale. “We are being assisted by a team of entomologists from Dr. Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola. There is no damage to food crops, but the pests have been resting on tree species such as anjan (hardwicka), neem, and other fruit trees eating on their leaves. The sound of the drone is also affecting them, making it easier for us to spray pesticides.”PTR forest officers said while crossing over six of seven ranges, leaves of trees such as bamboo, ain (Terminalia elliptica), palash (sacred tree), as well as fruit trees, such as mango and java plum, were affected. “We identified the species as migratory locust (Locusta migratoria). They seem to prefer trees with softer leaves that have less fibre,” said Ravikiran Govekar, field director, PTR. “We have instructed our staff to detail exact records of their movement, changes in bird behaviour, and the number of affected trees.”Gurjar added that as of now the swarm is restricted to Nagpur. During the last week of May, the swarms had split into two affecting four districts in Vidarbha — Amravati, Buldhana, Wardha and Nagpur — affecting an area of 135 hectares across fruit orchards and vegetable farms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-a-lull-fresh-swarm-of-locust-is-back-in-nagpur/story-rHxz7CI7kUvaIpBmbsw6CI.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin truck driver held in US for smuggling marijuana from Canada||A 21-year-old Indian national, who used to drive a commercial truck between Canada and the US, has been arrested on the charges of smuggling marijuana with market value of $2,500,000, (Rs 18 crore) a US attorney has said.If convicted, Arshdeep Singh faces a mandatory minimum penalty of five years in prison or a maximum of 40 years and a $5,000,000 fine.According to the complaint, on June 5, a commercial truck carrying coffee makers and bearing Prince Edward Island, Canada license plates, attempted to enter the United States at the Peace Bridge Port of Entry at Niagara Falls in New York, Michael Adler, the assistant US attorney, who is handling the case, said.“The commercial truck was referred to the Vehicle and Cargo Inspection System for a non-intrusive X-ray exam, which showed inconsistencies between the cargo in the nose of the trailer and that of the rest of the load,” the Department of Justice said.Officers also observed that the trailer did not have a commercial seal securing the back doors. “As a result, it was referred to the Peace Bridge warehouse loading dock for a physical exam. During the initial physical exam, officers offloaded the properly identified coffee makers,” the justice department said.They also located four skids containing seven crates that differed from the rest of the load.Inspection of the crates revealed coffee grounds. Secreted under the coffee grounds were vacuum sealed bags containing a green leafy substance, the Department of Justice said. Approximately 1,608 vacuum sealed bundles of suspected marijuana, weighing nearly 1,800 lbs, were removed from the original shipment containers, with an approximate value of USD2,500,000.“Recent events have created unique challenges for our Office and our partners in law enforcement as we work together to keep our communities and our Nation safe and secure,” stated US Attorney James P Kennedy.“While the COVID-19 response may have slowed commerce across our Nation’s borders, this arrest proves not only that criminals persist in their efforts to break the law but that law enforcement remains vigilant in its effort to uphold it,” he added.Port Director Jennifer De La O said: “This was an excellent job by our officers from start to finish”. “From recognising a shipment that needed further screening to the identification of the anomaly during the secondary scan, to the coordination with our partners at HSI, our officers are committed to intercepting these illicit drugs from being smuggled in,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-origin-truck-driver-held-in-us-for-smuggling-marijuana-from-canada/story-G3c9TEnFxtRBOaCnhYYLyN.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana limps back to fiscal normalcy, CM says able to meet routine expenses||The cash-strapped Haryana government is looking to break even after the resumption of large-scale economic activity outside the containment zones in the state. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said that the financial condition of the state government had started to improve. “We are now in a position to pay for our routine expenses, including salaries, pensions, social security pension, power subsidy,” he added. The state government spends anything between ₹6,200 to ₹7,500 crore every month on payment of salaries, pensions of retired employees, social security pensions, wages to contractual employees, rural electrification and domestic subsidy, and payment of interest and debt. Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, however, said the state government was still short on financial resources and would have to raise money from the market to undertake development activity. Till May, the Haryana government was heavily dependent on market borrowings for running its day-to-day affairs. The state government had raised ₹5,000 crore in April and ₹2,000 crore in May from the market to tide over the fiscal crisis. Finance department officials said till June 9, the state government had been able to garner a revenue of ₹2,745 crore. The revenue collection target for June is about ₹6,968 crore. “We expect to get some more money from our share in central taxes and goods and services tax (GST) compensation in June also,” said an official.The state government, which had initially projected a measly ₹1,982 crore revenue target in May, actually earned ₹3,014 crore, thanks to devolution of funds from its share in central taxes and GST compensation. The state government is expecting a disbursement of ₹1,337 crore as GST compensation by the Centre. A cess is levied by the central government for providing compensation to the states for the loss of revenue arising on account of implementation of GST. The compensation cess is a levy collected on supply of select goods and/or services or both, and will remain so till July 2022. “We have earned ₹1,568 crore from GST, including the compensation part, till June 9, about ₹200 crore from excise duty and ₹100 crore from stamps and registration. Our target is to collect another ₹4,200 crore in next three weeks,” said another official.The revenue collection in April was about ₹2,449 crore, while the revenue expenditure was about ₹6,943 crore, statistics reveal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-limps-back-to-fiscal-normalcy-cm-says-able-to-meet-routine-expenses/story-K5IPXlmaQxluTpyMsdxE6J.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Mhada puts out list of island city’s 18 dangerous structures, asks tenants to move out||The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) on Wednesday declared 18 buildings in the island city as ‘extremely dangerous’ and asked the residents to move out immediately from the premises. This is a part of its annual pre-monsoon survey conducted by Mhada. A total number of 540 tenants which include 317 residential and 223 commercial tenants have been asked to vacate their premises. These structures are located in places like Girguam, Khetwadi, Nagpada, VP Road and Jacob Circle.According to Vinod Ghosalkar, chairman, Mumbai repair and reconstruction board, Mhada, the residents need to move out immediately. “They should move out immediately before the rains. We might resort to using force to vacate the building. We will not allow them to risk their lives,” said Ghosalkar. He said that Mhada has constructed transit accommodation for them in the Western suburbs of Gorai and Magathane.Of the 18 buildings, seven structures which featured in last year’s list including the infamous Esplanade Mansion, are also repeated this year.However, the residents are unwilling to move out of the premises citing the lack of trust in the housing body. “How can we leave South Mumbai and settle in Gorai and Magathane areas? Our children have schools here and even we have jobs nearby. Mhada should settle us in South Mumbai itself,” said a resident of Nagpada.His fear is not unfounded as thousands of residents who shifted to transit camps are still languishing there for decades. Also, Mhada has not given the timeline on when they can return to their original premises.BOXThis time the number of ‘Extremely dangerous Structures’ has gone down to 18 from 23 last year. The number was 7, 9 and 11 in 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively.The infamous Esplanade mansion once again features in the list. This is a heritage structure and repairs are not being undertaken as the cost of repairs of such structures is very high compared to normal structures.Mhada has warned that it will use force to drive out residents as the later are living in risky state.The residents contend they will not shift to suburban areas like Gorai and Magathane as it would mean permanently shifting to suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mhada-puts-out-list-of-island-city-s-18-dangerous-structures-asks-tenants-to-move-out/story-Pn8bUZ7dKlOSpYCPPVhxoJ.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Accelerate work on Shahpurkandi dam project: Punjab chief secy||Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh on Wednesday directed the Shahpurkandi Dam Project Authority to make efforts for the commissioning of the project by its deadline of May 2022. The project is being constructed on river Ravi and reduce the outflow of the water to Pakistan, while benefitting both Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir on its completion. The chief secretary chaired the 11th meeting of the Standing Committee of Shahpurkandi Dam Construction Board on Wednesday, and said that project will allow the country to use the full potential of river Ravi as per the Indus Water Treaty. A spokesperson said the project comprises construction of 55.5m high dam, 7.7km long hydel channel and two power houses with installed capacity of 206 MW. The project will also create irrigation potential for 5,000 hectare in Punjab and 32,173 hectares in J&K. It will provide intensive irrigation facilities in around 1.2 lakh hectare under UBDC System. The project, when completed, will generate 1,042 Million Units of electricity per annum. Additional chief secretary, industries & commerce, Vini Mahajan, attended the meeting through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/accelerate-work-on-shahpurkandi-dam-project-punjab-chief-secy/story-aTNJ5n8j783T8OhgQawdhI.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Police question TV anchor Arnab Goswami for 5 hours||Republic TV’s editor-in-chief and prime time anchor Arnab Goswami on Wednesday afternoon reached Mumbai’s NM Joshi Marg police station for interrogation, in connection with the case registered against him for allegedly instigating hatred against the Muslim community while anchoring a programme on April 29 on the protests by stranded migrants outside the Bandra railway station on April 14.Mumbai police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pranaya Ashok said, “Arnab Goswami reached NM Joshi police station at around 2:15pm on Wednesday while responding to the summons issued by Pydhonie police station authorities a day before.” He left the police station at 6.45pm.Suresh Gaikwad, the investigating officer and an inspector with Pydhonie police station, along with his team arrived before Goswami reached NM Joshi Marg police station.“Pydhonie police authorities first questioned Goswami, followed by NM Joshi Marg police personnel in relation to another case registered against him, where he had made a derogatory statement about Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, linking her with the lynching of two Hindu seers in Palghar on April 16,” said a senior Indian police service (IPS) official, requesting anonymity.Goswami was summoned to Pydhonie police station on the basis of a complaint by Irfan Abubakar Shaikh, secretary, Raza Education Welfare Society.Sheikh had alleged in his FIR that Goswami tried to create hatred against the Muslim community and targeted a Bandra-based mosque that had no links to a protest by stranded migrant workers, who wanted to go back to their native places on April 14.Lawyers from Phoenix Legal, who is representing Goswami in the cases, couldn’t be contacted, despite HT’s attempts.“The mosque near the Bandra railway station is not linked to the stranded migrant workers’ protest. The workers had only gathered in an open space near the mosque. But Goswami deliberately highlighted the mosque on his show on April 29 to create communal disturbances in Mumbai,” Shaikh alleged.“The raging debate on Republic TV was aimed at blaming the Muslim community for spreading Covid-19 in Mumbai. Earlier, too, he made similar hate-filled comments, targeting the community,” he further alleged.The FIR was registered under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, and language), 295A (deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of any citizen) 500 (defamation), 505 (2) (spreading rumour or alarming news with intent to create or promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities), and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-question-tv-anchor-arnab-goswami-for-5-hours/story-h0mzSbe49q9blwYeQYl16L.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: State hikes compensation for those hit||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar announced on Wednesday that the state government has increased the amount of the relief package so that those affected by Cyclone Nisarga get significantly more compensation than what is granted by the National Disaster Response Fund. The state has already announced an immediate relief of ₹100 crore for Raigad, ₹75 crore for Ratnagiri and ₹25 crore for Sindhudurg.Pawar said cyclone-hit families whose houses have fully collapsed will be given Rs 1.5 lakh instead of ₹95,100 as per the existing National Disaster Response Fund norms. The aid for partial loss of homes has been increased to ₹15, 000 from the existing ₹6,000. Similarly, the state has increased the amount of the financial aid for the loss perennial crops to ₹50,000 per hectare from the existing ₹18,000 a hectare. Cash compensation for losses of household material, like clothes and utensils, has been increased to ₹10,000 from the existing Rs 5000. Pawar said the financial burden of the additional amount of relief would be borne by the state.Cyclone Nisarga hit coastal districts of Maharashtra and preliminary estimates show damage to agriculture and perennial crops across more than 22,650 hectares in Raigad and Ratnagiri. Hundreds of villages in Raigad remain disconnected due to the loss of electricity and telephone services.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said, “The restoration of the electricity will take at least 10-12 days, but the immediate relief of cash will be distributed in next two-three days,” he said.For those without electricity, the state government has announced a distribution of five litres of kerosene to each family, free of cost. The government has also said food grains will be distributed, free of cost, to the affected families.Pawar said the state government is also considering building pucca concrete houses for villagers in the cyclone-hit districts. “We have observed that houses with tin roofs have sustained more losses. The construction of the houses under Prime Minister Awas Yojana, with the Central grants of ₹1 lakh is the option being tapped,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-state-hikes-compensation-for-those-hit/story-BkQUcnjwV9E2RnpAoDzGWP.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala man booked for murder of 8-month pregnant wife||A 23-year-old man, Ganga Kumar, allegedly murdered his 8-month pregnant wife, Saroj, 21, in a fit of rage in Saidkheri village in Rajpura sub-division on Wednesday. The couple had been married for three years. Kheri Gandian SHO Mehma Singh said the accused had heated argument with his pregnant wife, and attacked her with a sharp-edged knife. “The woman received two deep cuts in her stomach and back and bleeding profusely was rushed to the local civil hospital from where she was referred to government Rajindra hospital,” the SHO added, saying she succumbed to her injuries at the hospital. The accused is absconding. Police have booked the accused for murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-man-booked-for-murder-of-8-month-pregnant-wife/story-wY6T4gyJnjBxkTPscBBcdI.html
10-06-2020||City||Minutes after firing outside his shop, Moga trader gets ₹10-lakh extortion call||Police are looking for leads after unidentified men made a ₹10-lakh extortion call to a garment trader and opened fire outside his shop in Madari market at Bagahapurana sub-division of Moga district on Wednesday.After firing in the air, the accused called up garment shop owner Ajay Kumar and threatened to kill him if he failed to pay up ₹10 lakh by Thursday, police said. Ajay said he was in his shop when he heard sound of a gunshot. “Soon, I received a phone call from an unknown number. The caller demanded ₹10-lakh extortion or get killed,” he said. Deputy superintendent of police Jaswinder Singh said they were scanning CCTV camera footage of surrounding areas to identify the accused.A case under Section 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act was registered against the unidentified accused at Baghapurana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minutes-after-firing-outside-his-shop-moga-trader-gets-10-lakh-extortion-call/story-ondOnpJqGufxSisBufXRuI.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Boparai leading race for PSPCL posts, CM may take decision today||Retired engineer-in-chief Hardeep Singh Boparai is leading the race for the posts of directors (distribution, and commercial) among the four names shortlisted by a high-powered committee headed by chief secretary.A panel of chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh, principal secretary (power) Anirudh Tiwari, and power finance corporation chairman RS Dhillon selected four names from among 72 engineers who had applied for the said posts.Apart from Boparai, who has been shortlisted for both posts, names of Ludhiana chief engineer DIS Grewal and his Jalandhar counterpart Gopal Sharma have also been shortlisted, sources said.The file has been forwarded to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who also holds the charge of power department, for final selection. Sources said the CM will take a decision on Thursday.Boparai is the son of late SGPC member Parkash Singh Gidderan Wali, who is considered very close to former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. During the previous SAD-BJP tenure, Boparai served at different positions in Mohali. He retired as the engineer-in-chief on December 31, 2019. A powerful bureaucrat in chief minister’s office batted for Boparai during the selection, said sources.Even though the incumbent director (distribution) NK Sharma, and director (commercial) OP Garg had also applied for the posts, but they didn’t find favour with the selection panel.The government had advertised the posts of directors for generation, commercial, and distribution, in the PSPCL; besides director (technical) in the PSTCL. The selection of director (generation) and director (technical) of PSTCL will take place in next few days.A total of 19 applications were received for the post of director (generation), 37 for director (commercial), 35 for director (distribution) of the PSPCL, while 25 applied for the post of director (technical) PSTCL.PSPCL chairman also retired on June 6, but the government didn’t advertise the post. The charge has been given senior bureaucrat A Venu Prasad.BoxThe shortlisted onesDirector (distribution)Hardeep Singh Boparai, DIS Grewal, Gopal SharmaDirector (commercial)Hardeep Singh Boparai, Gopal Sharma, Jai Krishan Vaid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/boparai-leading-race-for-pspcl-posts-cm-may-take-decision-today/story-C4rwfSJZW7bz8SBCRHhHVN.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||ASI accidently shoots himself dead in Sangrur||An assistant sub inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police was killed after he accidentally shot himself on Wednesday, said senior police officials.Krishan Dev, 50, was posted at a check post on the Punjab and Haryana border at Kadail.The police said the incident took place at around 8am when five bullets were fired from a carbine. He died on the spot. “It seems Krishan Dev died in accidentally firing. Police are investigating the case from different angles and the body has been sent for post-mortem,” said Moonak deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Buta Singh.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asi-accidently-shoots-himself-dead-in-sangrur/story-ImDFBhpVpCQJBmdrynKemL.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||We got justice but trial felt like it would kill us, says rape survivor’s mother||Just over a week ago, the Bombay high court upheld a 10-year sentence handed down to a security guard who raped a woman in the building where he worked. The June 2 verdict marked the end of a six-year struggle for the survivor, who was 25 at the time, and her family. Now, her mother says, they can finally start to heal. But first she wanted to describe, in her own words, the ordeal of seeking justice in a rape case.For six years, I have been petrified that he may get away. The case took over our lives. We spend days, weeks, months, in courtroom after courtroom, reduced to initials and numbers. I was PW12 — Prosecution Witness No 12.I would fly in from Singapore, where I live, for the proceedings. When the defence lawyer walked in, it would be time to be violated again and again. I felt helpless and only the presence of sensitive people like special public prosecutor Vaibhav Bagade and police inspector Rajiv Chavan made me feel safe.Truth does not matter at criminal justice trials. At every hearing your dignity is shredded. My daughter had to depose, and so did I and my other daughter, in front of the rapist. When he was not present, his lawyer made up for it. They didn’t have evidence to exonerate this man, so they resorted to lies. I was told it was legally allowed.My daughter’s undergarments, her favourite boots, every injury on her body, was used repeatedly as a tool to demolish her character and suggest that there were reasons, even justifications, for the crime.You want to scream but you are silent.The court is a place where everybody is equal and has to walk through the same doors. But is it an equal justice to have had her morals called into question?Even if the results are eventually just, the proceedings feel like they will kill you. Sensitivity is absent and mindsets and biases that have no place in a court of justice, get free reign.I believe people convicted of rape or murder should get the death penalty. This man will be released after 10 years.When a mother’s worst nightmare comes true, it is irrevocable. Some wounds are here to stay but I may now start to sleep in peace.Because of all the questioning and scrutiny, my daughter has fresh scars to heal from. She is a survivor. She will get through this in time. But we shouldn’t have to be this strong.My daughter deserved respect and compassion, and everywhere we turned, with very few exceptions, she didn’t get it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/my-daughter-has-fresh-scars-to-heal-from-now-says-rape-survivor-s-mother/story-33WzDCjGEouvyFI8AbF11H.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seven deaths, 370 new infections in Haryana||Haryana registered seven coronavirus-related deaths on Wednesday, taking the state’s toll to 52. Three patients from Faridabad, two from Gurugram and one each from Sonepat and Charkhi Dadri died. In the last 72 hours, 24 persons have succumbed to the respiratory illness in Haryana. The state reported 370 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, pushing the tally to 5,579, a bulletin of the health department said. The total number of active cases was 3,339 on Wednesday. National capital region (NCR) districts Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat continued to be the biggest contributors to the state’s Covid-19 tally with 286 combined fresh cases, about 77% of the total count.Replying to a query on whether community transmission has set in Gurugram, additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said 1,700 active cases against a population of three million in the district did not indicate community spread of the disease. “We were able to effectively control the spread of infection till May 17. However, we expected an increase in the number of cases once economic activity and transportation was resumed,” he added. While Gurugram district reported 217 fresh cases, 41 infections were detected in Faridabad and 28 in Sonepat. The active cases in Gurugram were 1,709, more than 50% of the total such cases across 21 districts. Among the other districts, Rohtak reported 23 fresh cases followed by Ambala (13), Jind (11), Charkhi Dadri (10), Fatehabad (6), Kurukshetra and Hisar (5 each), Panchkula, Nuh, Yamunanagar and Rewari (2 each), and Kaithal, Bhiwani and Sirsa (1 each).Karnal, Jhajjar, Panipat, Palwal and Mahendergarh did not report any new case on Wednesday as per the health bulletin. However, Karnal administration said eight people were tested positive for the virus, while one infection was detected in Panipat. TWO PATIENTS DIE IN ROHTAKRohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said a 66-year-old man suffering from diabetes and another 48-year-old man from Sonepat died at PGIMS here on Wednesday. FROM 33 TO 118 IN TWO WEEKS: SURGE IN CASES WORRIES KARNAL ADMNKarnal A sudden spurt in the number of coronavirus cases has become a cause of worry for the Karnal administration. The district saw its tally rising from 33 to 118 in merely two weeks, besides registering a death.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Wednesday convened a meeting of all stakeholders, including nodal officers and senior doctors of Karnal medical college.As per the health officials, the cases increased soon after the government relaxed the curbs on movement post-June 1. District administration faced tough time in detecting infection as people having travel history to other states often showed reluctance in disclosing their details, officials said.The administration has now issued directions and made it mandatory for the people coming from other states to disclose their travel history, or face criminal cases.Karnal DC said, “Cases increased after we started random sampling. We are testing around 250 people daily.”“Since most of the patients have a history of travel to other states, the administration is encouraging people to disclose their details and get themselves tested if they develop any symptom,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-deaths-370-new-infections-in-haryana/story-ISBLgywuD3057401CIGlTI.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown leaves Amritsar’s BRTS project gasping||The coronavirus-induced lockdown has hit the state’s first bus rapid transit system (BRTS) badly. Not only 93 air-conditioned (AC) buses are gathering dust, the exchequer has also been losing around ₹30 lakh per month.The ₹553-crore metro bus service project had already been struggling to draw passengers and the pandemic has cast a gloomy shadow on the project’s future.Around 200 bus drivers have not been paid salaries for the last three months. “The officials say there is no income, so salaries can’t be released. Families of some drivers are on the verge of starvation,” said 50-year-old driver Onkar Singh.“Even if the buses come on the road after some time, there will be fewer passengers. Tourism of the city is already hit. Domestic and international tourists will not come here for at least one year and the project will suffer for a few years,” he said.The officials, however, said the drivers are hired through a private company and are paid per km basis. “Since the buses are not plying, and the company has expressed its inability to pay salaries. But, we are talking with the company to sort out the issue,” said BRTS’s chief executive officer (CEO) Inderjit Singh Chawla.He said, “For now, we see little hope that the service will start anytime soon as the situation in Amritsar is critical. All the buses are air-conditioned and there is no order from the government for running AC buses. We are suffering around ₹30 lakh every month, including the salary and the maintenance.”The first phase of the project was inaugurated in December 2016 by the then deputy chief minister (CM) Sukhbir Singh Badal during the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) regime. The project was revamped and re-inaugurated in January 2019 by the then local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. The Punjab Bus Metro Society (PBMS), a society under Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB), which runs the project, later announced concession scheme to attract passengers, offering 100% discount for school students, 66% for college students, 50% for senior citizens and people with disabilities, and 20% for general public. But, despite this, the project failed to attract passengers.“We need ₹2.5 lakh daily for fuel and as much to meet other costs. We sustain only if there is daily income of ₹5 lakh, which comes out to around 20,000 passengers daily,” said a bus driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-leaves-amritsar-s-brts-project-gasping/story-akdZl5SmYmU8y8n5TxRbpI.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Smart City Limited to pitch in ₹11 crore to augment city’s water storage capacity||The Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) will be giving Rs 11 crore to the municipal corporation to increase city’s water storage capacity.This was decided in the CSCL board of directors’ meeting held here on Wednesday.MC had approved Rs 38 crore for the water storage project. But with only Rs 27 crore available for it, the project couldn’t take off. The civic body even approached the UT administration to fill in the gap of Rs 11 crore, but it was not approved. Now with the financial assistance coming from CSCL, MC will float a tender for the project next week.WHY MORE STORAGE?Increasing city’s water shortage capacity is crucial to ensure continuous supply. At present, the Sector 39 waterworks reservoir can hold water enough for only half-day supply, which the project aims to double.The water received in the morning from Kajauli waterworks is supplied in the evening, while the evening storage is supplied the next morning.With the peak water demand in summer touching 120-125 MGD (million gallons daily), the current availability of 90-95 MGD remains inadequate. Besides, any disruption in water supply from the Kajauli waterworks due to pipe leakages or maintenance works also affects city’s supply, making the need for increased storage capacity more relevant by the day.OTHER AGENDASThe board also approved the proposal to build three material recovery-cum-transfer centres. These will be used to segregate dry, wet and hazardous garbage of the city. Thereon, the garbage will be sent to the dumping ground in Dadumajra.The controversial animal carcass incinerator plant was also approved. MC has already allotted the work for its construction in Sector 25 West.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-smart-city-limited-to-pitch-in-11-crore-to-augment-city-s-water-storage-capacity/story-UW2ErIOpxSagqeivMtWH4K.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Police freeze assets worth ₹10 crore of 2 Tarn Taran drug smugglers||Police on Wednesday froze assets worth ₹10 crore of two notorious drug smugglers, including Balwinder Singh alias Billa Havelian, from Tarn Taran district.Assets worth over ₹8 crore were frozen of Billa, 54, in Tarn Taran and Mohali districts. He hails from Havelian village near the India-Pakistan border that has gained notoriety in the past few years for cross-border smuggling of drugs.He faces FIRs in 15 cases, including that for drug smuggling from Pakistan and attempt to murder charges, in various districts of Punjab. He has been lodged in a Patiala jail after his arrest in August 2019 with 750 gram heroin.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya said they froze the assets after receiving an order from the competent authority.He said, “The assets include agricultural land at Dhalla village which is worth ₹1.05 crore and land at Mohali’s Jhanjeri village which is worth ₹7.08 crore.”He said police had already seized Billa’s property worth ₹74 lakh in 2019.Billa has been involved in drug smuggling for nearly three decades. The first FIR was registered against him under the NDPS Act in 1992.The police also froze assets worth ₹2 crore of another drug smuggler Kinderbir Singh, alias Sunny, of Dyal Rajputan village.The properties include agricultural land and a residential house. Sunny has been booked in at least 8 cases, including that of drug smuggling and attempt to murder.The SSP said so far they have frozen the properties worth ₹71 crore of 63 drug peddlers, most having links with Pakistan-based smugglers. “We have identified properties of more drug dealers. Once we get a nod from the central agencies, these properties will also be frozen,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-freeze-assets-worth-10-crore-of-2-tarn-taran-drug-smugglers/story-jByEPMsTbLooQQzlUxx9TO.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Smartphone condition hinders door-to-door mapping project in Punjab||The Punjab health department’s much ambitious door-to-door community surveillance project to contain Covid-19 has hit rough weather at the onset as lowly-paid ASHA workers are struggling to arrange ‘latest smartphones’ for updating data on the government app in real time.The household survey, for the time-being, has been launched in urban slums of Mohali district and rural areas of Patiala district but has not been able to pick pace.As most accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers earn ₹2,000-3,000 per month, they rue that all of them cannot afford smartphones with particular specifications, a prerequisite for the purpose.As per the orders, an ASHA worker will cover 25 families daily and be paid ₹4 per household. Thus, maximum an ASHA worker can earn in a day is ₹100.In the household survey, which ASHA workers and other volunteers (government has also roped in anganwadi workers) have to complete, the health status of a person will be updated in real time through the app. Those found symptomatic will be tested for Covid-19.“The department is playing a joke on us. The officials expect all of us to have latest smartphones for a work which we will earn ₹100 from in a day. The department officials say the activists can borrow phone from family members or relatives in case they don’t have their own. Can a family member or a relative spare his or her phone for entire day?” says Kirandeep Panjola, state president of ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union. She says either the department should hike the payment for the job or provide tabs or mobile phones to the workers.There are around 28,000 ASHA workers in Punjab whose services are taken for carrying out surveys and mapping of ailments.A health official supervising the survey in Patiala said the survey has hit the roadblock as all ASHA workers don’t have the smartphones with particular specifications to update the data properly.The June 4 order of the health department to all civil surgeons says that in places where ASHA/anganwadi workers are not available or are unable to use the mobile app, other volunteers may be engaged for the job.“The volunteer should have his/her own mobile phone and comfortable in feeding data directly on the app,” reads the order.In different orders last week, the health department has also asked community health officers, pharmacists, rural pharmacists and nurses, AYUSH doctors and rural medical officer to fill the proforma of RT-PCR testing online through the phone-based app.“I had bought an expensive smartphone two years back. I had to free space to upload the RT-PCR app and still it’s not working properly. I asked for technical assistance from my department and officials told me that we need to have latest smartphones,” a rural medical officer deployed in Sangrur said.Director, health and family welfare, Dr Avneet Kaur, was not available for a comment. Health minister Balbir Sidhu said he has not received any complaint regarding the issue so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/smartphone-condition-hinders-door-to-door-mapping-project-in-punjab/story-Ez2J2XPYdavKL8mIrjhIxN.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab allows doc to join medical, dental colleges||The Punjab government on Friday granted permission for reporting/joining of doctors in state’s medical and dental colleges selected through the NEET-PG counselling conducted by the union health ministry. The government has also allowed holding of entrance exam for post graduate/under graduate courses by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.An official spokesperson of the Punjab government said the Union ministry of health & family welfare has informed the state regarding this selection process and joining/reporting by the doctors in state medical institutions.He added that the union home ministry has already allowed conducting the board examinations for classes 10th and 12th.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-allows-doc-to-join-medical-dental-colleges/story-YGrvjtEBS4LMI1bfxwjE0H.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||On your feet! Zaveri Bazar picking up momentum one day at a time||Every time a photograph of Zaveri Bazar crops up in front of our eyes, the crowded lanes and throngs of people fail to catch our attention. Yet, what’s surprising is that in a span of a few months, this very photograph is enough to startle even the most optimistic among us.Known for its jewellery showrooms, the shops opened on Friday after a two month lockdown. The shop owners are aware that it will take some time for the industry to bounce back and they feel accepting this reality is the first step towards normalcy. The government has asked the shopkeepers to follow the odd-even rule, and this decision has brought some cheer in the market, making people optimistic about days to come. According to reports, there are around 3,000 stores in the area. #OfficialUpdateMahaGuidelines for ‘Easing of Restrictions and Phase-wise opening of Lockdown’, issued by the Government of Maharashtra.#MissionBeginAgain#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/g5unvoNWee“It is a good step, as in, we had to slowly get back on our feet. Except Bombay, many places had already opened up. Business hasn’t picked up quickly, but that was expected. We can say that it has picked up at the rate of 25-30%,” says, Vinod Jain, director, Indian Bullion and Jewellers Association (IBJW). Jain also quips that from now on, jewellery store managers will now have to get used to people entering their stores wearing masks.For the secretary of IBJW, Surendra Mehta, it all depends on the city’s lifeline – the local trains. “It might be easier for people nearby to travel. But, many who work in the city, live in the suburbs. So, as long as train services are shut, the backbone of the city will be weak.”IBJW is a 101-year-old organisation which oversees the entire jewellery supply chain in the country. Everything from bullions to mines-to-market comes under its umbrella. According to the guidelines, it will be mandatory for jewellers to not have more than 3 people inside the showroom at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/on-your-feet-zaveri-bazar-picking-up-momentum-one-day-at-a-time/story-Vk1Z8Fqddx7ECNFg8zM4lJ.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Firing in Chandigarh: Gunshots were fired to instil fear not kill, gangster Bishnoi’s aide tells police||Operating a well-organised extortion racket from behind the bars, gangster Lawrence Bishnoi had issued directions to his key aide Deepu Banur, who too is jailed, to orchestrate the firing outside a businessman’s house in Sector 33, Chandigarh, only “to instil fear and not to kill”.“I was simply following orders,” is what Deepu is learnt to have told police during his interrogation in connection with firing outside the bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla, elder brother of liquor baron Arvind Singla, on May 31.Deepu was brought on production warrants from the Ambala jail on Tuesday and is in five-day police remand.Chandigarh Police are now trying to bring Bishnoi — the mastermind — on production warrants from the Bharatpur jail in Rajasthan. Bishnoi’s list of crimes in the city is quite long, including the murder of Sonu Shah, a property dealer, in broad daylight on September 28, 2019. Sources said Bishnoi uses his aides to make extortion calls. Earlier, at least seven businessmen have complained of such calls. Bizmen across region on targetOfficials privy to the investigations said Deepu has also revealed that the firing was part of a larger conspiracy to target different businessmen in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.“The motive revealed so far was extortion by instilling fear,” said Charanjit Singh, deputy superintendent of police. He said raids are being conducted in Patiala and Ambala in search of all those involved. So far one of the five shooters — a 23-year-old hotel management student — and two men who provided logistical support have been arrested.Bishnoi allegedly used WhatsApp to call Deepu and direct him to arrange shooters as well as provide logistical support. Deepu reportedly told police that as the motive was to just instil fear, no trained shooter was engaged and the youngsters tasked with it were asked to fire maximum rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/firing-in-chandigarh-gunshots-were-fired-to-instil-fear-not-kill-gangster-bishnoi-s-aide-tells-police/story-5ORHfpQvCJVnrKcLR66wHP.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Wind, rain, lockdown keep pollution levels in check||Strong winds, frequent showers and vehicular and industrial restrictions during the two-and-a-half month-long lockdown have helped keep pollution levels in the national Capital in check.On Wednesday, the average Air Quality Index reading of the city was recorded at 152, in the ‘moderate’ range. This, however, dipped further to reach 128 in lower end of the ‘moderate’ range after some parts of the city witnessed thunderstorm and heavy rain, with wind speed touching 40-50kmph. Light rainfall was also recorded in parts of the city on June 3, June 4, June 5 and June 7, which also helped keep pollution under control.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, considered the official recording of the city, was 41.5 degrees Celsius. At the Palam observatory, the maximum temperature recorded during the day was 43.6 degrees Celsius. However, after the evening’s rain, the temperature at Safdarjung fell by four degrees and at Palam, the temperature fell by seven degrees, according to IMD. The temperature is expected to fall further by 2-3 degrees in the next few days, the IMD forecast said.“Cyclonic circulation over north Rajasthan and a trough from north Pakistan to the low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal was observed on Wednesday, which resulted in the thunderstorm and rain in the Delhi-NCR region. This not only helped bring the temperature under control, but it also helped blow away pollution particles,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre, said. Recordings maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) show that since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was announced, the AQI readings of Delhi have largely remained in the ‘satisfactory’ category. Even though the pollution levels in the city are generally lower in summers when compared to winters, this year’s levels were much lower compared to previous years.Data from 2015 to 2019 shows that in the period between March and June, the pollution levels usually remain in the latter end of the ‘moderate’ or in the middle range of the ‘poor’ category.Scientists at IMD said that along with the restrictions on human activities since March 25, the national Capital has also benefitted from the increased number of western disturbances (WDs) that have crossed the city this year. Even if the WDs did not bring rain on several occasions, they did result in increased wind speed that caused pollution particles to dissipate. From June 1, when the lockdown restrictions were lifted, the AQI levels have remained in the ‘moderate’ zone.Data shows that six WDs passed Delhi in March and six in April, which is unlikely for these months. This trend, however, began in January, when nine WDs passed Delhi. Seven WDs passed the city in February. Usually, on an average, the months of January to June see four WDs each.Pawan Gupta, a senior scientist (earth sciences) at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) Universities Space Research Association (USRA), agreed that there has been a visible dip in the pollution levels all over northern India, including Delhi. Gupta is heading a study at NASA to examine the effect of the lockdown on pollution levels in India by studying the aerosol optical depth (AOD) levels, recorded through satellite images.AOD is an indirect proxy for air quality that shows how solid and liquid particles in polluted air block sunlight. It represents particle loading in the entire atmosphere from the surface to top-of-the-atmosphere as opposed to PM2.5 levels, which are measured at the surface.“There are a lot of factors behind the reduction in pollution levels, along with restrictions in human activities such as vehicular movement and industrial operations and fires. The weather has also played an important role,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wind-rain-lockdown-keep-pollution-levels-in-check/story-WNLLynisOFUkfYJy8NL95J.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-ADGP’s sub-inspector son booked for cruelty against wife in Jalandhar||Jalandhar Goraya police have booked Aditya Sharma, a sub-inspector (SI) with the state police, for cruelty and outraging modesty of a woman on the complaint of his wife. Sharma is son of former additional director general of police (ADGP), Ishwar Chandra, who died in December 2019. Goraya station house officer (SHO) Kewal Singh said the according to the FIR lodged by the complainant, the accused had been torturing and abusing her since their marriage in February this year. She also alleged that Sharma held her responsible for the death of his father. The victim first approached the police after another such episode of domestic violence on May 26 and 27, when she claimed to be injured in the head, back, shoulder and left arm. She has also said in her complaint that, initially, the ASI posted at Rurka police post of Goraya refused to get her medically examined. The complaint was finally lodged on June 1. “After the complaint, we sent a police team to Sharma’s house with a notice asking him to join investigation, but he was not found at home. Our inquiry has found that Sharma, who is posted in Patiala district, thrashed his wife, and also abused and defamed her,” the SHO added. A case has been registered under Sharma under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty); 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman); 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) at Goraya police station, after legal opinion from district attorney Paramjit Singh Kahlon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-adgp-s-sub-inspector-son-booked-for-cruelty-against-wife-in-jalandhar/story-qXDr2kc3RqKHqZ0RmnpDJJ.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar civil surgeon seeks action against private labs over ‘false’ Covid reports||The Amritsar civil surgeon on Wednesday wrote a letter to the Punjab health department demanding action against city-based private laboratories after their Covid-19 test reports were found contradicting the results of Government Medical College (GMC). Five Amritsar residents, including a pregnant woman, who were first tested positive for the coronavirus by the private labs, were later found negative by the GMC’s viral research and diagnostic laboratory (VRDL).Civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “Recently, 18 residents of the district were tested positive for Covid-19 at the Tuli Diagnostic Centre, and the Bhasin Pathology Lab. As per protocol, the patients were immediately isolated at GMCH. The hospital authorities took their swab samples for re-testing. Of the 18, five tested negative at the GMC lab. This led to a lot of confusion and swab samples of these patients were tested again the next day only to find that the reports of the private labs were wrong. Four reports came from Tuli Diagnostic Centre and one from Bhasin Pathology Lab,” he added.REPORTS DECLARED AS PER SAMPLES: LAB OWNERDr Rohan Tuli, owner of the Tuli Diagnostic Centre, said, “We had received the swab samples from a private hospital and test reports were declared positive accordingly. We have conducted many tests in the past days and all the results have been found matching with those of the GMC. Our lab is approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).”“We are ready to submit our reports to the health department, if needed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-civil-surgeon-seeks-action-against-private-labs-over-false-covid-reports/story-jbtVoWmYFP1qSyYMeZrGlL.html
10-06-2020||City||Firing: Ludhiana gangster claims responsibility on social media||Nearly two days after opening fire on a rival gangster’s house here, a man took to social media to take responsibility of the shooting incident.The accused, identified as Nikka Jattana, uploaded a photo on Facebook of him flashing two pistols and claimed responsibility of the firing.Nikka claimed himself to be a member of Davinder Bhambia gang and threatened rival gangster Shubham Arora alias Naanu that it was “only a trailer and a befitting answer” would be given soon.Nikka stated that police should not harass anyone as he has was responsible for the shooting.The accused had opened fire on the house of Naanu, who is an accused in an attempt to murder case and is lodged in jail, on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday in Dharampura area.Five miscreants riding two motorcycles had been captured by the CCTVs installed in the area. However, they had not been identified. Naanu’s mother Sangeeta Sharma had told police that two bullets had hit the wall of her room, while the rest hit the main gate of the house.Division 3 police had lodged an FIR against the accused and initiated investigation.ACP (investigation) Mandeep Singh said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/firing-ludhiana-gangster-claims-responsibility-on-social-media/story-cieqvvvTpRM3oPSeEjQziO.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||MVR Ravi Kumar is new GM of SBI, Chandigarh circle||MVR Ravi Kumar has joined as the general manager of State Bank of India’s (SBI) Chandigarh circle. He will overlook the functioning of the bank in Punjab zone. Kumar started his banking career in 1985, and has since held positions in various fields like retail banking, corporate, inspection and audit, and international banking. Prior to joining Chandigarh circle, he worked in Maharashtra circle as deputy general manager, Panji, Goa, where he was responsible for business and operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ravi-kumar-mvr-is-new-gm-of-sbi-chandigarh-circle/story-MAZ0wUy28F5IZJXRI8sdsK.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi University admissions set to begin from June 20||The admission process for various undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD courses in Delhi University is set to begin on June 20, university officials said on Wednesday. Applicants will get at least a two-week window till July 4 to submit their registration forms on the website.The decision was taken at the three-hour-long standing committee meeting of the academic council —the varsity’s highest academic body. Officials at DU’s Computer Centre (DUCC), the varsity’s central IT institution, said that barring technical and administrative glitches, the registration process is likely to start on June 20.Arun Kumar Attree, a member of the standing committee, said, “The registration portal is to be opened from June 20 to July 4 for all courses. The second window will be opened for updating marks after the declaration of results by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The first cutoff, which will also be dependent on that, is likely to come out between the second and third week of August.”Last year, the online registration process was carried out between May 30 and June 22 and the first cut-off was announced on June 28. This year, the academic calendar has been delayed by nearly two months.Officials said the dates of the first cut-off would depend on the pending Class 12 CBSE examination, which is slated to be conducted between July 1 and 15. “Due to the ongoing increase in Covid-19 cases in some areas, there is a possibility that the CBSE may not be able to conduct Class 12 exams and instead consider pre-board results from schools. We have to look at that possibility as well,” Attree said.The academic council member had also proposed the removal of admission cancellation fee of ₹1,000 for marginalised students, keeping the current economic crisis in mind. However, the committee did not accept his recommendation.“The exorbitant cancellation fee will lead to affluent candidates getting a college or course of their choice and further discouraging marginalised students from having multiple options. Disadvantaged students should be allowed to cancel their admission for free between three cut-offs at least,” Attree said, adding that he recorded his dissent.The university has also decided not to conduct trials for admissions under Sports or Extra-Curricular Activities (ECA) category this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Under these admissions, applicants excelling in sports or ECA categories listed by the varsity would get a chance to secure a seat through trials and merit certificates. In DU colleges, 5% supernumerary seats are reserved under these two categories collectively in each course.This year, however, the university has decided to grant admissions to sports candidates across 27 disciplines on the basis of their certificates entirely. For ECA, the university will only take admissions on the basis of National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) certificates instead of the 14 activities listed every year. In May, Hindustan Times had reported that the varsity was considering such measures in the wake of the health crisis arising out of Covid-19.Former sports council chairperson, CS Dubey, endorsed the move as it would be “better” under the given circumstances. He, however, cautioned against fraudulent certificates. “Earlier, sports trials were conducted by the college and 75% weightage was given to certificates and 25% to trials. To tackle the problem of fake certificates, the weightage to trials was later on increased 40%,” he said.Currently, under the sports quota, candidates have to appear for trials in their preferred discipline. While the trials carry 60%, the other 40% are allotted based on merit certificates.“This is the first time since then [2011] that sports trials will not be conducted. This is, however, better, considering social distancing norms and whether applicants will be able to travel to the university or not. However, care should be taken to deal with fraudulent certificates,” Dubey, who has served as the sports council chairperson for nearly a decade, said.On Wednesday, the committee also agreed that “any discrepancy in the spelling of a name or missing surname in the certificates of SC/ST/OBC/EWS/PwD shall be verified from their other certificates rather than rejecting their admission”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-university-admissions-set-to-begin-from-june-20/story-yftpLKzxFKsqUurWYW0b6L.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Epca asks for report on biomedical waste generation and disposal; will submit before SC next week||The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) on Wednesday conducted a video meeting with the state pollution control boards and municipalities of Delhi-NCR asking them for a detailed report on the quantity of biomedical waste generated by hospitals and quarantine centres since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The body has also asked for details on whether this hazardous waste was being disposed of safely.Epca chairperson Bhure Lal said that representatives from Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan attended Wednesday’s meeting. The states have been asked to submit the required information in the next three days, after which a detailed report on the generation and handling of biomedical waste from Covid-designated treatment centres will be submitted before the apex court.“Between March 16 and March 22, we had started inspecting hospitals around Meerut, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Bhiwadi to see how they were segregating biomedical waste and how it was being disposed of. But after such a massive outbreak of Covid-19, we are dealing with more hazardous biomedical waste and we need to know if the states are handling this waste safely,” Lal said after the meeting.He also said that along with data on waste generation and disposal, the SC-mandated body is inspecting whether the garbage collection trucks are fitted with Global Positioning System (GPS) trackers to ensure that the collectors are picking up waste from hospitals, quarantine centres and houses of those under home isolation and are not dumping it midway before reaching the waste treatment centres.“We have found that 90% of these vans are fitted with GPS trackers, but we have asked states to also collect garbage from small clinics in their areas because a lot of asymptomatic patients carry the virus,” Lal said.He added, “We have also asked states to maintain a complete record of the final disposal delivery of biomedical waste. This will ensure that this waste is not recycled and reused.”Epca’s final report will be submitted before the SC within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/epca-asks-for-report-on-biomedical-waste-generation-and-disposal-will-submit-before-sc-next-week/story-KFUGfanYWSpF1NR0WwRSjL.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Water supply to be hit in Chandigarh on June 12||Due to replacement of old supply pipeline at the Sectors 14/15/24/25 roundabout, there will be no water supply in some sectors in the afternoon and evening on June 12. The sectors to be affected include 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21-A, 22-A and B, 23-A and B, 24-A and B and 25. The water supply in the morning will be normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-chandigarh-on-june-12/story-HPeNWtwHAsPqqqYacGvqcK.html
10-06-2020||Noida||Motorists have narrow escape on DND Flyway as hoardings fall in wind||The high winds that swept across Delhi-NCR on Wednesday evening caused hoardings to collapse on the Delhi Noida Direct (DND) Flyway at two places. No one was injured in the mishap.The hoardings collapsed around 5.30pm during the thunderstorm and the winds. “One hoarding collapsed on the side that leads towards Noida while another came crashing on the side going towards Delhi. Vehicles were trapped between the two mishap sites, but no vehicle was damaged or anyone injured. The debris on the Delhi side has been cleared and work is on clean the other side as well,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma said.Following the incident, authorities shut the DND flyway and diverted traffic on both sides towards other roads.“The traffic was diverted to Chilla border on both sides to facilitate work to clear the debris. There was congestion at the Mayur Vihar area but normal traffic flow was restored soon,” Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional DCP, zone 1, said.However, commuters claimed they were stuck in traffic for hours.“Even if police diverted traffic towards Mayur Vihar, we will first have to cross the toll. But because of the debris blocking the road, we were stick on DND for hours. They closed off the flyway, but those of us who were already on the highway can neither turn back nor move forward. It’s a miracle that no one was injured in the collapse,” Anil Arora, a commuter from Delhi to Noida, said.Strong winds and rain lashed Delhi-NCR on Wednesday evening, and the weatherman said it is expected to continue for another few days, keeping the rising mercury under check.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the current trough line or the low pressure line passes through Pakistan to Bay of Bengal via Rajasthan, which coupled with a western disturbance led to the thundery activities and winds on Wednesday. The activities like high winds, rains or thundershowers will continue in the region.“We expect the maximum temperature to fall from Thursday till June 16 at least,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (RWMC), IMD, said.Till the rain came, Wednesday was the warmest June day so far, with a maximum temperature of 41.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season’s average, and four degrees more than the previous day’s 37.5 degrees. However, the mercury fell by four degrees around 5pm after the thunderstorm.The storm knocked out power in almost all areas of the district. The transformers in sectors 39 and 126 were also reportedly damaged in the rain and squall. Vijay Singh, a resident of Sector 41, said, “Despite generating maximum revenue in terms of electricity bills, we are destined to live with faulty power transmission lines and electric poles. The maintenance is also poor.”Virendra Nath Singh, chief engineer, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited said restoration of power is being done on war footing. “Most of the areas have got electricity back. And, within a few hours, supply will be restored to other areas well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/motorists-have-narrow-escape-on-dnd-flyway-as-hoardings-fall-in-wind/story-37c9l7iR62DPs8RyBfK1sN.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sector-47 man among two fresh infections in Chandigarh||A 45-year-old man from Sector 47 and 34-year-old man from Khudda Jassu are two fresh cases of Covid-19 reported from Chandigarh on Wednesday. The city’s tally has reached 328, out of which 34 cases are active. The Khudda Jassu man works at a medical store in Sector 16, whose owner’s son tested positive on Tuesday. The person has three family contacts who have been quarantined.The Sector 47 has three family and four community contacts. Director health services Dr G Dewan said details regarding his source of infection are awaited. Two brothers from Delhi, who were visiting in-laws of one of them at Daria village, have also tested positive. The cases will be counted in Delhi’s tally. The local family has four members, who are asymptomatic.Meanwhile, three residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and one of Khudda Alisher have been discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 289.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-47-man-among-two-fresh-infections-in-chandigarh/story-5YY22BoC4h7LMKA6MRMInO.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC employees’ union protest over non-fulfilment of demands||The Ludhiana Municipal Employees’ Sangharsh Committee staged a protest outside the MC’s Zone D office in Sarabha Nagar on Wednesday over non-fulfilment of long pending demands including regularisation of employees and increase in pay scale. The union also demanded that sweepers and sanitation workers, who have working during the pandemic, should be given a status of safai sainik. They said employees should be covered under insurance policy and pending general provident fund should also be submitted in their accounts at the earliest.Chairman of the committee, Ashwani Sahota, and president Jasdev Sekhon said,” Drivers who have been working with the MC for two decades have not been regularised. We are also demanding that the pay scale of certain employees should be increased and they should be promoted as per policies of the state government.”Sekhon said higher authorities should also not pay heed to complaints made by persons regularly as many of them blackmail MC employees to get their own work done.Following the protest, the union members handed over a memorandum to MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar.Brar could not be reached for her comments.The union also opposed the MC’s decision to conduct survey of labour quarters amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Brar had earlier ordered employees to conduct a survey as part of the ongoing process to increase property tax for labour quarters and other rental properties.SOCIAL DISTANCING GOES FOR A TOSSWhile the administration is forcing residents to maintain social distancing, the MC employees threw caution to the wind by gathering in large numbers to protest against the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-employees-union-protest-over-non-fulfilment-of-demands/story-OHsCZTfNn9p5W8K1zMjklJ.html
10-06-2020||Pune||Fake currency notes, US dollars worth Rs 47 crore, seized in Pune; Army jawan among six arrested||Pune police crime branch officials arrested six persons, including an Indian Army personnel, in an operation that led to the seizure of fake Indian and foreign currency notes with a face value of at least Rs 43.4 crore and fake US dollars worth Rs 4.2 crore, said a senior official aware of the developments on Wednesday evening.​The joint operation carried out by the Pune police and the Military Intelligence (MI), had been conducted at Sanjay Park in Vimannagar. According to the official, the operation to count the counterfeit notes is still underway. ​“After detailed planning with the MI team, a joint operation was carried out today (Wednesday) in which six persons including one serving military person has been detained with multiple denominations of fake Indian and foreign currency. Counting of currency is going on as per the procedure,” read a statement by Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Crime, Pune. ​The arrested six men have been identified as Indian Army jawan Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan, and civilians Sunil Badrinarayan Sarda, Ritesh Ratnakar, Tufail Ahmed Mohammad Ishaq Khan, Abdul Gani Rehmtullah Khan, Abdul Rehman Abdul Gani Khan, according to the police.​“After counting, Indian currency of various denominations worth Rs 43.4 crore and US dollars worth Rs 4.2 crore has been seized. The quality of the notes will be checked in due course by experts. Many of the notes are marked ‘Children Bank of India’,” read a police statement. ​The information about the fake currency operation was provided by officials of military intelligence, according to the police. The fake currency notes were in different denominations, including Rs 1,000, which has been demonetised by the central government in 2016. “Some of these currency notes carried the stamp of ‘Children Bank of India’ and may have been printed before 2016 when the government made the denominations of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 invalid,” said a defence official aware of the developments on the condition of anonymity. “The amount (Rs 43.4 crore and Rs 4.2 crore) is excluding the worth of Rs 1,000 notes seized. In most of the notes, instead of Reserve Bank of India, it says ‘Children’s Bank of India’. The purpose seems to be cheating. In the bundle of US dollars, the first note is genuine, the rest are counterfeit. These six men had been working together. The person whom they had offered the fake currency, had informed us,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune.​A statement released earlier on Wednesday evening by the defence spokesperson, stated, “Southern Command Intelligence wing along with crime branch Pune carried out a successful joint operation in Vimannagar and busted a fake currency racket on June 10. Six people, including five civilians and a soldier, were apprehended with fake Indian and foreign currency to the tune of approximately Rs 10 crore. At least Rs2 lakh in Indian currency, US dollars equivalent and one fake pistol was recovered during the operation. Individuals have been handed over to the crime branch Pune for interrogation and further investigation is under progress.”​According to Singh, there were two parties involved. “One party was seeking American dollars while the other party had a supply of Indian (counterfeit) currency. They decided and met at the spot from where they were intercepted,” said Singh.​The source of the currency is part of the investigation, said police officials. ​Officials of Unit 4 of the Pune police crime branch along with the Anti-Narcotic Cell (West) worked with inputs provided by officials of Military Intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fake-currency-notes-us-dollars-worth-rs-47-crore-seized-in-pune-army-jawan-among-six-arrested/story-9wjAfFvraDqI3wn3eVwxiI.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||NHRC serves notices to Delhi, Centre over Covid-19 situation||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday issued notices to the Delhi government and Union health secretary over the alleged mismanagement of Covid-19 situation in the national capital, asserting that the state “cannot leave its people to die”. It asked Delhi and the Centre to submit reports, after consulting each other, within 10 days.Acting on a complaint by former Delhi Congress President Ajay Maken, the Commission has referred to difficulties faced by the general public due to the non-availability of beds in Delhi’s hospitals for Covid-19 patients and inadequate testing.“Allegedly, there has been massive delay in conducting the last rites of those who died during the pandemic period; tests on the bodies of the symptomatic deceased are also not being conducted, violating the WHO [World Health Organization] and ICMR [Indian Council for Medical Research] norms, which can be extremely dangerous,” NHRC said in a press statement.Observing that Maken had not only levelled allegations, but also provided data to support the complaint, NHRC said the situation raises the issue of government agencies’ “inappropriate approach” to the plight of the general public, amounting to “violation of human rights”. “The data indicates that there is urgent need for taking effective steps immediately by the government agencies,” the NHRC statement read.The Commission has asked both Delhi government and the Centre to submit a comprehensive report within 10 days after consulting with each other, while asking Delhi government to increase the number of beds and tests per day.“It [NHRC] understands that this is an unprecedented situation for the government agencies, hospitals, doctors as well as patients and their families but the state cannot leave its citizens to die without making the best possible efforts. It is not incorrect to state that the number of Covid patients, in the country is increasing day by day and the recovery rate is above 48% but it is also true that a large number of people have died and the national capital is one of the worst affected cities so far,” NHRC said.Maken filed a complaint with NHRC on Tuesday, alleging that suspected patients are running from one hospital to another for admission, but being turned away.“The chart provided [by Maken to NHRC] indicates that the NCT of Delhi has a robust hospital infrastructure of 57,194 beds. It has a significant presence of central government hospitals also but it is painful to see that only 12% of the Delhi government, 8% of the central government institutions and 7% of the private hospital beds are presently occupied and are being used to treat COVID patients,” NHRC said. NHRC also said that around 70% dedicated beds in Delhi are still lying vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nhrc-serves-notices-to-delhi-centre-over-covid-19-situation/story-wIWlGpFEVuis3LqOICzQsL.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two jewellers among four arrested for thefts in Dhanas during lockdown||Police have arrested two men who stole jewellery from houses in Dhanas during the lockdown and sold them to jewellers. Besides the accused, identified as Babloo, alias Gorila, 20, and Izhar, alias Daadi, 20, who allegedly committed the thefts, police have also arrested two jewellers, Rajan, 27, and Kripa Shankar, 27. They are all residents of Dhanas.Gold and silver ornaments, including a gold ring, a pair of gold jhumkas, silver chain, silver bracelet, five pairs of silver anklets, one pair of children’s silver anklet and a children’s silver kada; two LED televisions (55 inch and 32 inch); seven LPG cylinders; five motorcycles and one digital camera have been recovered from the accused.Police said they arrested Babloo and Izhar from near Government Model School, Dhanas, on Tuesday, following a tip-off. During questioning, they admitted to have committed thefts in a number of houses during the lockdown along with two more accomplices, who are absconding.They revealed that they sold the stolen gold and silver items to Rajan and Kripa Shankar, who were arrested later and multiple ornaments were recovered from them.The accused were produced before a court that sent the jewellers to judicial custody, and Babloo and Izhar to two-day police remand.Two house thefts solved With their arrests, police have solved two cases registered at the Sarangpur police station.On June 9, a case was registered on the complaint of Guddu, resident of small flats, Dhanas. He had reported that on March 15, his wife left for her parental house, while he started living at the grain market in Sector 26 where he worked as a fruit labourer. When he returned home on June 7, he found the door lock broken and the entire house ransacked. He had claimed loss of a Samsung LED TV, a gas cylinder, a pair of silver anklets, a pair of children’s silver anklets and some other items. Another theft was reported on April 20, by Surender Prashad, also resident of small flats, Dhanas. He told the police that he, along with the family, was away to Mohali during the lockdown when he received a call from his neighbours about a burglary in his house. On reaching back, he found the household items strewn, and gold and silver ornaments, a camera and mobile phone stolen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-jewellers-among-four-arrested-for-thefts-in-dhanas-during-lockdown/story-YEiNSEybKxVroesrYXD4SO.html
10-06-2020||City||As state allows prasad and langar, religious places in Ludhiana step towards normalcy with caution||After the state government allowed langar and prasad distribution on Tuesday, the religious places in the city have started stepping towards normalcy, but with due caution.While the management of Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara in Model Town Extension has started takeaway langar facility, the devotees are being urged to maintain social distancing in the community kitchen of Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib in Field Ganj.At a time when the places of worship are witnessing low footfall due to the fear of infection among residents, Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara management is ensuring the fewer numbers on its premises by prohibiting large gatherings.Devotees were seen maintaining social distance inside the gurdwara too, which is usually overcrowded on a Wednesday because of the weekly samagam organised by the management.President of Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara management committee, Rajinder Singh Bindra, said, “Only 25-30 persons are allowed to sit inside the gurdwara at a given time while the rest of the devotees area asked to move away after paying obeisance. Also, we do not allow people to sit inside the langar hall as a precautionary measure and have started a takeaway facility.”During a visit to Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib on Wednesday, sewadars, who wore gloves while serving the prasad, were seen urging the people to maintain social distance in the langar hall.However, it was observed that many of the devotees were not wearing masks inside the gurdwara premises.Management committee member Gurpreet Singh Winkle said, “Gurdwaras cannot stop langar at any cost as serving food to the needy is among the many teachings of our Gurus. It is good that the government has allowed gurudwaras to serve langar/prasad. We are making efforts to main social distancing in the premises.”As a precautionary step, the temple committees are still restricting the devotees from bringing any prasad from outside.General secretary of Krishna Mandir (Model Town Extension) management committee, KP Gosain said, “The devotees are being asked not to bring any offerings from outside. We are closely monitoring the situation inside the temple with focus on social distancing. As the government has announced relaxations, we would implement the same in the coming days, but people’s safety would not be compromised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-state-allows-prasad-and-langar-religious-places-in-ludhiana-step-towards-normalcy-with-caution/story-gASBBtkCyO7BfP9EVW8tBO.html
10-06-2020||City||Doctors threaten mass resignations at Kasturba Hospital over unpaid salaries||New Delhi:Resident doctors at North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s 450-bedded hospital Kasturba Gandhi Hospital in the Walled City on Wednesday threatened to tender mass resignations if they were not paid their pending salaries for three months by June 16.Calling for mass resignations, the resident doctors’ association of Kasturba Hospital said in a letter, “This is to inform that the resident doctors have not been salaries for the last three months. All the residents are working in this pandemic Covid-19 situation continuously, putting their and their families’ lives in danger… We are afraid that if we won’t be paid by June 16, 2020, we have to move for mass resignation. We hope the concerned authorities will take immediate action and take our notice on priority to resolve our issue within time.”The resident doctors said they cannot work without money. Sunil Kumar, president Resident Doctors’ Association Kasturba Hospital, said doctors have not been paid salaries since March, due to which paying house rent, travel expenses and even buying essential commodities is becoming tough for them.“It is a regular feature. We are never given salaries on a regular basis. After every two-three months, a similar situation arises. We are the front-line workers in times of the coronavirus pandemic. We should be paid our pending salaries as soon as possible and should be ensured a regular salary payout,” Kumar said.Jai Prakash, the north corporation’s standing committee chairperson, said the civic body was persuading doctors not to take any such step and ensured it was making all efforts to release their salaries at the earliest.“We are facing a fund crunch and due to the lockdown, our income was further curtailed. So we could not pay our doctors. We have asked the Delhi government to release funds so that their salaries can be paid,” Prakash said.Kasturba Gandhi is a 450-bedded, maternity and child specialty hospital near Jama Masjid. At least 10 staff members, including PG students, doctors and nurses, had tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two months.The North corporation runs hospitals such as Hindu Rao, Maharishi Valmiki Infectious Diseases, Kasturba Hospital, Girdhari Lal Maternity Hospital and Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis. According to civic officials, the north corporation employs around 1,000 senior doctors, 500 resident doctors, and 1,500 nursing officers..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-threaten-mass-resignations-at-kasturba-hospital-over-unpaid-salaries/story-8qaWPIBNE9rOysffRNekEO.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s new excise policy to be enforced on July 1||UT’s excise policy 2020-2021 is set to come into effect on July 1, with the e-auction of new vends likely to start on June 22.Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore approved the Amended Excise Policy 2020-21 on Wednesday.The policy will remain in effect from July 1 to March 31, 2021.With introduction of an additional excise duty of 12% and cow cess at 5% that will be charged on all liquor bottles (over the minimum retail price), liquor prices are set to be 20% to 25% higher.The allotment of licensing units will be made through e-tendering system. This year, the number of licensing units has been reduced from 95 to 94. A single person/entity will be entitled to allotment up to a maximum of 10 vends only.Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Excise Policy 2020-21 for the whole year (April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021) could not be notified or implemented. Therefore, the policy for 2019-20 was extended up to June 30.In January this year, the administration had notified cow cess at ₹5 to ₹10 per bottle on 750ml country liquor, 650ml beer and 750ml whisky; and imposed it from May 16. On the same date, the administration had also imposed an additional excise duty of 12% on alcohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-new-excise-policy-to-be-enforced-on-july-1/story-M6aOqNtLlMlc65vOaYhrpK.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parents’ protest against payment of school fees intensifies in Chandigarh||Parents of students from AKSIPS-45 and Shishu Niketan Model School, Sector 43, staged protests outside the respective schools on Wednesday against collection of fees despite classes being suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Similar protests have been witnessed outside multiple schools in the city over the last month.In the last 15 days, over 12 such protests have been held by parents.Parents said their economic condition has taken a huge hit amid the lockdown and they can’t afford to pay the fees due to loss of jobs. They added that schools were charging for facilities like air-conditioners and electricity which are not being used as classes are suspended.Jasmine Kalra, principal of AKSIPS-45 said, “I cannot understand why the parents are protesting. We have never sent any message to parents asking them to pay the pending fees. We are just going by what the administration has conveyed to us. We are also charging fees as per last year’s structure.”Veena arora, principal of Shishu Niketan Model School said, “We are following the Chandigarh administration’s rules.”A joint complaint to the fee regulatory committee was also submitted by parents of students from ASKIPS with 180 signatories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-payment-of-fees-grows-in-chandigarh/story-yrXvHzzNsnqSb6v8X1ugaP.html
10-06-2020||India||DU aspirants’ mask game on: Stitch, buy, borrow... anything to up the style game on campus||Delhi University will reportedly open its doors to freshers in August. Meanwhile, DU aspirants are busy finding or stitching matching masks to accompany their attires! “I’m so excited to go to college! I can’t wait to be on campus and social distance with my batchmates. I’ve asked my mom to stitch me 10 masks in neutral browns that will go with all my outfits. I have done the lace embroidery on them myself! Me and my mom will together give them a pearl lining,” says Avni Bhatnagar, a resident of Delhi’s Vasant Kunj. Some freshers have been shopping online for the mask that best suits their style. “I have ordered 15 masks in various patterns from online portals. Some of the masks I’ve ordered have millineal phrases written across them such as ‘Stay Woke’. I think it’ll create a good first impression on everyone when I’ll don such a mask with a message,” says Deeksha Nautiyal, a resident of DLF Phase 2, Gurugram. Internet seems to be the place of inspiration for youngsters keen on making DIY masks. “YouTube has quite a few easy tutorials on how one can stitch and decorate their own masks. I’m following a few tutorials and I’ve made five masks, all by myself! My friends have started asking me to make some for them too,” says Nancy Wadhwa, a resident of Delhi’s Model Town. Recycling old clothes to make masks is another hack that youngsters have used to make hand crafted masks. “My mother has plenty of old silk cotton Banarasi and Bandhani saris that she has no use of. I’ve used the borders of her saris along with a matching cotton cloth to make beautiful masks that could go with kurtis and jeans. I bet my mask will be among the most beautiful masks in my batch,” says Nayantara Tripathi, a resident of Sector 21, Noida.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/du-aspirants-mask-game-on-stitch-buy-borrow-anything-to-up-the-style-game-on-campus/story-Nw5CN6XqzW0bypZXlLlxdO.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali to be beautified with ₹20-crore grant from Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Scheme: Punjab health minister||Punjab health and family welfare minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said Mohali is rapidly emerging as the developmental hub of the state and various developmental projects will be undertaken to fast forward the process.While chairing a meeting late on Tuesday evening, Sidhu took stock of various projects in Mohali.Sidhu said the municipal corporation has given tenders worth ₹4.72 crore for the beautification of various markets at Phases 3B2, 5, 7, 9, 10 and 11. He said works to beautify markets at Phases 1, 2 and 6 and Sectors 70 and 71 will be initiated soon.The minister added that under the Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme scheme, ₹20 crore has been ordered to be released which will be spent on carrying out development projects in the city. Sidhu said the maintenance works of the Christian graveyard and Muslim kabristan adjoining the existing cremation ground in Industrial Area, Phase 7, will be undertaken soon at a cost of ₹10.36 lakh.He added that the cremation ground will be renovated at a cost of ₹49 lakh. Besides, the construction of boundary wall in the muslim graveyard in Sector 57 is also in the pipeline which will be done at a cost of ₹9.79 lakh, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-to-be-beautified-with-20-crore-grant-from-punjab-urban-environment-improvement-scheme-punjab-health-minister/story-keMLROVQpiPwMhgaYXysnM.html
10-06-2020||City||13-year-old found dead inside house at Bibwewadi||PUNE A 13-year-old boy was found dead at his house in Bibwewadi, police officials said on Wednesday.The local police suspect that the boy hung himself on Tuesday, after his mother restricted him from watching television. The teenager, according to police, habitually watched cartoons on TV.The boy lived with his mother and sister in a two-storied shanty in Adarsh chawl, Bibwewadi.According to police, on Tuesday morning, as the boy and his sister were eating breakfast, the boy switched on the television to watch cartoons.The mother asked his sister to switch off the television after which, the boy went upstairs, while the mum and sister remained downstairs.“When the sister finished her food and went upstairs she found him hanging by her scarf, as per their statement,” said Vishwanath Shinde, constable at Bibwewadi police station, who is investigating the incident. The incident has been recorded as an accidental death.The boy attended a local government school and was to enter Class 8.“He had threatened to do this two years ago as well, according to his family members and neighbours. Back then, the television was the reason, but the neighbours heard the altercation and intervened,” said Shinde.The father of the teen does not live with the family, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-year-old-found-dead-inside-house-at-bibwewadi/story-X9xFMOoLiBo0E3yZr7cq5I.html
10-06-2020||Lifestyle||DU student’s rental woes: Landlords ask students to pay for luggage occupying PG rooms||The troubles for Delhi University students just don’t seem to end. Many of those who had been putting up in PGs and hostels are reportedly being asked to pay rent for the entire period of the lockdown. Pooja Meena, a student of BA(Hons) from Indraprastha College For Women, says, “I don’t have the money to pay the rent. My father recently lost his job; the economy has been hit so bad. So even though my things are kept in the PG in Delhi, I decided to come back home in Nagpur, because my landlady would otherwise visit me everyday asking for rent... How do I pay her when I barely have money to give my fees?” Some students have had to make other living arrangements, such as moving to their friends’ house, because of not being able to pay rent. Take for instance, Alka Yadav, a Political Science (Hons) student of Ramjas College. “I don’t have any money to give to the landlord and he has been giving me ultimatums. He was about to call the police to evict me because of non payment of rent. I left the PG and went to stay at my friends house. But is this fair? When the country is undergoing a pandemic, must the landlords not be understanding of the plight of their residents?” asks Yadav. To raise this concern, the Delhi University Student Union (DUSU), along with 128 other representatives from various DU colleges have written to the government to request financial assistance for students who are unable to pay their rent. “Many students in DU are facing a financial crunch due to the pandemic. These students have nowhere to go, and the ones who are currently in their PG, continue to get pestered for rents. The ones who left for their home towns are scared of coming back to DU, since they have no place to live because they were either evicted for non payment of rentals or asked to leave so that others who can pay, could be accommodated. In such troubling times, the authorities must come forward to help all such students,” says Munish Chaudhary, president, Law Centre -1, DU.Akshit Dahiya, president, DUSU adds, “Many students have gone to their home towns, leaving their belongings in their PGs and hostels because they don’t have the money to pay for rent. Now the landlords are pestering these students to pay rent for the luggage that is occupying the room. In such circumstances, we have reached out to the government for monetary help or application of some sort of law that warrants waiver of rentals for students for the months in which lockdown was in place.” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaRead more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/du-student-s-rental-woes-landlords-ask-students-to-pay-for-luggage-occupying-pg-rooms/story-DbzDX3eRAqDoyhX45EmvQN.html
10-06-2020||City||J&K records 161 new Covid-19 cases, count mounts to 4,507||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 162 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 4,507, officials said.Of the new cases, 46 are from Jammu divsion and 117 from Kashmir. Officials said Wednesday’s cases included 29 people who had returned to the UT recently.A government spokesperson said Kulgam reported 28 cases, Baramulla 8, Srinagar 10, Anantnag 7, Shopian 37, Kupwara 18, Bandipora four, Budgam two, Pulwama 1, Jammu 4, Ramban two,Udhampur 19, Kathua two, Poonch 12, Samba six and Doda one. Two more die, death toll 51Two more people died due to the virus on Wednesday, taking the death toll in the UT to 51, officials said. The deceased, both men, hailed from Kulgam and Baramulla districts.So far, 2.41lakh tests have been done in J&K and 2.23 lakh people have been enrolled for observation. At present, active cases in the UT stand at 2,785—2073 in Kashmir and 712 in Jammu division. Also, 1,671 patients have recovered from the disease in J&K.19 staffers test positive in Udhampur hospitalNineteen staffers, including two doctors, at Udhampur district hospital tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. “The staff had come in contact with a pregnant woman who recently underwent a cesarean section at the hospital and were placed under quarantine after her report for COVID-19 came positive,” Udhamput district commissioner Piyush Singla said. Officials said both the doctors and the paramedical staff were shifted to COVID wards after their reports came positive, while contact tracing was on to break the chain. Night curbs on non-essential activities in Jammu district Jammu district magistrate (DM) Sushma Chauhan on Wednesday prohibited the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 8:00pm to 5:00am in the territorial limits of the district. An order to this effect was issued by the DM under Section 144 of CrPC, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “Since, it is not possible to serve prior notice of this order, it is as such being issued ex-pane. Any violation of this order shall invite punitive action under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management. Act, 2005.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-records-161-new-covid-19-cases-count-mounts-to-4-507/story-6OKH2E9bAelwB6UoDpfMtJ.html
10-06-2020||City||Work on Covid-19 awareness: HP guv to mobile operators||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatraya has appealed to mobile network operators to make their consumer base aware about coronavirus prevention measures and guidelines issued by the government while discharging their social responsibility.The governor was interacting with officials of different cellular companies at Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday.Dattatraya expressed satisfaction that most operators are already providing excellent services in state and asked them to do more work especially for the tribal, weaker sections, farmers, etc. He added that the work of optical fibre and Digital India should be expedited in state so that people can be benefited.He said that there are many communication challenges in the hill-state due to tough geographical conditions and people are more dependent on the cellular network system.He added that the Unlock1.0 has started and mobile operators should increase their activities in the form of awareness messages as caller tunes, pre-call announcements, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-on-covid-19-awareness-hp-guv-to-mobile-operators/story-1eUgPQdYs4gzOS5doFDCgN.html
10-06-2020||City||Demanding relief, taxi drivers’ union holds state-level stir in Ludhiana||The Azad Taxi Union on Wednesday staged a state-level protest near Gill Road, claiming that the Union and state governments had failed to pay heed to the problems of taxi operators and drivers during the lockdown.They also submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal.Ruing the losses, the protesters said their businesses, which majorly depend on tourists, had been completely shut down due to the pandemic and their future also seemed bleak.The demands raised by them included 12 months moratorium on car loan EMIs, 50% rebate on car insurance, waiver of state tax and passing permit fee for a year, extension of national permit of taxis for a year, monetary benefit of ₹10,000 per month to drivers, insurance of drivers among others.Union chairman Tirthpal Singh Sandhu said two taxi drivers from Ludhiana and Jalandhar had committed suicide for being unable to meet their expenses during the Covid-19 crisis. If the scenario continued, more taxi drivers were likely to take such drastic steps, he warned.“The district administration has assured that soon a meeting would be organised between the union members and state transport minister Razia Sultana. If the government officials fail to find a solution, we will hand over the keys of our vehicles to them,” said union managing secretary Sharanjit Singh Kalsi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demanding-relief-taxi-drivers-union-holds-state-level-stir-in-ludhiana/story-WRDyqcq72rAf5XQVrC096N.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board to get 5% on rental income from rehab colonies||Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) stands to gain more than Rs 60 lakh annually with the UT administration allowing it to get 5% on rental income from rehabilitation colonies in the city.In a year, around Rs 12 crore has to be collected as rentals from the allottees at rehabilitation colonies in Dhanas, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran, Sector 38, Sector 49 and Sector 56. The CHB collects the amount on behalf of the administration.Confirming the development, Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer (CEO), said, “CHB will getting 5% as administrative costs of the total rental collections from the allottees under the Chandigarh Small Flat Scheme.”Under the Small Flat Scheme, the CHB charges small amount of rent, but despite this, many allottees are not depositing the same. The monthly rent is Rs 800, which is increased by 20% after every five years.On an average, only around Rs 8 crore was being collected as rent from colonies, but in the last financial year more than double the amount was collected as CHB organised special camps. Currently, around Rs 20 crore are pending with 250 defaulters as unpaid rent.While CHB will get 5% of the collection, the rest of the amount will be accrued to the UT administration.Significantly, the UT Administration has earmarked a revolving fund of Rs 57 crore to be spent in colonies for civic works, including road, building, electrical and horticulture. It is 10% of the total cost of building these flats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-get-5-on-rental-income-from-rehab-colonies/story-RUo8z15rw2zhp3Cq1pIeNL.html
10-06-2020||City||Cong leaders making frivolous charges against us: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur launched a scathing attack on Congress alleging that their leaders are making frivolous charges against his government to gain political mileage “at a time when the opponents should have worked in tandem” with them to fight the coronavirus crisis.Thakur asked his party workers to ignore the Opposition’s campaign and concentrate on public welfare. He and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad virtually addressed a Jan Samwad from the party headquarters in Shimla. Thakur praised PM Modi and said that the nation is safe under the leadership of PM Modi.The CM said that even the leaders of powerful nations are acknowledging the strong leadership of PM Modi. He said that abrogation of Article 370 in J&K and Triple Talaq decision were possible due to “his strong political will power.”He said that the Himachal government has completed two-and-a-half-years of it tenure on May 27. He said that this tenure was full of accomplishments.He said that due to the far sightedness of the PM that Covid-19 death rate was quite low as compared to many developed countries.While addressing the Virtual Rally from New Delhi Union law, I&B, and IT minister Ravishankar Parsad said that Himachal is not just ‘Dev Bhoomi’ but also ‘Veer Bhumi’ as two of the four Param Vir Chakras given in the Kargil war were won by the soldiers of Himachal.Prasad congratulated the CM for being adjudged as the ‘Best CM’ in country by an independent agency. He said, “This speaks of the hard work the CM is putting in to make Himachal the most developed state in country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-leaders-making-frivolous-charges-against-us-jai-ram/story-bLVkyhSZJeyahdmSpPBZVJ.html
10-06-2020||City||Warn people before releasing water from dams: Himachal chief secretary||Himachal Pradesh chief secretary Anil Khachi directed all deputy commissioners to ensure dissemination of weather advisories besides adequate preparedness for upcoming monsoon season. This year, the monsoons are expected to be above normal as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Khachi presided over a meeting convened to review preparedness for monsoon in state. Vulnerable areas prone to landslides and floods should be identified and the PWD should be proactive in positioning men and machinery so that the general public do not face any difficulty.He directed the officials concerned at risk prone areas to stock up adequate ration. Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Dodra-Kawar in Rohru subdivision are highly prone to landslides during heavy rain and are to be provided with adequate foodgrain and other essentials.The chief secretary said that DC, urban local bodies, and municipal corporations and councils should deploy enough manpower to clean drains and avoid clogging that may result in water entering houses or damaging roads. He asked DCs to ensure removal of encroachments and blockages from drainage systems and flood plains.He stressed on sending proposals for inventory required for relief and rescue operations. “The emergency response teams need to be sensitised. The DCs should hold review meetings with dam authorities concerned and make sure that people are warned well before water is released from dams, as per the guidelines of the Central Water Commission (CWC).Directions were issued to the electricity department to take corrective measures well in advance. All DCs are to review the availability of anti-venom vaccine, medicines, and other essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/warn-people-before-releasing-water-from-dams-himachal-chief-secretary/story-F4nxbVT724cxO7xbrKPAdM.html
10-06-2020||Ranchi||3 candidates including Shibu Soren in fray for 2 Rajya Sabha seats in Jharkhand||Three candidates including JMM president Shibu Soren are in the fray for the two Rajya Sabha seats in Jharkhand, the elections for which will be held on June 19.Soren, Congress candidate Shahzada Anwar and BJP state president Deepak Prakash had filed their nomination papers in March after the Election Commission had issued the notification for the two Rajya Seats.The Rajya Sabha election in the state was scheduled to be held on March 26 but was postponed due to the coronavirus- induced lockdown to contain the spread of infection and will now be held on June 19.The polling for the two Rajya Sabha seats from Jharkhand is necessitated as the tenure of Independent member Parimal Nathwani and RJDs Prem Chand Gupta ended in April “All preparations are ready, ballot papers have been printed as 79 of the 82 members are eligible for voting,” said a senior official of the Assembly Secretariat.While the nominated MLA has no voting right in the Rajya Sabha elections, two seats in the 82-member Assembly are vacant.Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren vacated Dumka seat while retaining Barhait.The Bermo assembly seat fell vacant after senior Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died last month In the Jharkhand Assembly the JMM has 29 MLAS, BJP 25, Congress 15, JVM (P) 3, AJSU party 2, CPI (ML-Liberation) 1, NCP 1, RJD 1 and Independents 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/3-candidates-including-shibu-soren-in-fray-for-2-rajya-sabha-seats-in-jharkhand/story-Rm1SfIo5yP9w8otf4cTnlL.html
10-06-2020||City||3 booked for trying to kill cop by poisoning water source in Ludhiana||The police on Wednesday booked three persons for attempting to murder a constable deployed at a quarantine centre in Krishna Colony of Jodhewal Basti here.The three accused, two of whom were posing as eunuchs, poisoned a drinking water tank near the quarantine centre, police said.The trio has been identified as Varinder Singh alias Nitika Khunsi of Krishna Colony, Gaurav and his brother Bunny alias Simran of Churpur Road.Sub-inspector (SI) Radhe Sham said Varinder along with his accomplices committed the crime to avenge his bother Jatinder Singh Pappi, who was nabbed for his involvement in snatching and other heinous offences and the constable, Gurpinder Singh, had played an important role in his arrest.“Varinder had first levelled allegations against the constable, but when that didn’t go as per plan, he decided to kill Gurpinder,” said the SI.In his police complaint, Gurpinder stated that during his duty hours on the Tuesday afternoon he went to drink water, but when he turned on the tap, foul smell emanated from the water. “On checking the tank, I was shocked to see that the water had been poisoned,” the cop said.The investigation revealed that the residents had spotted Varinder and his accomplices adding something in the water tank.Following this, the accused were apprehended and during the questioning, they confessed to the crime.A medical examination the two accused posing as eunuchs revealed that they were males and had disguised themselves for the crime. The water samples have been sent to the forensic laboratory in Kharar for testing.The SI said the accused are habitual offenders and had criminal cases against them.The trio has been booked under sections 307, 277, 186 and 328 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-booked-for-trying-to-kill-cop-by-poisoning-water-source-in-ludhiana/story-Wp1l8lYymi1Wh4GHAXbOeM.html
10-06-2020||Lucknow||20 more Covid-19 deaths, 275 cases in Uttar Pradesh||The novel coronavirus toll in Uttar Pradesh rose to 321 on Wednesday with the biggest single-day spike of 20 deaths, while 275 new cases of the pandemic took the tally to 11,610, the Health Department said. There are 4,318 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 6,971 people have recovered, Health Principal Secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said. There have been 321 Covid-19 deaths and the number of confirmed cases is 11,610, Prasad said. As many as 13 264 samples were tested on Tuesday, the highest so far, Prasad said, adding that over 4 lakh tests had been conducted in the state. On the tracking of migrants who have returned to the state, Prasad said accredited social health activists (ASHA) were tracking them by visiting villages and homes The ASHA workers have tracked over 14.72 lakh migrants, out of which of which over 1,400 were found symptomatic and their samples were sent for testing. Around 20 per cent of the cases have been tracked by the workers, according to Prasad. The principal secretary said over 30 lakh migrants had returned to the state and tests of over 98,000 had been done, of which 3,185 migrants were found positive for the coronavirus. Prasad said the migrant workers were strictly following home quarantine and claimed that the villages, where they have arrived, had not seen any major spread of the deadly infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/20-more-covid-19-deaths-275-cases-in-uttar-pradesh/story-ZudDopcSw3ihxlfRR21pQK.html
10-06-2020||Noida||Signing date of Jewar Airport’s key pact deferred due to Covid-19 pandemic||The Uttar Pradesh government has deferred the date of signing of the concession agreement for the Rs 29,560-crore Jewar Airport in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to an official order.The decision was taken by the state cabinet during a meeting in Lucknow on Tuesday.“The signing of the concession agreement with selected developer Zurich Airport International AG has been extended by 45 days from resumption of India-Malaysia and India-Switzerland flights plus mandatory quarantine days or by August 17, whichever is earlier,” the order stated.The state cabinet also authorised Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to take decisions from time to time regarding the international greenfield airport project, it added.According to officials, the decision has been taken in view of the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.The concession agreement, in normal conditions, would have been signed by July 2 between the UP government and the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) -- a special purpose vehicle floated by Zurich Airport for implementing the project, the officials said.Shailendra Bhatia, Noida International Airport Limited’s nodal officer for Jewar Airport, said the concession agreement was stipulated to be signed within 45 days of the security clearance for the project.“Security clearance was received on May 18. Hence, the signing would have taken place maximum by July 2. However, due to the pandemic, the developer had requested the state government to extend the date of signing by 120 days. The signing has been deferred till August 17,” Bhatia told PTI.He said Zurich Airport’s SPV YIAPL has three directors, one of whom lives in India, while the other two are based in Malaysia and Switzerland.“The presence of at least two directors is required for the signing of the agreement,” he said.The officer added that in case the Covid-19 situation does not improve even in August, the cabinet will review the circumstances and take an appropriate decision on the signing date of the agreement.On November 29 last year, Swiss firm Zurich Airport emerged as the highest bidder to develop the Jewar airport on the outskirts of Delhi in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of UP, outbidding competitors like Adani Enterprises, DIAL and Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holding.The entire project will be spread over 5,000 hectares and is estimated to cost Rs 29,560 crore, the officials said.Once completed, the airport, which will be the third in the national capital region after Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport and Ghaziabad’s Hindon Airport, is touted to have six to eight runways, the most in India, they said.The first phase of the airport would be spread over 1,334 hectares and is expected to be completed by 2023 at a cost of Rs 4,588 crore, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/signing-date-of-jewar-airport-s-key-pact-deferred-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-VqYRs5RiRki6XU22Fe9kiI.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||HC grants bail to PSI booked for divorcing wife through message||Bombay high court on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to a sub-inspector attached to Ghatkopar police station booked for divorcing his second wife by pronouncing ‘talaq’ by sending the messages thrice on her cell phone.Justice Bharati Dangre granted pre-arrest bail to Yusuf Usman Shaikh on a personal bond of ₹25,000.The complainant had alleged that the police sub-inspector though married and having two children from his first wife, solemnised marriage with her as per Muslim custom and practice in December 2018, and she has delivered a baby girl a year later. She further alleged that Shaikh then sent three messages on her mobile pronouncing ‘Talaq’ and declaring that it resulted into the dissolution of their marriage and thereafter started avoiding her and refused to take care of the newborndaughter.Apart from invoking section 3 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019 which penalises divorce by pronouncing talaq by spoken or written words or by electronic means, Ghatkopar police had also invoked charge of rape against Shaikh.Justice Dangre, however, found that the charge of rape was not sustainable, as the complainant was not forcibly made to enter into a sexual relationship since the woman herself claimed that they had performed marriage as per the Muslim customs.As regards the charge under section 3 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, the judge said the offence was bailable - and therefore the police sub-inspector was entitled to pre-arrest bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-grants-bail-to-psi-booked-for-divorcing-wife-through-message/story-V0LEehu0CFmtzTPgqH261L.html
10-06-2020||City||J&K Cong protests against sarpanch killing, demands judicial probe||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of Congress on Wednesday staged a demonstration here against the recent killing of a party sarpanch by terrorists in the Valley and demanded a judicial probe into the incident. Led by J&K Pradesh Congress Committee president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, a group of Congress leaders and activists came out of the party headquarters at Residency Road and held a peaceful demonstration over the failure of the government to protect the life of a minority leader and elected sarpanch, who had been apprehending threat to his life.“Pandit was a basic member of the Congress and this is the second killing of a party sarpanch in this area in the recent past which needs to be looked into. We want Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu to order a judicial probe into the killing to unveil the conspiracy and the negligence in protecting the precious lives,” Mir said while addressing reporters here.“We want to know why a particular group is being targeted in a particular area and what is the motive behind such killings,” he said, adding that the latest killing has caused a fear among the elected representatives, especially among minority leaders. The time demands that a fresh security assessment is made and those elected members be provided security who are living in vulnerable areas or facing threat to their lives, Mir said. Former minister and senior Congress leader Raman Bhalla also charged the UT administration of adopting dual yardsticks and discriminatory approach in the matter of security to political leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-cong-protests-against-sarpanch-killing-demands-judicial-probe/story-AFYnvnpJmsoF4ZUc6C0SzN.html
10-06-2020||City||40-year-old booked for sexually assaulting minor||MumbaiA 40-year-old vegetable vendor has been booked by Andheri police for allegedly sexually assaulting a nine-year-old girl. The incident happened on June 6 when the man saw the victim playing near her uncle’s house and called her inside his house and assaulted her. The victim was threatened not to reveal the incident to anyone but she told her mother about her ordeal, said Andheri police officials.The mother then approached Andheri police station and an FIR was registered against the accused under sections 376 ,506, of IPC and sections 4, 8, 6, 12 of the POCSO act. As soon as the man got to know that the victim had told her mother, he ran away from the area, said deputy commissioner of police Zone 10, Ankit Goyal. “We are searching for the accused,” said Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/story-ZUacUYL9C5GiVphDnb2ApJ.html
10-06-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Arya College holds webinar on global impact of Arya Samaj in Covid-19 era||Arya College in coordination with its internal quality assurance cell on Wednesday organised an international webinar on the global impact of Arya Samaj in the context of Covid-19.Principal Savita Uppal welcomed eminent speakers, including Baghpat MP Satyapal Singh, Gurukul Kangri University (Haridwar) chancellor Vinay Vidyalankar, among others from Arya Pratinidhi Sabha Uttarakhand and Delhi.In his address, Punjab Arya Pratinidhi Sabha president Sudarshan Sharma expressed his pleasure over the thoughtful venture by the college as it would lead to awareness about Arya Samaj and its teachings to the people confined to their homes in the lockdown.The keynote address was given by MP Satyapal Singh. Speaking on ‘Yajya and Global Welfare’ in the Covid-19 context, he sought to prove that performing a Yajya was not just an empty ritual, rather it was a proactive endeavour to spread purity at all levels — spiritual, emotional, and environmental.In his lecture, Prof Vinay Vidyalankar drew upon the Vedas to offer practical remedies to overcome dilemmas and problems prevailing in the present day scenario. Shree Vinay Arya acquainted the listeners with the principals of Arya Samaj highlighting their relevance in the modern era.Arya College management committee secretary Satisha Sharma thanked the speakers for spreading the message of Arya Samaj through the webinar at the international level. The speakers were flooded with messages of appreciation and queries during the interactive session that followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-arya-college-holds-webinar-on-global-impact-of-arya-samaj-in-covid-19-era/story-UGKKZXHu5FqMPgvUuhyxSL.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University decides to take college admissions online||Students aspiring to take admission in colleges affiliated to Panjab University in the 2020-21 academic session will be able to apply online besides the offline mode.There are 196 colleges affiliated to the Chandigarh-based university.The decision was taken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, during the meeting of the university panel chaired by dean college development council Sanjay Kaushik on Wednesday. The 33-member committee was constituted to finalise the admission guidelines for students in affiliated colleges for the upcoming academic session. “The decision is applicable to both undergraduate and postgraduate courses,” said Kaushik.The committee also discussed the admission schedule for various undergraduate and postgraduate courses to be included in the admission guidelines that will be prepared in consonance with the PU academic calendar and examination schedule for the next academic session.It has been decided that for announcing the dates of admission, a continuous watch will be kept on the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “Only after the dates for examination are announced, we will decide the dates for admission in affiliated colleges for the next session,” said Kaushik.However, Panjab University senator Inderpal Singh Sidhu, who is an assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, said: “For effective implementation of online admissions in colleges, the university needs to organise some orientation programme for the staff concerned. Also, the counselling for which the students have to be physically present should be taken care of by the varsity.”“We have discussed the issue of physical counselling and we will try to minimise it,” said Kaushik||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-decides-to-take-college-admissions-online/story-Bi19bzWMLpwhOx1TGfOlsN.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Do you intend to extend gag on public, HC asks Mumbai Police||The Bombay high court on Tuesday sought to know if the Mumbai police intended to extend the “gag order” - order issued on May 23 under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code that made criticising the government and its functioning a punishable offence.The court was hearing a petition filed by Navi Mumbai resident and journalist Rajeev Mishra, through advocate DP Singh, challenging the May 23 order on the ground that it was violative of the freedom of speech and expression. Prohibitory orders under section 144 are being issued right from the beginning of the nationwide lockdown given the coronavirus pandemic and are being renewed from time to time. Mishra has complained that the section 144 order issued on May 23 not only prohibited dissemination of fake news, incorrect information and other objectionable content on various social media platforms but also specifically stated that legal action will be taken against those criticising the state and its functioning in the times of COVID-19.Amongst other directives, the order prohibits any person from inciting mistrust towards government functionaries and their actions taken to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 and thereby causing danger to human health or safety or a disturbance to the public tranquillity and specifically stared that any person contravening this prohibitory order will be prosecuted under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, the petition added.According to Mishra’s counsel, advocate Amogh Singh, this gag on public speaking against the state government’s functioning was completely in breach of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by the Constitution and therefore liable to be struck down.However, when the petition came up for hearing on Tuesday, assistant public prosecutor Madhavi Mhatre pointed out that the order under challenge has expired on June 8, and the petition had become infructuous.The bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Riyaz Chagla sought to know if the police authorities intended to extend the gag by extending the order dated May 23 or by issuing similar order. The bench adjourned the petition till June 23 after the prosecutor sought time to answer the query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/do-you-intend-to-extend-gag-on-public-hc-asks-mumbai-police/story-cPsI8AFIcntZiAT3tYypLN.html
10-06-2020||City||Cong sarpanch killing: Panchayat members in Valley demand security cover from government||Nearly a half dozen panchayat members from the Valley on Wednesday demanded adequate security cover from the central government and the Jammu and Kashmir administration following the killing of a Congress sarpanch by terrorists in Anantnag district on Monday. While addressing mediapersons at the exhibition ground here, the panchayat members, who came from Kashmir, said, “We are nothing more than sitting ducks.”Manoj Pandita, sarpanch of Lajora in Kakapora area of Pulwama district, said, “Following an initiative by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah to hold panchayat elections and initiate a political process, we participated in the polls despite threats from terror outfits. We were happy that we will be returning home.”“The Centre and the UT administration should have given a serious thought about our security. On Monday, Ajay was killed. Tomorrow they will kill someone else. What is also disheartening is that no one from the administration has so far visited Ajay’s family to console his wife and two young daughters,” he said.“Ajay was the backbone of grassroot democracy in Kashmir. I request the administration to visit his daughters so that they can feel that their father sacrificed his life for India and was not a militant,” he added.“We were born and grew up in the Valley. We belong to that soil but security certainly remains a prime concern for us,” he added.Pandita said panchayat polls had rekindled a ray of hope among Kashmiris Pandits to return to their motherland and work for welfare of poor in their respective villages. He, however, said a person who was a nationalist in Kashmir was always on the hitlist of Pakistan-funded terror outfits.Meanwhile, president of the All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference, Anil Sharma said, “After Ajay Pandita’s killing, half a dozen sarpanches fled Kashmir in panic and reached Jammu. They were not given any help by the administration and we ensured that they reach here.”“I have been getting calls from sarpanches and panches in Valley saying that they are ready to resign. However, I have asked them not to do so as it will allow Pakistani machinations to succeed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-sarpanch-killing-panchayat-members-in-valley-demand-security-cover-from-government/story-gvbUgpkwFeDf0jjhJJB24K.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Rains, thunderstorm bring respite from heat in Delhi||Thunderstorms and rain lashed parts of the national capital on Wednesday, bringing respite from the heat.The rain was a result of a trough (low-pressure area) running from north Pakistan to over the Bay of Bengal across northern Rajasthan, the India Meteorological Department said.Light rains and thunderstorms with winds gusting up to 50 kilometers per hour were witnessed in parts of Delhi, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, as reported by news agency PTI.The mercury is expected to stay low in the next few days as moisture-laden easterly winds due to the low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal will bring rains in Delhi-NCR on June 12 and June 13, he said.Monsoon has advanced into parts of Tamil Nadu, some more parts of west-central and northern Bay of Bengal; most parts of Mizoram, Manipur, and Tripura and some parts of Assam and Nagaland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-thunderstorm-bring-respite-from-heat-in-delhi/story-GXO2xtDHrEqqx9UFP6cPMJ.html
10-06-2020||City||Ludhiana DEO writes to PSEB seeking exam centre change for four schools||For the smooth conduct of pending Class 12 exams next month, the district authorities have recommended names of four schools to the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) for changing their examination centres.One of these schools is being currently run as a quarantine facility, while the other three – Government Senior Secondary School, Jaspal Bangar, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Model Town and SGG Senior Secondary School, Gondwal – are being used to store ration for the poor.The district education department has also sent names of two more schools which would face shortage of classrooms during the exams, keeping in view the social distancing protocol.Around 308 students have been allotted Ranjit Modern Senior Secondary School, Haibowal Kalan, as their examination centre. However, in compliance of social distancing norms, the school will be able to accommodate only 221 students. For the remaining 87 students, the education department has recommended the name of Rajindra Model School which is located nearby and can be easily accessed by the students.Similarly for Ramgarhia Boys Senior Secondary School, the department has suggested the name of Ramgarhia Girls Senior Secondary School, where the spill of 83 students from the former can be seated.District education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur said, “We have sent the names of six schools to the board. Four out of them need to have different examination centres as one of them is now a quarantine facility while three are being used to store ration. For the remaining two schools, some of their students will have to be accommodated in the nearby schools as to maintain social distancing during the exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-deo-writes-to-pseb-seeking-exam-centre-change-for-four-schools/story-6pWwVWz9UjZDs8SD2LJeUN.html
10-06-2020||City||Punjab Mandi Board honours 5 corona warriors in Mohali||As part of its plan to encourage employees who have rendered exceptional services amid the lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus threat, the Punjab Mandi Board on Wednesday honoured five front-line workers who ensured supply of essential items at residents’ doorsteps and uninterrupted wheat procurement at grain markets.Those honoured include Mohali district mandi officer (DMO) Bhajan Kaur; Rajinder Singh, who is the superintendent at the DMO office; and Archana Bansal, Harminder Singh and Gurnam Singh, secretaries of market committees in Kharar, Kurali and Dera Bassi, respectively.While honouring them, general manager (enforcement) Gurinderpal Singh Randhawa exhorted the five officials to continue working hard with extreme devotion towards their duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-mandi-board-honours-5-corona-warriors-in-mohali/story-RCLk47DbjrW3a42aFpYaZK.html
10-06-2020||City||Delhi, Hyderabad returnees among three fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab’s Mohali||Three men, including two returnees from other states, tested positive for coronavirus disease in Mohali on Wednesday, taking the district’s total count to 140. Of these only 25 cases remain active. The first case is of a 43-year-old man from Mubarakpur in Dera Bassi subdivision. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said he turned up at the hospital with mild symptoms after coming from Delhi.Meanwhile, a 29-year-old man, who resides in Palm Enclave, Kharar, was tested at the airport on returning from Hyderabad on Monday. His reports came positive on Wednesday.The third man, a 26-year-old resident of Dasmesh Nagar in Nayagaon, was tested during routine sampling, he said. “All of them have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur,” said the civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-returnee-among-two-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-s-mohali/story-J23KVgOh23tmaYMPIxlm2O.html
10-06-2020||City||HP govt to plant 23 lakh saplings under integrated development project||The Himachal Pradesh government will be planting around 23 lakh saplings in an area of 3,181 hectare during the ongoing financial year under an integrated development project. Officials said Rs 3.75 crore has been allocated to meet the target of planting the trees. The forest, agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, rural development and Panchayati Raj departments will work together under this project.State forest minister Govind Singh Thakur on Wednesday said the main objective of the project is to establish a balanced environment and to increase income of farmers through agriculture, besides providing livelihood and employment opportunities at the panchayat level. He has directed officials to constitute committees in all panchayats so that the benefits of this project can be extended to people.Thakur said under clean development mechanism, the income of people of the state can be enhanced from carbon revenue through group plantation drive. He said so far, people have benefited by plantation of carbon revenue of more than Rs 2 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-to-plant-23-lakh-saplings-under-integrated-development-project/story-oHlsoT2jZRfq6LMq7E1VBL.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi hospitals to display number of beds, room charges, orders Lt Guv Baijal||All major Delhi hospitals will have to prominently display the availability of beds, the room charges outside their establishments in large letters on the LED boards, ordered Lt Governor Anil Baijal in a move aimed at increasing “transparency and to facilitate public”.The state health department has been advised to ensure that the data displayed on these boards is in sync with the data on the government portal.Hindustan Times had first reported the Lt Governor’s order earlier on Wednesday “All major hospitals/clinics/nursing homes of Delhi should be directed to display on LED boards in large letters outside their establishments, at the entry point itself,the availability of beds (both Covid and non-Covid), along with charges including for rooms and details of the contact persons for admission,” read the order from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.The disaster body, headed by Lt Guv Baijal, also directed that there will be surprise checks against the hospitals and cautioned against turning away “genuine” patients.“Periodic surprise checks may also be conducted by the officers deputed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority to ensure that correct data is displayed by hospitals and no eligible/genuine patient is denied admission or overcharged,” read the order. Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, underscoring that it is not the time for disagreements, said Lt Guv’s decision to not reserve hospitals exclusively for Delhi residents for Covid-19 treatment will be followed in “letter and spirit”.On Monday, the L-G overruled the state government’s decision to reserve hospitals, except those run by the centre, for residents of Delhi. The state government’s decision to test only those showing symptoms of Covid-19 was also overturned, allowing asymptomatic cases and high-risk contacts of a virus patient to be tested.In a letter, the L-G’s office said that “Delhi belongs to all” and that none can be denied treatment for not being a resident of the national capital.According to the Delhi government’s projection, there will be 44,000 cases by June 15, one lakh cases by June 30 going up to 2.25 lakh cases by July 15 and 5.5 lakh cases by July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hospitals-to-display-number-of-beds-room-charges-at-entry-point-orders-lt-guv-baijal/story-CjBWcQVoY6XyLkYzk2m0zJ.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||75-year-old man killed by wife, son in Ludhiana||A 75-year-old retired Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) official was killed by his wife and son following a disagreement in C Block of Ludhiana’s posh BRS Nagar on Tuesday night. The victim, Sham Singh, sustained stab wounds on his neck and head. Police have arrested his wife, Charanjit Kaur, 70, and son Jatinder Singh, 45. The victim’s wife Charanjit Kaur also sported stab wounds and bite marks.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-III) Gurpreet Kaur Purewal said two kitchen knives, one of which was broken, and a statue that had been used for murdering the victim had been recovered from the crime scene.After the incident, Jatinder called one of his relatives in Ropar and narrated the episode. The relative in turn informed the victim’s brother, who lives in Jamalpur Area. Upon arriving at the house, he raised the alarm and called the police, who found the victim lying in a pool of blood.WIFE TRIES TO TAKE BLAME At first, Charanjit told the police that she had murdered her husband, but the cops spotted Jatinder’s blood-soaked shirt and called the forensic team.Charanjit said her husband would pick fights on petty issues. She said the two of them had an argument around 7.30pm on Tuesday night. Later, as the argument became heated both of them attacked each other with sharp-edged weapons, she told the police.Police said it seemed that Jatinder had killed his father in a fit of rage.Police have sent the body to the civil hospital for postmortem examination. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/75-year-old-man-killed-by-wife-son-in-ludhiana/story-lKMjLXCG5RZEw99vko19YI.html
10-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19 forces cancellation of junior Grand Prix badminton tourney in Pune||India’s only junior international Grand Prix badminton tourney hosted in Pune annually since 2011 has been cancelled due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The decision was taken by the Badminton World Federation (BWF), as there is uncertainty regarding when sports action will resume. The tournament this year was slated to happen from August 4-9 at the Modern sports complex, Shivajinagar.The tournament is also known as Sushant Chipalkatti memorial junior international badminton championship.“The tournament is always special as top junior players from countries come to take part in this tourney. As a host, the Pune District Metropolitan Badminton Association (PDMBA) is always excited to conduct this event but due to Covid-19 we cannot do anything,” said Ranjeet Natu, honorary secretary of PDMBA.In 2019, Ken Yon Ong from Malaysia defeated Meiraba Luwang from Manipur to claim the title.The first tournament was hosted as a district-level event in 1983 at the Laxmi Krida Mandir Club – an affiliated club of PDMBA, since then it has advanced to one of India’s premier tournaments.“In 1983, the first time we started age-group tournament, generally at that time the only tourney used to happen in the senior and under-19 category. In 1997 it turned out to be a national-level event and from 2011 it is conducted as an international tournament,” explained Natu.Currently, PDMBA has no plans on conducting any tournament in the allotted time-space in August.“With everything, uncertain nothing can be decided, the badminton association of India calendar is yet to be released, even we have not declared our calendar which is generally out in May but this year everything is pending,” said Natu.PDMBA ready for actionPDMBA has kept the playing centre ready by installing sanitisation chambers and thermal temperature monitors.“We have kept our centre ready, just waiting for notice from government and we can resume badminton from the next day after government allows,” added Natu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-forces-cancellation-of-junior-grand-prix-badminton-tourney-in-pune/story-MXcwq0MxsO32PW9oT7qCgN.html
10-06-2020||Pune||One-year-old, teen killed in road accident in Camp||A one-year-old child and her teenage relative were killed in a road accident in Cantonment area of Pune on Sunday evening, according to the police.The deceased have been identified as Rahenaz Rizwan Shaikh, 16, a resident of Vimannagar and her maternal cousin sister Ummehani Suhail Shaikh, 1, a resident of Dastur Meher road in Camp. The incident happened at IB Bungalow chowk near Residency Club at 11:30pm on Sunday.“The teenager was carrying the baby and riding pillion while her elder sister Ruksar Rizwan Shaikh, 24, was riding an Activa when a tanker rammed into their two-wheeler. While the rider fell on the left of the bike, the two victims suffered fatal injuries,” said sub-inspector Bhagwan Shendge of Koregaon Park police station who is investigating the case.According to the police, the parents of the child were riding ahead of them on another vehicle. The deceased teenager had finished Class 10 and her sister who survived the accident works in a private company.The police are yet to nab the tanker owner, according to Shendge.A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 119/177, 134(a)(b) of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at the Koregaon Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-year-old-teen-killed-in-road-accident-in-camp/story-MzANzirfuoU45lsfBjFMWI.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Trees chopped at south Konkan wildlife corridor; foresters assaulted, violators booked||Despite a Bombay high court order declaring the Dodamarg-Swantwadi belt in south Konkan as a no tree felling zone, local residents have been booked for assaulting forest officers and indiscriminate tree felling in the area.According to the forest department, members from the youth wing of the state’s ruling party Shiv Sena in Sindhudurg district managed to cut large number of trees across a two-acre patch near Bambarde village in the proposed wildlife corridor area in Dodamarg taluka on June 4.The two-acre area falls within the ambit of deemed reserved forest with over 50 small trees. Around 20 large trees allegedly uprooted by residents, said forest officers.“On receiving this information, our team went to the site to file a punchnama and assess damages when we faced severe backlash from locals who abused and assaulted us, and asked us to leave the site,” said Dayanand Kokre, range forest officer, Dodamarg, one of the assaulted officers.V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest, Kolhapur said the team was directed to rush to the nearest police station and file a complaint. “We are yet to assess the total loss of trees, which were uprooted using an excavator machine (see image). The violators are on the run and we expect law will take its own course,” he said.A first-information-report (FIR) was filed against four persons - Madan Rane, Dayanand Rane, Sandesh Rane, Suraj Rane, and Daulat Rane in violation of section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) by the police, said Samadhan Chavan, deputy conservator of forest, Sawantwadi. “They are all in the age group of 30 to 35. Additionally, we have filed a preliminary offence report (POR) in violation of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, for illicit tree felling,” he said.Chavan added that the area used to be a private forest but was acquired by the state in 1978 under the Maharashtra Private Forests (Acquisition) Act, 1975. It was later declared as deemed reserved forest. “Locals had objected to this as they had not received compensation, and the case is in litigation. But this does not give them the right to cut trees.,” he said.Sena politician Vinayak Raut, elected Member of Parliament from the Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg constituency said, “Planting of trees in private forest areas is being done by locals on land belonging to them but there is a strict ban on any tree felling. Everyone is aware about it. I will take stock of the matter to check what happened at the site,” he said.The Bombay high court (HC) in 2013, based on 2011 petition by Awaaz Foundation, had directed the Union environment ministry and state to ensure the corridor is protected as an eco-sensitive area (ESA) where mining and red category industries are prohibited. The HC had reiterated its order in 2018, based on NGO Vanashakti’s petition in 2016, declaring the entire belt as a ‘no tree felling zone’. “It is shameful that forest officer’s are being attacked for doing their duty. The minister concerned needs to take action to ensure there is deterrence in such cases,” said Stalin D, petitioner.A local forest officer requesting anonymity said, “The area had mixed plantation before being felled and following our intervention, the accused claimed they wanted to plant cashew trees. However, basic investigation with locals in the area revealed that they had planned to build a resort, and not less than 150 trees have been uprooted.”WHY DOES IT MATTER?The Dodamarge-Sawantwadi corridor is home to tigers, leopards, elephants, sloth bears, civets, pangolins, several resident and migratory bird species, and even the Indian giant squirrel (Maharashtra’s state animal). The forest department confirmed that over the past five years, transient movement of close to 25 tigers has been observed at the corridor while an elephant family of five reside there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trees-chopped-at-south-konkan-wildlife-corridor-foresters-assaulted-violators-booked/story-4hg7BcHEFNJ634nuLkUR0M.html
10-06-2020||Real||UP govt reduces interest rates on land dues for builders in Noida, Greater Noida||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday asked the three industrial development authorities in Gautam Buddh Nagar to reduce interest rates on land dues in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision was conveyed to the Noida Authority, the Greater Noida Authority (GNIDA) and the Yamuna Expressway Authority (YEIDA) in an official letter by Alok Kumar, Principal Secretary, Industries and Infrastructure Development, UP. Developers and real estate bodies like Naredco and Credai hailed the move, saying it will make projects financially more viable and significantly benefit home buyers. “There will be no interest for delay on land dues which were to be cleared between March 22 and June 30 if payment is made by June 30,” according to the letter. “Those who deposit their dues scheduled between March 22 and June 30, by September 30 would be charged a simple interest (SI). This SI would be counted from March 22 till the date of payment,” the letter stated. On all the dues paid between July 1 and September 30, the concerned authority will charge simple interest, it said. “If these dues are not cleared by September 30, then default interest will be applicable on entire period of delay,” it added. The letter also made it clear that date of payment for land dues scheduled in future will not be changed, and they will be “as per lease deed”. “In the first round relief, the government has allowed Noida Authority, GNIDA and YEIDA to charge interest on balance outstanding at MCLR (marginal cost of fund-based lending rate) +1 per cent. It is a big relief to developers which will help us to deliver projects fast to home buyers,” Naredco UP President and Supertech Chairman R K Arora said. Realtor’s body CREDAI’s NCR unit president Pankaj Bajaj said for allotments to builders, the authority rate of interest on instalment was practically coming to more than 15 per annum. “Due to the slowdown in the market in the last four years, this rate of interest made most projects in Noida and Greater Noida financially unviable. If projects become sick, not only is homebuyer’s investment at risk but even the Authority’s paper receivables become doubtful,” he said. He added that CREDAI had been requesting for making rate of interest reasonable and linking it to MCLR. “The revised rate is around 9 per cent per annum. This makes a material difference to the economic viability of projects in this region. Ultimately it benefits the homebuyer by making the projects more healthy and assuring delivery, Bajaj said. Ashish Bhutani, CEO, Bhutani Infra, said the step has come in right course of time, the moratoriums for delivery was a big relief and now with interest rates getting reduced this will be another relief to thousand of property owners. “The interest deferment will ease out the cash flow and developers would be able to focus on delivery of projects,” Bhutani said. Manoj Gaur, MD, Gaurs Group and Chairman of Credai’s Affordable Housing Committee said the move will provide much needed help at this moment of crisis for industry as a whole. “This will reduce the burden on the developers, the ultimate beneficiary will be home buyers. The move will definitely give a relief to the affected developers,” Gaur said. Ashok Gupta, CMD, Ajnara India said the decision will ease out some burden. “Developers are already busy going to the drawing board to make marketing strategies and other operational nuances in post COVID-19 scenario. This decision of authority has come as a relief,” he added. Vikas Bhasin, MD, SAYA Homes said that the lockdown waiver of interest rate on authority dues will help the developers manage funds for activities that can expedite the sale process. “We wish that other measures too will come the sector’s way to ease out the burden,” Bhasin said. Dhiraj Jain, Director, Mahagun Group said he hoped the state government would also come out with other measures, including a relief package, for the sector. “Real estate is an important part of the country’s economy and anything for this sector will ultimately help in quick economic recovery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/up-govt-reduces-interest-rates-on-land-dues-for-builders-in-noida-greater-noida/story-d6k8olTD7mme5gYZOqS8XL.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||32, including SHO, test positive for Covid-19 in Pathankot, Gurdaspur||Nineteen people, including a station house officer (SHO), tested positive for Covid-19 in Pathankot on Wednesday, officials said. Pathankot deputy commissioner (DC) GS Khaira said, “Nineteen of 245 people whose reports were received from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar on Wednesday tested positive for Covid-19.”“A 32-year-old SHO at Pathankot Division’s Number 1 Police Station was among the 19 people to test positive. A four-year-old boy has also tested positive,” the DC said, adding that health department was tracing the contacts and source of infection.”“All the patients have been isolated in hospitals and are stable. All policemen who came in contact with the SHO will be quarantined. So far, the district has recorded 113 Covid-19 cases, of which 52 are active,” the DC said.13 INFECTED IN GURDASPURGurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Kishan Chand said, “On Wednesday, 13 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported. One patient is a resident of Gurdaspur, one of Kamo Nangal village, two of Dhaliwal and nine of Batala. All patients are the direct contacts of previously diagnosed Covid-19 patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/32-including-sho-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-pathankot-gurdaspur/story-bDda2dNNhTDgJkoIwXJfRO.html
10-06-2020||City||Man dies of Covid-19 in Bareilly, days after escaping from Ghaziabad hospital||A man has died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection in Bareilly, days after escaping from a Ghaziabad hospital where he was initially admitted, officials said on Wednesday.The victim used to live in Delhi and work as a tailor, they said, adding that he had fled a Ghaziabad hospital and reached his sister’s place here two days ago.“The man, about 45 years of age, died at a Bareilly hospital on Tuesday. He was admitted there two days ago,” Chief Medical Officer Yashpal Singh said.An FIR had been lodged against him under the Epidemic Diseases Act and he was sent to Bareilly for treatment, the CMO said.He said two patients have died of Covid-19 in Badaun so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-dies-of-covid-19-in-bareilly-days-after-escaping-from-ghaziabad-hospital/story-QLhA9DuSFV3pKBaX0agHsM.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Salute to tech warriors running world from home||Confined to our homes waiting for the Covid-19 pandemic to wane, a substantial percentage of the working population is now forced to work from home. This population is born in the previous century and can’t be included in the category of digital natives. It’s but natural that the majority is not comfortable with online platforms that are mandatory for work from home. And it is here that the younger generation is being seen as a guiding force.For once, it’s the time when elders have to listen to what children are teaching them. Whether it’s a grandchild, a son or a daughter or a much younger cousin, a colleague or a neighbourhood friendly chap who we keep pestering with our frantic phone calls, they have all risen to the occasion. They teach, guide and advise their parents, uncles, aunts, teachers, or other figures in authority about how to download apps, make groups, fix meetings, create videos, send content and connect with their workplace team to keep the official and social communication channels open without hassle.While attending online classes, youngsters watch their fumbling and ill-at-ease teachers with sympathy and patience, helpfully offering suggestions for correcting the glitches. A Kuchipudi dancer, who has gone digital and is conducting online classes, while acknowledging the technical support of her daughter admits: “It sure helps to have tech-savvy youngsters in the family.”These are the tech warriors doubling up as laptop and cellphone mechanics and go-to saviours when in doubt or logged out.It is not only on the home front that the young are teaching the old, the reverse learning trend is visible in the academic departments also. For once, the junior most colleagues are getting all the authority to run the department from home. They are now the busiest and the most active, innovative and creative figures, conceiving and executing online classes, training programmes, webinars and digital learning solutions. For once, seniors save a few who have kept themselves abreast with technology, have taken the backseat twiddling their tech-phobic thumbs.Irrespective of the cadre, the most sought-after person in the staff is the member with information technology (IT) skills to troubleshoot for their bosses, who have been too engrossed in routine administration to jump on the online bandwagon.I recently came across an online seminar for faculty members being coordinated by a PhD scholar, who is managing the technical paraphernalia. This was unthinkable in a traditional setting two months ago.We, the seniors and experienced are now humbled, our arrogance has bitten the dust and no more will we use such absurd statements: “I know more because I am... your senior/older than you/your mother/your teacher.”Let us salute the young tech warriors who are contributing to running the world from home in this critical period. Life would have ground to a halt without them.The writer is an associate professor at Panjab University, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/salute-to-tech-warriors-running-world-from-home/story-8ioXBrPKjoJu5z2i9kCy2I.html
10-06-2020||Patna||Bihar government dismisses 11 doctors for being absent from duty||Bihar government has dismissed 11 doctors for their unauthorised absence from duties for a long time.The dismissed doctors are Dr OP Lal who was posted in Rohtas, Dr Kamran Habeeb in Dumraon, Dr Nityanand Pathak in Supaul, Dr Yaqub Sanga in Saran, Dr Indramohan Kumar in Siwan, Dr Suneeta Kumari in Gopalganj, Dr Haroon Rashid in Katihar, Dr Renu Kumari in Katihar, Dr Savita Kumari Sharma in Chapra, Dr Abu Sufiyan Yahya in Saharsa and Dr Tanveer Alam in Katihar under the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-dismisses-11-doctors-for-being-absent-from-duty/story-IjPKo8ZHQ1ShuBJ0vTnlKL.html
10-06-2020||Noida||UP govt reduces interest rate for builders on housing land dues||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday asked the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway industrial development authorities to reduce the interest rates on land dues for builders and other allottees in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The state government has also asked the three industrial authorities to shift and defer the payments that have to be made by the property allottees, including allottees of 600 housing projects, factory owners, industrial and individual plot allottees, said officials. The decision was taken by the state government after consultation with the CEOs of the three authorities.The UP government directive came after repeated demands made by the developers to provide them with relief in view of the huge business losses incurred due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Noida, Greater Noida and Yeida (Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority) needs to recover at least Rs 35,000 crore in land dues from 600 housing projects and other property defaulters. As the construction was shut down during the period of the national lockdown, real estate developers suffered huge losses and requested the state government to provide them with relief. They said that if interest rates were not reduced and payments were not postponed then they might not be able to survive the crisis. “The interest rates now have to be reduced for all Noida properties as per the state government directive. The penal interest on the authority dues also needs to be deferred as per the state government order,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer(CEO) of the Noida authority.Alok Kumar principal secretary with the UP infrastructure and industrial development department has directed the CEOs of all industrial bodies including Noida, Greater Noida and Yeida to follow the directive to give relief to property allottees, said officials.Presently, some of the defaulter builders pay penal interest on financial dues up to 20%, thereby increasing the total default amount. The state government has, therefore, asked authorities to levy simple interest on financial dues as per the marginal cost of funds based lending rate (MCLR) revised by the Reserve Bank of India, said officials. Now the authorities shall levy simple interest of 8% on financial dues unlike earlier, said officials. Further, the authorities will not impose any ‘interest on default’ on payments by the developers from March 22 to June 30 provided they clear their dues by June 30, 2020. And if anyone pays defaulted amount that was payable from March 22 to June 30 by September 30, 2020 then simple interest will be imposed unlike earlier when penal interest was to be recovered.If the defaulter does not pay the defaulted amount by September 30, 2020, then interest will be imposed on defaulted amount, said officials.“We welcome the move of the state government. The government has decided to reduce interest rate and decided to charge up to 8% unlike earlier when penal interest would consistently go up. Most of the developers will be able to restructure their dues and clear them. It will help the homebuyers, investors, developers and the real estate sector as a whole. We hope that the government will soon take a decision on our other demands to revive the realty sector,” said RK Arora Uttar Pradesh president of National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a developers’ body.When asked about the other demands of the real estate developers, Arun Vir Singh CEO of the Yeida said, “The developers can send their request via email to us and we will process their request as per the decision taken by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-government-reduces-interest-rate-for-builders-on-housing-land-dues/story-1sji4TQ97jbLLDZZ9Hdt7N.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Young, gifted and smacked, but black lives matter||The recent death of George Floyd at the hands of the police in Minneapolis led to public outcry in American cities not seen since the 1991 beating up of Rodney King, again by the police. Neither event is rare, and sadly racism persists.My first experience of race in the US came in 1999 when I visited Dalton, Georgia, on business. Work done, I requested my hosts to arrange a car to travel to Atlanta. My taxi arrived and I greeted the driver, a tall, mature Afro-Caribbean. “You remind me of cricketer Clive Lloyd,” I opened, and received a bemused reaction. He opened the rear door, while I motioned that I wanted to sit in the front. My efforts to engage the driver with small talk were all stonewalled. Some 15 minutes later, he suddenly spoke. He wanted to know why I chose to sit in the front seat. I replied that I had hoped to chat on the two-hour drive. The ice having broken, the driver suddenly pointed: “Look over there! That’s where I was born.” I gazed at a non-descript road of a poor neighbourhood. “My grandfather was a slave,” he said. To me that seemed a stretch given that slavery had been abolished in 1865.I asked him whether matters had changed. He said: “A little. I walk into a Walmart and I know that as a black person I will be followed by security cameras. It doesn’t happen to whites.”Our conversation touched upon education, dietary supplements, public housing and health care. He was an informed fellow, capable of far better things than society had allowed him to do.The dialogue was inspirational with profound words that I recall to this day. I felt my driver, a stoical grandfather, lived to survive in spite of society. He said: “Sir, we have surrendered everything to the white community. We have accepted their names, religion, clothes, food, in fact their entire culture, yet we feel rejected.”Finally, we reached the hotel in Atlanta. I invited him to come in for a drink and a snack. He said: “Sir, these places are not for us. They may allow me in today as your guest, but tomorrow is a different day.” My eyes were moist. With difficulty I held back my tears, offered a tip, which was rejected, and then said goodbye.All these words, from the grandson of a slave, underline much of what is wrong in America even today, something that a black President could not fix in eight years. I relay this story often to migrant Indian communities when I am asked to speak at weddings, with the message for the youth that our distinct culture needs to be cherished and preserved for future generations. Surrender your culture and lose your soul. Integrate, but not at the expense of your identity.Protest happens not from opportunity but from need and grievance. As long as disparities remain, there will be protest. Inequity is the breeding ground for resentment that cannot be permanently contained. However, young and bright you may be in America, if you happen to be black you will get smacked. Sad, but true.The writer is a Ludhiana-based former Congress MLA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/young-gifted-and-smacked-but-black-lives-matter/story-JYo06eJWrROwwUMjBisIXM.html
10-06-2020||Lucknow||BJP busy in polls, ignoring problem of unemployment: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||Linking rising unemployment to cases of suicide, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday charged that the BJP was busy focusing on elections and not interested in tackling the problem of joblessness.There have been some cases of migrant labourers, who have returned to Uttar Pradesh from other states recently, committing suicide. “In UP, unemployment has emerged as a big problem in form of suicides. Forgetting truth of corona, BJP has become busy in elections. When BJP is not considering unemployment and starvation as a problem, how will it solve them.With Bihar election nearing, after some days ‘star campaigner’ will also start flying,” Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi.BSP supremo Mayawati also asked the government to make concrete efforts to provide jobs to unemployed migrants. “The Supremo Court order to withdraw cases against migrants in justified, timely and appreciable as due to corona pandemic and lockdown, unemployed migrants could not follow rules and FIRs were lodged against them,” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi.“The SC order to provide job to migrants in their home state is also welcome. In this regard governments should be serious and sensitive in providing them jobs and start the process without any delay. This is demand of the BSP,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-busy-in-polls-ignoring-problem-of-unemployment-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav/story-ojhBL50BqIPPR7155S4m8J.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||29-year-old woman commits suicide in Rampur Bushahr||A 29-year-old woman hung herself in Rampur Bushahr, here on Tuesday evening.The woman’s husband, who had gone for an evening walk, found his wife hanging from the ceiling fan around 7.30pm. The woman was rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Khaneri, where she was declared brought dead.The woman was a teacher at Delhi Public School, Rampur Bushahr. Police said the family was in the middle of a property dispute. No suicide note was found, said police.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhimanyu Verma said an investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/29-year-old-woman-commits-suicide-in-rampur-bushahr/story-3hhO1jhJzTx8M6i4czNkeO.html
10-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally mounts to 11,368, death toll at 256||Rajasthan reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 256 as 123 fresh cases of the infection pushed the state’s tally to 11,368.The death was reported in Jodhpur, officials said.Of the fresh cases, 40 were reported in Jaipur, 34 in Bharatpur, 11 in Sikar, nine in Jhunjhunu, five in Nagaur, three in Kota and two in Alwar, besides cases in other districts, they said.Jaipur topped the Covid tally in the state with 2,500 cases and 118 deaths, followed by 1,944 cases and 26 deaths in Jodhpur.There are 2,610 active Covid-19 cases in the state. A total of 8,152 patients have been discharged after treatment, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-mounts-to-11-368-death-toll-at-256/story-ET40loAyZNyKQFo7INu5AM.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal to act against members posting irrelevant, obscene content in online study groups||SHIMLA: Acting on complaints of women teachers, the department of higher education of Himachal Pradesh has warned of departmental action against members who post irrelevant and obscene messages on official WhatsApp study groups.Director, higher education, Amarjeet K Sharma said on Wednesday that he has issued a memo in this regard to all principals of colleges and higher secondary schools and headmasters of high schools.Sharma said that the department had taken the initiative to create WhatsApp groups of all institutions to facilitate employees and students to stay connected for day-to-day activities and for the delivery of online study material of all classes.“However, it’s been observed that some members of these WhatsApp groups just post good morning/evening greetings besides irrelevant messages and videos even at odd hours,” he said.Sharma said that this creates unnecessary burden on the minds of other group members. “Some women employees informed the authorities that such messages put them in an awkward position before their families,” he said.Directions have been issued that only departmental information should be shared and irrelevant messages should be strictly avoided in the official groups. “All members must respect the dignity and self-respect of others at all levels. Any violation will be viewed seriously and departmental proceedings will be taken against the offenders,” he said.Schools and colleges had created WhatsApp groups to facilitate online studies as the institutions are closed since March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, some obscene material was posted in these groups which have parents and teachers as members.The government has announced vacations in educational institutions till June 30 which may be extended till July if the situation does not improve.There are 10,714 primary schools in the state with 23,909 teachers; 1,996 middle schools with 6,614 teachers; and 2,749 high schools with 36,288 teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-to-act-against-members-posting-irrelevant-obscene-content-in-online-study-groups/story-vbsstbg1cn59TMBnrAtNkJ.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two-storey wooden house gutted in Shimla||A two-storey wooden house, comprising 12 rooms was gutted in Jadoon village, Kumarsain sub-divison, on Tuesday evening. The house belongs to one Roshan Lal. There was nobody in the house when the blaze broke out. The flames were spotted by local residents who reached the spot and tried to douse the fire but were unsuccessful. Police and fire tenders put out the fire.Kumarsain sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Nishant Tomar reached the spot and gave Rs 10,000 to the family.This is the third incident in Shimla district, in which a house has been gutted in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-storey-wooden-house-gutted-in-shimla/story-9WmeCTYKtkYc2WT54pyYjL.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid-19 tally climbs to 451 as six more test positive||Himachal’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 451 as six more people, including a woman, tested positive for the deadly virus on Wednesday.Three cases were reported from Kangra, two cases from Sirmaur and one from Solan district.Now, there are 184 active cases in the state as five patients have recovered.Three cases from Kangra includea 28-year-old man from Baijnath who returned from Delhi on May 6. Another man, aged 56, also hailing from Baijnath returned on June 4. They were under institutional quarantine.The third patient a 56-year-old woman from Dehra area returned from Delhi on June 7 and was under home quarantine. Sirmaur deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said a 44-year-old woman, who works as an accountant at Kala Amb-based drug manufacturing unit at Orison Pharma International, was among the two new cases in the district. Eight people of the pharma unit, including its owner and his family, had tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.The company has been sealed.A 39-year-old man, who works at the Defense Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Delhi, also tested positive in the district. He had returned to the state on June 5 and was under institutional quarantine at Paonta Sahib.Solan deputy commissioner KC Chaman said one case had been reported from Solan. “A 30-year-old man, who works as a pharmacist, has tested positive. The patient hails from Bihar and came to Roopnagar from Delhi in a train on June 2.”He spent a night at the Roopnagar railway station and reached Nalagarh the next day. He was home quarantined till June 8 and was shifted to the isolation ward in Community Health Centre (CHC), Nalagarh, after complaining of fever.HAMIRPUR WOMAN DIES, DEATH TOLL SIXA 53-year-old woman from Hamirpur died due to the virus at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, on Wednesday, taking the death toll to six.Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said the woman had returned from Delhi on May 28. “She was suffering from renal failure and her condition deteriorated at the quarantine centre. She was shifted to IGMC on June 4 where she tested positive for the virus. Her grandson has also tested positive on Tuesday,” he said.The first COVID-19 death in Himachal was reported on March 23 when a US-returned Tibetan man from McLeodganj died of the contagion. The second casualty occurred on May 5 when a 21-year-old youth from Sarkaghat, who was also suffering from a kidney ailment, died at IGMC, Shimla.A 53-year-old man from Hamirpur died of severe respiratory distress caused by the virus on May 15 at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (LBSGMC), Nerchowk, taking the state’s death toll to three.Two women died of the contagion on May 25 at hospitals in Shimla and Mandi. Both were suffering from kidney-related and other ailments.184 ACTIVE CASESSo far, Himachal has recorded 451 cases, of which 250 have recovered while six, including three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 124 cases followed by Kangra with 118 cases. A total of 54 cases have been reported in Una, 35 in Solan, 32 in Chamba, 24 in Bilaspur, 22 in Mandi, 22 in Sirmaur 13 in Shimla, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur.PANIC AS MAN DIES AT DHARAMSHALA HOSPITALPanic gripped Dharamshala Zonal Hospital after a man died here due to a serious illness. However, his Covid-19 test came out negative.The 53-year-old had returned to Palampur from UP recently and was under home quarantine. He was shifted to a hospital on Tuesday where he passed away late at night.“The patient had had multiple health problems and his coronavirus test came out negative,” said Dr GD Gupta, chief medical officer, Kangra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-448-as-three-more-test-positive/story-Dxsjujw630WYaPnXQ4AKPK.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||School teacher, driver die, principal critical after gas tanker falls on their car near Punjab’s Jalandhar town||A teacher and a driver of DIPS School, Mehatpur, were killed, while the principal sustained critical injuries when a gas tanker fell on their car when they were on their way to school on the Jalandhar-Nakodar highway on Wednesday morning.Police said the freak accident occurred when the tanker driver coming from Nakodar was taking a turn but the vehicle overturned as one of its tyres got stuck in a pothole.Car driver Amit Kumar, 32, and school teacher Shelly, 35, died on the spot, while principal Jyoti Sharma, 55, suffered critical injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. They were going from Jalandhar town to the school at Mehatpur, 36 km away.Jalandhar cantonment assistant commissioner of police Major Singh said that the tanker driver was also injured and is undergoing treatment at the local civil hospital. He was booked under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code.An eyewitness, Rajesh Sharma, blamed the municipal corporation (MC) authorities for failing to repair the potholes that had claimed two lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-teacher-driver-die-principal-critical-after-gas-tanker-falls-on-their-car-near-punjab-s-jalandhar-town/story-BIkduMskULvydfEPvvvtQO.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two die, one critical after gas tanker falls on car in Punjab’s Jalandhar||Jalandhar: A teacher and a driver of DIPS School, Mehatpur, were killed, while the principal sustained critical injuries when a gas tanker fell on their car when they were on their way to school on the Jalandhar-Nakodar highway on Wednesday morning.Police said the freak accident occurred when the tanker driver coming from Nakodar was taking a turn but the vehicle overturned as one of its tyres got stuck in a pothole.Car driver Amit Kumar, 32, and school teacher Shelly, 35, died on the spot, while principal Jyoti Sharma, 55, suffered critical injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. They were going from Jalandhar town to the school at Mehatpur, 36 km away.Jalandhar cantonment assistant commissioner of police Major Singh said that thetanker driver was also injured and is undergoing treatment at the local civil hospital. He was booked under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code.An eyewitness, Rajesh Sharma, blamed the municipal corporation (MC) authorities for failing to repair the potholes that had claimed two lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-die-one-critical-after-gas-tanker-falls-on-car-in-punjab-s-jalandhar/story-rTL9PyRQh5ZMksKRZgUW0J.html
10-06-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Police reports first case of Coronavirus||A constable of Uttarakhand Police has been infected by Covid-19 making it the first case reported from the department.The constable is part of the Cheeta Mobile Unit of Uttarakhand Police.The state Director General (Law & order) Ashok Kumar told ANI, “The constable was enlisted for duty in the Niranjanpur vegetable market which is a containment zone. That is the reason why he had to regularly go there.”The police are now engaged in contact tracing of the constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-reports-first-case-of-coronavirus/story-wTVCIz0E6pXI9BgOGEAcDK.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman kills six-year-old son in Punjab’s Jalandhar for ‘loving his grandmother more’||Jalandhar: A woman stabbed her six-year-old son to death with a kitchen knife in Shahkot town of Jalandhar district because she thought he loved his grandmother more than her, police said on Wednesday.The mother, Kulwinder Kaur, 30, attempted suicide after killing her only child by jumping off the roof of her double-storeyed house at Sohal Jagir village in Shahkot sub-division on Monday night but survived.Shahkot deputy superintendent of police Piara Singh said Kulwinder sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital in Nakodar. She is reportedly out of danger.Kulwinder’s husband works in Italy. She lived at the village along with her in-laws and son but her relations with her mother-in-law, Charanjit Kaur, were strained. The DSP said she was angry with her son for spending more time with his grandparents, especially his grandmother.“After dinner on Monday, the child went to his grandparents. An angry Kulwinder took him to her room and stabbed him twice with the kitchen knife. The grandparents rushed to the room on hearing Arshpreet’s cries. Shocked to see him bleeding, they rushed him to hospital but he died on the way. Kulwinder told them that she had killed her child,” said Shahkot station house officer Sukhwinder Singh.Following this, Kulwinder jumped off the roof of the house to commit suicide but escaped with injuries.A case of murder was registered against her at the Shahkot police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-kills-six-year-old-son-in-punjab-s-jalandhar-for-loving-his-grandmother-more/story-D9EqXUGeM45toytMk2GVXI.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Man who pointed gun at cop part of Delhi riots conspiracy: Police charge sheet||The Delhi Police on Tuesday filed three charge sheets in connection with the violence in February which singed the North-East district.The police have named Shahrukh Pathan, the man whose video of pointing a pistol at a policeman during the riots had gone viral on the Internet, in two cases. Pathan has been charged with rioting and under relevant sections for pointing a gun at head constable Deepak Dahiya during the riots on February 24.Both the incidents had taken place at the Jafarabad-Maujpur Chowk, but separate cases were registered and Pathan was booked and arrested.Pathan was arrested from Uttar Pradesh in March. He is a resident of Karawal Nagar in North-East Delhi.The police have said in the charge sheet that on February 24 around 11 am, two groups - one supporting and the other opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizen (NRC) - clashed at Maujpur Chowk.“...incidents of stone-pelting, brick batting, arson, firing and sabotage from both sides led to injuries to several police personnel as well as public persons and created an atmosphere of fear among public...,” the police have mentioned in the charge sheet.Eyewitnesses had said that Pathan emerged from the crowd of the groups protesting against the CAA. The police allege that he fired at constable Dahiya.Reacting to the allegations made in the charge sheet, Pathan’s lawyer, Asghar Khan, said that his client is being falsely charged. He said that in the first case, the complainant, (head constable Deepak Dahiya)’s statement in the first information report (FIR) about opening fire is contrary to an interview he gave to a TV channel after the incident.“My client is being falsely charged in the case. The complainant told a TV channel that my client did not fire. However, in the FIR he has said that he had to duck to save himself from the bullet. The charge of attempt to murder (307 of IPC) is also false as Pathan opened fire in self-defence and not to injure or kill anyone,” Khan said.The other two cases in which charge sheets were filed on Tuesday were for the deaths of two persons during the communal violence in Kardampuri neighbourhood on February 24 and 25. Eight people - four in each case - were arrested and charged with murder, rioting, criminal conspiracy and other offences.A total of 88 charge sheets have filed by Delhi Police in different cases related to the North-East Delhi riots so far, including three against suspended AAP MLA Tahir Husain (one of which accuses him of planning the murder of IB staffer Ankit Sharma), one against six persons for the death of 85-year-old Akbari Begum, against Pinjra Tod activists Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, one against Khalid Saifi of United Against Hate, one against 17 persons for the death of head constable Rattan Lal, and one against 12 persons for the death of Dilbar Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shahrukh-pathan-part-of-delhi-riots-conspiracy-police-say-in-charge-sheet/story-YTbQzlqpHxhXl5FnPxBYLO.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Senior BMC official dies of Coronavirus in Mumbai||A senior official of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday died due to the virus amid surging cases of the disease in Mumbai.According to the BMC, the official was deployed in the water supply department.“A senior official of BMC who had tested positive for Covid-19 has lost his life. He was deployed in the water supply department,” BMC said.Mumbai on Tuesday reported 1,015 new Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths, according to the Municipal Corporation Greater Mumbai. With the new cases, the total number of positive cases in the city reached 50,878.India saw another day of highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases with 9,987 cases reported in the last 24 hours and the total count of cases crossing 2.66 lakh, as per the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-bmc-official-dies-of-coronavirus-in-mumbai/story-oFQOYQAJds84SXP806k90I.html
10-06-2020||Jaipur||Locals in Rajasthan’s Ajmer clang utensils to keep locusts at bay||The locals in Rajasthan’s Ajmer were seen clanging utensils on Tuesday in an attempt to drive away the locusts.Children and women were seen clanging utensils on their roof.Earlier on Sunday, the Agriculture Department of Rajasthan Government had said that locust attacks were controlled in 11,6091 hectares at 383 places after surveying 14,80858 hectares.In a report, the department had said that the first locusts attack was witnessed in Jaisalmer and Sriganganagar districts on April 11 and the latest attack was witnessed in the Alwar district on May 30.The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper. They are known to devour everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to food supply and livelihoods of millions of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/locals-in-rajasthan-s-ajmer-clang-utensils-to-keep-locusts-at-bay/story-LRksygOyISE3XmlUQs97OP.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tests negative for Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), his office said on Tuesday.“The fever has subsided and he is now feeling well. The Covid-19 test was administered this morning,” the CM’s office said after Kejriwal test results came in the evening.Kejriwal (51) has not been meeting people since Sunday afternoon after he first felt feverish. Subsequently, he decided to self-isolate, cancelled all scheduled meetings and then followed it up with a Covid-19 test.Kejriwal, a diabetic, had consulted a doctor over the phone on Sunday evening after which he decided to get himself tested. “On Sunday, he also had cold and cough, and mild pain in his throat,” an official in the CM office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-tests-negative-for-covid-19/story-bR80P8U8NSR8kJpUhdAbjJ.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||More Covid-19 beds in 22 Delhi pvt hospitals, rates will be displayed||The Delhi government has ordered 22 private hospitals in the city to reserve more than 20% beds for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding 2,015 isolation beds to the city’s total. The decision was taken after consulting with the hospitals. “It is decided in consultation with the 22 private hospitals to allocate more than 20% beds for treatment of Covid-19. Accordingly, MSs (medical superintendents) of these hospitals are directed to admit Covid-19 patients as per revised allocation of beds and update data on Delhi Corona app with immediate effect” the order reads.The Delhi government had ordered 117 hospitals across the city with more than 50 beds to reserve 20% of their bed-strength for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.The 22 hospitals include three branches of Fortis hospitals and four of Max hospitals.As per the government order, Fortis Vasant Kunj will become a completely Covid-19 hospital and will be adding beds. Around 80% beds in Batra hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional area have to be reserved, around 60% beds in Holy Family hospital, and between 25 to 50% beds in the other hospitals will have to be reserved.The 200 beds in Max Smart Superspeciality hospital was already dedicated for the treatment of Covid-19.So far, of the 117 hospitals that had been asked to reserve Covid-19 beds in Delhi government’s initial May 24 order, 91 have so far agreed to do so as on Tuesday, according to data on Delhi Corona App.The Delhi government on Tuesday ordered all Delhi government-run and private hospitals with 50 beds or more to put up a 12x10-feet flexboard at the entry gate. The board has to say, “Important Notice. 1) For latest information on vacant beds in this hospital: Download Delhi Corona mobile app. Go to www.delhifightscorona.in/beds. Call 1031. If a hospital refuses a bed even though the app shows there are vacant beds in the hospital, you can call 1031 to file a complaint.”The government had earlier ordered private hospitals to prominently display the charges for various treatments and procedures for Covid-19.The message further reads, “2) If you have tested positive for corona and your symptoms are mild, then you can recover at home though home isolation. If you do not have sufficient facilities at home to undergo home isolation, you can be admitted to our Covid Care Centre. Only Patients with severe symptoms need to be admitted to the hospital.”The government had asked all hospitals in the city to discharge any mild and asymptomatic cases admitted to make space in the hospitals last week.The message to be displayed on the flex also says, “3) If you have severe symptoms of corona but have not been tested yet, or if the results are pending, do not panic. Hospitals cannot refuse to admit a patient with severe symptoms of corona. If a hospital refuses to admit you, call 1031 and file a complaint.”The government had this week ordered that no hospital should refuse a patient with Covid-19 like symptoms even if they do not have a positive report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-covid-19-beds-in-22-delhi-pvt-hospitals-rates-will-be-displayed/story-yh4YQ8KJWe8gMwx5rICDHK.html
10-06-2020||Kolkata||Three of a family found dead near Kolkata, probe on||An 80-year-old man, his 69-year-old wife and their 49-year-old son were found dead in their house at Thakurpukur in the western fringes of Kolkata on Tuesday morning, police said.Police said they found a suicide note and a line scribbled on the wall with a chalk which read, “We are dying.” A cup with some liquid was also found with the label reading “Poison”.In the note, the man said as he was ailing, his wife was paralysed and their only son was differently abled, they were committing suicide. “On Monday, he fell on the road and injured himself. We took him to the nearest hospital. As there was no one to look after his wife and son, we took them along in the ambulance. But the hospital refused to treat him as his temperature was above normal,” said neighbour Tarun Chakraborty. They took them to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital where the doctors said his temperature was normal and so, referred him to a non-Covid hospital. The ambulance then took them to a non-Covid hospital which sent them away as it didn’t have spare beds. A senior doctor with the Calcutta Medical College Hospital’s administration said: “If a patient comes without any symptoms, why should we admit him here? There are other hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/three-of-a-family-found-dead-near-kolkata-probe-on/story-yROLs9oVKjqFTmPZ5IvFQM.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||4.19 lakh passengers travelled by BEST bus on Day 1 of Mission Begin Again||Four lakh nineteen thousand passengers commuted on buses run by the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking on Monday, Day 1 of Mission Begin Again, when the bus services resumed after the lockdown. BEST earned ₹40.44 lakh from ticket sales on Monday. Only 30 passengers, including five standing, are allowed on a bus.BEST operated an additional 176 buses on Tuesday. Altogether, around 2308 buses plied on 81 routes in the city. However, long queues at bus stands were reported on Tuesday along with violations of distancing norms.“I had to wait for half an hour to get a bus. There were long queues and there were people waiting for one hour. Frequency of buses should be increased.” said Abhijeet Bhosale, a Ghatkopar resident whose office is in Vikhroli. The administration plans to operate additional buses. However, of the 4,335 conductors and 4,126 bus drivers expected to report for duty, only 1,992 conductors and 2,024 bus drivers turned up on Monday.BEST Sanyukt Kamgar Kruti Samiti (BSKKS), an umbrella body of BEST unions, has said silent protests will be held June 11 onwards outside bus depots in the city because employees have faced disciplinary actions and charge sheets (issued by BEST administration). “The administration is issuing charge sheets to its own employees without considering or understanding the situation. Few employees are residing in containment zones and others do not have proper means of transport to reach their workplace. We will begin a silent protest from June 11 outside every bus depot in the city,” said Shashank Rao, president, BSKKS. The union has also asked the administration to make a temporary hospital for Covid-positive employees at Wadala bus depot or Dindoshi traffic training centre. Citizen group Mumbai Mobility Forum (MMF) has written to BEST administration with suggestions to reduce overcrowding.“We can have two shifts for all offices including [those in] Mantralaya, Bandra Kurla Complex, Nariman Point and Ballard Estate. This will reduce crowding. A simple solution is by putting school buses in action along with a return trip in the morning to cater to commuters. We can run one makeshift bus lane with paint. It has worked in Bengaluru,” said Ashok Datar of MMF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-19-lakh-passengers-travelled-by-best-bus-on-day-1-of-mission-begin-again/story-csrm3rIxvXTiuYcy9vL8qI.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Central Railways to get digital machines to screen travellers at stations||Central Railway (CR) is planning to install automated ticket checking and managing access (ATMA) machines for passengers travelling by outstation trains. ATMA are likely to be placed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) and Kalyan railway stations.ATMA have digital screens, which will be placed at the entrance of the railway stations. The screens will undertake thermal screenings of passengers, if they are wearing masks and if their tickets are valid. Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel will be deployed to monitor the process.After being screened, passengers must sanitise their hands and only then will they be allowed to board trains.“The screens will help maintain distancing and ensure the safety of passengers and employees. The screens will be installed in railway stations on all CR divisions including Mumbai,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.Digital screens to check passengers’ body temperature have been introduced at Nagpur railway station.Presently, railway authorities have deputed railway staff to monitor passengers’ temperature manually. Thermal screening of passengers is done at the entrance to the railway stations along with baggage screening and sanitisation of luggage.Different entry and exit points in order to maintain distancing have also been introduced at railway stations in the city.The railways started the operation of 200 special trains in the country from June 1. The trains that are being operated from the city are operating on a daily, weekly and biweekly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railways-to-get-digital-machines-to-screen-travellers-at-stations/story-i1WQkIjiAnOk2RaMHuOAwJ.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four arrested for possessing illegal liquor in Chandigarh||Four persons were arrested in four separate cases for possessing illicit liquor from different parts of city, the police said on Tuesday.Ajay of Raipur Khurd in Chandigarh was arrested with 10 bottles of English liquor near PEPSU turn in Makhan Majra on Monday night.Hans Raj of Fatehgarh Sahib was arrested with 12 bottles of country-made liquor near Sector 39/40-55-56 chowk in Chandigarh on Monday.In another case, one Mohd Farookh of Sector 56 was arrested with 18 bottles of country-made liquor near the dispensary in the same sector.Another Sector-56 resident Samim was arrested with 27 bottles of country-made liquor from near a house there.Four cases were registered in different police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-arrested-for-possessing-illegal-liquor-in-chandigarh/story-qwnni3JhVSWijSOkQdZH4J.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Parent files plea in Bombay HC seeking cancellation of ICSE, ISC exams in July||A petition has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) by a parent, challenging the decision of the Council for the Indian School Certification Examination (CISCE), which stated that the pending Class 10 exam for Indian School Certificate Examination (ICSE) students and Class 12 exam for Indian School Certificate students will be held in July. The plea seeks urgent directions for protecting the life and health of the students who are to appear for the exams that were postponed since March, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and rescheduled for July.The exams for Class 10 students were rescheduled from July 2 to 12, while those for Class 12 were rescheduled from July 1 to 14.In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the plea moved by advocate Arvind Raghunath on behalf of the ICSE student’s parent sought directions to the authorities to cancel the rescheduled exam time table and declare results on the basis of gradation and assessment of past performances. The plea also sought directions from the court to CISCE for issuing results of Class 10 students on time to enable them to seek admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJCs) through an online admission process initiated by the state education department. The plea also prayed for restraint on the state authorities from starting online admissions for FYJC till all the boards declare results for Class 10.Pointing to the compromise on the health and safety of students if exams were to be conducted in July, the petition says, “In present situation conducting examinations is very difficult. Decision of the respondents severely violates fundamental rights provided under the constitution. While all students had to endure the trauma of lockdown measures and potent threat to health and life, the students of respective state boards and universities were protected by the authorities from exams and students of ICSE board are facing strong discrimination and have been exposed to the threat and fear of getting probably infected by moving out for exams.”The petition further states that as students, teachers and school staff would be required to travel to the school for the exams, if any of them were to be infected by the virus who would be held responsible for it. “In present pandemic situation, if anything happens to students, teachers and staff or police personnel, then who shall take responsibility,” said the plea.On Tuesday, a bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice S S Shinde was to hear the petition however due to paucity of time, it is likely to be heard on Friday, June 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parent-files-plea-in-bombay-hc-seeking-cancellation-of-icse-isc-exams-in-july/story-GT0aLO96W4ztLPi9OoRcOI.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||29-year-old arrested with 10 gram heroin in Chandigarh||A 29-year-old resident of Sector 40 was arrested with 10 gram heroin, the police said on Tuesday. Ravinder Singh was arrested from a T-point in Gawala colony near the bus stand in Maloya on Monday. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered.3 ARRESTED FOR GAMBLINGThe police on Tuesday said they have arrested three persons identified as Sanjay, Islam Ali and Raju of Maloya while they were gambling near Sai Mandir on Monday. A total cash ₹3,600 was recovered from their possession. A case was registered.CYCLE STOLEN FROM LAKEA Mohali resident reported a theft of a bicycle from Sukhna Lake’s parking lot. Gursharnpreet Singh, 18, told the police that an unidentified person stole his Suncross bicycle from near the lake parking. He said that on Monday at 6.30am, he had parked his cycle in the parking lot and gone for a walk. At around 8:30am when he returned, his cycle was missing. A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/29-year-old-arrested-with-10-gram-heroin-in-chandigarh/story-st7egvUAGNY9H72VCuIH5N.html
10-06-2020||City||Ludhiana: Driver of Fazilka MLA arrested for killing man on motorcycle in road mishap||A day after a motorcycle-borne man was killed by a speeding SUV near Mundian on Chandigarh road, the police arrested the driver on Tuesday.The SUV, police said, is registered in the name of Congress MLA from Fazilka, Davinder Singh Ghubaya. At the time of the incident, however, the MLA was not in the car, they added.Surinder Singh, alias Chhinda, who is the driver of the MLA, was arrested and the vehicle was seized. The victim has been identified as Bhajan Pal, alias Ravi, 39, of Guru Nanak Nagar of Mundian. He owned a chicken corner on 33 Futta Road. At the time of the incident, Bhajan Pal was on his way home.Sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh said when Bhajan Pal reached near government school on Chandigarh road, the speeding SUV hit him from the rear. The impact of the collision was so strong that Bhajan Pal was tossed in the air before falling on a bus shelter installed on the road side.SI Singh said the MLA’s driver Chhinda and a gunman were going to Chandigarh to pick the MLA up.The police have arrested the driver and a case under sections 279 (rash driving), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. Bhajan Pal is survived by his wife and a son.‘FATHER SAID HE WILL BE HOME SOON’Aman Kumar, son of the victim, said his father had called home at 8.30pm and said that he was going to drop a worker at Mundian Kalan.Kumar said they waited for Bhajan Pal till 11pm and when he did not respond to repeated calls, they initiated a search. Meanwhile, the police informed them about the mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-driver-of-fazilka-mla-arrested-for-killing-man-on-motorcycle-in-road-mishap/story-81hpAxU4SWW2mU93hdGO0I.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Architecture students oppose plan to hold exams online||Days after the Council of Architecture (CoA) requested the Maharashtra government to allow architecture colleges to conduct final-year examinations online, students have raised objections with the state education department on the decision. Many Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) students are worried that conducting exams online will not be possible, especially for students in rural Maharashtra. Additionally, any further delay in the process means a delay in receiving course certificates, which could harm their prospects.“BArch is a five-year course and students have already cleared nine semesters as well as the internals for the current semester. CoA’s insistence on the written exam is baseless,” said a student, requesting anonymity.While chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on May 31 that all final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students will be promoted based on their performance in previous semesters, the state government received a letter from CoA to exempt final-year architecture students from the same.In the letter, CoA has highlighted how in the current semester (final year), the council can’t ignore thesis-related exams and activities for students. “BArch is distinct from other courses as the full semester is devoted to thesis and assessment/juries/exams occurring in the final year. This forms a critical part of the course, in shaping and evaluating the performance, creativity, and design skills of the students,” stated the letter.Students, however, have now approached the state government, to ask that the exams not be held online because many students belong to rural Maharashtra, there are insufficient or no internet facilities in place. “What’s worse is that the delay is also affecting our prospects, including higher education and jobs. We request the government to promote all students based on their previous semester performance and provide us with course passing certificates,” said another student.While director of the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) was not reachable, a senior official from the department said they are waiting to hear from the state government before taking a decision on final-year exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/architecture-students-oppose-plan-to-hold-exams-online/story-9Se3o7s7emkppBrpHOAVEI.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Scrap fee hike or face action, Maharashtra education department tells schools||After being flooded with complaints from parents about schools imposing fee hikes during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the education department has asked its officers to issue a final warning to such educational institutions before they are served notices next week.Bhaskarrao Babar, assistant director, Mumbai region, said that private schools are being asked to scrap their fee hike immediately or face action. “Our officers are calling schools about which were have received complaints. They are being asked to adhere to the government norms and scrap their announced fee hike. If we do not get a satisfactory response, they will be issued notices starting Monday,” said Babar.As per a government resolution (GR) released in the first week of May, schools cannot hike fees for the academic year 2020-21 and have to allow parents to pay fees in installments. On May 29, the state education department released a list of nodal officers who would hear complaints related to fee hikes. “The officers are calling respective schools because, with the current situation, everyone is working from home. Parents are asked not to pay hiked fees. If schools don’t fall in line, action will be taken,” said Babar. Parents have been complaining that since schools have not given them much time to pay the hiked fees, they are finding it difficult to wait for government action. “We have registered a complaint with the nodal officers but since there is no response yet, we are worried that the school might not allow our children to attend online classes. We hope that the department acts swiftly so that parents don’t have to live in anxiety,” said the parent of a student at a suburban school which hiked its fees by 15%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scrap-fee-hike-or-face-action-maharashtra-education-department-tells-schools/story-4jx9G2IO3XIbtQcyJhMqwJ.html
10-06-2020||City||Irked over delay, SBS Nagar residents start construction of street on their own||With the panchayat allegedly dilly-dallying on the construction of the potholed street number 2 of Block-B of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar on the Dugri-Dhandra Road for the past three years, residents commenced the work of laying interlocking tiles in the street on Tuesday on their own expense.The residents are aiming to complete the work before monsoon hits the city in July.Under this project, the street (18 feet wide and 650 feet long) would be developed by residents at an estimated cost of Rs 8.5 lakh. The residents have come under the banner of the NGO, Samaj Sewa Society, to accomplish the task.Residents said water-sewer pipelines were laid in their area around three years ago, but the panchayat failed to reconstruct the street, which was dug up for the purpose, since then. Due to this, accidents take place on the potholed street and students have to move through mud on their way to schools during the monsoon season.Leading residents, Sanjay Tiwari said, “The panchayat has been delaying the project due to which around two dozen families living in the street have decided to take up the work by themselves. We want to construct the street before monsoon hits the city. Before starting the project, we also got a resolution approved from the panchayat. The work was commenced on Tuesday and it is expected the work will be completed by June-end.”Another resident, Raghubir Singh, said, “A pacca road was never developed in the area since the time this area was developed around 18 years ago and only sand was poured in the street, which is a portion of the road. Due toinstallation of water-sewer lines, potholes had developed. but the panchayat paid no heed to the problem, despite several complaints. Even now the panchayat members were making excuses due to which the residents decided to take up the project by themselves.”Congress sarpanch, Kiran Mohan, however, refuted the allegations and said a few residents are trying to get political mileage out of the situation.He said, “The panchayat is already constructing two streets in the same locality and residents of street number 2 were asked to wait for their turn. But, the residents demanded that their street should be constructed before monsoon. After residents approached the panchayat with their plan to construct the street, the panchayat approved a resolution for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/irked-over-delay-sbs-nagar-residents-start-construction-of-street-on-their-own/story-uEMr1XLKyXir8mFSVXsHZL.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||3 Mumbai wards see daily Covid case growth of over 5%: BMC’s data||In a concern for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the daily Covid-19 growth rate in three wards in the western suburbs covering areas namely Malad, Kandivli, Borivli and Dahisar is above five per cent, much higher than the rest of the areas where the growth rate is 1-4%, data shows. The overall average growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the city has dipped to 2.93%.The three wards are P-N (Malad), R-S (Kandivli), R-N (Dahisar, Borivli), with P-N topping the list at 6.1 per cent, followed by R-N at 5.5% and R-S at 5.3%, as of BMC’s data for June 8. The three account for more than 4,000 cases.Other areas namely Dharavi, Worli, Mankhurd, Chembur, Bandra-East, Kurla, Byculla and Malabar Hill that saw a high number of cases are seeing 1-4% growth in Covid-19 cases. The growth rate is the lowest (1.5%) in areas such as Byculla, Mazgaon, Matunga, Wadala and parts of Dadar.According to BMC officials, the growth rate in these three wards is high, considering cases are coming from those pockets where there were no cases. A BMC official said, “The recovery rate of the three wards is also between 25 and 33 per cent, which indicates that the cases have increased in the past few days.”In P-N ward, the recovery rate is 27%, 32% in R-S ward and 26% in R-N ward. Sanjay Kurhade, assistant municipal commissioner of R-S Ward that covers Kandivli, said, “The universal strategy is to trace, quarantine and test more focused suspects, so our focus is on slums. The growth rate is high because these are pockets where there were no cases earlier. The downfall has started in a few slum pockets, but new pockets are emerging which is contributing to the increased growth rate. Our focus is currently on areas like Poisar and Hanuman Nagar where cases are beginning to be reported.” Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a Mumbai-based health consultant with a private hospital, said, “The growth rate is not much higher than other areas. However, with cases increasing, the growth rate will come down in these areas. BMC should also analyse and release the ward- or area-wise testing data. Then we can be in a better position to comment whether the rise or fall is rational.”Meanwhile, Mumbai saw 1,015 cases in a day on Tuesday, taking the count to 51,100. The city also saw 58 deaths, which brought the toll to 1,760. The number of recovered patients in the city stands at 22,943, followed by 26,391 active cases, according to the state health department data.According to BMC’s data, of the 3,12,778 senior citizens surveyed, it has referred 1,834 citizens for oxygen therapy. As of Tuesday, there are 775 active containment zones and 4,071 sealed buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-mumbai-wards-see-daily-covid-case-growth-of-over-5-bmc-s-data/story-uT0zBKYYelZYAzIbTa97kJ.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Body of 62-year-old who was admitted to Covid facility in Mumbai handed over to family without test||The body of a 62-year-old suspected Covid-19 victim was handed over to her kin by the civic-run Sion Hospital without confirming if the woman was infected, putting the family at risk of contracting the novel coronavirus. Medical health experts called it a case of “gross negligence” on part of the hospital, which has 400 beds for Covid-19 patients. Gyanti Devi was first admitted to the Bandra-Kurla Complex’s (BKC) makeshift Covid care facility at 5am on June 2 with breathing issues and lower body pain, after the family was turned away from Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli and Cooper Hospital in Andheri owing to unavailability of beds. The same afternoon, as many as 200 patients were moved from the BKC centre to the Covid care facility at NSCI Exhibition Centre in Worli and Sion Hospital due to the threat of Cyclone Nisarga. Gyanti Devi was taken to Sion Hospital, where she succumbed on June 3, and her body was handed over to her family the next day. Her death certificate, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, states that she died of type-two respiratory failure, lower respiratory tract infection, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Respiratory failure coupled with comorbidities is one of the major causes of deaths in Covid-19 patients. However, there was no Covid test conducted on Gyanti Devi. When asked about Gyanti Devi’s case, Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Sion Hospital, said she was supposed to get tested at the BKC facility. “We thought the patient was already tested. She was admitted in a semi-coma state and had several comorbidities. She was treated as a non-Covid patient,” said Bharmal, adding that after her death, “we asked if she was tested, but we didn’t get any information if the swab samples were taken or not”. On June 8, when Gyanti Devi’s grandson, Sandeep Sharma, received all her medical reports from Sion Hospital, he said the deputy dean told him that a test may not have been conducted. “The doctor told me that looking at the treatment documents, it looks like the patient was not tested for Covid-19,” said Sharma.However, a Sion Hospital staff, on condition of anonymity, said Gyanti Devi’s swab samples could have been misplaced. “The swabs may have gone missing as there is no report about them,” he said. Health and medico-legal experts, however, said a Covid test should have been conducted on Gyanti Devi. “If patient is kept at a Covid facility and if she is suspected to have Covid, a test needs to be conducted. If a test is not necessary, why was the patient kept at a Covid facility then?” said Dr Wiqar Shaikh, a senior allergy and asthma specialist. “The death certificate says the patient died of respiratory failure and lower respiratory tract infection. In that case, a Covid test was mandatory.”Noted criminal lawyer Sudeep Pasbola said the standard operating procedure says that a Covid-19 test needs to be conducted in such cases otherwise “they [hospital] are liable for negligence”. “Even if a person dies of heart attack at home, you cannot cremate the body as it is sent for post-mortem and a Covid-19 test is done. If the test result is positive, the body is wrapped and the relatives are called to directly take it to the crematorium with all precautions in place,” said Pasbola. When HT contacted Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), he said, “I will look into the matter.”THE 48-HOUR CHAOSFor Gyanti Devi’s family, finding out that she had died and locating her body was also a horrifying experience. Her grandson had to run from pillar to post for 48 hours to locate Gyanti Devi, after she was moved from the BKC facility.The family claim they did not receive any intimation from the BKC facility about transferring Gyanti Devi even though they had submitted their contact details. “We were not even informed that my grandmother had been shifted and we waited outside BKC facility for eight hours as no one was allowed us to enter inside,” said Sharma. “After we pressured the security guard, we were let in, but could not find her. The staff at the facility had no clue where she had been sent. I was just told that several patients were shifted to Worli NSCI and Sion Hospital.”Sharma and his family then did the rounds of Worli NSCI and Sion Hospital for two days, but could not find Gyanti Devi at both places. “We could not even find her name in the list of patients that were moved from BKC,” said Sharma. Finally, on the evening of June 4, while enquiring with the Sion Hospital staff, the family was told that there was an unclaimed body of a woman who had died on June 3. “We searched in all wards at Sion Hospital and went to the enquiry counter multiple times. The staff then suspected that she could have died and they contacted the Sion crematorium. They then found out that an unclaimed body had been sent to the cremation. It was my grandmother,” said Sharma. After Sharma reach the crematorium, the body was handed over to him, but the family still does not know if Gyanti Devi was Covid-19.BJP corporator Vinod Mishra called the case “a huge blunder by the health staff at both the facilities”. “The details of the patient were not shared properly because of which it led to so much trouble for the family. We are going to legally challenge this matter in court,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/body-of-62-year-old-who-was-admitted-to-covid-facility-in-mumbai-handed-over-to-family-without-test/story-F20gVQjMKAJrNCt2AD80bO.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||55-year-old deputy civic chief succumbs to Covid in Mumbai||A senior officer of deputy municipal commissioner (DMC) rank from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) died on Tuesday in his home in Dadar, after testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday afternoon. He was 55 years old.His body was taken to Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital for an autopsy on Tuesday, which confirmed Covid-19 as the cause of death. According to BMC, the officer died of a likely cardiac arrest on Monday night. On Tuesday, his family called the BMC ward office and informed them of his death. He is survived by his wife, teenaged daughter, and mother-in-law, who lived with him. They have all been quarantined.The officer was asymptomatic and had spoken on the phone to BMC’s ward-level officers on Monday afternoon after testing positive. A senior officer said, “We spoke to him after his test results came and he said he preferred to be isolated at home as he had a separate room with an attached bathroom. He was not showing any Covid-19 symptoms so this was permitted.”The officer was working on creating jumbo facilities at the National Sports Club of India (NSCI) in Worli and the Nesco facility at Goregaon. He approached the BMC ward office requesting a test, even though he was not showing any symptoms.The officer quoted above said the DMC ranked officer who died on Tuesday had reiterated that he felt “absolutely fine”. “I prefer to be quarantined at home. I am showing no symptoms. Let us be in touch on the phone,” he had said.So far, 1,712 BMC employees have tested positive for Covid-19, and 56 employees including this officer have died of the infection. On Monday, BMC announced Rs 50 lakh compensation to the kin of its employees whose death is due to Covid-19.Sainath Rajadhyaksha, who chairs Brihanmumbai Municipal Engineers’ Union, said, “The union has demanded every civic staff who is working on the field for Covid-19 relief work should be tested. All those above 50 years of age should be given the choice of whether to work or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/55-year-old-deputy-civic-chief-succumbs-to-covid-in-mumbai/story-LdIf2j30B3pZTfRTzTVf8I.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||HC asks Centre to consider price cap on N95 masks||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Union of India to inform it of its proposal to cap pricing of N95 face masks after it was informed that the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), the government regulatory agency that controls prices of pharmaceutical drugs in the country, had failed to keep the price of the masks under check. The court was told that NPPA’s failure had resulted in widespread exploitation by manufacturers and traders who inflated the price of masks due to the heavy demand in light of the Covid-19 outbreak.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by activists Anjali Damania and Sucheta Dalal, was informed that the price of N95 masks had skyrocketed after they were included under the Essential Commodity’s Act. The activists further informed the court that while NPPA had capped the price of other products like hand sanitisers, it had failed to do the same for masks.The court was informed that after the public protested against the high cost of N95 masks, the NPPA in a meeting convened on May 15 had said that it had asked manufacturers to voluntarily reduce the price of the mask in light of the pandemic, which they agreed to do. The activists added that though the Drug Price Control Act stipulates that prices could only be increased by 10% annually, the reduced price was still higher than the price it was being sold at before the lockdown and hence, sought directions to put a cap on the same.After the court expressed displeasure at the uncontrolled rise in the prices of N95 masks, additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for the Union of India and NPPA, sought time to take instructions and said that the authorities would consider capping the mask prices, which the court allowed and posted the matter for further hearing on June 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-centre-to-consider-price-cap-on-n95-masks/story-PNbBI1oNc4mpA9JmRQpGtM.html
10-06-2020||City||Day after cop booked for thrashing PGIMER nurse, cross-FIR lodged||A day after a Punjab Police cop was booked for thrashing a PGIMER nurse and her family members, police have lodged a cross-FIR on the complaint of the cop in question, ASI Diler Khan.The cop, who is posted at PAP 13 Batallion, Chandigarh, said the allegations against him were baseless and that the nurse’s family had initiated the fight. On Monday evening, he had been booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (obscene act in any public place), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (offence committed by member of an unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code, on the complaint of Sushila Rohila, 44, a resident of Shivalik Vihar, Nayagaon, who works as a nurse at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. Now, a case under the same sections has been lodged against her. Rohila had stated that Khan along with his wife, Shakila, two daughters and son had thrashed her and her daughter and brother with sticks. The incident took place after she objected to the cop abusing her daughter. Heated arguments ensued following which the cop’s wife pulled her hair. They, then, allegedly attacked her and her family members with sticks, leaving her bleeding. She was admitted to PGIMER, from where she was discharged on Tuesday. ASI Khan had refuted the claim saying, “They blocked my way when I was leaving for duty. Furthermore, I did not abuse the girl as I am myself a father of two daughters.”Rohila alleged that the cop had been threatening her family for the past five years.Nayagaon station house officer Ashok Kumar said, “We are investigating the matter. The victims’ statements are yet to be recorded. No arrest has been made yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-cop-booked-for-thrashing-pgimer-nurse-cross-fir-lodged/story-AWNfSBFua8PvD1w5uDNmQN.html
10-06-2020||City||‘Chitte wali bhabhi’ lands in police net in Ludhiana||Accused of drug-peddling and attempted murder, the woman, Parminder Kaur of Daba, infamous as ‘Chitte wali Bhabhi’, landed in police net on Tuesday.Her husband and an accomplice of the woman had already been arrested for opening fire on protesters in Daba on May 11.Parminder Kaur was arrested after the Daba police recovered 8gm heroin from her possession. The woman is already facing trial in cases of drug-peddling and attempt to murder registered against her in December 2018.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP city-4) Jaskianjit Singh Teja said the police had been conducting raids for the arrest of the accused, but she had been eluding the police.On Monday, the police got a tip-off that the woman was present at her home. Following the information, the police arrested her.He added her husband Sunil Kumar was arrested on May 12 in an attempt to murder case. Her brother Harpreet Singh is also facing trial in a drug peddling case.Nirvair Singh, 55, of Gurbachan Nagar of Daba, had lodged an FIR against the accused that he, along with his accomplices, had opened fire on him on May 11 and one of the bullets had hit him in his back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chitte-wali-bhabhi-lands-in-police-net-in-ludhiana/story-Kmq3Qs6ax3aAq8x0hmLxSO.html
10-06-2020||City||Police solve security guard murder case, brother of his lover arrested||The Dehlon police claimed to have solved the murder case of a security guard with the arrest of brother of his lover on Tuesday.The victim had been missing since May 29 and his body was fished out from a canal near Sudhar on June 6. According to police, the accused had bludgeoned the security guard to death with bricks and also strangulated him by tying a belt around his neck to ensure that he was dead.The victim was identified as Boota Singh, 33, of Pattohira village of Moga, who worked as a security guard with private organisation. He had been living at the house of his cousin Jagmeet Singh of Gill village for the past 15 years.The accused, Jagjivan Singh, a resident of Kila Raipur village, has admitted to have committed the crime. The police have also been scanning the role of the victim’s lover in the crime.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP city-2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “Boota Singh had been missing since May 29. A missing report was lodged at the Dehlon police station. On June 6, the body of Boota Singh was fished out of a canal in Sudhar. The body had injury marks and a leather belt was also found wrapped around his neck. After the recovery of the body, the police lodged a murder case against unidentified accused and initiated investigation.”The ADCP added during investigation, the police found Boota Singh had an affair with a woman of Kila Raipur village. He had gone to meet the woman on May 29 and never returned.”The ADCP added that, according to information, Boota wanted to marry the woman, but her parents were against the relationship.“When Boota went to meet the woman, he was in an inebriated condition. He was forcing the woman to marry him when her brother Jagjivan Singh turned up there and took him along on the pretext of a discussion. He took him to Jasowal millage, where he bludgeoned him to death. The accused had thrown the body into the canal and fled,” said the ADCP.He added that on Tuesday the police arrested the accused from his home in Kila Raipur village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-solve-security-guard-murder-case-brother-of-his-lover-arrested/story-gQQ8vY6eedEffn6v0TO5ON.html
10-06-2020||City||Shops in Mumbai can now stay open till 9pm||Amending its earlier circular on phasewise relaxations in Mumbai under ‘Mission Begin Again’, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday allowed all markets and shops in the city, except malls and market complexes, to function for full working hours (till 9pm), instead of the 9am-5pm slot allowed so far. The shops can remain open from Monday to Saturday and need to be closed on Sunday. However, the condition that shops on either side of the road can open on alternate days is still in effect. In the circular issued by BMC chief Iqbal Chahal on Tuesday morning, BMC has also made it clear that while outdoor physical activities are allowed, use of garden equipment such as open air gyms or swings for children will not be allowed. The circular has also ruled that staff of educational institutions and universities can operate only for non-teaching purposes, including evaluation of answer sheets and declaration of results.A BMC official said, “The relaxations for operating hours of shops have been changed to full working day, however, the night curfew rule from 9pm to 5am shall remain. Shopkeepers are free to keep shops open, considering their full working day schedule, excluding the night curfew hours. With the commissioner’s order, all 24 wards will now have to issue revised orders.”Meanwhile, all shops and citizens are expected to follow social distancing norms and take safety precautions such as wearing masks. BMC has said that the upcoming two weeks post the relaxation of curbs are crucial, as there can be a rise in cases, if citizens do not follow social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-in-mumbai-can-now-stay-open-till-9pm/story-UC29xsz49FkCi0rGFnELIK.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh vendors struggle to stay afloat due to dearth of customers||There seems to be no end to the woes of the city vendors, who were still trying to find a footing in their newly allotted vending zones when the coronavirus-induced lockdown dealt a crippling blow to their business. Though the administration had allowed the vendors to resume operations on odd-even basis from May 19, low footfall, due to the fear of the spread of the virus, has led to losses for the vendors. A majority of the vendors are not even opening their stalls due to dearth of customers. In Sector-15, where 936 vending sites were allotted, less than a 100 vendors have been turning up and most have moved away from the designated spot, where earlier the apni mandi used to be held, and settled in the greenbelt next to the vending zone. Sudesh, a vendor selling candies and powdered herbs, says that even residents living nearby avoid the market. “People are scared of visiting places such as the vending zone. I have been setting up my vend here ever since we were allowed to resume business in May, but I’m losing more money than I make,” he said. Deepak, another vendor who used to sell momos before the lockdown, has now switched to rajma chawal, with his customers mostly being other vendors. Deepak had been relocated here from Sector 19 during the municipal corporation’s eviction drive. “Our sales had already taken a big hit after we were shifted here in January but now the Covid-19 outbreak has completely destroyed our business. It is now difficult even to make ends meet.”In Sector 41, where 112 sites were demarcated, only a few vendors can be seen selling clothes and fruits these days. Kushal, who sells clothes, here said, “We don’t need to follow the odd-even rule here as only a few vendors show up. We keep empty spaces between each stall to ensure social distancing.” Madan Lal Sharma, who prepares tea at one of the stalls here, said that before lockdown, he would use about 10 litres of milk everyday, now he couldn’t finish even 1 litre of milk as nobody comes to his stall anymore.Sector 48 has 105 spaces demarcated for vendors, but only one vendor turned up here on Tuesday. Deepak who sells juice, said that all other vendors had left for their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on the Shramik Trains. “I had to open my stall as my rent is due and my landlord in Sector 45 is threatening to evict me. If I don’t get customers and more stalls don’t open up here, I’ll shut my stall and look for other ways to earn money, “ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-vendors-struggle-to-stay-afloat-due-to-dearth-of-customers/story-cGi3tv4pCV1kgjepT9CLhK.html
10-06-2020||City||17 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Ludhiana||As many as 17 people were tested Covid-19 positive in Ludhiana on Tuesday.While three patients are from Jalandhar and two are from Malerkotla, four are from Chhawani Mohalla of the city and three from the Islam Ganj area.The others include a two-year-old girl child of a 25-year-old man, who had travelled to Gurugram in the past, a 27-year-old undertrial of the Central Jail, andtwo men, aged 60 and 29 respectively, and a 20-year-old woman, who are contacts of a 60-year-old woman from Habib Ganj. She had died of Covid-19 on June 6.The patients of Chhawani Mohalla included a 60-year-old man and a 51-year-old woman and two sisters, aged 13 and 10, respectively. With these, the number of total cases in Chhawani Mohalla has risen to 22.As many as 175 patients have been cured so far, say health department officials.In a revised list, the health department stated that while 282 cases are from Ludhiana, 110 positive patients are from other districts and states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-ludhiana/story-SWcPVYUtWL6DwpW702VhyK.html
10-06-2020||City||Finance panel gives two more years to Hero Cycles for maintaining Rakh Bagh in Ludhiana||The finance and contracts committee (F&CC) of the municipal corporation (MC) has given two-year extension to Hero Cycles for the maintenance of Rakh Bagh, but the committee has slashed the rates of swings fixed by the company by 15%.A meeting of the committee was held at mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu’s camp office here on Tuesday evening where the committee deliberated upon 155 resolutions.The committee also approved the resolutions to allot two parking lots – Feroze Gandhi Market and Sarabha Nagar Block – I.An e-auction for both the lots was held in March. The highest bids of ₹1.1 crore and ₹4.5 lakh for the Feroze Gandhi Market and Block-I market lots were received respectively. A resolution to expand the area of two parking lots – Bhadaur House and the multi-storey parking near MC Zone A office – was also approved.The committee also gave its nod to the establishment of rainwater harvesting wells in nine parks situated in the areas falling under Zone D of the MC. The project to establish biodiversity parks in the city has also been given a green signal.A resolution to approve 24/7 canal-based water supply project for the city was also tabled in the meeting, but the mayor directed the officials to table the resolution in the meeting of the MC General House.The state government is in talks with the World Bank for funding the project.Sandhu said another meeting of F&CC would be held on Saturday to discuss around 100 resolutions, which could not be taken up on Tuesday.RESOLUTION TO REPAIR SWIMMING POOL KEPT PENDINGThe committee kept the resolutions on repairing and maintaining KG swimming pool in Rakh Bagh and a swimming pool near the Rakh Bagh pending as the pools have been shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic.DEPARTMENTAL INQUIRY MARKEDMayor Sandhu said a contractor has not completed the project of constructing a toilets block and a parking area in SBS Nagar since 2015. But, officials have released payment of around ₹59 lakh to the contractor. A departmental inquiry has been marked in the case, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/finance-panel-gives-two-more-years-to-hero-cycles-for-maintaining-rakh-bagh-in-ludhiana/story-u0GOSLwegtR5a3ZGqlqTBI.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Cops file three new charge sheets||The Delhi Police on Tuesday filed three charge sheets in a Delhi court in three separate cases related to the north-east Delhi communal riots that claimed the lives of 53 people and left more than 400 others injured in February this year.In one of the three cases, the police have arrested and charge-sheeted five persons, including Shahrukh Pathan, the man whose video of pointing a pistol at a policeman during the riots had gone viral on the Internet. Being the prime accused, Pathan has already been arrested and charge-sheeted for allegedly brandishing the gun and firing at head constable Deepak Dahiya, senior crime branch officers privy to the case said.Both the incidents had taken place at the Jafarabad-Maujpur Chowk at the same time in February, but separate cases were registered and Pathan was booked and arrested for two of them.In the second case, Pathan and four others have been charged with rioting, attempt to murder, assaulting government officials, and criminal conspiracy. The charge sheet, in this case, was filed before a duty magistrate in a city court on Tuesday.The police have said in the charge sheet that on February 24 around 11 am, two groups—one supporting and the other opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizen (NRC)—clashed at Maujpur Chowk.“...incidents of stone-pelting, brick batting, arson, firing and sabotage from both sides led to injuries to several police personnel as well as public persons and created an atmosphere of fear among public...,” the police have mentioned in the charge sheet.One man, Vinod (identified by his first name) lost his life in the incident but a separate case was registered in connection with his murder, an investigator, who did not want to be named, said.Reacting to the allegations made in the charge sheet, Pathan’s lawyer, Asghar Khan, said that his client is being falsely charged. He said that in the first case, the complainant, (head constable Deepak Dahiya)’s statement in the first information report (FIR) about opening fire is contrary to an interview he gave to a TV channel after the incident. “My client is being falsely charged in the case. The complainant told a TV channel that my client did not fire. However, in the FIR he has said that he had to duck to save himself from the bullet. The charge of attempt to murder (307 of IPC) is also false as Pathan opened fire in self-defence and not to injure or kill anyone,” Khan said. The other two cases in which charge sheets were filed on Tuesday were for the deaths of two persons during the communal violence in Kardampuri neighbourhood on February 24 and 25. Eight people—four in each case—were arrested and charged with murder, rioting, criminal conspiracy and other offences.The police said that on February 24, one Mohammad Furkan was shot dead during the communal riots at the Kardampuri puliya (culvert). Four persons have been charge-sheeted in the case.On February 25, a 32-year-old e-rickshaw driver, Deepak, was caught and lynched by the mob near a government dispensary in Kardampuri where communal violence broke out. Four persons have been arrested and charged with rioting and killing Deepak, the police said in their third charge sheet.The police on Tuesday maintained that during their investigation in the three cases, “it has emerged that there was a deep-rooted conspiracy which triggered the communal riot.”“...the conspirators caused disruption by the dual scheme of spreading misinformation on the CAA and causing chakka jam on main arterial roads, which triggered a major communal riot,” the police said in a statement.A total of 88 charge sheets have filed by Delhi Police in different cases related to the north-east Delhi riots so far, including three against suspended AAP MLA Tahir Husain (one of which accuses him of planning the murder of IB staffer Ankit Sharma), one against six persons for the death of 85-year-old Akbari Begum, against Pinjra Tod activists Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, one against Khalid Saifi of United Against Hate, one against 17 persons for the death of head constable Rattan Lal, and one against 12 persons for the death of Dilbar Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-cops-file-three-new-charge-sheets/story-9wxpiWPthlaM5U7jzkpmpI.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College study suggests ways to decongest Nayagaon||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has come up with a case study that can help decongest Nayagaon, which is located on the outskirts of Chandigarh.The study which suggests ways to decongest the area has been carried out by faculty member Har Amrit Singh Sandhu and other two students of the civil engineering department. Over the years, traffic congestion has increased rapidly in Nayagaon due to increase in population and absence of good roads.According to the study, the traffic from Vidya Path, which is a four-lane road, gets merged into a two-lane Khuda Ali Sher road. Vidhya Path, having an approximate width of about 16m, narrows down to a mere 4m road, leading to severe congestion in Nayagaon, as per the study.Also, street vendors occupying the carriageway increase congestion. The lack of proper drainage facilities in Nayagaon leads to flooding during rainfall.Due to this, the unpaved shoulders become muddy and pedestrians and cyclists are forced to use the road.SUGGESTIONS OF THE STUDYThe study has suggested many ways to decongest the Nayagaon including increasing the carriageway width by providing paved shoulders so that there is additional space for vehicles to move and jams would reduce considerably. A proper median should be provided after providing paved shoulders. The median would ensure that the vehicles do not change respective lanes.Also, traffic lights should be provided at the two intersections to reduce jams and mishaps.Moreover, the study also suggests that a proper auto-rickshaw stand should be made for the boarding and de-boarding of passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-study-suggests-ways-to-decongest-nayagaon/story-jVyJGpy5Twwhr5Puz35EyL.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||L-G decision to keep beds open to all puts Delhi residents at disadvantage, say expert panel members||The lieutenant-governor’s decision to make available beds in Delhi hospitals to those living in NCR and other states will be detrimental to the residents of the city, said two of the members of a panel constituted by the government to aid the government in augmenting the city’s health care infrastructure.Delhi will need 80,000 beds by the end of July to treat patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday, quoting the figures projected in a report prepared by the five-member expert panel, set up on June 2.“We presented the data to predict that by June 15, there will be 44,000 Covid-19 cases in the national capital and 6,600 beds will be required. By June 30, we’ll reach one lakh cases and 15,000 beds will be required. By July 15, there will be 2.25 lakh cases and 33,000 beds will be required. By July 31, the number of cases will touch 5.5 lakh and 80,000 beds will be required,” Sisodia said.With only those with severe infection being admitted to hospitals, the committee in its report said most of these beds have to be a level 3 or 4-- meaning they have to be equipped with high-flow oxygen and/or ventilators, the chairperson of the committee Dr Mahesh Verma had earlier told HT after submitting the report.Cumulatively, there are currently just 57, 709 beds in government and private hospitals across the city, according to the latest Economic Survey of Delhi. To combat the shortage of beds, the committee had suggested converting banquet halls, dharmashalas, and even open stadiums into makeshift hospitals.“The committee has said Delhi will need 40,000 beds by mid-July. These calculations are based solely on Delhi’s population and the number of cases being reported from the city every day. Now, if these facilities were to be utilised by people from neighbouring states, the government will need to arrange thousands more beds over and above the projected requirement,” Dr RK Gupta, a member of the committee and former president of the Delhi Medical Association, said.A second member of the committee said the state government was not in the wrong to restrict services in its own hospitals as health is a state subject.“Health is a state subject and the government utilises the tax payers’ money on health care services. So a government’s primary responsibility is to the people of Delhi. The Delhi government order only kept aside Delhi government-run hospitals and some private hospitals for its residents; people from neighbouring states could still go to central government-run hospitals, hospitals run by civic bodies, or the super speciality private hospitals. Now, Delhi residents will be at a disadvantage,” Dr Arun Gupta, a member of the committee and president of the Delhi Medical Council, said.Currently, there are 8,872 isolation beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the city. Of these, 5,711 are in nine government hospitals and the other 3,161 across 91 private hospitals. The highest number of free beds currently available in the city are in Delhi government-run 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital and 1,500-bed Guru Teg Bahadur hospital.“The Delhi government is planning to link hotels and dharamshalas to various government hospitals so that if anyone’s condition deteriorates they can be immediately shifted to these hospitals. The government would be providing the consumables but members of the Delhi Medical Association would like to provide manpower for these hotel clusters. We have already had a meeting with health minister Satyendar Jain and the details are being worked out,” Dr Girish Tyagi, president of the Delhi Medical Association, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/l-g-decision-to-keep-beds-open-to-all-puts-delhi-residents-at-disadvantage-say-expert-panel-members/story-atcWdYNErT3iz5oJXMunDK.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Private labs earlier banned by Delhi govt resume Covid-19 tests||Seven of eight laboratories that were barred from conducting further Covid-19 confirmation tests by the Delhi government , started collecting samples once again on Tuesday after lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal reversed the state’s restrictive testing policy.`With this, Delhi’s capacity for testing has increased by about 8,000 tests a day. The laboratories that resumed sample collection are Dr Lal Pathlabs; City X-Ray and Scan Clinic; Prognosis Laboratory; SRL Reference Laboratory; Star Imaging Path Laboratory; Pathkind Labs; and the National Centre for Disease Control. The eight one, the laboratory at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, is yet to get a nod from the government to resume sample collection.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex health research body, has approved 16 government and 22 private laboratories in Delhi for Covid-19 testing.The number of Covid-19 tests in the national capital, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government, fell to 3,700 on Monday, the lowest since the first week of May.On average, 6,129 samples were being tested during the week ending May 31, which came down to an average of 5,590 tests a day during the week ending June 7, data from the daily health bulletin shows. The Delhi government on June 5 served show-cause notices to seven laboratories for testing asymptomatic patients “without following ICMR testing protocols”. Later, an inquiry was initiated against the labs and the access granted to phlebotomists (those who collect the swab samples) to the RT-PCR testing app was blocked. No laboratory across the country is allowed to collect Covid-19 test samples without logging into the app and filling in required details of patients.These laboratories received their log in rights back on Monday and Tuesday. The government stopped registrations of phlebotomists from Dr Lal Pathlabs in early May, after an inquiry was initiated against the laboratory over discrepancies in data. Dr Lal Pathlabs is the largest privately owned chain of laboratories in the country and has the highest testing capacity in the city, about 4,000 RT-PCR samples a day.After resuming sample collection at his labs on Tuesday, Dr Arvind Lal, chairman of Dr Lal Pathlabs, said,“The Delhi government has given us a green signal to go ahead with testing; we have begun collecting samples.” Still, labs are now confused as to who they are supposed to test. “The labs are caught in a tussle between the centre and state. We got into trouble for testing asymptomatic individuals – as per ICMR guideline or when a doctor recommended it before a surgery or procedure. Now, we will try and avoid testing asymptomatic individuals to prevent any future confusion,” said the owner of one of the private laboratories, on condition of anonymity.The lone laboratory that is yet to get a go-ahead from the government to resume testing is the one at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. The government, on June 5, filed an FIR against the laboratory for not using the RT-PCR app. The hospital, till then, was testing about 300 to 400 samples a day.A senior Delhi government official said on condition of anonymity that labs such as Dr Lal Pathlabs and City X-Ray and Scan Clinic were issued show-cause notices for not registering with the city administration’s RT-PCR app. “Now they (Dr Lal Pathlabs and City X-Ray and Scan) have duly applied for registration and have also given the names of their phlebotomists to be registered with us for sample collection. Accordingly, we have asked all 11 district administrations these phlebotomists in their lists,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/private-labs-earlier-banned-by-delhi-govt-back-to-collecting-samples-for-testing/story-ClodCAeXyoPlBlaNUDas7L.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Reopening schools, Metro discussed in L-G’s all-party meet||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday held an all-party meeting to discuss and review the Capital’s preparedness to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The meeting was attended by members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and the Congress among other political leaders. Members of Opposition parties present in the meeting said their views were sought on reopening schools and Metro services in the city.The L-G’s office tweeted, “Held all-party meeting to discuss the present situation of Covid-19 in Delhi & measures to contain its spread. Discussed issues relating to availability of beds for Covid-19 patients, extensive testing, swift ambulance response, providing critical information in public domain, etc.”In the meeting, which lasted for an hour-and-a-half, BJP and Congress members expressed reservations over opening schools and resuming Metro services given the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city.“While schools are closed anyway right now, I advised against restarting Metro services in the city as the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing every day,” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said. Metro services in the city have been shut since March 22, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a nationwide Janta Curfew. While the Centre and the Delhi government have allowed the restart of public transport services in the Capital, Delhi Metro is yet to resume operations. The Delhi government also allowed malls and restaurants to open from June 8, but the views of Opposition parties were sought if they should remain open.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said he requested the L-G to direct the Delhi government to do away with fixed electricity charges if they plan to shut malls and restaurants.“I have requested that the fixed charges on electricity shouldn’t be charged during the lockdown period. And if the government plans to close malls and restaurants, then it should do away with their fixed electricity charges till they remain closed,” Chaudhary said.After the meeting, senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh told reporters that the L-G had no answer to his question regarding the basis on which he overruled the Delhi government’s decision to reserve beds for Delhi residents. He alleged the BJP has pressured the L-G to take this decision.Singh said, “The (Delhi government’s) decision to reserve beds for residents of Delhi was taken based on the Mahesh Verma committee’s report, which stated that more beds will be required in the days to come. When I asked the L-G whether he had any survey or information about how the requirement for hospital beds would be met in the days to come, he had no answer. This shows that the governments of Manohar Lal Khattar (Haryana chief minister) and Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh chief minister) have failed completely in upgrading their healthcare infrastructure. Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram, which is why the BJP has pressured the L-G to take such a decision.”Gupta said, “They are unnecessarily politicising the issue. The Delhi government should first check its own health infrastructure. People are complaining about unavailability of beds in hospitals, testing facility and a lack of information.” The opposition parties raised issues of a fall in the number of Covid-19 tests, the alleged unavailability of hospital beds and overcharging by private hospitals.Gupta said he asked the L-G to cap the cost of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals.The Congress, on the other hand, raised the issue of inconvenience faced by people in getting beds in government hospitals. “I have suggested that the number of beds available should be displayed outside and the government should test more people,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopening-schools-metro-discussed-in-l-g-s-all-party-meet/story-xkko0AiUvSsWsO6lc33mGI.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt readies health infra for further surge in Covid-19 cases||After a meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, held to review the Delhi government’s Covid-19 management strategies, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that going by the coronavirus disease’s current doubling rate of 12.6 days in the Capital, the city would need around 80,000 hospital beds by July 31. Sisodia also said Delhi could expect to see 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31. With the number of Covid-19 cases in the city set to cross the 30,000-mark, Baijal directed the Delhi government to start readying health infrastructure on a “war footing”. Documents seen by HT showed that as on Tuesday, the government had identified 2,950 additional beds, taking the number of Covid-19 beds in the city to at least 11,842 by June 20. But, the documents also revealed that the government had a stock of 12,000 viral transport mediums (VTMs) as on Tuesday — which will last “only for 10 days”.VTMs are equipment needed to collect and transport test samples. They are the kits that contain the transport media in a tube as well as the swab. “There is a shortage of VTMs across the country, Delhi cannot be blamed alone. One of the reasons why testing was being carried out in a restricted manner is also the shortage of VTMs. When there is a shortage of product, we have to rationalise its use,” said a senior government official, who asked to stay anonymous.Gauging the alarming shortage of VTMs, the Delhi government has now placed orders to get as many as 60,000 VTMs, which documents showed are expected to arrive by June 16.On June 2, the Delhi government had issued an order asking hospitals and testing labs to test only symptomatic people for Covid-19. This was overturned by the L-G on Monday, as he reasoned that keeping an asymptomatic person out of testing would adversely impact contact tracing and containment of infections in the city. Over the past one week, several hospitals have also stated that they are putting a cap on the number of Covid-19 tests being carried out on a daily basis due to a “shortage of resources”, though there was no official order from the government in this regard. As per documents presented before the L-G, and seen by HT, the state health department has projected the number of active cases in Delhi to touch 60,004 by June 30, 134,722 by July 15 and 319,237 by July 31. The bed requirement accordingly has been estimated at 15,001 (June 30), 33,680 (July 15) and 79,809 (July 31). The L-G was also informed that the government is in the process of ordering 20,000 new oxygen concentrators, a senior government official said. This will be in addition to the order of 2,000 oxygen concentrators that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced last week. When asked if the city administration was prepared with the plan to arrange for 80,000 beds, a Delhi government spokesperson said, “That is what we highlighted to the L-G. If we allow patients from outside Delhi to get treated in our hospitals, no matter how many beds we arrange, it won’t be enough. From the government’s side, we are doing our best to make all arrangements.” The L-G’s office, in a statement after the meeting, said the government has constituted a committee under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar to explore the possibility of accommodating for additional beds in the city, in spaces like stadiums.“The panel has, so far, suggested Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor Stadium, Thyagaraj Indoor Stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor stadium, Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium, Dhyanchand National Stadium and so on to be used as make-shift hospitals,” the L-G office said. The fleet of CATS ambulance has been augmented from 160 to 450, which has reduced the response time to less than 30 minutes, a senior government official said.As on Tuesday, Delhi had 8,892 hospital beds, 582 ICU beds, 507 Ventilators beds and 3590 oxygenated-supported beds in Covid-designated hospitals. “Around 2,950 additional beds will be ready by June 20. This includes 450 beds in the new Delhi government hospital in Burari, which is expected to be operational by June 20. Another 500 beds have been earmarked in other government hospitals. In addition, district magistrates are linking 19 hospitals with hotels, which would tentatively increase the capacity by approximately 2,000 beds by June 15,” said a senior government official.So far, the health department has already linked eight four- and five-star hotels with some of the city’s major hospitals. The cost of beds in these hotels have been capped at Rs. 10,000 a day, including housekeeping, food and so on, apart from medical services, which are the responsibility of the linked hospital.The government has also posted IAS officers as ‘administrative officers’ in Covid hospitals to monitor their operations. On Sunday, the government had also ordered setting up of help desks, to be worked by government officers, in all government hospitals to facilitate the admission process. However, as on Tuesday, most Delhi government hospitals did not have these help desks. Hospitals such as Dr Hegdewar and Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalay said the respective officers deployed by the government had not reported there so far. As of Monday, Delhi had 29,943 Covid cases out of which 17,712 were active cases. As many as 874 people have died and 11,357 have recovered.The case fatality rate in Delhi is 2.92% as compared to the national average of 2.81% and the recovery rate is 38%. Delhi is conducting 13,543 tests per million as compared to the national average of 3531 tests per million, government reports showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-readies-health-infra-for-further-surge-in-cases/story-6hGm91u4olgK1jzh2GNLKI.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Nine of 10 students yet to pay April and May school fees in around 53% of 170 pvt schools in the city||Nine of 10 parents did not pay their children’s fees for the months of April in around 48% of 170 private schools in Delhi due to the economic slowdown triggered by a nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, shows data collected by a committee of at least 400 unaided schools in the city. The proportion worsened in May, to 64 % of the schools. The data, from Action Aided Committee of Private Recognised and Unaided Schools, said that 82 of the 170 schools received the monthly fees — ranging from ₹1,100 to ₹5,500 — from 5-10% of the students in April, with the number going up to 108 schools in May.The enrolment in these schools ranges from 1,000-3,000 students. There are 1,175 private schools in the city.The situation in April in the other 47% of the schools wasn’t much better -- in 25% of the schools, only between 10% and 25% of children paid fees; and in 15% of the schools, between 25% and 50% of children; and 10% of schools , from between 50% and 75% of the children. Only 5 schools, around 3%, received fees from 75% to 100% of students. (The total exceeds 100% marginally because of rounding of)The fee collection dipped further in May, with not a single school receiving the fees from 75-100% students — 64% schools received fees from 5-10 % of the enrolled students, 20% from 10-25% students, 11% from 25-50% of the students and 6% schools receiving fees from 50-75% students.The majority of the schools said the parents cited dwindling savings, loss in business, salary cuts and an expectation that the government might waive off the fees as reasons for not paying the fees. On April 18, the Delhi government directed private schools to charge fees only under the tuition head during the Covid-19 lockdown. The schools were asked not to demand money under any other component and were warned of action under the Disaster Management Act if they failed to comply.Although schools were shut on March 19 in view of the lockdown, they continued virtual classes and sending online study material to their students till May 30, before announcing summer vacations. Officials said that if the government doesn’t allow physical reopening of schools, online classes will resume from the first week of July.Among the components the schools have not been charging amid the lockdown are the annual fee, which varies between ₹2,000 and ₹10,000 (charged yearly, half-yearly or quarterly), a monthly development fund, which ranges from 5-10% of the tuition fee, the monthly charges for smart classes (₹200 to ₹500) and transportation (₹600 to ₹2,000, depending on the location) . Schools said it will be difficult for them to pay their staff in June if more parents do not pay up.Sanjay Yadav, the principal of Ahlcon International School, said many parents have requested the administration for a fee relaxation during the lockdown. “Many parents sought some time for the payment of fees over the last two months, citing financial difficulties they are facing during the lockdown. Our fee collection was better in April. It reduced in May and we are now really sceptical about June. We have to pay our staff regularly, besides the payments to vendors and support staff. The school has already taken a loan and it’s expected that we will have to take additional loans if the collection remains the same in June,” he said.Tania Joshi, principal of the Indian School, said that some parents have promised to pay fees after the lockdown is lifted. “Parents will have to understand that the schools will have to pay the salaries of their staff as well. They are constantly working and teaching students online,” she said.Hari Prakash Sharma, the general secretary of Unaided RecognisedPrivate Schools Welfare Association, an umbrella body of 100 private schools in rural areas of Delhi, said many students had left for their home states. “Families of many of our students left for their villages and towns after losing jobs, which is why they have not paid the fees. A large section of students studying in these schools have parents working in factories, small-scale industries and wholesale markets across the city,” he said.Majority of the parents said they could not pay fees due to the financial crises triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Vishal Gupta, who runs a garment shop in Karol Bagh, said he has not earned anything in the last two months. Gupta’s daughter studies in class 5.Abhishek Singh, whose children are studying in classes 6 and 8 of a private school in west Delhi, said he has not been paid by his employer — a factory owner in Peeragarhi industrial area — since April. AK Bhattacharya, the president of Action Aided Committee of Private Recognised and Unaided Schools, said many schools have not been able to pay full salaries to their teachers amid the lockdown due to non-payment of fees by parents. “Many parents have genuine reasons and we are not forcing them to pay fees. But there are many who are taking advantage of the Delhi government’s April 18 order that had prohibited the schools from taking any action against students over non-payment of fees amid the lockdown. But now, we do not know for how long the lockdown will continue. How will the schools survive?” Bharat Arora, general secretary of the committee, said “It’s not just these 170 schools; the trend is the same in other schools as well. It’s going to be really difficult for the schools to pay salaries to the teachers for the month of June. Many parents have this misunderstanding that the government might waive the fee for the lockdown period.” Binay Bhushan, director, Directorate of Education (DoE), said the government cannot waive school fees. “There is no provision (for this).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nine-of-10-students-yet-to-pay-april-and-may-school-fees-in-around-53-of-170-pvt-schools-in-the-city/story-GQuyohvsu93vC4o5guOJmM.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Provisional power bills to commercial users on fixed charges, taxes||The Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) has directed private distribution companies to issue provisional bills to non-domestic consumers only on the fixed charges and taxes, following complaints of inflated electricity bills. This means that industrial, commercial and other non-domestic connections will not be charged on the basis of their consumption or energy units. This, however, will be applicable only on those who are issued provisional bills. Before this order, these bills were based on the readings of the corresponding period of 2019. It means even if, say a store was shut during the lockdown and had no electricity consumption, it was to be billed on the basis of the power consumed during the same period last year. According to directives issued by the power regulator last month, provisional billing now is to be done only in those cases where the meter could not be read or recorded by the discom during the billing cycle owing to the lockdown. Consumers who send the meter readings on their own get a rebate of Rs 20 and actual bills.“The distribution licensee (discom) shall raise such provisional bill for the fixed charges and associated applicable charges only, considering the energy consumption as nil,” the DERC’s order stated. Explaining the reason for the decision, the power regulator said consumers in the industrial and non-domestic tariff category had reported they were “facing difficulty” as the provisional bills issued by the discoms were “on a much higher side” since they were based on last year’s usage. “Whereas, because of closure of units due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and a direction of the government in this regard, the actual consumption of such units/ establishments is almost nil/negligible,” the order read. Gauging revenue losses from the DERC’s order and with the lockdown rules relaxed, the discoms have now called their meter reading officials to re-start work. “In support of the government’s measures to contain the spread of Covid-19, some BSES services including meter reading and bill distribution, had been curtailed. But now, adhering to all the necessary safety precautions, we have restarted meter reading for a certain section of our consumers. The exercise will be ramped up in the coming days so consumers can be given actual bills based on their consumption. Bills raised prior to DERC’s order have been reversed, so these complaints have already been addressed,” said a BSES spokesperson. Discom Tata Power-DDL said it had issued provisional bills to around 1.25 lakh non-domestic consumers in north and northwest Delhi areas since April. “Out of 1.25 lakh, we have already revised the bills of around 90,000 consumers. Fortunately, the rest of our non-domestic consumers have smart meters or AMR systems because of which the actual bills got automatically generated even during the lockdown,” said a TPDDL spokesperson.For the traders and factory owners, the DERC’s order was a welcome step, but it was not enough as some demanded a moratorium on power bill payments till June 30. “This (DERC’s order) just partially resolves our problem. Industries have just started to open up. The industries have been closed for over two months. It is wrong to expect people to pay the electricity bills right away. The power regulator should issue a moratorium on payment of bill till June 30 for non-domestic connections,” said Raghuvansh Arora, vice-president of Apex Chamber of Commerce and Industries (ACCI).Arora added, “When neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab can waive off fixed charges during the lockdown period and provide relief, why can’t it be done in Delhi? DERC, on the other hand, did just the opposite by imposing fixed charges and excusing us from paying the energy charges.”A large number of industrial units in Narela and Bawana industrial areas, which has nearly 25,000 small and big industries, have been issued provisional bills by the discoms since April.Rajesh Garg, secretary of Indian Council for Trade and Industries and a factory owner in Narela, said, “As business is at an all-time low now and with migrant labours going back home, it is becoming difficult to restart our units. The government should support the industrial and traders for the economy to get back to normal. The centre has provided financial assistance to discoms. As work will take time to pick up, we request the government to charge for actual consumption of electricity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/provisional-power-bills-to-commercial-consumers-only-on-fixed-charges-taxes-directs-derc/story-aZYJXljsrFhaZ8ssUgzgeJ.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||HC notice to govts on testing non-Covid patients||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought responses from the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea seeking directions to test non-Covid-19 patients requiring surgeries and other procedures in hospitals.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad issued notices to the authorities. The petitioner, advocate Sanjeev Sharma, also sought directions to the authorities to publish the correct Covid-19 data on their websites. The matter would be now heard on June 11.The application was filed in an earlier petition by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, who alleged the state was not taking expeditious steps to furnish test reports. The court had disposed of the plea, directing the government to furnish reports within two days of the samples being collected. On Tuesday, advocate Sharma told the court that there were several stories on social media, which highlighted “apathy” of city hospitals and government “inaction”, despite the surge in Covid-19 cases as well as deaths associated to the disease.The court on Tuesday also issued notice to the Delhi government on a similar plea filed by an ENT specialist Dr Manni Hingorani, who had also sought testing of asymptomatic persons undergoing surgery.The plea, filed through advocate Aman Hingorani, said not testing such patients would not only increase the risk to the patient but also expose doctors, nurses and other hospital staff to the virus. The matter would be heard on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-notice-to-govts-on-testing-non-covid-patients/story-deC87S8yq8011iY8EZjINO.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||HC directs govt to ascertain the number of labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Model Town, to identify in two days the number of labourers stranded at the Azadpur wholesale market who are in need of meals or shelter.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted that the Delhi government did not have clarity on the number of labourers stranded at the Azadpur Mandi due to the lockdown. The court asked the SDM to file a detailed affidavit on this aspect and posted the next hearing for June 16.The court issued the order while hearing a plea by the Potato and Onion Merchant Association, through its president, that sought directions to ensure that about 1,000 labourers stranded at the market are provided two meals a day, until the situation normalises.The plea, filed through advocates Sumit Rana and Amit Jain, sought that the stranded workers be relocated to a makeshift shelter home within or around the Azadpur Mandi.On Tuesday, advocate Anuj Aggarwal, the additional standing counsel for the Delhi government, told the court that there are two hunger relief centres within the Azadpur Mandi and two other centres within a 150-metre radius. He said that four hunger relief centres have been providing 1,300 lunch and dinner packets, each, every day.The government told the court that there is a DUSIB shelter home at Sarai Peepal Thala near Azadpur Mandi, where the stranded persons, including the labourers, can stay. “Besides the above, there are three temporary shelter homes established in three schools located at Model Town-III, Azadpur Colony and Dhaka Village,” Aggarwal told the court.Disputing the facts, the counsels for the petitioner contended that the figure given by the Delhi government is far below the actual number of labourers stranded. The court then said there is no clarity on the number of the stranded labourers and the “SDM of the area ought to have undertaken an exercise and come up with clear figures”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-directs-govt-to-ascertain-the-number-of-labourers-stranded-at-azadpur-mandi/story-zXDLUYxGo5Ar0RBevVC7FN.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||A decade on, no progress on housing plan for poor in Mohali||That housing for poor remains low priority for Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is evident from the fact that even after 12 years of notifying the Punjab housing and habitat policy to build EWS houses it has yet to act upon it.It has been more than five years now since GMADA got 230 acres of land back from 46 builders as part of the policy, but plans to build 22,000 housing units have not been framed as yet.According to GMADA’s proposal in November last year, in the first stage, the authority will build 5,000 houses in four of its townships on about 54 acres of land: 13.49 acres in Aerocity , 17.48 acres in IT city, 3.60 acres in Eco-City-1 and 20.17 acres in Eco-City-II. As many as seven houses will be built with four floors including the ground floor on about one acre of land with each unit sold for Rs10 lakh.EWS POLICY REVISED THRICE IN 12 YEARSThe Punjab cabinet at a meeting in 2008 approved the policy to build EWS houses, but when private builders who were earlier meant to initiate the project did not show any inclination to go ahead with it, a decision was taken by the district administration to let GMADA take over.The authority, which has 25 mega projects and more than 100 approved colonies under its ambit, then took possession of the land earmarked for the project from the private builders.Later in its 2013 notification, the housing and urban development department informed the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) and other such bodies that if builders it (PUDA) approved failed to build EWS houses they should transfer the land to the government. Plans were again approved in 2016 for GMADA to utilise land transferred to it by builders for other purposes and the money earned used to build EWS houses.A senior GMADA official involved in the project admitted that the venture was delayed as some private builders had not returned the land meant to the authority and now because of the lockdown work cannot be done on the project. “We are in the process of finalising the layout and other plans for the units,” he saidSocial activist Satnam Singh Daun, who has been campaigning for long for the rights of EWS category candidates, said it was disappointing that even after 12 years, GMADA was not ready with plans for the housing project.“The poor have been deprived of their houses, we will wait for a few more days after which we will start our agitation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-decade-on-no-progress-on-housing-plan-for-poor-in-mohali/story-YIHl0DhJGXGhJfnk8uOT9M.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||Tourism boost for Sindhudurg: State allots 54.40 hectares to Taj Hotel group for five-star centre||In its bid to push a proposal stuck for more than 25 years, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government on Tuesday decided to allot land measuring 54.40 hectares in Shiroda in Vengurla tehsil of Sindhudurg to Indian Hotels Company Limited, which runs Taj Hotels, for a five-star tourism centre. The land has been given at 90-years lease at a nominal rent for the construction of cottages in Vengurla for tourism development. The proposal of the allotment of land for the construction of the hotel to the leading players in the hotel industry was taken after the state government announced Sindhudurg as a tourism district more than two decades ago. After a decision of allotting land to the Taj Group was taken in 1994, the land was acquired in stages till 1998 by the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC). Part of the land is in the group’s possession, while it has been pushing for possession of the remaining land. The state cabinet on Tuesday decided to hand over the remaining part of the plot, which is a connecting track of land to other two plots handed over to the company. “The plot is allotted at the nominal lease rent of ₹1 and a premium of 110% of the existing ready reckoner rate will be applicable on it,” said an official from the revenue department. “The proposal was stuck in limbo for years for various reasons, but it is being pushed after the Shiv Sena-led government took over the reins in the state. The state government intends to promote tourism and attract foreign tourists landing in adjoining Goa. Under the tourism promotion scheme there were few more leading hotels who had been allotted the land, but they have opted out from the scheme. We expect the Taj Hotels group to construct the cottages and resorts in Vengurla at the earliest,” said an official from the tourism department.The official said that the part of the plot comes under CRZ-I and construction on it would not be allowed, while the remaining part of the plot can have cottage-type structures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tourism-boost-for-sindhudurg-state-allots-54-40-hectares-to-taj-hotel-group-for-five-star-centre/story-ZqfJcUbFdbia26aduOvcuI.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Firing outside Chandigarh bizman’s house: Bishnoi key aide’s grilling points to extortion racket||Brought on production warrants from the Ambala jail for his involvement in the May 31 firing outside a businessman’s house in Sector 33, Chandigarh, Deepu Banur, key aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, was sent to five-day police custody on Tuesday.With initial investigations, according to the sources, revealing an extortion angle, Chandigarh Police will also grill him to find any links with shooting outside a liquor vend in Sector 9 on June 2.Officials privy to the investigation said the probe so far points to the two shootings being the handiwork of the same gang, orchestrated to instil fear among businessmen in the city, with focus on liquor traders, as part of the extortion racket being run by Bishnoi from behind the bars in Bharatpur jail, Rajasthan.Five men had opened fire outside the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla on May 31, in what police said was a targeted attack on his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla, and ordered by Bishnoi via Deepu. Three of the accused, including one of the shooters, have been arrested. Later, on June 2, two men opened fire outside a liquor shop owned by Ram Avtar Batra in the posh Sector 9 locality, leaving four people injured.While Singla has denied having received any extortion call, Batra had hinted at a financial dispute.“We have secured Deepu’s custody and investigations are on. He will be questioned with regards to his and other accused’s involvement,” said Nilambari Vijay Jagdale, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Chandigarh. Hailing from a poor family, Deepu came in contact with Bishnoi through gangster Sampat Nehra during his stay in the Patiala jail. Later in 2017, Deepu had helped in the escape of another gang member from the Haryana Police custody after a shootout at the Panchkula civil hospital. At present, he was lodged at the Ambala jail for the contract killing of Banur councillor Preeti Walia’s husband in September 6, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/firing-outside-chandigarh-bizman-s-house-bishnoi-key-aide-s-grilling-points-to-extortion-racket/story-MOgcgKYUsX4aRulvpfmRhL.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bike-borne men fire at house of murder bid accused in Ludhiana||Five miscreants, riding two motorcycles, opened fire at the house of an undertrial, facing attempted murder charges along with at least 13 others, on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday in the Dharampura area on the Shingar Cinema Road here. The miscreants, however, fled from the spot after the incident.No one was hurt in the incident. Rishav alias Nannu, one of accused facing attempt to murder charges, is lodged in the Central Jail.The miscreants have been captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the area; however, they have not been identified so far.Division number 3 police have lodged an FIR against unidentified accused and initiated investigation. The police suspected personal rivalry behind the crime.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Dayama Harish Kumar Omparkash and assistant commissioner of police (ACP, investigation) Mandeep Singh, along with a police party, reached the spot and initiated investigation. The police recovered three bullet shells from the spot.Sangeeta Sharma, mother of Rishav alias Nannu, said, “My son, facing trial in an attempt to murder case, is lodged in the Central Jail and she is living with her brother in Dharampura.Around 1am, I woke up hearing gunshots. When she came out of the house, she saw five persons on two motorcycles firing at the house. Two bullets hit the wall of her room, while the rest of the bullets hit the main gate of the house.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ballaur Singh, in-charge at the Dharampura police post, investigating the case, said a case of attempt to murder has been registered against the unidentified accused. The police have been trying to identify the accused.Mother of Rishav, however, suspected the same people behind the attack, who had lodged an attempted murder case against her son.The Moti Nagar police had booked Youth Congress leader Ankit Pandit of Tibba Road, district Youth Congress (central) president Shubham Arora of Madhopuri, Rishav alias Nannu of Dharmpura, Sam Oberoi of Division Number 3 Chowk, Nihal of Tibba Road, Sandeep of Bhamiyan Road, and seven others, following a complaint of Gaurav Bisht of Basti Gujjran for attempt to murder him on February 11. The complainant had alleged that he, along with his friend Puneet Bains, 24, had gone for dinner at a hotel near Cheema Chowk. When they came out of the hotel, the accused attacked them following an old rivalry.Shubham Arora, Ankit Pandit and Rishav Nannu had surrendered before the police on February 23 and they all lodged at Ludhiana central jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bike-borne-men-fire-at-house-of-murder-bid-accused-in-ludhiana/story-jFyJg3qJlGCYa5aMcn0jGM.html
10-06-2020||City||Vehicle theft in Thane on the rise during lockdown||With most vehicles parked for days on the road during the lockdown, motor vehicle theft in the Thane Police commissionerate is on the rise. Thefts were reported in seven police stations in Thane on Monday after the victims realised that their vehicles were stolen, the day the lockdown was eased.Thane Police public relations officer, Sukhda Narkar said, “The cases of motor vehicle theft are on the rise since Monday when people started going out for work. Our teams in respective police stations are investigating the cases and trying to nab the accused soon. Meanwhile, we have asked all residents to park their bikes inside the society.”In Shil-Daighar jurisdiction, Kishor Taware, 35, filed a complaint after someone stole his car, which was parked outside the society. The complainant had not checked on his vehicle for the last four days, due to the lockdown situation.Mumbra police registered a case against an unknown person for stealing a scooter belonging to Rakib Sarvar, 23, on Sunday night. Sarvar had parked his scooter outside the building gate near Amrutnagar.In Ambernath, Shivaji Nagar police registered a case of bike theft. The complainant Ganesh Gadekar, 38, parked his bike outside a closed restaurant while he attended to some work. When he returned half an hour later, his bike was not there.In Badlapur (East), another scooter, which was parked inside the building compound, was stolen on Sunday night. Under the Ulhasnagar police jurisdiction, two complainants were filed by vehicle owners whose two-wheelers were stolen from outside a shop and a society building respectively. Wagale Estate police station also received a complaint of a scooter being stolen on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicle-theft-in-thane-on-the-rise-during-lockdown/story-tkBOUINqDHrpt1Ls66hv1N.html
10-06-2020||City||Kalyan bus depot witnesses large crowds of office-goers||Large crowds of office-goers gathered at Kalyan’s state transport bus depot on Tuesday morning, waiting for transport to their places of work. On the second day after public buses started plying, many working people struggled to reach their offices. Although queues were formed at the bus depot, the increasing crowd made it difficult to maintain social distancing. “We reached the bus depot around 9am and there were fewer people then. They were wearing masks and gloves and waiting in a queue. However, as chaos regarding the bus routes began, the crowd increased and people had to forgo social distancing. It took an hour for me to find a bus to Bhiwandi,” said Nitin Choghule, 38, a resident of Kalyan. Crowding at the bus depot continued till 10.30am.Like Choughule, there were hundreds of others who were waiting for buses. “Without any other public transport, people are relying on the state transport facility. However, we have fewer buses running and it is difficult to manage the sudden crowd,” said an officer from Kalyan bus depot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-bus-depot-witnesses-large-crowds-of-office-goers/story-9CkuIrCtQ5D1XUSpPXuA1I.html
10-06-2020||City||Baby born to Covid-positive mother in Mira Road tests negative||A 27-year-old pregnant woman from Mira Road, who tested positive for Covid-19, delivered a healthy baby girl at Wockhardt Hospital. The newborn tested negative for the coronavirus and has been kept separate from her mother, who is in the isolation ward.“My team took special precautions to see that the baby girl does not come in contact with her mother, and the child was fed with special milk supplements,” said Dr Mangala Patil, obstetrician and gynaecologist at the hospital.After completing 39 weeks of pregnancy, as per the protocol, the woman got tested for Covid-19 on May 31, and on June 2 her results came back positive. She and her husband, who tested negative, were home quarantined since 26 May and were being provided food by their neighbours.“On June 3, the woman was admitted to the hospital and the baby was delivered through a Caesarean section,” said Dr Patil. “The baby’s Covid-19 test came back negative and within the next two days, the mother will be tested again. If the result turns out to be negative, then the mother and baby will be discharged,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baby-born-to-covid-positive-mother-in-mira-road-tests-negative/story-zf3XGqmXAf8Az7tZoTvtzI.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||No funds for food: 4 community kitchens in Mumbai slums run dry||Four community kitchens that came to the aid of nearly 4,000 people in the slums of M-East ward (Govandi, Deonar, and Mankhurd) have run out of funds to keep their stoves lit.The kitchens, in Janta Nagar, Maharashtra Nagar, Indira Nagar-2 and Bainganwadi-Chikalwadi, were started on April 25 to aid workers and migrant labourers who had lost their jobs during the lockdown. Functioning out of the narrow lanes of the slums, with the aid of volunteers who assisted in cleaning, cutting, and packing the meals, the kitchens continued till May 31.“The kitchen in Janta Nagar is still functioning, but we might stop in a few days since there are no funds. From two meals a day, we are now preparing dinner for about 1,400 people,” said Umar Shaikh, 52, who was running the kitchen in Janta Nagar.“We started the kitchen after realising that even if we distribute dry rations, bigger families with 10-12 people might exhaust it within a few days. Around 70% of the people living in these areas don’t even have ration cards to avail any benefits,” said Shaikh, who runs a plywood business when he is not volunteering.The kitchens functioned with institutional funding arranged by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences’ (TISS) M-ward project and help from organisations like Ghar Bachao, Ghar Banao Andolan, said Ishaad Shaikh, who works with the M ward project. “We also provided two bananas and eggs to the children in these areas,” he added.In Bainganwadi, volunteers were running two separate kitchens by creating makeshift arrangements in the narrow gullies. “We used to make veg pulao, khichdi, and dal. If we started work at 6am, it would go on till night. We arranged for utensils from caterers and also learnt to cook,” said Shakir Hussain, who works with the Mumbai-based Centre for Promoting Democracy and Pani Haq Samiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-funds-for-food-4-community-kitchens-in-mumbai-slums-run-dry/story-gxcSZQT2S7s9EEXNKejOsN.html
10-06-2020||City||85-year-old kept waiting outside Thane hospital overnight over bill dues||The family of an 85-year-old man residing in Panchpakhadi, Thane has complained to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) regarding Kaushalya Hospital where the octogenarian was kept waiting overnight because he did pay the hospital fees. The family members had asked for extra time from the hospital to arrange for the money. Till the time the fees were paid and the discharge procedure was completed, the man was made to wait outside the hospital.“My grandfather had a cold as we took him for a checkup. A swab test was done and his report came positive. He was admitted on May 27 at Kaushalya Hospital and on June 5 we got a call from the hospital that he will be discharged the same day. We were told to clear bills amounting to ₹64,000. We did not have that much money in hand and requested the hospital to give us time till morning to make arrangements. However when we reached the hospital in the morning our grandfather was hungry and unattended to, he looked exhausted too,” said the 24-year-old granddaughter of the patient.Hospital authorities have denied the allegations. “The allegation is false and baseless. The patient has received the best treatment possible which is proved by the fact that even being 85 years old and Covid positive, he could go home ‪in 10 days. Complaints like these, which belittle doctors and hospitals, should not be encouraged as they will demoralise the medical fraternity,” said Anant Naik, administrator, Kaushalya Hospital.TMC is responsible for all Covid treatments within its jurisdiction. “Although I have not personally received a written complaint on this, I am aware of this situation and similar discrepancies. Hence, on Tuesday in a special meeting with all hospitals, I have cautioned them to not wrongfully restrain patients for money, insurance, or other needs. This is a punishable offence. I will look into the matter and authorise someone to inquire about the incident in detail,” said Vishwanath Kelkar, deputy commissioner, health department, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/85-year-old-kept-waiting-outside-thane-hospital-overnight-over-bill-dues/story-5AyXZPkcpvzgQLoExbpz5I.html
10-06-2020||Mumbai||80-year-old Covid patient found dead on railway tracks; family claims hospital negligence||An 80-year-old Covid-19 patient admitted at Shatabdi Hospital went missing from its Covid ward for nearly 12 hours. It was later discovered that the patient had died in a train accident at Borivli railway station on Monday. The victim had reportedly developed severe body pain and vomiting on Saturday when the family got him admitted to Shatabdi Hospital. His Covid-19 test results came back positive on Sunday and he was shifted to a Covid ward. The family was quarantined as well. The man’s grandson, said, “We got a call from Shatabdi Hospital on Monday morning around 8am, asking for the whereabouts of the patient as they said that he was missing from the ward.”The family searched for the patient until Monday night. When they asked around at Borivli railway station, they were informed that he had died in a train accident. “We were shattered after hearing the news. The locals said that my grandfather had committed suicide on the railway tracks,” the grandson said.Other patients in the Covid ward told the family that a dead body was kept on the neighbouring bed, wrapped in plastic. “It must have been very traumatic for him to see a dead body lying alongside his bed. The railway tracks are just outside the hospital. He never spoke of having any suicidal thoughts,” the 80-year-old’s relative said.The Government Railway Police found the body on Monday morning and sent it to Shatabdi Hospital. Bhaskar Pawar, senior police inspector at Borivli railway station, said, “The accident took place around 7.30am. The body was sent to the hospital around 9am.” The family now alleges that the hospital, to hide their negligence, made up a story that the patient was missing, despite knowing that he had died in the rail accident. “They could have at least called us to identify the accident victim,” the victim’s grandson said.Amey Ghole, Shiv Sena corporator and health committee chairman, said, “There was a lapse on the security part of the hospital. We will take strict action against the private security firm at the hospital. We are further investigating the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/80-year-old-covid-patient-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-family-claim-hospital-negligence/story-N2gjRBEnJKHbVN6xx54LzI.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coordination panel to expedite road projects in Punjab||Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh on Tuesday issued orders for constitution of a coordination committee of senior officers for early resolution to expedite the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) projects in the state.The chief secretary gave the direction while presiding over a meeting held with NHAI chairman Sukhbir Singh Sandhu to discuss the status of various NHAI projects in the state. Referring to the connectivity of new alignment to Amritsar from Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway, the chief secretary was informed that concerted efforts are being made to award this project by October-November.Officials said that Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and Amritsar would be connected by both Delhi-Katra Expressway and Amritsar-Jamnagar Expressway. A study was being conducted by NHAI to make the existing 4-lane National Highways interconnecting these cities signal free, they added.During the meeting, alignments of 12 new upcoming projects in the state, including decongestion of Zirakpur, were also discussed. The NHAI officials also requested the state government to accelerate pre-construction activities such as land acquisition, forest clearance, wildlife clearance, etc. to facilitate early sanction of projects from ministry of road transport and highways. The new projects are Moga-Bajakhana, Bathinda-Mandi Dabwali, Amritsar-Una, Amritsar-Ramdas, Malout-Abohar-Sadhuwali, Kharar-Banur-Tepla, Amritsar Bypass, Bathinda Bypass, Zirakpur Bypass-Ambala-Panchkula, Elevated structure from Chhatt Junction to Singhpura chowk, Phagwara-Hoshiarpur and Malout-Dabwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coordination-panel-to-expedite-road-projects-in-punjab/story-6qcbR9NDfpC6WNNpfRWaOO.html
10-06-2020||Noida||Death of pregnant woman: Noida initiates action against 7 hospitals||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has initiated action against three government hospitals and four private facilities for denying treatment to a 30-year-old eight-month pregnant woman, who died on June 5.The action comes a day after the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government, seeking its action-taken report into this case as well as that of another woman who was allegedly denied treatment by hospitals.A two-member team, comprising chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri and ADM (finance) MN Upadhyay, which was constituted to probe the incidents surrounding the death of the pregnant woman, submitted its report to district magistrate Suhas LY on Tuesday.  The inquiry concluded that the woman, Neelam, a resident of Khoda in Ghaziabad, died as a result of government and private hospitals denying her timely treatment on June 5. Her family had alleged negligence on the part of the hospitals and said they had to ferry her in an auto-rickshaw from one hospital to another over a span of 13 hours, after each one turned her away.The report said Neelam had complained of breathlessness and was rushed to the ESI hospital in Sector 24 by her husband. From there, she was referred to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. However, the ambulance dropped her off at the district hospital in Sector 30 instead. From there, she was taken to four private hospitals in Noida, each one turning her away citing a lack of beds. Her family then took her to a private hospital in Vaishali, Ghaziabad, which, too, refused to treat her. She was again brought back to GIMS, where she was declared dead. The report found the doctors who checked and referred her, as well as the driver of the ambulance which dropped her outside the district hospital liable for negligence. “If she had to be referred to a higher centre from the district hospital, a senior staff member should have taken that decision. Concerned staff should have informed the senior management,” the report said.“Such instances have occurred in the past as well and points to supervisory negligence. We have written to the state government to transfer Dr Vandana Sharma, chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital,” Suhas said. He also said the government has been urged to act against the staff nurse and ward attendant of the district hospital.“The four private hospitals had claimed that they did not have beds available, but the inquiry found the staff and management of these hospitals were negligent. The CMO has been asked to issue a show-cause notice to the hospitals, form a technical committee for further investigation and register FIRs against them,” the DM said.“The director of GIMS has been asked to identify the doctors and staff who first refused the family and take action against them,” the DM’s office said. The Ghaziabad district magistrate has been asked to take appropriate action against the hospital in Vaishali.Suhas has also asked the CMO to issue an advisory to all private and government hospitals to ensure that in cases of emergency, no patient should be denied treatment. However, if referring a patient to another hospital is unavoidable, then there should be proper coordination between the two hospitals.The NHRC has issued a notice to the state government over this incident and also in connection with another incident in which a 26-year-old pregnant woman was denied admission by the district hospital and she ended up giving birth to a stillborn girl outside the hospital. A detailed report from the state has been sought within four weeks, citing the action taken against erring doctors/ officials.Suhas said, “Action is being taken against negligent parties and carelessness will not be tolerated.” Taking cognizance of the cases of negligence, the administration has issued a dedicated emergency helpline number (0120-2569901) which will be operational 24 hours to help those in urgent need of treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/death-of-pregnant-woman-noida-admin-initiates-action-against-seven-hospitals-that-denied-her-treatment/story-zhkZ2H2soy658Gm4lCOrJK.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records two deaths in 24 hours; Covid-19 tally at 2,329||The district on Tuesday recorded two new Covid-related deaths, taking Gurugram’s toll to 11. It included a 40-year-old woman with a co-morbid condition of diabetes and 89-year-old woman who succumbed to the illness due to severe respiratory distress and multiple organ failure, according to the health officials. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “The two deaths have been reported from Medeor Hospital. Advanced age and co-morbid conditions acted as the contributing factors behind the Covid-19 deaths.” On Monday, the city had reported the highest single day spike of 5 deaths due to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Currently, at least 10 critical patients have been put on ventilator support in three hospitals of the city. It includes four in Medanta and three each in Fortis and Medeor hospitals, he said. Gurugram on Tuesday also recorded 164 new cases of coronavirus, taking the total count to 2,329. Out of the total number of cases, 1,678 patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are under home isolation. A total of 640 patients have been discharged so far. Most of the new cases are in the age bracket of 21-40, as per the data. It includes people employed in private companies, students, healthcare workers, housewives, and police officials. Data shows that 17 health workers, 2 policemen, 12 senior citizens, three children, 37 housewives among others were confirmed for Covid-19 positive. Of the 164 cases, 102 are men and 62 are women. As of Tuesday, Gurugram’s contribution to Haryana’s Covid-19 burden was nearly 50%. Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat and Jind are among the 38 districts across the 10 states reporting the highest surge in the Covid-19 cases currently. The total number of confirmed cases in Haryana are 5,209, out of which 3,357 are active patients, 1,807 are discharged, while 45 have succumbed to the contagious virus.Sonal Goel, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL), who is also the nodal officer for healthcare facilities and ventilator management in the district, visited the ESIC Hospital in Sector 9 and Medeor Hospital in IMT Manesar, both of which are designated hospitals for Covid patients. Both the facilities have been directed to maintain a list of Covid-19 patients in isolation wards, ICUs and those put on ventilators. It also included reporting proper details related to Covid-19 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-two-deaths-in-24-hours-covid-19-tally-at-2-329/story-1chjrnLc8MGvBI0RJ9cyJP.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||Private hospitals provide counselling, free treatment and salary hike to healthcare workers||A total of 46 healthcare workers, including doctors from 23 private hospitals of the city have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last four days, as per the data shared by the district health department. Many private hospitals said that healthcare professionals are still are performing their duties despite the fear of getting exposed to the virus. To motivate the staff, hospitals are providing counselling and treatment to those who have tested positive for Covid-19. A few of these hospitals have even increased the salaries of their healthcare workers.“In the first few months, there was panic among healthcare professionals. A few of them left their jobs because of the fear. But due to lockdown and the slowing down of the economy, some of the nurses have resumed their duties again,” said the representative of Park and Signature Hospitals. “At least, 10-15 nurses in both hospitals have resumed their duties. We have raised the salary of our workers to raise their motivation level. We are also providing them with separate hotel rooms for lodging and offering them counselling,” said Dr AK Dubey, spokesperson, Medanta Medicity. According to Dubey, the health workers feel apprehensive if a fellow health worker is tested positive. “They have doubts regarding their own safety as they too have families. We are ensuring their issues are addressed,” he said.Hospital authorities said that they are trying to make their staff feel secure as the biggest worry for health workers is exposing their families to the coronavirus. “It creates a sense of fear. We are trying to address that fear by ensuring the availability of protective gears, such as personal protective equipment (PPE) for our workers. Secondly, we have assured they will be treated in the facility if they are tested positive,” said Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute. According to her, a few of the health care workers, who tested coronavirus positive are undergoing treatment in the hospital’s Gurugram branch. Dubey also said that their staff who have tested positive are undergoing treatment free of cost in the facility itself.Most of these hospitals are also taking the help of psychiatrists and psychologists to counsel the staff regularly. For this purpose, Max Hospital said that they have launched an employee assistance programme. “This is managed by our psychology team. Also, a direct hotline is provided to employees to talk about any symptoms their families or they might be facing. To motivate the staff, various recognition programmes have been launched. It includes interventions, such as stories of role models, words of warriors, hall of fame to recognise their contribution,” said the spokesperson.Shashidharan, president, World Malayalee Council – Harayana Province, said, “We have been demanding counselling of healthcare workers working in different private hospitals of the city. Most of the nurses are from Kerala, who are young and staying alone. If they are tested Covid-19 positive, they feel as if it is the end of their life.” The council has been vocal about the safety of the nursing staff since April. Citing the recent case of a nurse who committed suicide after being tested positive, he said, “Hospitals should be sensitive while declaring the reports to health staff. They should even provide accommodation, so that they are not left alone at the time of a crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/private-hospitals-provide-counselling-free-treatment-and-salary-hike-to-healthcare-workers/story-ntXAJQepPA9lx7bTTwdbwK.html
10-06-2020||Gurugram||GMDA to bring all arms of Covid-19 response onto single mobile platform, state-wide rollout on cards||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), the primary urban planning body in the city, is attempting to bring together various aspects of the district’s Covid-19 response management on one technological platform. Titled HrHeal, and available as a web portal and mobile phone application, the project will “create a single online location wherein residents and officials can access any information, data or services related to the Covid-19 pandemic,” according to an official in the authority’s GIS department. Officials said that HrHeal—which has been available for download for about 10 days now—incorporates various functionalities, from helping ASHA workers with contact tracing, to facilitating telemedicine consultations between patients and doctors. The app also provides realtime data and analysis of Covid-19 numbers (across Haryana’s 22 districts) via a public dashboard. The dashboard, which is also accessible via a web browser, will help officials generate custom reports using state-level data. It will, in the future, also provide realtime numbers for the state’s 22 districts, including key metrics such as doubling rate, recovery rate, fatalities and test-positivity ratio. A spokesperson from the office of Sonal Goel, additional CEO, GMDA, said, “The authority’s role is to ensure the integrated planning and provision of urban amenities, which includes healthcare services. With that in mind, the GMDA is building its capacity to support the health department and municipal corporation, which are carrying out contact tracing, testing and isolation of patients. It is also trying to ensure a more streamlined way to respond to citizen concerns.” Dr Sultan Singh, head of the GMDA’s GIS department, explained some of these functionalities. “First, in April, we built a tool to help people access their Covid-19 test results online, followed by a public dashboard, which collected data about district-wise Covid-19 cases across Haryana. We initially launched these tools via the GMDA’s OneMapGGM website, and they will also be available via HrHeal,” he said.Singh also added that, if successful in Gurugram district, HrHeal’s functionalities would be replicated state-wide. “For example, we have created a heat-map of Covid-19 in Gurugram by mapping the physical location of each case, and its current status, whether active or recovered, along with each person’s age, gender, and date of detection. If a user downloads HrHeal, then the app will send them realtime alerts about their location while they are travelling, whether they are near a containment zone or emerging cluster,” he said, adding that this feature is currently being tested in Gurugram only. Yet another feature, which was rolled out on Tuesday, is the district’s telemedicine helpline, which can be accessed via HrHeal. “Users can connect with close to 3,200 doctors who have registered to provide services via telephone consultation,” Singh said, explaining that the app contains all the functionality of the Centre’s Aarogya Setu app, with some added features based on feedback from citizens.HrHeal also contains an “automated contact tracing” module to help ASHA workers monitor their subjects more closely, officials revealed, while a B2B version is being developed to help large-scale employers track their employees, as more and more of them start returning to work. “For example, a corporate company with, say, 5,000 employees, can use a customisable version of the app for internal management. This is something we are working on rolling out within this month,” Singh said.Another important feature, presently available only for Gurugram, is a public repository of doctors, hospital beds, Covid Care Centres, blood banks, testing labs, sample collection sites, and so on, in addition to the number of relief shelters and volunteers operative in the city for migrant workers. The repository, available via both the HrHeal app and the OneMapGGM website, on Tuesday, showed that 6,626,531 food packets have been distributed by volunteers in the city so far and that 84,257 movement passes have been requested (of which 52,792 have been rejected, while 11,592 are pending). It also shows that there are presently 35 active shelter homes in the district housing 31,632 migrants. Data about the district’s healthcare infrastructure is also available. For example, the latest data shows that there are 944 hospitals in Gurugram, of which 19 are dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, along with 23 Covid Care Centres. “These locations have also been mapped out to help users, along with the contact numbers of over 3,000 doctors,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-to-bring-all-arms-of-covid-19-response-onto-single-mobile-platform-state-wide-rollout-on-cards/story-pyjJn4ONEMKMVlO7SJ14gJ.html
10-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s wholesale hub Sadar Bazar set to open shops on Wednesday||After remaining shut for two months, Sadar Bazar traders will reopen their shops from Wednesday as the authorities re-demarcated boundaries of the containment zones in the area, officials said. According to officials of the district disaster management authority, after re-demarcation, Sadar Bazar will have six containment zones. The market has been declared a buffer zone. “As per inputs from the district medical team, it was imperative to redraw boundaries of Sadar Bazar containment zones to reduce the hardship of residents and to facilitate effective implementation of the disinfection drive as well as strict perimeter control. A couple of active cases reported have been mapped and small pockets have been identified as micro-containment zones while the remaining area has been declared a buffer zone as has been done in many other cities,” an order issued by the District Magistrate (Central) Nidhi Srivastava said. Srivastava said since the market is in the buffer zone, traders are required to take adequate measures to maintain social distancing. The order said in the containment zones, only essential activities will be allowed. “There shall be strict perimeter control to ensure there is no movement of people in or out of containment zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services,” it said. The traders’ body said they had been waiting to open shops as they suffered huge losses during the lockdown. “The market houses at least 40,000 shops. The traders had a hard time, running short on savings. We will open shops after so long. We don’t know the condition of the stock. We will clean up tomorrow and start attending to customers later. We will take all precautions to maintain a six-feet distance and regularly sanitise the area,” Paramjeet Singh Pamma, vice-chairman, Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders Association, said. The traders’ body had been demanding reopening of shops since other markets in the city opened last month. They had written to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, saying 70% of Sadar Bazar was purely commercial and that the cases were being reported from residential pockets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sadar-bazar-set-to-open-shops-on-wednesday/story-zXhIP6HJ9QWEiqusCKyLLP.html
10-06-2020||Pune||PMC standing committee approves widening of 6 metres roads up to 9 metres||PUNE: The standing committee of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved to widen six-metre-wide roads up to nine-metre-wide in the city, a move meant to boost redevelopment. The proposal was approved on Tuesday though all political parties except Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) opposed it.According to PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane, the decision will encourage people to go for redevelopment as wider roads will enable builders to use additional floor space index (FSI) which in turn will create more flats. FSI indicates how many floors a developer can build on a plot. It is the ratio of total built-up area to the size of the plot. “Many internal six-metre-wide roads in the city are an obstacle to redevelopment works. By giving permission to widen these roads up to nine-metre will help citizens consume additional floor space index by loading transfer development rights (TDR). It will help citizens to get more area and PMC will get more revenue by boosting the construction industry,” said Rasane.Earlier, the proposal was only limited to 323 roads before the PMC standing committee amended it and gave nod to all the new one covering all roads.With the BJP in majority in PMC, the proposal was passed by 10 against 6 votes with all the opposition parties opposing it. The opposition parties held a joint press conference on Tuesday and opposed the proposal.Nationalist Congress Party’s city unit president Chetan Tupe said, “BJP’s policy has been selective. Without a proper survey, they approved the proposal with the only intention to collect money from builders. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis himself took a decision not to give additional FSI for properties located on 6-metre-wide roads, now BJP’s own leaders are going against Fadnavis’s decision. The BJP should now either accept that Fadnavis’s decision was wrong or they took the decision for personal interests.”Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “BJP first choose the roads mainly in Baner, Balewadi and other areas and later amended it. They know areas where new projects are coming and whom to give benefit by clearing road projects on case to case basis. The proposal will only benefit selective people.”Decision would end bungalow culture in Pune: BagulWidening of the 6-metre-roads up to nine metres would end bungalow culture in Pune, said Congress leader Aba Bagul. “Builders and goons would threat bungalow owners to come forward for redevelopment. Former BJP chief minister Devendra Fadnavis himself made the act and banned allowing additional TDR on six-metre-roads, but the same party took a decision against it,” Bagul said.The Congress leader said that the party will oppose it and try to save Pune’s bungalow culture. “The roads would not get widened on the ground, but by using the provision additional FSI would get consumer by builders on Laxmi Road. The proposal is illegal as per MRTP Act as standing committee did not have right to take decision for all the roads, but only for certain roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-standing-committee-approves-widening-of-6-metres-roads-up-to-9-metres/story-D7v2cD7FhZ8Q52plHuiFzH.html
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking resumes long-route bus service to Punjab, Haryana||After over two months, Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will start its long-route buses, on select Punjab and Haryana routes, from Wednesday. The service was suspended due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Initially, the buses are being started on 50% of the routes (see box), and will run at 50% capacity as per the central government guidelines, said an official spokesperson.As the consent from Delhi and Himachal Pradesh are yet to be received, bus travel to and from these states will have to wait.The long-route buses will ply from ISBT, Sector 43, for the meantime. The department expects the vegetable and fruit market to be shifted back from ISBT, Sector 17, to Sector 26 by June 15. After that both local and long-route buses will start from Sector 17.The tickets can be purchased online on CTU web site (http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in) or through the mobile app CTU Musafir or at the counter in Sector 43.ROUTES COVEREDLong-route buses will ply from ISBT-43 for the meantimePUNJABHoshiarpurPathankotAmritsarPatialaNangal via Noorpur BediKhanna via KheriLudhianaDinanagarBathindaHARYANAPanipatRohtakYamunanagarJindHisarSirsaHansi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-undertaking-resumes-long-route-bus-service-to-punjab-haryana/story-8CiwR04PRtt7eKCk87gAvM.html
10-06-2020||Pune||Unlock 1: Owners flex muscles, call for gyms to open||Gym owners in Pune are getting restless as the government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ has no mention of opening up fitness clubs across the state. The Pune fitness club association has submitted a memorandum to Pune divisional commissioner, Deepak Mhaisekar, and Pune municipal commissioner requesting to grant permission to open fitness clubs.“The government has still not issued any guidelines for us. As gyms are shut we have been impacted financially. At least the government should come out with a solution for us,” said Nilesh Kale, president of Pune fitness club association.Along with gym owners, trainers are also financially hit as they are not receiving salaries due to the non-operation of gyms.“At least allow us one-on-one training, we are ready to follow social distancing norms as it will allow us to get some financial support,” added Kale.The association has also asked the government to help them financially. “If the government can open wine shops then why are gyms not open yet which helps keep one fit,” added Kale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/owners-flex-muscles-call-for-gyms-to-open/story-IHfrf9ehjuh2C2Y7fzC0tO.html
10-06-2020||Pune||Community participation, micro contact tracing, low mortality rate: centre lays out Pune plan||Day 2 of the central team visit to Pune saw team chief, Kunal Kumar instruct the city’s civic administrators to increase the contact tracing, even at the micro level, to keep the Covid-19 numbers under control.Kumar said, “Pune is doing good contact tracing, but needs to increase this effort as positive cases will get identified at an earlier stage.”Kumar added, “The administration need not worry about positive cases increasing, which is a sign of good contact tracing. Instead, efforts should be made to bring down the mortality rate. If early detection happens, it will bring down the mortality rate.” Kumar, on Tuesday, cited community participation as being a key factor in Pune’s ability to handle the Covid-19 situation.Kumar visited the Smart city control room on Tuesday where he said, “Pune is the best city for community participation in the country. People come forward with positive suggestions and the administration must take them up to fight against Covid-19. Community participation will help bring down the burden on administration.”The central team were on a two-day visit to Pune and spent part of the second day video conferencing with various district heads in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/community-participation-micro-contact-tracing-low-mortality-rate-centre-lays-out-pune-plan/story-G0IyAc0hHtlHuDRqs4fgBL.html
10-06-2020||Pune||Pune hospitals claim updates on bed availability not reflecting on Covid Care dashboard||The ‘Covid Care Software’ dashboard, newly launched by the Pune divisional commissioner, which shows real-time data of availability of beds currently displays no isolation beds available in 19 out of 82 hospitals allocated for Covid-19 treatment in the city.This includes government and cantonment hospitals and private hospitals, including Jehangir Hospital, Noble Hospital and the Sahyadri hospital.As per the dashboard, of the 24,292 beds which have been allocated for Covid-19, 9,976 were vacant as of Monday evening. Also, of the 76 allocated ICU beds with ventilators, only eight are vacant and available. PMC Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “Currently there is no shortage of beds in the Covid care centres for those who do not require critical care. Many people eligible to be discharged are also housed at the centres as they live in slum areas. The shortage is likely to be in critical care, like those who might need ICU or ventilators. For that too, we will take out individual orders for the 100 hospitals eligible for 80 per cent of reservation of beds. We are in the process of issuing orders.” Dr (Col) Satyajit S Gill, medical director at Jehangir Hospital said, “Yes, we are running full, but this is a dynamic thing as we keep discharging patients and we have beds for more patients. Also we do accommodate suspected patients who are awaiting results, but could be possible suspects based on their X-ray, oxygen saturation and other symptoms.”Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble Hospital, said, “It is true that our hospital’s isolation beds are full, but often the dashboard is also not up to date and shows old data, even though we do keep updating it. Also, we do ensure that we have at least two ICU beds available for emergency and on standby. “Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director at Noble, said, “The dashboard does not give real-time data and we have conveyed this to the civic body and other authorities repeatedly. We have been sending updates twice daily. However, I guess it would take at least a few more days for the data to be synced completely. Two of our hospital branches are full and most of our ICU beds and ventilators are also occupied.”With increasing cases in Cantonment areas, the Cantonment hospitals are also reporting no vacant isolation beds, which includes Khadki Cantonment Board’s Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Cantonment General Hospital and Khadki Sports Complex which totally have 40 allocated isolation beds together.Pune Cantonment’s Sardar Vallabhai Patel hospital which has 70 allocated isolation beds also has no vacant beds and Dehu road Cantonment board’s Dr Babasaheb Cantonment General Hospital and the Dehu road Covid Care Centre at the MG School has 10 allocated isolation beds, that currently show not vacant on the dashboard. Big worryAllocated beds: 24,292Vacant beds: 10,022Allocated beds for isolation: 13,611Vacant beds for isolation: 9,935Allocated beds for ICU: 298Vacant beds for ICU: 87Allocated isolation with bedside/central oxygen: 841Vacant isolation with bedside/central oxygen: 220Allocated of ICU beds with ventilator: 76Vacant ICU beds with ventilator: 8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hospitals-claim-updates-on-bed-availability-not-reflecting-on-covid-care-dashboard/story-MVzgo8nzion6UDokUsFaWL.html
10-06-2020||Pune||Pune-Satara road plan: NHAI serves notice to Reliance Infra for incomplete project||PUNE: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has served a notice of intention to terminate the concession agreement with Reliance Infrastructure Limited in connection with the six-laning of Pune-Satara section of NH-4. Reliance infra cites Covid-19 situation for delay and states that 96 per cent of the work is completed.NHAI served the notice on May 21 for the project to be executed under built operate and transfer (BOT) under national highway development programme phase 4.The notice stated “It is submitted that the appointed date was declared 1.10.2010 and you had commenced the work with effect to that date. The scheduled completion date 30.03.2013 which subsequently got modified as 31.12.2015 for which a supplementary agreement was entered into between the authority and the concessionaire on 30.10. 2014. It is pertinent to note that the project highway has to be maintained by the concessionaire till the project is completed and thereafter also during the maintenance period i.e. during the entire concession period.”The notice continued, “It is to be noted that the authority and independent engineer intimated about the importance of highways/diversions, lack of safety measures, slow progress of work on a number of occasions. Even show cause notices were served earlier vide authority letter no. 2001 and 2002 dated 27.07.2014 and no. 1568 dated 13.10.2016.“Though the concessionaire had promised to address the issue immediately but the inspections carried out by NHAI officials and independent engineers revealed that the position has further deteriorated instead of improvement.”A Reliance Infra’s spokesperson for Pune-Satara toll road said, “We were issued intention to terminate notice by NHAI which has already been responded last week. The project is in advanced stage of completion, with 98.2 per cent work already completed. The project was expected to be completed by May 31, 2020 for which the authorities had already recommended extension. Work was in progress as per target but had to be suspended due to Covid-19 pandemic from March 20. The government of India has already announced extension of 6 months for projects in progress due to the Covid-19 crisis. Pre-monsoon works are in progress and there is shortage of labour. We are sourcing local labour to continue. The project will be completed as per the extension granted by authority under Covid-19.”The notice made critical observations like “It goes without saying that all the above incidents and neglect on the part of the concessionaire has invited public wrath and number of agitations are taken up by various organisations demanding stoppage of toll collection etc because of poor condition of the highway which the concessionaires had not paid heed to even after several reminders and after getting various EOT’s . Such neglect towards public safety and non-compliance with the terms of the CA henceforth attracts the clause 37.1.2 of CA,” the notice said.In view of the above, the concessionaire is hereby notified of authorities intention to issue termination notice under the clause of 37.1.2 of the concession agreement and concessionaire is hereby is at liberty to make representation as to why it should not be terminated within 15 days of the receipt of the notice, the notice warned“They were given 15 days and there have been contractual issues and notice served by the headquarter. It is our intention notice and they have responded to our notice and we are looking into it. We have received their reply a few days ago and only 4 per cent of the work is left,” said Suhas Chitnis, project director, NHAI.RTI activist Vivek Velankar said that the said notice should have been given much earlier citing that toll has been collected for nine years by the company. “Will action be taken and toll collection stop? There are a number of questions which need to answered. The notice will turn out to be a farce in the long run if it is not implemented in letter and spirit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhai-serves-agreement-termination-notice-to-reliance-infra-for-incomplete-pune-satara-road-project/story-HHYmxS9YaW7u7KOM4ujvHM.html
10-06-2020||City||Ex-PMC Bank director granted bail by Bombay HC to undergo surgery||Mumbai: In a relief to Jagdish Mookhey, an accused in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday granted him a temporary bail for three months to undergo an epigastric hernia surgery.The bail was granted after a private clinic in Mulund, where he is likely to undergo the surgery, submitted a Pre-Surgery Fitness Assessment Test and Parameter Monitoring Report, which stated that Mookhey suffers from many medical complications which need to be addressed before the operation and hence he was required to be treated for a few weeks. Mookhey approached HC after his bail was rejected by the sessions court on May 2.A single bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing Mookhey’s bail application was informed by his advocates Yusuf Iqbal Yusuf and Zain Shroff that the 75-year-old accused, who was in the PMC Bank’s audit committee, had been in and out of the hospital during his judicial custody since December last year due to his medical condition. The advocates had sought bail on the grounds that Mookhey needed the surgery, which owing to the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak, he prefers to undergo at a private clinic at Mulund. The advocates also submitted that Mookhey was willing to bear all costs, which included police escort fees and treatment cost, if he was permitted to undergo the operation.On May 29, the bench of justice Anuja Prabhudessai directed the private clinic to submit a fitness report after monitoring Mookhey for three days. The application came up for hearing before the bench of justice Dangre after the clinic submitted the report. After perusing the report, the bench granted Mookhey temporary bail on the condition that he deposits the police escort fees.Through his bail application after his arrest on December 3, Mookhey pleaded that he did not have any role in the fraud. The plea was opposed by the state on the grounds that his role was yet to be ascertained. Mookhey then filed for a bail on medical grounds.Who is Jagdish Mookhey?Jagdish Mookhey was on the audit committee of the bank from 2005 to 2019. On December 3, Mookhey, along with two other directors – Dr Trupti Bane and Mukti Bavisi – were arrested for their alleged involvement in the ₹6,670 crore.Bane was in the recovery committee from 2010 to 2015, and the loans and advances committee from 2015 to 2019, while Bavisi was a part of the loans and advances committee from 2011 to September 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-pmc-bank-director-granted-bail-by-bombay-hc-to-undergo-surgery/story-adsON3MBilnsFRix6ypzpI.html
