12-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Lockdown on weekends, public holidays’ evokes mixed response among traders in Ludhiana||The state government’s order on stricter lockdown in the state on weekends and public holidays has evoked a mixed reaction among market associations here.While a few market associations have raised a hue and cry over the order and warned the authorities of an agitation if the decision is not reviewed, others have sought an extension in working hours during other weekdays.Traders rued that the business was slowly coming back on track after two month-long lockdown, but this announcement has again added to the woes of the traders, who are already reeling under losses. Traders in Chaura Bazar said this would add to the fear in the minds of residents and this is not in the interest of business. President of the Chaura Bazar Shopkeepers Association Parampal Singh Witty said, “Traders are reeling under losses and, at a time, when the business was gaining momentum, the state government has announced anther lockdown, that too on weekends, when residents move out to shop. The decision is not in favour of shopkeepers and the government should review it.”Shopkeepers of the Akalgarh market and those situated near Clock Tower have threatened to launch an agitation if the government did not roll back the order.President of the Akalgarh Market Garment Association Manpreet Singh Bunty said, “Rather than announcing lockdown on weekends, the government can announce the same for Mondays and Tuesdays. On weekends, customers from other districts also visit the city and, if the markets remained closed, how will traders be able to earn a livelihood. Their business would collapse.”He also threatened an agitation if the decision was not withdrawn.Many other trader associations have demanded that shops should be allowed to open till 9 pm on other days.President of the Model Town Market Association Amarjit Singh and president of the Ghumar Mandi Shopkeepers Association Pawan Batra said, “With the rising number of Covid-19 positive patients, it is understandable that government has to take some strict steps. But, some relief should be provided to the traders also by extending the working hours. The customers do not move out in the scorching heat and the shops are closed at 7pm, leaving a limited time for the customers to visit markets. The shops should be allowed to open at least till 9pm so that traders could cover up their losses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-on-weekends-public-holidays-evokes-mixed-response-among-traders-in-ludhiana/story-3gDiagawsQeEzpY5VoC5mN.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||2-day symposium on Covid-19’s social perspective concludes at Ludhiana college||A two-day online international symposium on “Covid-19: Social Perspective” organised by the Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology (GGNIMT), Ghumar Mandi, concluded on Friday.At least, 2,500 people, including teachers, doctors, economists, businessmen and eminent people, from the world of education from all across the country and abroad participated in the conference.Noted economist Sucha Singh Gill, CRRID (labour and unemployment), Chandigarh, inaugurating the symposium, said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has devastated lives and livelihoods. It has triggered an economic crisis with far reaching implications. The disruption has changed patterned social practices and social order, along with the culturally embedded assumptions, including the way of life.”Ramesh Vinayak, executive editor, The Hindustan Times, in his presidential remarks, shared his concern over the financial implications affecting the social life. The kind of life at the workplace and a system of work from home was never heard of before, he said emphasising the changes in social life.Dilshad Dhaliwal, fellow of the Tata Research Institute, Toronto, was the expert for the day. While deliberating on health and hygiene, she gave detailed information about Covid-19 and associated superstition and facts.She said following general healthy living advice such as eating a balanced diet, staying hydrated, being physically active, getting enough sleep, and managing stress are the best recommendations for staying healthy during these difficult times.Resource person Mandeep Kochhar, vice-principal, Bombay Teacher Training College, said, “This severe disruption has shaken the education system. The online teaching has turned up as a massive shock for both teachers’ productivity and also students’ social life and learning. Teachers need socio-emotional support to face the pressure being put to deliver learning at the time of crisis as well as support their students’ emotional needs.”Dr Macario Gayeta from Philippines opined that the transition from physical classrooms to the digital learning has led to a significant impact in the behaviour of students and teachers. He mentioned that online education is not merely speaking in a microphone at one end and listening at the other.Jaswinder Singh Brar, professor of economics from Punjabi University, Patiala, discussing the socio-economic impact of Covid-19, said that life would not be the same now and changes in income levels will change social security and social lifestyles altogether. He talked in length about the internal governance of the country and state public health systems.SP Singh, president, GKEC, proposed the vote of thanks. He appreciated the resource persons for shedding light on a very valuable topic. He also acknowledged the efforts of GGNIMT in keeping the people constructively engaged during this difficult time.Prof. Manjit Singh Chhabra , director, GGNIMT, emphasised on adopting online teaching methodology ,social distancing and work from home options to fight against this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-day-symposium-on-covid-19-s-social-perspective-ends-in-ludhiana-s-ggnimt/story-9JSKv8NKwfk9Uvjs4aIa1H.html
12-06-2020||City||Ludhiana MC chief holds meeting with LIT, GLADA officials on setting up of vending zones||After the police and the municipal corporation (MC) announced to restart drives to remove encroachments of city roads by vendors from June 25, MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar conducted a meeting with officials of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) for setting up vending zones in the city on Friday.According to MC officials, out of over 100 proposed vending zone sites, which have been identified by the MC, around a dozen sites are owned by the LIT and the GLADA. Due to this, the meeting was conducted with officials of both the organisations to discuss the conditions on the establishment of vending zones. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said, “No final decision could be taken in the meeting as officials of LIT and GLADA said that they needed some time to study the project. The MC commissioner has scheduled a meeting next week for taking a final decision on the same. The MC is also working to establish permanent vending zones in the city and the file regarding the same has been sent to the local bodies department for approval.”An official, requesting anonymity, said LIT and GLADA officials are showing reluctance in providing their land for setting up vending zones.Earlier, in the last week of February, the police had announced the third phase of the anti-encroachment drive under which 60 roads of the city had to be covered and made free of encroachments. The authorities had covered 40 roads in the initial two phases and lodged FIRs against around 100 shopkeepers and vendors.The drive was also opposed by different vendor associations stating that the MC has failed to establish vending zones in the city and, before removing the vendors from roads, the MC should set up vending zones where vendors could earn their livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-chief-holds-meeting-with-lit-glada-officials-on-setting-up-of-vending-zones/story-59n3tZy4C6lKSFjVzWTJXL.html
12-06-2020||City||Ensure govt guidelines are followed, SC tells Ghaziabad DM on plea over high-rise de-sealing||While disposing of a petition filed by Vaishali resident seeking the desealing of his high-rise and scrapping of the ‘sector scheme’, the Supreme Court on Friday directed the district magistrate to follow the guidelines as laid down by the Union government. The Gateway Tower high-rise was sealed on June 3 after a resident was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 29. The high-rise was de-sealed on the night of June 11, a day before the petition was slotted for hearing in the Supreme Court.“It was our contention that only one tower had to be sealed but the authorities sealed the entire high-rise complex. This was against the May 31 directions issued by Uttar Pradesh chief secretary that only one tower is to be sealed if only one positive case is found in a high-rise. After the high-rise was de-sealed on June 11, one of my prayers in petition was withdrawn,” Mohammad Fuzail Khan, the lawyer appeared for the petitioner, said.The petition also mentioned a recent case of Jaipuria Sunrise Greens in Indirapuram where the entire high-rise was sealed but later the sealing was relaxed and directions were issued by the chief medical officer to seal only the tower where a 35-year-old resident had tested positive for Covid-19.“The second contention in the petition was against the sector scheme or containment zone plans. This was imposed in Vaishali on May 31 and implemented from June 1. This concept finds no mention in Centre’s notification issued under Unlock 1 plan. So, It was our contention that the sector scheme should be scrapped,” he said.During the hearing on Friday, the apex court disposed of the petition and directed, “We have no doubt that the district magistrate of Ghaziabad shall ensure that the national guidelines are followed.”The sector scheme has also been imposed in Khoda since May 10 and in Loni since May 27 in the wake of rising number of cases from these places.“The court’s direction means that the authorities will now have to restrict themselves to containment zones rather than putting entire localities under the sector scheme. The areas of Khoda, Loni and Vaishali have huge population and putting all residents under a strict lockdown proved troublesome. The court directions will also apply to Khoda and Loni localities,” Khan added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said he is yet to receive a copy of the order.“The Gateway Tower was de-sealed after 14 days under sealing. In connection with the petition, we will take up appropriate steps as directed by the court. We are awaiting the court order,” he said.In Khoda and Vaishali, the district officials provided some relief to residents by allowing markets to open on an experimental basis on Thursday. Since the sector scheme was implemented, the markets were shut and movement of residents restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-govt-guidelines-are-followed-sc-tells-ghaziabad-dm-on-plea-over-high-rise-de-sealing/story-hjqOsS1lmOz5lgYGp3Pf8L.html
12-06-2020||Noida||93-year-old Urdu poet dies five days after finishing Covid-19 treatment||Famed Urdu poet Pandit Anand Mohan Zutshi ‘Gulzar’ Dehlavi passed away on Friday, five days after he had returned home after beating Covid-19. He was 93.Dehlavi was first detected as being coronavirus positive on June 1, following which he underwent treatment at Sharda hospital in Greater Noida. According to the hospital authorities, the nonagenarian had recovered within seven days.According to his family members, his test report came back negative on June 6 and on June 7, he was sent back home. But, he remained weak and was also suffering from other age-related ailments. “We had lunch on Friday and he then retired to his room. When we went to check on him around 2.30pm, he had already passed away. We immediately rushed him to Kailash hospital where the doctors tried to revive him but he was gone by then. Doctors suspect he died of a cardiac arrest,” Anoop Zutshi, Dehlavi’s son, said.Zutshi, who is based out of Pune, said he had planned on taking his father with him after he made a complete recovery. The family said they are making arrangements for his cremation and it will be held on Saturday afternoon.“He was brought dead to the hospital around 3.20pm. There wasn’t much anyone could have done for him by then,” said VB Joshi, spokesperson, Kailash Hospital.Dehlavi was born in 1926 in Old Delhi and was a freedom fighter and an inquilabi poet. He was also the editor of ‘Science ki Duniya’, the first Urdu science magazine to be published by the government of India in 1975.Indian historian, S Irfan Habib, shared his condolences on Twitter after the death of the poet.“Anand Mohan Zutshi Gulzar Dehelvi passed away today and truly an era of Urdu poetry has ended. He was also my colleague in CSIR as an editor of Science ki Duniya. Not many people know about Shahajanabad as well as him. Great loss for Urdu and for the city of Delhi. RIP,” tweeted Habib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/93-year-old-urdu-poet-dies-five-days-after-finishing-covid-19-treatment/story-H6oUMySMlz64oVyKtkadCM.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Getting set for monsoon: Ludhiana MC cleaning choked drain near Domoria Bridge||In a relief to residents of New Kundanpuri, Upkar Nagar, Guru Nanak Pura and surroundings areas, the municipal corporation (MC) has started the work to clean the internal Talab Bazar drain near the Domoria Bridge to avoid waterlogging during monsoon.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar inspected the ongoing work on Friday.The MC is removing the pipes, which were earlier installed in the drain, due to which the drain used to get choked every year. Now, it would be an open drain, which would discharge the rainwater into the Buddha Nullah.Area councillor Dr Jai Prakash said, “It used to be an open drain, but former MLA Harish Bedi got the pipes installed. Those pipes used to choke frequently and the rainwater would accumulate in the areas, including New Kundanpuri, Upkar Nagar, Guru Nanak Pura, near the Domoria Bridge and surrounding areas. But, the pipes have already been removed and we are now working to clean the nullah. The rainwater, which earlier used to accumulate in the nearby areas, would now be discharged into the Buddha Nullah through this 14-ft wide open drain.”The Talab Bazar drain, moving through the bridge, has been choked for years and the residents had to bear the brunt for the same every year during monsoon. Accumulated rainwater enters houses of residents in Guru Nanak Pura and New Kundanpuri area leaving the residents as a harried lot. The residents had been raising a hue and cry over the choked drain lines for years, following which the MC decided to remove pipes from the drain last year. MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar also conducted a meeting with officials of the health branch on Friday and directed the staff to make arrangements for dealing with dengue and chikungunya ahead of the monsoon season. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said chief sanitary inspectors and sanitary inspectors were present in the meeting and they have been told to make fogging machines available in every zone. Also, directions have been issued to maintain cleanliness and hygiene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/getting-set-for-monsoon-ludhiana-mc-cleaning-choked-drain-near-domoria-bridge/story-x5nN0Py84gGih4YfobdylN.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||DTF protests against Punjab government for delay in promotion process||The members of Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) staged a protest against the state government and the district education officers, elementary, over delay in the promotion of primary teachers, near the BSNL office here on Friday.Following the Covid-19 guidelines, the members marched to the district education office, mini secretariat, and submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner.They stated that the officials, instead of focusing on the soundness of the education system in the district, were concerned about the enrolment statistics.The leaders demanded that the government and the concerned authorities reconsider their priorities under which liquor contracts, shopping malls and other profit centres had been allowed to open but there was ‘skeptical hesitation’ in granting permission for opening of schools.Daljit Singh, general secretary of the union, slammed the negligent attitude of the government and education officials towards the students who are finding online learning stressful.“If the aforesaid teacher-student demands are not acted upon immediately, the teachers across the state will be forced to intensify their struggle under the leadership of the union,” he said.The teachers observed two-minutes of silence for Ramdeep Kaur, a student of Kot Dharmu village, who had allegedly committed suicide because she was unable to continue with her education online owing to her family’s financial condition.The spokespersons warned the government that if the online education trend continues and schools are not re-opened soon, such emotional gaps and stress among students struggling with severe economic downturn could escalate.They urged the state government to immediately reverse the hike in medical and higher education fees and provide relief to the students whose families are already facing a financial crisis.They also said that the process of unlocking schools in a planned manner should be initiated as soon as possible to address the growing gaps and mental stress among students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dtf-protests-against-punjab-government-for-delay-in-promotion-process/story-jwkIoUmvQOZgoOIgA6cqhO.html
12-06-2020||City||50 people who attended Covid positive man’s funeral quarantined||The Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) has quarantined 50 people who attended the funeral of a 45-year-old man who died of Covid-19. The deceased was undergoing treatment at Kalwa hospital where he died on June 8. However, after his body was packed and handed over to his family for to last rites, they opened the seal and bathed the body. A few relatives allegedly also hugged and touched the body before cremation.Local corporator Kamlakar Patil alerted the BNCMC about the incident. Patil said, “The incident took place in Ashirwad Nagar, a slum where people are not aware of the rules to be followed. They brought the body home and as per their ritual opened the seal and bathed the body. Few members also hugged and touched it. When we came to know about the incident, we quarantined 15 members immediately. The remaining 35 were traced on June 11 and have been quarantined.”Two similar incidents were reported in Ulhasnagar wherein 38 people were found positive.Patil, in a letter to the corporation and Thane district collector regarding the incident, demanded that people be made aware of the proper protocol to be followed.With the first of unlockdown, there has been a spike in the number of positive cases in Bhiwandi. In view of the fact that a huge number of people attended funerals, the municipal commissioner has asked residents to stop attending funerals. “We came to know about the said incident and have quarantined those who attended. No rituals that involve touching the body should be performed, only 10 people will be allowed in funerals of those who died due to Covid-19,” said Pravin Ashtikar, BNCMC commissioner.According to BNCMC health department, a total of 388 people have been quarantined in the city. So far, there were 395 positive cases, of whom, 154 have been discharged. The city has also recorded 21 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-people-who-attended-covid-positive-man-s-funeral-quarantined/story-mdU0HKsEfDP9czLzB7MaRO.html
12-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai crosses 3.5K-mark with 129 new Covid cases||After a record 195 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 129 cases on Friday. The total number of cases in the city is now 3,543. Two deaths were reported on Friday while 126 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals.So far, 14,538 people have been tested in Navi Mumbai so far, of whom 10,530 have tested negative. Results of 465 tests are awaited. The city has seen 2,124 people recover from the disease, which is 60% of total cases. In addition, 30,426 people have completed their quarantine period.A three-year-old boy from Sector 6 in Nerul is the youngest to test positive on Friday.In Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PMC), 30 new cases were on Friday taking the total positive cases to 891. Twenty patients were discharged while one death was also reported, taking death toll to 37. Of the total positive cases, Kamothe has the highest number of cases at 324 followed by 193 in Kharghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-crosses-3-5k-mark-with-129-new-covid-cases/story-oGAegNcsphnEaZmcoMrhsM.html
12-06-2020||City||Highest one-day spike in Kalyan; KDMC takes action against private lab||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded its highest one-day spike of cases with 185 new Covid-19 cases reported on Friday. The highest spike till now was 82 cases in a day. The total positive cases in KDMC is now 1,911, the civic body has recorded total 55 deaths till date.Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer of KDMC, said, “The civic body recorded its highest number of cases on Friday as it comprises of three days of pending reports. Several reports were awaited after testing which we got on Friday.”After Thane, a private lab in Kalyan was served a notice by KDMC for giving false positive reports on Covid-19 test. Earlier in May, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) had asked a private lab to stop testing after irregularities were reported.The notice was served to a private lab in Kalyan after a person from Shahad complained to the civic body about contradicting test reports.A KDMC official said, “The complainant had a fracture last month due to an accident at his residence. His swab was collected by the lab when he was undergoing treatment for the fracture. The lab reported him to be positive. However, the man claimed that he did not move out of his house during lockdown.”In order to cross check the reports, the complainant immediately got another test done which came negative. Following this he informed the civic body about the same.“Based on a complaint we have served a notice to the lab early this month and asked them to explain the reason for false positive in this case,” said Patil. Meanwhile, TMC recorded 174 positive cases and three deaths on Friday, taking total number of cases to 4,829 and death toll to 148. “Among the three deaths reported on Friday was a 45-year-old resident of Gandhi Nagar, who was admitted at Kalwa Hospital on June 7 and died on the same day. His Covid test reports came later stating that he was positive. The case is similar with the 43-year-old resident of Wagle Estate, who died a day after being admitted to Kalwa hospital. The third death was an 84-year-old woman from Kolshet,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner. On Friday, 91 patients have recovered and were discharged in Thane city. (Inputs by Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/highest-one-day-spike-in-kalyan-kdmc-takes-action-against-private-lab/story-OdQBUi95BSbD7eWdRCdnrL.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||HC dismisses plea challenging lifting of lockdown restrictions||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed a plea challenging the May 30 order of the Centre to unlock the country in a phased manner, while stating that the decision of lifting the lockdown had not been taken in haste and would ensure a proper balance between containing the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and making certain that people are not forced to starve. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad also imposed a fine of ₹20,000 on a fifth-year law student Arjun Aggarwal, who filed the plea, and said that it was “completely misconceived” and filed only to “gain publicity”. The bench, however, said that the government is expected to remain cognizant of the situation and evaluate it closely.“If it is found that the rate of infection is going up, they can always review their decision and impose curbs, depending upon the situation,” the bench said in a 23-page judgment. The court said that a series of orders have been passed, starting from March 2020, to tackle the situation and decisions have been taken by the government to ensure minimum hardship to the people. Several economic packages have been announced to regenerate the economy.“This court can also take judicial notice of the fact that the world over, the trend is now to reduce restrictions imposed due to lockdown, and to return to normal life. In order to ensure a proper balance between containing the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and making certain that people are not forced to starve, the government has issued the impugned order. The reopening has been directed in a phased manner and is not a decision that appears to have been taken in haste,” the court said.The petitioner, through his counsel, had contended that lifting the lockdown would deprive the citizens of their basic fundamental rights such as life, and ignore the health of its citizens by exposing them to the threat of Covid-19. The plea also stated that lockdown restrictions have been lifted only considering the economic situation while endangering its citizens to the extent of succumbing to a contagious disease in the absence of any proven medical cure.The court, while dismissing the plea, also said that the lockdown has resulted in the loss of jobs for several lakhs of people, and scores of people were forced to walk considerable distance and stand in long queues at food distribution centres just to have two meals a day. It also said that production had come to a “grinding halt” and people had become unemployed.“The economic situation of the country has taken a terrible hit due to the lockdown. In fact, many analysts have opined that the lockdown has caused more human suffering than Covid-19 itself. Economists have forecast that the Indian economy will shrink as a result of the steps taken to contain the coronavirus disease pandemic. Indian economy virtually came to a standstill during the nationwide lockdown,” the court said.Meanwhile, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan refused to entertain two pleas which had sought strict imposition of lockdown in the national capital. The court said that said it was not going to issue any notice following which the petitioners withdrew their pleas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-dismisses-plea-challenging-lifting-of-lockdown-restrictions/story-3EL94lN3UYujoByyeAi5sN.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||HC seeks details of bails, paroles from lower courts since jail decongestion order||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed all subordinate courts in the state to submit details on how many applications for temporary bail or parole were decided by them as per the Supreme Court and state high-powered committee (HPC) guidelines to decongest jails in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The courts have also been asked to provide details of such applications filed and heard by them till Monday.The HC also directed the state prisons department to respond on whether the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for testing asymptomatic and high-risk contacts of Covid positive patients were implemented in prisons across Maharashtra and directed it to provide details of standard operating procedure (SOP) followed for testing in prisons. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) through video conferencing, was informed by senior counsel Mihir Desai that there was a genuine concern for the well-being of inmates after several inmates and jail staffers tested positive for Covid-19. The PIL, along with another filed by Archana Rupwate, sought various reliefs for prisoners.On Friday, Desai submitted that though the SC and HPC had issued guidelines to decongest jails, trial courts were not deciding bail applications in a speedy manner and proper video calling facilities were not provided to inmates.The state, however, submitted that facilities were being made available for inmates to communicate with their family members and lawyers with coin boxes and smart phones being made available at correctional homes across the state. The state also submitted that all correctional homes had made necessary arrangements to receive money orders or electronic transfer of money in the name of the inmate and such details were being displayed on the prison department’s website.After hearing the submissions, the bench directed trial courts in the state to give details pertaining to total applications received by them for bail and parole and how many of them have been decided. Along with details of procedure followed for testing inmates, prison authorities are also expected to submit details of phone calling facilities provided to inmates to communicate with their relatives and lawyers. The court posted the matter for hearing on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-seeks-details-of-bails-paroles-from-lower-courts-since-jail-decongestion-order/story-iNTfbia3o1iZlpIJlZ1TCJ.html
12-06-2020||City||Quarantine more close contacts: Mehta to TMC||Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Friday asked the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to quarantine at least twenty close contacts of each Covid positive patient, increase the number of quarantine centres, and emphasise on screening patients. Mehta was in Thane to take a stock of the situation in view of increasing Covid-19 cases in the city. He also asked to increase the area of the containment zone and ensure that restrictions are strictly implemented in these zones.Mehta visited various parts of the district to check the preparedness of the local bodies to handle increasing Covid cases.A civic official said, “He expressed that increase in quarantine will help flatten the curve. If one positive case is found, at least 20 close contacts of the person should be quarantined. We will have to increase the number of quarantine and isolation centres. If more people are quarantined, the load on hospitals will also ease and only critical patients can be sent to hospitals.”Mehta also insisted on extensive screening of slum-dwellers. “He said no one from the slums should be home-quarantined and that they should be taken to quarantine centres. The area of containment zones will also be increased and lockdown restrictions will be strictly implemented in these zones.”Mehta also asked the corporation to have adequate stock of essential medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/quarantine-more-close-contacts-mehta-to-tmc/story-6XoGfPZjgh9R9dqqPF09yM.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Treat plea challenging order on reserving part of hospitals for Covid care as representation: HC to govt||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the government to treat a plea challenging its order that all private hospitals/nursing homes in the city with a bed capacity of 50 or more should reserve 20% capacity for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, as a representation contending that hospitals would further spread infection due to the difficulty of segregating patients.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the petitioner Kaushal Kant Mishra, an orthopaedic surgeon, to give a representation to the government, which would be dealt with in accordance with the law and guidelines. The court disposed of the plea that contended that the said order of the government was “arbitrary” and in violation of the Indian Constitution as it would lead to the hospitals becoming further spreaders of infection.The plea, filed through advocate Pooja Dhar, stated that most of the 117 hospitals or nursing homes covered in this order are designed as single buildings, and not separate blocks, where Covid-19 patients cannot be effectively segregated from other patients.“Challenges start from common entry and exit point, common lobby, common lifts, common washrooms, etc, which are used by all patients whether Covid-19 or not. This definitely increases the risks of infection, despite the facility taking all possible care of reducing intermingling [sic],” the plea said.The petitioner suggested that it would be better to take over a complete hospital rather than reserving only 20% beds as stated by the government in its order. The plea also said that each hospital can also dedicate one ambulance with emergency care in case any Covid-19 patient needing hospitalisation arrives.“A more effective solution would be to create new centres dedicated to the treatment of Covid-19 patients, such as hotels, banquet halls, stadiums, etc., which will result in the treatment of Covid-19 patients in a segregated environment and avoid the risk of infection to non-Covid-19 patients,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/treat-plea-challenging-order-on-reserving-part-of-hospitals-for-covid-care-as-representation-hc-to-govt/story-Tw0IxE9kusnQXZ6eMh4vEL.html
12-06-2020||Noida||Two sub-inspectors removed from duty for assaulting man in Greater Noida||Two sub-inspectors with the Noida police were sent to Surajpur police lines on Friday after an incident of alleged police brutality came to light from the Phase 3 area.On June 11, a CCTV camera footage showing a man, believed to be a policeman, dressed in civil clothes purportedly assaulting a civilian. A few seconds later a person dressed in police uniform comes out from a building nearby and is seen talking to the assaulter. The police said they have initiated a departmental inquiry into the matter.“From what we have found out so far, the two policemen in question were off duty at the time and had been invited to a party where an argument took place. The investigation of the matter has been handed off to the ACP (assistant commissioner of police), while it is being ascertained whether the men in the video are the two sub-inspectors in question or not,” said deputy police commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.The DCP said the reason behind the scuffle and the role of the two sub-inspectors is under investigation, but taking cognisance of the video and to avoid any interference in the ongoing departmental inquiry, the two policemen have been sent to the police lines while further action can be taken against them pending the results of the inquiry.At least, three other incidents of alleged police brutality have come to light in the last one month.On June 2, a constable was suspended and while the officer in-charge at the Sector 29 police post was recalled to the police lines for allegedly harassing a man in Sector 29.In another case, in-charge at the Sector 19 police was suspended on May 16 for allegedly hitting women, who were standing in a queue a state-run ration facility, with a stick and for reportedly violating social distancing norms.On May 10, a constable with the Lucknow commissionerate, who posted in Noida at the time, was suspended for allegedly assaulting two people who were going to collect water outside a containment zone in Sector 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-sub-inspectors-removed-from-duty-for-assaulting-man-in-greater-noida/story-7F9CZ2mtADaS5o8HTiAv8N.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||RTI activist seeks action against construction of illegal colonies in Ludhiana||Accusing the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) officials of turning a blind eye towards the construction of illegal colonies in Sangowal, Bolara, Rania and Jaspal Bangar villages, RTI activist Kuldeep Khaira has filed a complaint with the chief administrator of GLADA on Friday.In his complaint, Khaira alleged that the colonies are being established without approval under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA), 1995.Seeking action against the colonies, Khaira alleged that these colonies are being established in connivance with the officials of GLADA and the chief administrator should fix responsibility of the officials concerned as this illegal activity also results in loss to the public exchequer. Chief administrator PS Gill said the GLADA estate officer had conducted a meeting with the staff on Friday and they would initiate action against illegal colonies in a day or two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rti-activist-seeks-action-against-construction-of-illegal-colonies-in-ludhiana/story-7cy5LrpJOsSDKqhgwNXS2K.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Not viable to hold ICSE, ISC exams during pandemic, state tells HC||Maharashtra government on Friday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that in the current scenario of Covid-19 pandemic it is not viable to hold Class 10 examination of Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) Board, which conducts Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and the Indian School Certificate (ISC) Examination for Class 10 and 12 students respectively, in the state.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde that the secretary of the school education department has already written a letter to CISCE saying that it was not viable to hold examination in the state in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.He was responding to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Arvind Tiwari, whose son is a student of an ICSE school in the city, seeking a direction to the board to cancel examination of remaining papers and declare results on the basis if gradation, past performance and the performance in the papers for which examination have already been held.The PIL said the board declared its examination schedule in December 2019 and the examination started as scheduled on February 27. All the papers till March 18 were held according to the declared timetable. However, late on March 18, the board rescheduled the remaining examination due to restrictions imposed in view of Covid-19 pandemic.On May 22, the board declared that examination of remaining papers of Class 10 will be held between July 2 and July 12 and examination of remaining papers of Class 12 will be held from July 1 to July 14.CISCE, however, is keen on holding examination for the remaining papers. In its reply to the PIL, it has pointed out that on June 7, it held a video conferencing meeting with principals of affiliated schools in Maharashtra which was attended by principals of 196 of the total 226 schools in the state, and that 84℅ of them were in favour of holding examination of remaining papers.It added that on June 9, it has issued instructions to the principals to take adequate precautions which include sanitisation of examination halls, washrooms, compulsory face masks, seating arrangements to be commensurate with social distancing norms, thermal screening etc.The court has now posted the PIL for further hearing on Monday as the hearing could not be concluded on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-viable-to-hold-icse-isc-exams-during-pandemic-state-tells-hc/story-sgYyLxxrVMBCXM485PEFxJ.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||HC directs north civic body to pay doctors’ salaries||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North DMC) to pay the salaries of resident doctors (both juniors and seniors) in six hospitals of the civic body for March by June 19, while also directing the Delhi government to release funds to disburse the salaries for April.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan directed the Delhi government to release the amount for the salaries by June 18 at the latest so that the money can be paid to the doctors, including those from Hindu Rao Hospital and Kasturba Gandhi hospital, by June 24.The court’s direction comes on a plea which it had initiated itself after taking note of newspaper reports about the doctors not having received their salaries since March. It issued a notice to the Centre, Delhi government, North DMC and various doctors’ associations, seeking their stand on the Public Interest Litigation (PIL).A detailed order is awaited in the matter which is listed for further hearing on July 8.Appearing for the Delhi government, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain and additional standing counsel Satyakam told the court that they have disbursed money to the civic body for various accounts, including stamp collection.Advocate Akhil Mittal, the standing counsel of the North DMC, told the court that they are ready to pay the salaries of the resident doctors of not just Hindu Rao and Kasturba Gandhi hospitals, but all the six hospitals run by them. He said that there are a total of 370 resident doctors in both the above-mentioned hospitals and their salaries would amount to ₹4 crore. The total amount to be disbursed by both the government and the North body for all six hospitals is ₹8 crore.Standing committee chairperson, North corporation, Jai Prakash said, “We have had a chat with the doctors on the matter. We are making efforts to release their salaries at the earliest. We hope that their salaries will be paid in a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-directs-north-civic-body-to-pay-doctors-salaries/story-hZLViIrt1jd5IMKXPQvqgL.html
12-06-2020||City||Delhi University demand Covid care centre in varsity||New Delhi: In light of the rise in coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases in the Capital as well as the scarcity of hospital beds, teachers of the Delhi University (DU) have demanded that the varsity’s health centre be equipped with basic facilities to fight the pandemic. The demand comes closely on the heels of nine foreign students residing in a DU hostel testing positive for the coronavirus this week and the death of a senior professor of the varsity from the disease.Wali Akhtar, the former head of DU’s Arabic department died Tuesday. According to his colleagues, Akhtar was not able to avail healthcare facilities due to shortage of beds even though he had fever and a lung infection.“At least seven hospitals denied him treatment when his family approached them, despite him exhibiting symptoms. After Al Shifa admitted him, we tried contacting various labs for testing but it took no less than two days. He died nearly two hours after his sample was taken,” said his colleague Zafeeruddin, who teaches at the department. “The university should upgrade its healthcare centre to help faculty. Members of the teachers’ association have assured that they will look into this,” he said. His test reports came back Friday which showed he had Covid-19, the Al Shifa hospital confirmed.Former academic council member Pankaj Garg, the convener of the teachers’ group Indian National Teachers Congress (INTEC), said he has written to DU vice chancellor Yogesh Tyagi on Friday asking him to take steps to help the DU community. “The university must create a 24-hour help centre at WUS Health Centre at the North Campus, along with a testing facility. We have also requested the VC to convert two guest houses at the North Campus to care centres for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Doctors and nurses employed at health centres can treat Covid-19 patients under the supervision of the Chief Medical Officer of the centre.”Executive Council member Rajesh Jha had earlier this week expressed his concern over the same issue. In another letter to the vice chancellor, he asked the varsity to upgrade the healthcare facilities to meet the challenges of current times.“We also requested the VC that some vacant staff quarters could be developed as quarantine centres for our employees as the sizes of many staff quarters make home quarantine only notional,” he said.Despite repeated calls and messages, VC Tyagi did not comment on the matter.“There are no sanitisation drives being carried out by the university in residential quarters and we have asked the varsity to take some steps to follow the standard operating procedures laid down by the health ministry in the matter,” Jha said, adding that four people from the exam branch building had also tested positive. A senior official from the examination branch, however, refuted the claim.Currently, if any person with symptoms of coronavirus approaches the health centre, they are referred to other hospitals. A senior official at the health centre, requesting anonymity, said: “Our role is to provide primary healthcare and the health centre has been functional throughout. Comprehensive healthcare services are provided here and this is not a hospital. We apply our medical knowledge to the best of our efforts and if indicated, we refer people with symptoms to hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-university-demand-covid-care-centre-in-varsity/story-pZHoyJyB6ON60hL72m1MgL.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||HC reserves order on Arnab Goswami’s plea to quash FIRs||The Bombay High Court continued its protection from arrest to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and reserved its order in a criminal writ plea filed by Goswami seeking various reliefs, including quashing of two FIRs filed against him. The court directed Goswami and the state government to submit written notes at the earliest.A division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Riyaz Chagla while hearing the petition by Goswami was informed by senior counsel Harish Salve through video conferencing on Friday that the allegations against the journalist were unfounded. Goswami has been booked under section 153, 153 A, 153 B, 295 A, 298, 500, 504, 505 (2), 506, 120 B and 117 of the Indian Penal Code for intent to provocation of riot, promoting disharmony between groups based on religion, defilement of place of worship among others. The charges were based on two FIRs filed against him at NM Joshi Marg police station and Pydhonie police station on April 22 and May 2 for giving communal colour to the mob lynching incident at Palghar and the protest of the migrant’s outside Bandra station.Salve read out each section under which Goswami was booked and denied the allegation that his comments on the Palghar and Bandra station incident in his TV programme were politically motivated. Salve said that Goswami’s remarks on the programme did not have any malafide but could be attributed to journalistic enthusiasm.Salve also asked the court as to who would be responsible if Goswami contracted Covid-19 while attending various police stations across the country where FIRs have been registered against him, for the same incident.On its part state, counsel Kapil Sibal refuted the claims of Salve and said that the statements on the programme had hurt the sentiments of the people.After both sides concluded their arguments, they sought permission from the court to submit written notes of the same. The court has now reserved the matter for orders. The court also extended the interim protection from any coercive action granted to Goswami in the previous hearing on June 9, till the order was passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-reserves-order-on-arnab-goswami-s-plea-to-quash-firs/story-e5EINevraU1hvGsYFdmOfO.html
12-06-2020||Noida||Noida malls remain deserted on the first weekend after reopening||Even the weekend failed to draw visitors to shopping malls of Noida and Greater Noida, which were permitted to reopen four days ago.While more retailers have resumed operations, the mall managers expect a week’s time for the footfall to pick up. Meanwhile, some of the big shopping malls, including DLF Mall of India and the Great India Place in Sector 18, are yet to start functioning. Those managers of malls that are operational said their focus was to build the trust among visitors in a post-lockdown scenario to ensure that their shopping experience is a safe one. The shopping malls, hotels and restaurants of the city were allowed to reopen in the city from Monday.“Most of the brands have opened their outlets and within a few days, we will make the food court operational as well. The visitors have started to arrive, but we are yet to assess the footfall. The sales are picking up. Except for the children’s play area, all other facilities will be functional at the mall by next week,” Angad Makan, head, Logix City Centre mall, said.While the number of visitors seemed very few, malls have taken all necessary measures as directed by the state government, including regular sanitisation, ‘no mask no entry’ system, and thermal screening, among others. Since the visitor’s influx was low, social distancing is also not an issue.“More retailers are now opening shops. Yet, we expect that it will take another week at least for visitors to return in the usual numbers,” mall management at Gaur city mall, Greater Noida West, said.“The sales are low and we expect that it will take some time for it to pick up. Since the discounts are decided by the top management and not in our hands, the best we can do is provide customers the employee discount, especially on expensive articles such a watches,” said a sales executive at a multi-brand retail outlet at a mall.“We are still taking necessary steps like sanitisation before opening. We will take at least another week for us to reopen,” Shamim Anwar, PRO, Great India Place (GIP) mall in Sector 18, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-malls-remain-deserted-on-the-first-weekend-after-reopening/story-X85kR1vxPeDCillfjV3ZiJ.html
12-06-2020||City||New ventilators at Ghaziabad hospitals not being used, finds state observer||Ventilators sent by the Uttar Pradesh government last month to the Ghaziabad health department are yet to be utilised for the purpose of treating Covid-19 and non-Covid patients, the state observer found in an inspection earlier this month.Officials of the health department said three of the five new ventilators were meant for treating patients at the L2 category Covid-19 hospital at District Combined Hospital at Sanjay Nagar, while two new ventilators were given to MMG district hospital to treat non-Covid patients.According to the health department officials, five old ventilators and the three new ones wit the Sanjay Nagar hospital were not being used by the hospital authorities. The issue came to light during an inspection conducted by the state observer Dr VK Sonkar who was accompanied by chief development officer Asmita Lal.“The three new ventilators needed some equipment before they could start functioning, while the five old ones were functional but were not being used by the hospital authorities. It is now up to them to explain why they were not using the ventilators. The district authorities need to demand an explanation in the matter from the hospital,” Dr Sonkar said.Despite repeated calls, Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical superintendent, Sanjay Nagar hospital did not respond to queries regarding the matter on Friday. Chief development officer Asmita Lal did not take calls either.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said the health department had observed that patients from the L2 category Sanjay Nagar hospital were being referred to the L3 category Covid-19 facility at Santosh Medical College and Hospital.“The Sanjay Nagar hospital authorities have healthcare staff trained in operating the ventilators, but despite this they have been referring the L2 patients to L3 hospital. We cannot say much about why they are not treating patients who need ventilator support. Out of the five new ventilators, three were given to them besides the five ventilators they already have,” Dr Gupta, said. Under UP’s three-tier Covid-19 facilities, L2 category hospitals treat patients with mild Covid-19 symptoms, while L3 category hospitals are for critical patients. The L1 category hospitals deal with asymptomatic patients.“We found out about the five old ventilators only when we were required to send the inventory of equipment to deal with Covid emergencies. Before we were preparing the list, the hospital authorities always mentioned that they have no ventilators,” Dr Gupta added.Two new ventilators were given to MMG Hospital on May 21 after the intervention of Atul Garg, UP’s state minister for health. “ We will make the two new ventilators functional by next week. They were running properly during trials, and we any equipment is needed for them, we will get it installed,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent, MMG Hospital. The hospital had no ventilators prior to this.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that all ventilators will be made operational in the district hospitals and put to use soon.“The three new portable ventilators at the Sanjay Nagar hospital had some issues and have been made functional now, and the five old ones there will be operational by Saturday. We will also look into the operations of two new ventilators at MMG Hospital,” Pandey added.There have been 19 Covid-19 related deaths in Ghaziabad so far, and officials said patients who faced respiratory issues require ventilator support as well as oxygen supply.“All Covid hospitals, including L2 and L3 facilities, are fully equipped with oxygen,” the CMO added.In Ghaziabad, the 100-bedded Sanjay Nagar hospital is the only L2 hospital. The L3 facility has set up at Santosh Medical College which is a private establishment but has been acquired by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-ventilators-at-ghaziabad-hospitals-not-being-used-finds-state-observer/story-5hd7yV3um9U9DZ40bADeVI.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||DRI seizes cigarettes worth ₹12 crore smuggled from Dubai||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Mumbai zone officials have seized foreign brand cigarettes worth around ₹12 crore while they were being smuggled into the country from Dubai. The seized cigarettes were concealed in the container full of cartons of dates (Khajur). Two members involved in the racket have been arrested for creating dummy companies to facilitate the smuggling.DRI officials said that since there was a huge demand for cigarettes because of its unavailability due to lockdown of over 75 days, the syndicate was trying to smuggle a huge consignment to make a huge profit. The official claimed that the seized consignment of smuggled foreign brand cigarettes is one of the biggest in recent times.According to the DRI officials, they had received a tip-off about a large number of cigarettes of various foreign brands being smuggled into India through an import consignment that arrived at Navkar Corporation Ltd, a container freight station at Nhava Sheva. Based on this specific intelligence DRI team carried out a raid on June 10.The officials recovered 32,640 cartons containing 71,61,600 cigarettes sticks of foreign origin of various brands worth over ₹11 crore. The same was seized under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962.The subsequent investigation led to the arrest of Manish Sharma, 31, andSunil Laxman Waghmare, 29, on Friday. “Both are Chembur residents and were instrumental in creating dummy companies which would be used in smuggled activities. The two were looking after all the paperwork for the syndicate. They collected documents such as electricity bill, copy of PAN card, Aadhar card and photographs of different persons. They provided these documents to the members of the smuggling syndicate, for the opening of fake companies and to obtain GST number and import and export code (IEC),” said a senior DRI official.The accused persons had also allegedly arranged the fake documents used in the import of the container having smuggled cigarettes in the present case. Documents arranged by them were used for the creation of dummy companies several times in the past and they had been doing this for monetary considerations. They would also be charged with sections of forgery in future, DRI officer said.Another senior DRI officer said we need to investigate the role of other key persons based in other cities in the country, involved with them, which appear to be operating at the international level.However, advocate Ravi Hirani representing the two arrested accused said that the two are innocent and they have just submitted documents for clearance. “They had no knowledge about the smuggling of cigarettes. They have been made a scapegoat by the central law enforcement agency,” claims Hirani.A local court on Friday sent the two accused to judicial custody till June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dri-seizes-cigarettes-worth-12-crore-smuggled-from-dubai/story-797jzdR3sxYgwCocNmcQuI.html
12-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad sees threefold increase in containment zones in 11 days||Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad, the number of containment zones in the district has seen a three-fold increase between May 30 and June 9. Now, about 10-11 lakh people are under the containment zones, health officials said. The officials also said that the number of containment zones in Ghaziabad may rise as June has seen a sudden spike in number of Covid-19 cases.According to the health department data, the district on May 30 had 72 containment zones, including 65 under category 1 and seven under category 2. The figure till June 9 has shot up to 217, with 188 containment zones under category 1 and 29 under category 2. “The number of containment zones will rise as some cases are coming up in new localities ever since the economic activities have opened up. Our teams are trying to take up sanitization, surveillance and random sampling in containment zones in order to prevent any spread, and also to find our if there is any possibility of community spread,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Till May 31, the district had a total of 305 Covid-19 cases, which jumped to 581 on Friday with the addition of 16 new cases. Of 581 positive cases, 368 patients have been discharged from different hospitals and 19 have lost their lives, resulting in 194 active cases in the district. The total sampling count as on June 11 was 12,710, the officials said.The officials said that five cases were reported from Garima Garden in Sahibabad, two from Indirapuram, and one each from Vaishali and Khoda, among other localities.According to the officials, they have also taken up about 1,000 random sampling which also included pool samples in different containment zones, but no Covid-19 positive cases have emerged.“This shows that there is no community spread as such, and containment exercises have yielded results. There is hardly any instance where cases have re-emerged in containment zones. The areas are contained for a period of 14 to 21 days and released if there are no fresh cases,” Dr Gupta added.If any area has one Covid-19 case, it is notified as the category 1 containment zone with a radius of 250 metres. The category-2 zones are the ones where there is incidence of more than one positive case. In such zones, area of 500-metre radius is under containment, with additional 250 metres of buffer area. The majority of activities, including movement of residents, in containment zones are restricted (except for essential supplies).According to the officials, the majority of containment zones (about 85-90%) are in city areas, and of these most are in trans-Hindon localities of Sahibabad, Khoda, Vaishali, Indirapuram, Vasundhara and Jhandapur, among others.The Sahibabad area, that includes localities like Shalimar Garden, Lajpat Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, Mohan Nagar and Bhopra among others, has 19 category 1 containment zones, while Vaishali has 13 category 1 containment zones and three category 2. Vasundhara has 16 category 1 zones and one category 2 zone. Indirapuram has eight areas under category 1 while three under category 2. The Khoda locality has the highest 30 category 1 zones and two category 2 zones.According to the health officials, they are taking up sealing of 20 areas and de-sealing of about 13 areas on an average per day.Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation, said, “The containment zones will now rise and it becomes vital that there should be no delay in sealing and de-sealing the areas. Otherwise, local residents will face issues. Likewise, the sampling activities should also be scaled up to prevent the spread of Covid-19.” Meanwhile, UP health department officials on Friday said that surveillance activities across the state have been taken up through which 892,214 households with a population of about 4.54 crore were surveyed.“A number of people in the state have won the battle against Covid-19 and have been discharged. We would request them to act as volunteer and spread awareness in society about measures which need to be taken up for fighting Coronavirus,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).He said that the recovery rate in UP is about 60.31%.The Ghaziabad district on Friday recorded 16 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and the final tally till Friday stood at total of 581 cases. These included 368 discharged from different hospitals, 194 active cases and 19 deaths so far.The officials said that five cases were reported from Garima Garden in Sahibabad, two from Indirapuram, one each from Vaishali and Khoda among other localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-sees-threefold-increase-in-containment-zones-in-11-days/story-djVPUNChmEUlPby8FWXQTO.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Civic body to get flooding alert three days in advance||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will now be aware of the possible extent of flooding in Mumbai three days prior to heavy rain events while 12-hour advance warnings will be issued for areas susceptible to flooding across all 24 wards this monsoon.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday inaugurated the integrated flood warning system for Mumbai (iFLOWS-Mumbai), the second one for any urban city in the country so far after Chennai, jointly conceived by various departments of the Union ministry of earth sciences (MoES) and BMC. Apart from forecasting location-specific rainfall across pockets in each ward, the system will allow the civic body to issue alerts for citizens and also evacuate people from low-lying areas in advance before heavy rain events occur.“This warning system is a gift (vardaan) to the people of Mumbai. As we deal with a health crisis as well as the recent Cyclone Nisarga, both blood and flood management are equally important,” said Thackeray, adding, “Over the past 15 years (2005-2020), Mumbai has managed to augment its pumping stations to drain water from low lying areas. The newly launched system will further enhance our efforts to address flooding concerns.”BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said early information on flood-prone areas would allow swift diversion of public transport and give BMC enough time to implement mitigation measures. “We are launching the project before the monsoon sets in over Mumbai. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) will be providing us with heavy rain warnings three days in advance. The system was developed based on classified and non-classified ward-wise information, elevation levels etc provided by BMC to IMD,” said Chahal.As of February 2020, 204 of 273 sites prone to waterlogging were attended to by BMC while remaining 69 sites continue to be unattended due to less manpower owing to Covid-19 pandemic, said a senior official from BMC’s storm water drains department.“On the day of flooding, we will be getting near real-time information and six-hour warning updates from IMD, giving us enough time to move our machinery towards affected areas. This can be a model for the rest of the country and will help make Mumbai become more resilient,” said Chahal.The city faced two major flooding events over the past 15 years. On August 29, 2017, Mumbai witnessed downpour of 315.8 mm rain in a span of just 12 hours that battered the city leading to suspended transport operations and severe waterlogging. It was even worse on July 26, 2005 when torrential showers led to a deluge that killed over 1,000 people when Mumbai had recorded 688 mm rain over a span of 12 hours, and 944mm over 24 hours — the highest all time rainfall recorded in the city.“These two events are etched in everyone’s memory, not just in Mumbai but across India. This highly-advanced flood warning system will help ensure that mitigation measures for such disasters are planned and addressed in a systematic manner,” said Union health and earth sciences minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.Meanwhile, scientists explained how iFLOWS-Mumbai system comprises seven components. The first module, which is data assimilation, collates weather information from IMD including advance forecasts as well as three to six hour immediate weather updates (Nowcast) and under-water depth of rivers (Mithi, Oshiwara, Poisar, and Dahisar) and lakes across Mumbai. It also takes into account location and elevation data provided by BMC for all 24 wards and develop maps.The second component — inundation — uses the data to forecast the probability of location wise floods three days in advance. This helps authorities assess the extent of flooding (including heavy rain, storm surge, high tide river bank breach etc.) and areas expected to be inundated. “The next three components — vulnerability, risks, and decision support system — allows the authorities to assess the situation, draw up a plan, and take decisions based on available information. Lastly, the dissemination module ensures swift communication to field officers to implement mitigation measures on ground,” said Dr MV Ramana Murthy, director, National Centre for Coastal Research, Chennai.“This sophisticated system will be further enhanced with rain information from 160 rain gauges (currently there are 120 rain gauges), and the development of a C-Band Doppler weather radar, which is likely to be installed within the next three to four months,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, MoES. “Four more X-Band weather radars are expected to be set up next year. Combined with the present infrastructure, this will provide quantum of rain for every 500 metres every 15 minutes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-body-to-get-flooding-alert-three-days-in-advance/story-6J3T8j8MC29glXw8XBrqFL.html
12-06-2020||Noida||GB Nagar begins mass sampling drive to detect suspected Covid-19 cases||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Friday started taking samples of general public at various government hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs) across the district. The move is aimed at identifying the suspected Covid-19 patients and treating them well on time, officials said. However, the district administration has decided to carry out the sampling drive in a systematic manner to maintain a proper schedule. The officials said that anyone can call at helpline -- 18004192211 -- and register for testing.“The sampling will be done as per schedule, which will be prepared on the basis of requirement. All government hospitals and primary health centres are engaged in this task. Our aim is to provide required medical aid to a needy person on time,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. According to the officials, anyone who wants to get tested will have to call the helpline where his/her details will be collected. And subsequently the medical staff will prepare a schedule as to when a particular person can visit a hospital or a PHC. “Then at the hospital or the PHC, doctors will, on the basis of symptoms or data, decide whether a Covid-19 test needs to be conducted or not. If it is needed, then an appointment will be fixed to ensure the needy do not face inconvenience,” said Suhas.The administration has started taking samples at Bisrakh community hospital in Greater Noida, community health centre Dadri, community health centre Bhangel in Noida Sector 110 , new building district hospital in Noida Sector 39, district combined hospital in Noida Sector 30, and PHCs at Dankaur and Jewar.“Anyone who wants to get tested first need to call and register compulsorily, because we do not want people to gather at health facilities in large numbers,” said Suhas. Several resident bodies and the Noida employees’ association (NEA) have welcomed the district administration’s decision about taking samples of common public. “We have been demanding of testing of street vendors, security guards and people engaged in other services. Now, with this sampling drive all who suspected themselves of infection can get tested,” said Sanjeev Kumar, an office bearer of Sector 51 residents’ welfare association.NEA, which represents the government employees in the city, demanded that all those engaged in providing essential services, including vegetables, medicine, milk and sanitation, among others, should also be tested as they are more vulnerable. “We welcome the administration’s move of sampling general public. This facility will allow common man to get tested and take precautions on the basis of test report. We have been demanding for tests for a long time,” said Dharmendra Sharma, vice-president, NEA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-begins-mass-sampling-drive-to-detect-suspected-covid-19-cases/story-VXtBwigiQa37IZW6orVV7K.html
12-06-2020||Noida||Residents support decision to seal Noida-Delhi border to prevent Covid 19 spread||Even as the Uttar Pradesh government Friday informed the Supreme Court that it will have to continue to restrict traffic from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi as Covid-19 cases in the national capital are 40 times that of Gautam Budh Nagar (Noida) and Ghaziabad, residents have started supporting the Gautam Budh Nagar administration and the district police commissioner’s joint decision to continue sealing the Delhi-Noida border.Residents have started a campaign to support the border sealing on the grounds that ‘life is more important than the livelihood’. They said if the Noida-Delhi border is opened, then Covid-19 would rise manifold in Noida, Greater Noida and other areas. Until now, many residents were criticising the decision to seal the border and demanding seamless travel from Uttar Pradesh to the national capital so that they can carry on with their work and business smoothly.“Things have changed and the situation in Delhi is now almost out of control -- Covid-19 cases re rising rapidly may be due to the higher population density. Since we share the border with Delhi, allowing unrestricted travel may lead to a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in Noida too. Therefore, we support the decision to continue sealing the border for safety purposes,” NP Singh, president, Gautam Budh Nagar district development residents’ welfare association (DDRWA), a residents’ group, said. The DDRWA has also written to the UP government, police and district magistrate expressing its support to the move.The UP government informed the Supreme Court that it is allowing the movement of those with valid passes and those engaged in essential services, including media persons and advocates.“We hope that the strict restrictions at the Noida-Delhi border will also be implemented inside the city. We urge the police and the administration to ensure that all citizens follow the protocols seriously. Strict legal must be initiated against those who violate the norms laid down by the government,” Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary, Sector 51 residents’ welfare association, said.“If the Ghaziabad-Delhi is opened, then people may misuse the relaxations and cause the further spread of Covid-19. Restrictions may help in containing the spread of Covid-19,” Hem Prakash, a resident of ATS Advantage, Indirapuram, Ghaziabad, said.“Ghaziabad localities such as Surya Nagar, Kaushambhi, Khoda and other adjoining areas will be prone to a rise in cases if restrictions at Delhi-Ghaziabad border are lifted,” Girish Chauhan, a resident of Makanpur, Nyay Khand-II, Ghaziabad, said. The Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said, “We will follow the instructions of the state government on the issue of restrictions at the Noida-Delhi border.”“The better the understanding and awareness of the mode of transmission, symptoms and isolation of those found positive, the fairer the results would be. We are taking strict legal action to implement the rules,” Alok Singh police commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-support-decision-to-seal-noida-delhi-border-to-prevent-covid-19-spread/story-j88nbiVYuvLWONI45lCzlI.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon onset over more parts of Maharashtra; Mumbai within 48 hours: IMD||The weather bureau on Friday said that the city can expect monsoon onset by Sunday, a three-day delay from the normal onset date of June 11. After entering the state on Thursday, the southwest monsoon northern limit currently passes through Harnai in south Konkan, Baramati in Pune district, Beed in Marathwada, and Wardha in Vidarbha covering most of Maharashtra. “Over the next 48 hours, we expect monsoon onset over Mumbai and the entire state leading to active rain conditions,” said Shubhangi Bhute, director, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Mumbai. The weather bureau did not change its orange alert (be prepared) heavy to very heavy rain warning for Mumbai and the rest of the Konkan coast for Sunday, and issued a yellow alert (be updated) for heavy rain at isolated areas for Monday. The city and suburbs did not receive any rain between Thursday 8.30am and Friday 5.30pm. However, heavy to very heavy rain was recorded across south Konkan cyclone-hit districts of Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and Raigad followed by central Maharashtra (Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Solapur) and Marathwada (Aurangabad, Beed, Parbhani, Latur). Maximum rain was recorded at Malvan at 160 mm followed by Devgad at 140 mm, 70 mm in Kudal, and 70 mm in Rajapur, Ratnagiri.For Saturday, Mumbai and suburbs can expect light to moderate showers with the possibility of heavy rain and thunderstorms at isolated places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-onset-over-more-parts-of-maharashtra-mumbai-within-48-hours-imd/story-wghl8e51Ks6dt8PlM5QmZP.html
12-06-2020||City||16 more test Covid-19 positive in Himachal Pradesh, total rises to 486||/As many as 16 people, including five members of a family in Himachal Pradesh’s Hamirpur district, tested positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state to 486, officials said.Four cases were reported from Una and one from Solan on Thursday late evening. Eleven cases including five from Hamirpur, three from Sirmaur, two from Kangra and one from Chamba were reported on Friday. Five of family test positive in HamirpurFive more people tested positive for coronavirus in Hamirpur on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 131 in the district, an official said.The patients —two women, two children and a man— were family members/relatives of a man who was found positive earlier. He had returned from Jhansi on May 29 and was under home quarantine since then. Their samples were taken on June 9 and were found positive today.The number of those who have recovered from the disease so far in the state is 293, while 11 Covid-19 patients have migrated out of the state, additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman said. Seven people have died due to the infection in the state.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 176, he added.Kangra district has the highest number of active cases in the state at 56, followed by Hamirpur (38), Una (25), Sirmaur (12), Chamba and Bilaspur (11 each), Solan (9), Mandi (8), Shimla (4), Kullu and Kinnaur (two each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-himachal-pradesh-total-rises-to-486/story-KjYDShTfrQeY66Bi3YqKdM.html
12-06-2020||City||Gulmarg land scam: Court gives investigators four months to file chargesheet||A special court here gave the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) four more months to investigate the multi-crore Gulmarg land scam of 2009, of which serving adviser of J&K L-G Baseer Ahmad Khan is an accused.Special judge (anti-corruption) of Baramulla, Bandipora and Kupwara districts, Naseer Ahmad Dar asked the ACB to file a supplementary chargesheet by October 10, taking into account the additional documents which were presented before the court.Two chargesheets have been filed against 20 persons – eight of whom were government officials, including the then divisional commissioner Mehboob Iqbal and then Baramulla deputy commissioner Baseer Ahmad Khan.According to the chargesheet, the accused officials and 10 other beneficiaries had hatched a criminal conspiracy to provide derive benefit by having transferred ownership rights in favour of the accused beneficiaries of the state land in Gulmarg in the year 2008. The accused officials allegedly abused their positions and the Lands (vesting of ownership to the occupants) Act 2001 or Roshni Act.The special court stated that the high court had directed it in its 2018 order to hear the arguments on charge and discharge, taking into account the record produced by the vigilance organisation of Kashmir (then anti-corruption body which was changed into ACB in 2018).“As observed, the documents and other material, the reference of which has been given by the high court in the said order, are actually not part of the report pending in terms of Section 173 of the CrPC, but in my opinion assumes importance now…,” the special court said.The court deemed it proper to provide opportunity to the investigating officer/prosecution to examine/ investigate further the said documents and to adduce to what the effect of these materials /documents would be on the involvement of the accused in the alleged commission of offence and come with a fresh report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gulmarg-land-scam-court-gives-investigators-four-months-to-file-chargesheet/story-3Ez9IGVqQtqk0BWuDpg5QN.html
12-06-2020||Football||We will meet all obligations: Quess to East Bengal||East Bengal’s former investors Quess Corp on Friday rubbished allegations of non-payments to its players and said they are a responsible corporate group and will meet all “obligations”.“We would like to clarify that we are a responsible corporate and our obligations to all will be met. We have been working closely with our representatives in Kolkata to ensure that this transition happens smoothly and with minimal discomfort,” the Bangalore-based group said in a statement.One month into the COVID-19 lockdown, the club applied the ‘force maejeure’ clause, thus, terminating their contracts in advance and purportedly sent eviction notice to some of their players in May.Five players including Abhishek Ambekar, Pintu Mahata and Rakshit Dagar then sent notice to Quess asking for salaries for the month of April and May.Terming the allegations unverified, it further said: “It has come to our notice that there are untoward allegations, most of them unverified, doing the rounds on how players of the football club have been denied their salaries as an outcome of the termination of the agreement between Quess Corp and EBFC.”East Bengal have terminated their tie-up with Quess Corp, who had a 70 per cent stake in the club.Both the parties had a three-year deal but the Bengaluru-based investors exited in two years.There is little clarity on the exit strategy between the two parties and whether the sporting rights, currently enjoyed by the joint venture, has been transferred back to the club.This has led to further speculation that East Bengal may not be able to take part in Calcutta Football League and IFA Shield.The All India Football Federation (AIFF) had also asked East Bengal to clarify the ownership structure following Quess’ exit to clear AFC’s club licensing criteria.“The formalities pertaining to the termination of the JV agreement between Quess, QEBFC and EBFC is underway and is expected to be completed soon. While Quess will do everything to protect the value of its shareholders, we will uphold the future of the game and its supporters,” it added.The century-old club is currently in desperate lookout for new investors in their bid to follow arch-rivals Mohun Bagan into joining the Indian Super League.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/we-will-meet-all-obligations-quess-to-east-bengal/story-T8yeOI5TX8yJm1xL6kZlvJ.html
12-06-2020||City||Fatehpuri Masjid shut till July 4||New Delhi: The Shahi Fatehpuri Masjid in old Delhi’s Chandni Chowk on Friday announced that the mosque will remain shut till July 4. The announcement comes a day after the historic Jama Masjid shut its doors amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, imam of the Fatehpuri Masjid, announced the decision through a video message. “We have been holding consultations on the issue for a while. It was observed that despite repeated requests, people were not following the norms. Senior citizens and children were still coming in. The number of Covid cases is rising and this is being done as a precautionary measure for safety of all,” said Ahmed. The Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid had on Thursday urged heads of mosques in the city to take a decision regarding closing of mosques.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fatehpuri-masjid-shut-till-july-4/story-RljA8Etw9UGQ3NabLa55tM.html
12-06-2020||Lucknow||19 more coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar||Nineteen more people were found Covid-19 positive in the district on Friday raising the total case count to 159, an official said. Muzaffarnagar District Magistrate Selvakumari J, the district authorities received 117 results of samples in which 19 people were tested positive. With this, there are 85 active patients undergoing treatment in Covid-designated hospitals while 74 people have recovered from the disease in the district so far, she said. The DM added that the 19 fresh cases are contacts of previous patients infected by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/19-more-coronavirus-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-s-muzaffarnagar/story-zBTTMWca5eikCqKsPpXbmI.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Minor arrested for stabbing 30-year-old||The NM Joshi Marg police arrested a 16-year-old boy for stabbing a 30-year-old man on his neck on Thursday. The man had allegedly slapped his father two days ago during an argument. According to the police, the incident occurred on Thursday at 7:30pm when the victim Hanumanta Pawar was at Wadala naka on Senapati Bapat Marg. The accused stabbed in the victim’s neck with a knife, said a police officer. He then left the crime scene. The people nearby rushed the victim to the hospital. Police said he is out of danger and was discharged late night from the hospital.The accused hiding in the vicinity, was traced and arrested under the charge of attempt to murder, said senior inspector Pandit Thorat. Police said the victim and the family of the accused reside in the same area and often fought over trivial issues. The victim and accused’s father had an argument two days ago and the victim had assaulted his father. The accused had decided to take revenge, said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/minor-arrested-for-stabbing-30-year-old/story-mX5iO9puCnh1BpVhEt6cEI.html
12-06-2020||City||Man stabs mother-in-law to death in Virar||Virar police arrested Rakesh Kadrekar, 45, for killing his mother-in-law. Rakesh suspected that his wife had an extra-marital affair, said inspector Suresh Warade.Kadrekar works as a security guard in Mumbai. The couple would fight daily on the issue said police.On Friday, the victim Malini Salwe, 65, visited them to sort out their issues. This led to a fight between the couple. In a fit of rage, Kadrekar grabbed a knife to attack his wife when Salwe intervened. He then stabbed her in the stomach several times, said Warade. Their two children were also present at the crime scene.A panicked Rakesh rushed Malini to a private hospital where she succumbed to her injuries, said Warade. “We arrested Rakesh for murder on Friday evening and will produce him before the Vasai court on Saturday. We have sent the body for post-mortem and its report is awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-stabs-mother-in-law-to-death-in-virar/story-NUko5TnKlMlNfH5TIGatVM.html
12-06-2020||City||2 killed in separate accidents in Bhiwandi and Shilphata||Two pedestrians including a senior citizen were killed in two different road accidents in Shilphata and Bhiwandi, on Thursday night. Bhiwandi police are yet to identify the accused, while Shil-Daighar police have registered case against the biker.A biker Sunil Kumar Nagina, 40, rammed into the victim Madhukar Devlekar, 65. Nagina was nabbed by the locals as he tried to flee. In another accident, which took place on Nashik Highway, near Diva Village bus stop, Bhiwandi, a 40-year-old unidentified man was run over by an unknown vehicle on Thursday evening.An officer from Narpolice police said, “He died on the way to the hospital. The accused and victim are both unidentified, there are no CCTVs in the area. We have registered case against unknown vehicle driver under Indian Penal Code 304(a), 279 and Motor Vehicles Act. His mobile phone was found damaged, besides his body. We are trying to trace his family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-killed-in-separate-accidents-in-bhiwandi-and-shilphata/story-N0mjWh5DaozpsSIa0v4n7L.html
12-06-2020||Gurugram||Residents across city oppose isolation facilities for Covid patients inside sectors||Residents across the city have opposed the setting up of isolation centres in densely populated areas as they fear the spread of Covid-19 — that has so far affected 2,737 people and killed 19 — in their community. The latest to join the clamour are residents of sector 45, who on Friday said they had opposed the opening of an isolation centre at a guest house by a private hospital in their area. The residents wrote a letter to the district administration saying that operating a guest house in the area was against rules and would put the lives of colony residents at risk. Earlier on Thursday residents of South City 1 and Sainikhaira village had opposed the proposal of setting up isolation centres in their colonies.Amir Singh Yadav, president, sector 45 RWA, in a letter to the deputy commissioner, Gurugram, stated that Max Hospital was planning to set up a Covid-19 care centre in their area. Yadav in his letter said that after deliberations with the governing body and residents it was conveyed to the representative of the hospital that this being a residential area, no hospital and similar activity could be allowed as it is prohibited under HSVP and DTCP rules. “We request kindly ensure that such activity is not allowed in our sector,” Yadav said in his letter.Local residents of the area said that the house, which has been identified to be used as an isolation centre, is located on a 10-metre road inside the sector and it is against the rules to even operate a guesthouse in the area. “This building is not located on a sector road, where guest houses can operate. Such activities in residential areas can cause panic among residents who are already scared by the rapid spread of Covid,” said Sanjeev Saxena, an area resident.Another resident said that instead of setting up isolation centres in the middle of residential sectors, authorities should set up these facilities in commercial areas like sector 29, which have several hotels but scant population.Earlier on Thursday, the residents of South City 1 and Sainikhera had sent a similar plea and asked the district administration to shift an isolation centre, which was located on the main access road of the village, elsewhere. RS Jakhar, an area resident said that the government should convert its own guest houses and facilities into isolation centres, instead of putting the lives of residents in danger.Last month, the residents of DLF Phase 2 had also opposed the setting up of an isolation centre in their area after which officials had shelved the plan.As per government records, 14 isolation centres have been set up in the city, which are both self-paid as well as government paid. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram on Thursday had said that he would look into the issue and if there is a genuine problem, he will get it resolved.Hari Om Atri, joint commissioner, Municipal Commission of Gurugram, who is the concerned official did not respond to repeated calls and messages for a comment on the issue.A spokesperson from Max hospital said ,” The OYO Studio Apartment facility in Sector 45 was notified as a Covid isolation facility by the Gurugram administration on June 5. We were informed that Max Hospital will be responsible for setting up and running the facility. When our team went there to take over the hotel and set up operations, there was resistance from the local RWA. We have informed Gurugram authorities about this and are awaiting further directions from them. The facility isn’t operational as yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-across-city-oppose-isolation-facilities-for-covid-patients-inside-sectors/story-3yYg4vN3BiS2Rxwr53fbKO.html
12-06-2020||City||Fake currency racket: Rs 1,000 Children’s Bank notes rare in local toy stores||PUNE The Rs 1,000 notes found in possession of the six men arrested in fake currency racket are hard to find in local stationery and toy shops in the market. However, fake notes of Rs500 and Rs2,000 are easily available, according to shop owners in the city.Among the fake notes worth Rs 87,05,75,000 seized in a joint operation by the Pune police and Military Intelligence (MI) on Wednesday, notes worth Rs 31,80,00,000 were of Rs 1,000 denomination. Along with the Rs 1,000 notes, 1,52,000 notes of Rs 500 denomination and 2,17,100 notes of Rs 2,000 denomination were also found in their possession.“The Rs 1,000 notes are not available at all. Even for the other notes, people come to us for these notes very rarely. The sale is not even 5 per cent of the total sale of the shop. Every bundle of 100 notes of any denomination costs around Rs 30-35. Now even the board games have started using plastic chips or credit and debit cards. So we hardly have to purchase these notes,” said Sachin Kulkarni, owner of a toy station at Kunte chowk.“Whenever required, multiple suppliers are available in Ravivar peth. Most of the toy shop owners take notes from them,” said Viral Shah, owner of Maahi toy shop in Camp.“Very few customers ask for a set of notes for a school project or something like that. The Rs 1,000 notes are not made or even in demand. During lockdown we could not even source these notes as we usually do from Ravivar peth,” said the owner of Toy and Joy shop on Laxmi road on condition of anonymity.In the local market, one set of ten different denominations, including Rs 1, Rs 2, Rs 5, of notes can be bought for Rs 20. The notes clearly mention Children’s Bank of India in Hindi followed by English.According to salient security features described by the Reserve Bank of India tender banknotes have electrotype watermark and Mahatma Gandhi image which can be seen on the blank white strip. The same is missing in the Children’s Bank notes. This is one of the easiest ways of checking whether a note is genuine or not.The Reserve Bank of India emblem, which has a tiger in it, is replaced with the word ‘COLOURS’ with each alphabet printed in a different colour. This is true for Rs 500 as well as Rs 2,000 notes.The text in the language panel on the backside of the Rs 500 note is also altered in the children’s notes. In another major difference in the Rs 500 as well as the Rs 2,000, the Ashoka pillar is missing in the Children’s Bank notes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-currency-racket-rs-1-000-children-s-bank-notes-rare-in-local-toy-stores/story-Vo2j47IpJQU46nII3QAUhJ.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||First plasma therapy in Punjab for covid remains successful||The Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, has conducted Punjab’s maiden convalescent plasma therapy as a part of novel treatment modality for coronavirus.As per state medical education and research minister OP Soni, the therapy was given to a critical patient of Covid-19 by a team of doctors at the Faridkot-based hospital.This hospital has become a pioneer institute in country to initiate this therapy as part of national clinical triald under the ICMR, Soni said.This was the first ever plasma therapy given to a covid patient in Punjab. Few days back, the plasma of a recovered patient was collected and stored for this purpose, said Soni. After receiving plasma therapy, the patient’s condition is gradually improving.Principal secretary medical education and research, DK Tiwari, said GMC Patiala is also going to start plasma therapy soon and approval for GMC Amritsar is underway.Meanwhile, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said that convalescent plasma can be taken from any symptomatic patient recovered from Covid-19. Once the patient’s report (RT-PCR) becomes negative, he/she can donate his/her plasma after 14 days as his blood contains antibodies which can help cure the disease, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-plasma-therapy-in-punjab-for-covid-remains-successful/story-0S3yP4ZqFyljSpsUrcqZDM.html
12-06-2020||City||Himachal health dept scam: Punjab firm employee gets bail||A court here on Friday granted bail to the Punjab firm employee arrested in connection with a bribery case involving the director of health services in Himachal Pradesh. Special judge Arvind Malhotra granted bail to Prithvi Singh after he had been remanded in five-day police custody. He was released on conditional bail. The anticipatory bail pleas of now suspended director (health services) Dr Ajay Kumar Gupta and his wife were dismissed by the court after hearing arguments of the bureau. The state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau probing the Himachal Pradesh health department scam has found that employees of a Punjab-based firm colluded with Dr Ajay Kumar Gupta to secure orders for supplying personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for corona warriors.The scam surfaced on May 20 after an audio clip of a conversation between Dr Gupta and Prithvi Singh, a representative for a medical equipment supplier in Punjab, was widely shared on social media. In the 43-second audio clip, Dr Gupta is heard asking Prithvi, 46, for a bribe of ₹5 lakh to seal the deal.After Gupta’s arrest, the vigilance department had sent Dr Gupta’s and Prithvi’s mobile phones for investigation to the Central Forensic Laboratory at Junga. Dr Ajay Gupta was arrested on May 28, which triggered state BJP Chief Rajeev Bindal to quit his post.The forensic examination of the phones revealed that there were three more audio recordings between Prithvi, an agent of Bioaide Corporation, and Dr Gupta that were related to the supply of PPEs.Vigilance sleuths found that Singh was seeking one more supply order of PPE kits from Dr Ajay Kumar Gupta before the issue of tender so that both could make gains but no supply order could be carried out as by then the state government decided that Covid-19 purchases will be made through tenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-health-dept-scam-punjab-firm-employee-gets-bail/story-wUViww9R8bFGiYXwaFabBM.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for cheating police constable of ₹12 lakh||The property cell of the city crime branch arrested a 42-year-old man for allegedly duping a police constable on the pretext of providing a Mhada flat on low price to the tune of ₹12 lakh. The accused Sachin Dhuri, a resident of Lower Parel also forged Mhada documents. Police said Dhuri has cheated several people in the past with the same modus operandi.The victim, a 32-year-old police constable attached with the local arms in the Mumbai city, met Dhuri two years ago through a common friend. Constable wanted to buy his residence in Mumbai. Dhuri told him that he has an influence in the Mhada and has provided houses to several people on low price. Constable agreed and he gave ₹2 lakh first instalment in early 2019 and Dhuri promised him to give the house in Tilak Nagar area. Dhuri gave him fake allotment letter and took ₹10 lakh more in instalments, said senior inspector, Kedari Pawar, of the property cell.Constable borrowed money from his relatives and paid to Dhuri. The victim learnt that fact when the accused started avoiding his calls. He then discussed with his colleague and they approached property cell and a case was registered in Tilak Nagar police station on June 11 against Dhuri, said Pawar. During the inquiry, we learnt that Dhuri had cheated several in the past. Dhuri was earlier arrested by unit 3 of the crime branch for duping a woman of ₹48 lakh for giving her Mhada flat in Mazgaon area with the same modus operandi, added Pawar. A police team then nabbed Dhuri from his residence in Lower Parel on the same day and he was produced in the court on Friday and remanded in police custody till June 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-cheating-police-constable-of-12-lakh/story-FIwg7GQV7DeixkAtgdIxtN.html
12-06-2020||City||11 civil servants being doctors helpful in Amritsar’s battle against Covid-19||As Amritsar administration is battling Covid-19 which is spreading here alarmingly, command of its general and police administration is in hands of officers many of whom are doctors and thereby utilising their medical knowledge and experience to combat the pandemic.The district has as many as 11 civil servants who are doctors as well. IPS officer Sukhchain Singh Gill is Amritsar police commissioner. He had passed MBBS from a local Government Medical College before joining IPS.“Covid-19 is a biological crisis. If one has medical knowledge, he/she are helpful to protect the force and society from the outbreak,” said IPS officer and MBBS holder Simrat Kaur, who is acting as ADCP (headquarters). Her duty is deployment and welfare of the police who are acting as frontline warriors.ADC (general) Himanshu Aggarwal (IAS) also has an MBBS degree and plays a key role in management of the anti-pandemic operations.Another IAS Pallavi Choudhry, who is ADC (development), is BDS graduate. She is appointed as nodal officer for receiving the passengers landing at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar through evacuation flights along with PCS Deepak Bhatia, who is also a doctor and the SDM of Ajnala.Similarly, Amritsar-2 SDM Shivraj Singh Bal is a retired army doctor, Baba Bakala SDM Major Sumit Mudh has also served as army doctor on Major rank. After fulfilling their duties in defence, they are now working as soldiers in the battle against Covid-19.PCS officer and deputy director (local governments) Rajat Oberai, also a doctor, launched sanitisation drive in district, then acted as nodal officer for ensuring safe homecoming of migrants via trains.After gaining medical education, Harnoor Dhillon cleared PCS examination and is now working as assistant commissioner; PPS officer Richa Agnihotri who is also doctor, is working as ACP narcotics; and ACP (headquarters) Ripu Tapan Singh Sandhu is also of the medical background.“We are using medical experience of these officers to contain the outbreak in district and are working day and night,” said DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon, adding, “If the administrator is a doctor, he knows how to deal with medical emergencies and cannot be misguided by medical personnel in any cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-civil-servants-being-doctors-helpful-in-amritsar-s-battle-against-covid-19/story-Yo9c1zBmmxYUJEzPaqNaiL.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police strengthening its presence on social media for public outreach: SN Shrivastava||After taking over as the chief of Delhi Police, S N Shrivastava’s thrust has been to strengthen the force’s presence on various social platforms, especially Twitter to reach out to people, which has elicited praise from common man and celebrities alike. The police chief says the force is gradually working to “improve their presence on social media”. Delhi Police currently enjoys a following of over 5.33 lakh on Twitter while Shrivastava’s handle has over 2.33 lakh followers. The Mumbai Police, which is known for its wit and humour on social media, has a following of 50,00,000 while Bengaluru Police, which is also active on the micro-blogging website, has almost 13 lakh followers.The Delhi Police’s Facebook page has garnered 33,650 likes so far while on Instagram, it has 3,892 followers and has 80 posts. Mumbai police has 1,43,000 followers with 86 posts on Instagram. “If somebody is trying to put out a negative narrative about Delhi police, we need to correct it and set a positive narrative about the force. So, for all these things, we need the social media cell which is gradually improving,” he told PTI over phone. This emphasis on social media came in handy during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown when Delhi Police came up with a campaign -- ‘Dil Ki Police’ -- to highlight the humanitarian efforts of its personnel. To thank ‘corona warriors’, the force organised a virtual concert ‘Dil Se Shukriya’ last month, which witnessed the participation of celebrities, including Shankar Mahadevan, Usha Uthup and Harshdeep Kaur. Even Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan had tweeted about the concert. Shrivastava said while praises and endorsements by celebrities are welcome, it is the praise of the common man that is “heartening” for the force. “Besides the celebrities, in fact it was very heartening to me to see likes, good posts and praises from common man. It is the common man who need our help and if they are praising and are happy with the police, then our job is done. Of course, celebrities are privileged people, so they definitely will be looked after but the common man should also be looked after,” he said. Shrivastava’s twitter handle @cpdelhi has also started responding to queries and requests for help, which he said has been possible due to his social media cell. “I can’t be much active on social media. My work demands that I look after other things as well but then I am on social media whenever I get time, especially late during the night. I attend to some of them but it may not be sufficient. “So, we have set up a social media cell and a separate account of CP Delhi. @CPDelhi is handled by my social media cell and any request made to my official CP Delhi twitter handle - any request made besides some of which I take care, my social media cell responds to it and ensures something is done,” he said. The police chief said the handle receives all kinds of requests, with some even asking for information on how to get back home while some ask for employment which the police may not be able to provide. “But if we can do something, we will do. But any request regarding something to do with crime and law and order, we are duty bound to do,” he said. The social media cell has police personnel along with paid volunteers from a firm, he said. “They can do the work only when they are also assisted by the police,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-strengthening-its-presence-on-social-media-for-public-outreach-sn-shrivastava/story-HNyYDSuzmWGOCAUQ43k5uM.html
12-06-2020||City||Social distancing goes for a toss as bull race attracts 3,000 spectators in J&K’s Rajouri||Social distancing norms were defied in Rajouri district as nearly 3,000 people gathered at Dhanore village to watch a bull race on Thursday.“People showed scant regard for social distancing. No one was wearing masks and people were huddled on the slopes of hills. If there is even a single positive case among them, it will prove disastrous for thousands,” said a local.“Isn’t it strange that on one hand the administration has imposed restrictions on the movement of people and normal life remains crippled and on the other 3,000 people attend a bull race,” he added.On Friday, Rajouri recorded its first Covid-19 death after a 65-year-old man from Nangala village in Sial Sui panchayat succumbed to the infection. Till Thursday, Rajouri had 57 positive cases with 45 active cases and 12 recoveries.Another local said the organisers had brought bulls and competitors.“There was drum beating and trumpets were being blown. It was sheer madness. Wasn’t this a serious lapse on the part of the administration,” he asked.When contacted, a senior police officer said, “We have taken cognizance of the matter and an FIR has been registered. Investigation has been initiated.”Jammu and Kashmir has so far reported 4,574 positive cases that include 53 deaths — six in Jammu region and 47 in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-as-bull-race-attracts-3-000-spectators-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-xTwHyrOVxmAN7iobkVY8lK.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s new flood warning system launched, CM calls it ‘boon’||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday inaugurated the new integrated flood warning system (IFLOWS) developed for Mumbai, calling it a “boon” for the city.Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Science and Technology, and Earth sciences, who was also present during the ceremony, said the system will help the people of Mumbai in a “big way” as it can predict floods.The Ministry of Earth Sciences, using in-house expertise and in close coordination with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has developed this system.“The flood management system is a boon for the city and it will be helpful in saving Mumbai,” Thackeray said via video-conference after the launch.“As Maharashtra had received warning about cyclonic storm Nisarga 2-3 days in advance, the state government could shift people to safer locations and hence there was hardly any loss of human life,” he said.Cyclone Nisarga had made landfall near Alibaug in Raigad district of the state last week.He said that some areas of Mumbai are below the sea level, due to which the sea water enters the city during the high tide.“Therefore since 2005, several pumping stations have been built in the city, which stops ingress of water and also pumps it out of the city,” he said.On July 26, 2005, Mumbai had witnessed one of its worst floods when the city had received 944 mm rainfall in a single day.Thackeray also called for the need to have four Doppler radars in the city.He said the BMC was the first civic body in the country to build its own molecular lab after Leptospirosis outbreak in the city.The chief minister said that the government has increased the number of COVID-19 testing labs to 85 from two earlier. “Soon the number will be increased to 100,” he added.In a lighter vein, Thackeray told Harsh Vardhan, “Like this system, give us early warning about approaching political storms.” IFLOWS-Mumbai has been developed as a state-of-the-art flood warning system for Mumbai to enhance the resilience of Mumbai by providing early warning for flooding specially during high rainfall events and cyclones, an official statement said.Using this, it will be possible to have an estimate of the flood inundation three days in advance, along with immediate weather updates, it added.Harsh Vardhan said that the IFLOWS system was “one of the most advanced” ones, which would help the people of Mumbai.“The hi-tech system will predict floods before they occur, therefore enabling Mumbaikars to take due precautions in advance. This will be a boon for Mumbai, a city that has been experiencing floods with increasing periodicity,” he said.“Mumbai floods, especially that occurred in 2005 and 2017 are etched in everyone’s memory. This highly-advanced flood warning system will help the people of Mumbai in a big way. A similar system was already developed by MoES and is in operation at Chennai,” he said.“In the 2004 tsunami, we lost lakhs of lives, in absence of an early warning system. But now, India has developed an early tsunami warning system for the whole world and UNESCO has asked India to help other countries in early tsunami warning,” the minister said.“Since the last many years, India has never given any false alarm on this particular issue. This tsunami warning service has also been extended to the countries in Indian Ocean Region who are being highly benefited,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-new-flood-warning-system-launched-cm-calls-it-boon/story-j5tidWAjb8jbDSpDQmWn5L.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Clear Rs 383 crore dues of sugarcane growers: SAD to Captain||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday asked Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to ensure that private sugar mill managements clear the outstanding payment of Rs 383 crore to sugarcane growers along with interest quotient. They demanded “unmasking of the real kingpin of the seed scam” and condemned the Congress government for “trying to give the scam a quiet burial.”In a statement, SAD’s newly-appointed farmer wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said, “It is strange that even though the CM had asked the finance department and Sugarfed to clear Rs 299 crore dues to sugarcane farmers, no effort are being made to direct the private sugar mills to clear the outstanding dues.”“While private sugar mills owe farmers Rs 383 crore on account of sugarcane procured in 2018-19 and 2019-20, they had not been paid dues even after end of 2019-20,” Maluka said.He said as per the Sugarcane Control Order and Clause 3(3) of the Sugarcane Purchase and Regulation Act, sugar mills should make payments within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane or pay interest on late payment. He said that accordingly all pending dues of farmers should be cleared along with interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/clear-rs-383-crore-dues-of-sugarcane-growers-sad-to-captain/story-e5295h346T1O2bI4D95xkI.html
12-06-2020||City||Peon’s daughter handles Kangra SDM office for a day||Hina Thakur, 14, who scored 94% marks in Class 10 worked as a sub-divisional magistrate for one day and heard complaints and decided them in consultation with SDM Jatin Lal.Heena’s father is working as a peon in the office of Kangra SDM. Heena had appeared for Class 10 examinations conducted by the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBOSE), the result for which was recently declared.“Becoming an IAS officer is my dream. SDM sir showed me a path and I will work hard to fulfill my dreams,” said Hina, a student of Gurudutt Anglo Vedic High School, Kangra.Her family originally belongs to Shimla district and are staying in a rented accommodation in Kangra. Hina said that she would work with full dedication for the welfare of the common masses if she became an IAS officer in the future. SDM Jatin Lal said that an employee in his office told him about Heena. “I called her to my office to felicitate her. And, when Hina told me that she aspires to become an IAS officer, then I thought why not she be made SDM for a day,” said Lal.“I was impressed with her confidence and the way she managed things in the office. She was SDM for the full day and I just guided her,” said Lal and wished Hina all the success in life.Meanwhile, Hina’s father TR Thakur said that he was proud to see his daughter serving as an SDM for a day.“I thank SDM Jatin Lal for his noble gesture as it will not only keep my daughter motivated but will also encourage other girls to achieve greater heights,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/peon-s-daughter-handles-kangra-sdm-office-for-a-day/story-qJZohCXeM9SmzIpYD6gTWN.html
12-06-2020||City||Nerul woman duped of ₹67,000 in an online fraud||A 34-year-old HR manager with a garment manufacturing firm was duped of ₹67,000 by an unknown person on Sunday. The woman was expecting payment from her employer when she was conned.Rajni Sharma, a resident of Nerul, said her employer told her they are to receive money from a client and since he did not have the money transfer application, he asked her to accept the money. The woman said that she has accepted payment on behalf of her office in the past.Sharma said, “On Sunday, I got a call from an unknown person. He told me he is sending me a QR code for the payment. He asked me to transfer ₹2 into his account as a trial. Later, ₹67,000 were debited from my account in three transactions,” said Sharma. Nerul police are further investigating the case.The woman submitted a written complaint at the Nerul police station on Sunday stating that the accused stole, ₹3,500, then, ₹19,999 and finally, ₹43,500 emptying her account in minutes.“We have received the complaint and conducting an inquiry. We have not called her for further investigation due to the Covid-19. We will register a case based on our inquiry,” said Rajendra Chavan, senior inspector at Nerul police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nerul-woman-duped-of-67-000-in-an-online-fraud/story-Ni5TDb1L4xHrPorFtJTc8I.html
12-06-2020||City||Markets to open in Srinagar today as district admn eases curbs||Over two-and-a-half months after the Covid-19 lockdown was implemented here, markets, including non-essential business establishments, will open in the summer capital on Saturday. However, only 50 percent shops will be allowed to run on alternate days.Despite the district being a red zone, Srinagar’s district disaster management authority (DDMA) gave traders a go-ahead, as per suggestions from health experts, after deliberations with various business organisations in the valley.“The trade organisations will ensure that all standard operating procedures are observed for permissible 50% opening of shops in line with the state executive committee (SEC) notification,” read the order signed by Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary, who is the chairman of DDMA, on Friday.Of Kashmir’s 10 districts, the SEC chaired by chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam on Sunday had classified eight, including Srinagar, as red zones, while Ganderbal and Bandipora were put in orange category. The SEC allowed the opening of business complexes in red districts with 50% shops on alternate days. It also allowed home delivery of food by restaurants and opening of salons and barber shops.As per the new DDMA order, essential products and services like bookshops, chemists, grocery, fruit/vegetable shops, milk, meat, repair workshops, hotels (home delivery) and bakery, will be allowed full-time on weekdays.Non-essential shops selling readymade garments/cloth, cosmetics, footwear, electronics, jewellery, tailors, designers and boutiques will operate from 11am to 5.30pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.On Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, handicrafts, handloom, hardware building material, furniture, furnishing, automobiles, service stations and salons will open.The order states that concerned market associations shall be responsible for observance of SOPs in market areas.“Wearing masks and physical distancing shall be mandatory. Equidistant circle in paint indicating mandatory distance (1m) shall be marked outside every shop/establishment,” Choudhary ordered.Availability of hand sanitisers and soaps is compulsory at shops and staff attendance has to be 50 percent. “The local market committees shall ensure that in no case the prescribed limit is violated,” the order said.For public transport, DDMA has allowed three-wheelers with two passengers. “Further guidelines will be notified separately after ongoing capacity building for public transport staff,” it said.Night restrictions between 8pm to 5am will continue and in notified containment zones only essential services shall be available.Traders welcomed the decision of the administration after their meeting with the authorities on Thursday.“The decision has given a new lease of life to traders. The markets will open after a long time and we welcome it whole-heartedly,” said Kashmir Economic Alliance chairman Mohammad Yaseen Khan.He said there are over 370 bazaar committees in Srinagar who will ensure the implementation of SOPs at their own level. “We will convey to them to ensure the implementation of SOPs. The traders are wise enough as they understand it is not only about the life of the people but their own lives as well. Nobody will take things lightly and all precautions will be taken,” he said.The number of Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir has crossed 4,500 with 497 of them in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markets-to-open-in-srinagar-today-as-district-admn-eases-curbs/story-JrogEQB39YigndYlIPxDHL.html
12-06-2020||City||After scores of complaints, state to examine deletion of ration cards||The state authorities have decided to initiate a verification drive of ration cardholders after complaints that many eligible families were left out in the last one year.In an order released on June 10, food civil supplies and consumer affairs department director Anindita Mitra asked the district food and civil supply controllers (DFSCs) to reregister eligible persons into the database.The communiqué directed officials to ensure that no eligible person is denied ration under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). Mitra was unavailable for comments on the matter.Joint director (food distribution and supply branch) Sona Singh said the order is a routine practice and the field staff has not been given any deadline to submit details on the wrongly deleted ration cards.However, official sources said deletion of their names deprived many of foodgrain under the public distribution system (PDS). A department functionary said that following suspicion of the presence of ‘ghost’ beneficiaries, last year the state government had decided to re-verify the registered families.Sources said in a drive started on April 1 last year, names of more than 2.5 lakh ration cardholders were deleted.Bathinda DFSC Mandeep Singh said, the district has 1.86 lakh ration cardholders and after afresh scrutiny, around 10,000 more might be included.“Deletion of names is primarily attributed to non-submission of papers required for ration cards. The field staff is to re-examine data of the left out members,” said an official.Since last few weeks, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders have been raising the issue. Party legislator from Talwandi Sabo and AAP national executive member Baljinder Kaur said political interference led to deletion of names.“Names of vocal non-Congress supporters in Bathinda, Mansa, Faridkot and other districts were dropped from the beneficiaries’ list. The grim situation was noticed during lockdown when underprivileged families were denied foodgrain as they were not ration cardholders,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-scores-of-complaints-state-to-examine-deletion-of-ration-cards/story-KZ9Es1ggTBr5EpMdFvi6cL.html
12-06-2020||City||Man held for killing Indian monitor lizard for meat in Palghar||A 28-year-old tribal from Tembhode village in Palghar has been arrested by the forest department for allegedly killing an adult Indian monitor lizard, called ghorpad in Marathi which is an endangered species. The accused, Mahendra Balwant Shinwari, allegedly committed the crime for meat and black magic. Vaishali Chauhan, an animal activist from Palghar, got information and alerted the forest department, Palghar following which the arrest was made.The accused had caught the 2-year-old male lizard with the help of a friend, who is absconding. Shinwari planned to use the lizard for meat while some of the body parts were to be melted to extract its oil to use as an aphrodisiac. In addition, the accused had planned to use the reptile’s tongue and liver for medicinal purposes, as he claimed it cures some skin infections, said a source.“We have arrested Shinwari under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. He was produced before Palghar court and has been remanded in police custody till June 15. We are in search for his accomplice who is absconding,” said Amol Angre, a forest department official.Monitor lizards are on the verge of extinction and has been included in Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act. Hunting this animal is a punishable offence and warrants a jail term up to 7 years, said Angre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-killing-indian-monitor-lizard-for-meat-in-palghar/story-S389uozuS3LPmRPwuJd4gL.html
12-06-2020||City||Health depts now worried to prevent vector-borne diseases||Already struggling to control coronavirus pandemic, the health departments in Jalandhar and Kapurthala have another reason to worry this season. The latest challenge they face is to prevent spread of vector-borne diseases. The departments have formed special teams to detect larvae and sensitise locals.Recent showers in the region have led to accumulation of water which can result in mosquito breeding and subsequently dengue and malaria. “We are fighting corona, but now authorities are also worried about spread of dengue and malaria. We have started door-to-door drive,” said Kapurthala epidemiologist Dr Rajiv Bhagat.He said that over 30 houses were inspected by a team and mosquito breeding was found at three places. Similarly, the Jalandhar health team visited over 40 places and detected breeding at eight places.Dr Satish Kumar, of Jalandhar anti-larva cell, said that besides fighting Covid-19, a team has been asked to visit different localities and keep a check on larvae breeding.Health teams are creating awareness about the diseases among residents and identifying vulnerable places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-depts-now-worried-to-prevent-vector-borne-diseases/story-wwhjLve7TKaCH4fhU01WaL.html
12-06-2020||City||Sedition charges: Vinod Dua served with notice to appear in Kumarsain police station||Journalist and television anchor Vinod Dua has been served with a notice to appear before Himachal Pradesh’s Kumarsain police station, 80km away from the state’s capital Shimla due to sedition charges filed against him for allegedly spreading fake news.He was served with a notice to appear before Kumarsain police station and meet station house officer (SHO) for questioning regarding the case.The 66-year-old and Padma Shree recipient was issued a notice under Section 160 of the CrPC via email on Thursday and was presented with a hard copy of the notice by HP police on June 12 to visit the said police station.However, Dua has shown his inability to visit Kumarsain police station due to his ongoing health issues and Covid-19 protocol for travel and quarantine but has agreed to join investigation through email or any other online mechanism.On May 6, Ajay Shyam, a resident of Kiara village in Theog had filed a complaint against Dua under Sections 124A (punishment for sedition), 268 (person guilty for public nuisance), 501 (printing or engraving defamatory matter) and 505 (statements conducting to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code. This is a second FIR which has been filed against him during this month.Delhi police had also registered an FIR against him over a complaint filed by BJP spokesperson Naveen Kumar alleged that Dua had been spreading misinformation and rumours about Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sedition-charges-vinod-dua-served-with-notice-to-appear-in-kumarsain-police-station/story-afUUACKhMLnP2dio9R2IYI.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||PEC to decide on next semester online classes on June 16||The senate of the Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, will be meeting on June 16 to decide if the institute will continue with online classes for the next semester or not.A proposal for the same has already been prepared and will be tabled in the senate meeting. The agenda for the meeting was approved on Friday.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “The senate members will take a decision whether to start online classes for the next semester or not. We want to opt for online classes so that the semester does not get delayed.”The institute is planning to start its next semester from July end if the senate approves the proposal to go online for all courses. Discussions regarding the proposal have been done during several meetings with all stakeholders.The senate members will also take a decision on how to evaluate the second year and third year students. In the last meeting, decision regarding the evaluation of fourth year students was taken.Department of metallurgical and materials engineering professor JD Sharma said, “It is expected that educational institutes will not be opening soon. If we open the institute, students will have to travel from different areas which can be risky in the current situation. We will have to look for options to minimise the academic loss till the time any guidelines are issued by the government.”No increase in M Tech seats for 2020-21The senate in its emergency meeting held in May had resolved that in view of the expected high response to MTech admissions this year, the notional increase in the number of seats is deferred for 2020-21 academic year. Earlier, the increase in seats was approved by PEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-to-decide-on-next-semester-online-classes-on-june-16/story-6jWqvxo5nF0SF84Kf9G5dM.html
12-06-2020||City||Govt-manufactured squash syrup available at Mohali admn complex||In view of the summer season and with the commitment to provide quality beverages to residents amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the district horticulture department has prepared squash syrups in different fruit flavours.Department’s deputy director Mukhtiar Singh said syrups of various flavours, such as mango, bael, litchi and pineapple, were available at reasonable rates. These can be purchased from Room No. 447, third floor, at the District Administrative Complex, Sector 76, during work hours.Singh said the syrups were prepared at government food processing laboratories amid strict safety checks, with special emphasis on quality products.He exhorted residents to purchase healthy products manufactured by the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-manufactured-squash-syrup-available-at-mohali-admn-complex/story-nEdQmjISxptS4cuESuMMZI.html
12-06-2020||City||Amarnath Yatra: J&K admn may allow only 2,000 pilgrims per day||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the J&K administration is likely to allow only 2,000 pilgrims in a day during the 14-day Amarnath Yatra via the shorter Baltal route in Ganderbal district, said shrine board sources.They said registrations shall be made online.Due to the spike in Covid-19 infections across the country, uncertainty looms large over the annual pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre high cave shrine in south Kashmir.The works section of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) is awaiting the J&K administration’s nod for the Baltal route so it could undertake the maintenance tracks leading to the shrine, they added.So far, it has been decided that barring sadhus, no pilgrims above the age of 55 years will be allowed to embark on the yatra, which will take the shorter Baltal route.“All those undertaking the pilgrimage must possess Covid-negative certificates. The pilgrims will be cross-checked for the infection upon entry into J&K before they are allowed to undertake the yatra,” said an official requesting anonymity.The SASB is also looking to telecast the live aarti from the cave shrine in the morning and evening for the devotees, the official added.Another official said since it would be a curtailed yatra, the SASB is mulling to allow it via helicopters only.However, lieutenant governor’s principal secretary and SASB CEO Bipul Pathak said, “The board is yet to meet and take a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarnath-yatra-j-k-admn-may-allow-only-2-000-pilgrims-per-day/story-nYVhzXGApsCJS0EPhtSOOM.html
12-06-2020||City||Disparity in water tariff in Mohali: Permanent Lok Adalat issues notice to chiefs of MC, GMADA, local bodies||The Mohali Permanent Lok Adalat has put on notice the municipal commissioner, local bodies director and GMADA chief administrator regarding disparity in water tariff between different areas of the city.The body has sought a response by August 28 on the petition filed by residents and former councilors of Sectors 66 to 82, which are under the purview of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). The petition said that the residents of these sectors had been paying Rs 5.25 per kilolitre for drinking water, whereas residents of sectors governed by MC paid Rs 1.8 per kilolitre. Pleading to the body to issue directions to GMADA to hand over the water supply system to MC, the petitioners also sought a refund of excess water tariff paid to GMADA from 2017 onwards.In June last year, the MC House had approved the agenda to take over the water supply system of new sectors, following which, on July 16, the Punjab local bodies department had approved the move. Later, GMADA asked MC to also take over the maintenance of sewerage and storm sewer system.Former councilor Shinderpal Singh (Bobby Kamboj) said despite MC passing a resolution to take over the water supply system, the government had yet to decide on it.He said GMADA had no justified reason to charge 5.5 times more water tariff as compared to other sectors of Mohali.Former councillor of Sector 80, Surinder Singh said, “We have been fighting for water tariff parity for the past one year, but GMADA has failed to give any relief. They have forced us to move court. If they still do not correct this, we will hold a massive protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/disparity-in-water-tariff-in-mohali-permanent-lok-adalat-issues-notice-to-chiefs-of-mc-gmada-local-bodies/story-hjm2VEBP5iezlM317Oe4oK.html
12-06-2020||Lucknow||UP police gets WhatsApp message threatening to blow up CM’s residence, 50 other places||The Uttar Pradesh police went into a tizzy on Friday after it received a message on its helpline number threatening to blow up Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s residence and 50 other places in the state.Security arrangements were beefed up in and around the chief minister’s official residence, 5, Kalidas Marg in Lucknow after the receipt of the threat message, said officials.The message, which was received on a WhatsApp number, also threatened to blow up 50 other places in the state, they said.The official residences of several other ministers are also situated on Kalidas Marg.Sources said police have launched an intensive checking and also deployed sniffer dogs in the service.Police are making an all out effort to trace the culprit they added.Earlier also, a message was received by police, threatening to target the chief minister, following which a Mumbai resident, identified as Kamran, was traced with the help of social media desk.Kamran was arrested from Mumbai with the help of Maharashtra Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-police-gets-whatsapp-message-threatening-to-blow-up-cm-s-residence-50-other-spots/story-9mlweuqCeOYpyQLyysGMJK.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rainy weekend on the cards in Chandigarh||After a hot and humid Friday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain in the city on Saturday and Sunday. An IMD official said, “A western disturbance is active in the region and rain up to 20mm can be expected on Saturday and Sunday. Thereon, the weather will be dry again.”On Friday, the maximum temperature increased slightly to 39.6 degrees Celsius from Thursday’s 39.3 degrees, while the minimum temperature went up from 26 degrees o 29.8 degrees. In the next three days, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to remain around 39 and 28 degrees, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rainy-weekend-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh/story-N1wuisDl3xBoacKMiv7myI.html
12-06-2020||City||Mandi MP smells scam in Uhl-III hydropower project||Mandi MP Ram Swarup Sharma said that a scam had taken place in the purchase of steel pipes for the Uhl-III hydropower project, constructed by Beas Valley Power Corporation Limited, in the Jogindernagar sub-division of Mandi districtHe said that a panel of experts organised seven meetings to decide on the purchase of steel pipes but surprisingly awarded the contract to Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) in 2008. He added that the state had already faced huge losses in four other power projects after installing the pipes purchased by the company.He has strongly demanded the state government to take disciplinary and punitive action on the expert committee constituted by the electricity board.Last month, about 30 persons engaged in a trial run of a hydroelectric station had a narrow escape when a water flow regulating channel gave way, deluging the powerhouse and damaging machines worth crores of rupees besides entrapping engineers and workers.Several men got entrapped in the powerhouse as the penstock a channel or pipe for conveying water to a hydroelectric station or waterwheel gave way,“It was very unfortunate to cancel the contract for construction of the project from Thapar and Thapar Company in 2001. If this contract was not cancelled, today, the project would have been ready,” said Sharma.He said that the purchase of pipes and the panel of expert reports have been made during the Congress regime.The Uhl stage-III hydropower project was commissioned in 2003 with an estimated cost of ₹431 crore with completion schedule of five years but the project is facing a serious threat of future investment of crores for its completion after the blast in the penstock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mandi-mp-smells-scam-in-uhl-iii-hydropower-project/story-iN5Q2M4r4v3D6vsdqbLxBK.html
12-06-2020||City||Sarpanch killing: J&K Cong demands security for panchayat members vulnerable to attacks||Days after sarpanch Ajay Pandita’s killing in Kashmir, J&K Congress has demanded security for all panchayat heads and members who are vulnerable to militant attacks in the Valley.Pandita, a Congress sarpanch from Lukbhawan in south Kashmir, was killed by militants near his orchard on Monday afternoon. He was the second Congress sarpanch to be killed by militants in south Kashmir in the last two years.Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said that for the past several months, the party has been asking the government that panchayat members who are vulnerable to such attacks should be provided security cover, but nobody bothered.“After Pandita’s killing, we have been demanding security for panches and sarpanches on a daily basis, but still nothing has been done,” he said adding that Pandita had also requested for security many times, but was never provided any.Mir said, “Many panchayat members and other political leaders have received death threats, yet they are not being given security. We will be writing about this to the Centre after a meeting.”Complaining about the situation, Mir said after August 5 last year, when many mainstream leaders were arrested under PSA act, the security of several leaders, especially those from Congress, was downgraded. “I am a former minister, legislator and the current JKPCC president, but my security was also downgraded. In Jammu, I don’t have any security, and same is the case with other leaders of Congress and other mainstream political parties.”BJP had also sought security of panchayat members soon after Pandita’s death. “We have been demanding security for panchayat members for a long time, but to no avail,” said BJP’s J&K spokesperson and sarpanch Altaf Thakur.J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh had blamed the terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen for Pandita’s killing stating that those responsible for the attack had been identified.However, the J&K administration has not disclosed if security cover will be provided to panchayat members in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sarpanch-killing-j-k-cong-demands-security-for-panchayat-members-vulnerable-to-attacks/story-BTI9qNdIS5WJ8kViqQJugI.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Mercury rises above 42 degree Celsius in parts of Delhi||The mercury crossed the 42 degrees Celsius-mark in parts of Delhi on Friday, a couple of days after the city was lashed by rain and thundershowers.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 41.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above the normal.The weather stations at Palam and Pusa recorded their maximum temperatures at 42 and 42.7 degrees Celsius respectively.Humidity levels oscillated between 43 and 80 per cent.  There is a possibility of a partly cloudy sky on Saturday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 41 degrees Celsius and 30 degrees Celsius, the weather department said.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, the region is not likely to witness a heat wave till June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mercury-rises-above-42-degree-celsius-in-parts-of-delhi/story-PuwCzk28yM2m2wiMF9jTwN.html
12-06-2020||City||Woman killed in Pak shelling on LoC in J&K’s Uri sector||A woman was killed and another injured on Friday during ceasefire violations by Pakistan as it targeted defence and civilian facilities across the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri sector.Army spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said Pakistan initiated unprovoked shelling in Rampur sector of Baramulla district by firing mortars and other weapons and the Indian soldiers gave a befitting reply to the ceasefire violation.Locals, however, said both Indian and Pakistani armies on the LoC had been targeting each other’s pickets since Friday morning and many shells landed in the villages in Uri sector.A woman in Thajal village was killed while another woman received splinter injuries when shells landed close to their houses.Locals said the Army was using bofors artillery to target the Pakistani pickets and the intensity of the shelling has left the villagers in panic as many fled towards the neighbouring town of Uri.“It started in the morning and both sides were firing on each other. We saw shells landing at Thajal, Churunda and Silikote villages. Indian Army is also firing towards PoK. Villagers are confined within their homes as they fear for their lives,” said Zaffar Ahmad, a resident of Garkote in Uri.He said that in the absence of underground bunkers, villagers fear for their safety. “Only a few families have old underground bunkers,” he added.This is the second time in the past week that India and Pakistan soldiers indulged in ceasefire violation in Uri sector.However, villagers said after August 5 last year, the intensity of ceasefire breach in Uri sector has gone up as over 12 violations took place in Hajipeer and Kamalkote sectors of Uri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-killed-in-pak-shelling-on-loc-in-j-k-s-uri-sector/story-r4mkg7T9Sy5v6G9gMXYKjJ.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||From AIIMS to ICMR, Lt Guv Baijal gets experts to help Delhi fight Covid-19||Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Friday set up a high-level committee to suggest effective measures to handle the coronavirus disease in the national capital. The decision to set up the panel came days after the health department projected a surge in Covid-19 cases that could breach the 1,00,000-mark this month-end and touch 5 lakh by July-end.Hindustan Times had first reported on Wednesday that Baijal was looking at getting expert opinion on how the city could rapidly ramp up beds available for Covid-19 patients without compromising on the quality of medical care to patients.Also read: Lt Guv Baijal works on plan to scale up Covid-19 beds with community outreachThe six-member committee includes Indian Council of Medical Research director general Balram Bhargava, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, and two members of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). The committee is expected to give the city government a clearer picture of its spread over the next few weeks and months.A Delhi government official told Hindustan Times that the projected shortage of beds had been a cause of serious concern. A statement issued by Raj Nivas later said Anil Baijal felt that the efforts being made by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority DDMA “need to be bolstered by concerted planning, use of latest technology, efficient monitoring and seamless coordination among various agencies to overcome the challenge”.At a meeting that he had chaired earlier in the day, Anil Baijal had expressed concerns around the health care infrastructure, telling officials that their first priority is to ramp up bed capacity and medical resources so that the surge in cases doesn’t overwhelm the healthcare system.The health department estimates that the city would need 1.5 lakh beds by July 31 when the Covid-19 count crosses 5 lakh. Delhi has all of nearly 58,000 hospital beds in the government and private sector.Also read | ‘Delhi L-G Baijal’s orders to be implemented’: CM Kejriwal on hospitals rowThe order to set up the committee comes just a day after the national capital recorded 1,877 new infections and 101 new fatalities. The city’s total tally has gone up to 34,687 Covid-19 cases. In all, 1,085 people have died due to Covid-19.Baijal is learnt to have taken note of the increase in the number of containment zones in the city and reviewed the government’s strategies. There are 242 containment zones at last count, up from about 100 three weeks back. Their number went up as more Covid-19 cases were reported from different parts of the city.“Our objective is to break the chain of transmission and reduce the morbidity and mortality of Covid-19,” Baijal said early in the meeting. The city’s case fatality rate – the proportion of infected persons who succumb to the illness – has risen to 3.13%, the highest it has been since March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lt-guv-gets-expert-help-to-guide-delhi-s-covid-battle-ropes-in-chiefs-of-icmr-and-aiims/story-gi2z1vOXpfDnYPOH7kbvgO.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Residents protest liquor vend outside Modern Housing Complex||Residents of Modern Housing Complex (MHC) in Sector 13 (Manimajra) have objected to the establishment of a liquor vend outside the complex’s entrance. Demanding that the store be shifted, the resident welfare association (RWA) has written to UT adviser Manoj Parida and municipal corporation (MC) commissioner KK Yadav.The tender for the liquor vend was allotted around six months ago and its construction is underway.RWA president Colonel Gursewak Singh (retd) said, “The proposed vend is quite close to two schools and the entry point of MHC, which will lead to traffic chaos.”“The authorities should reconsider opening the vend here. Even if it’s absolutely necessary, it should be shifted a few hundred metres away to near the Circus Ground,” said SA Qureshi, the RWA’s general secretary.In response, local area councillor Jagtar Singh Jagga said, “The liquor vend is at a sufficient distance from the residential area. It is also away from the market. The construction has already started, but I will speak to the residents and address their concerns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-protest-liquor-vend-outside-modern-housing-complex/story-xTSQUuS1AZxLIj2bv8EaeO.html
12-06-2020||City||HP industries minister seeks early release of ₹216cr GST compensation||Industries minister Bikram Singh on Friday urged the Centre to release the GST compensation of Himachal Pradesh for the month of March amounting to ₹216 crore.He was participating in the 40th Goods and Services Tax council held through video conferencing.Union finance minister and chairman of GST Council Nirmala Sitharaman presided over the meeting which was also attended by Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur. Singh said that Himachal was a small state and its entire economy is dependent on the tourism sector.“Due to the lockdown induced to thwart the spread of Covid-19, tourism activities in the state have come to a severe halt in the state and mining activities have also come to standstill,” said Singh.He added that the state has received the GST compensation of ₹612 crore till January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-industries-minister-seeks-early-release-of-216cr-gst-compensation/story-S93DTGgOa50XKF67yQlJ8N.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Breathless in Delhi: Ambulances with cylinder challenge for families, patients||The ambulance stopped at the GTB Hospital and Sarwar Ali sprang out and ran into the building, hoping to quickly get his unconscious wife admitted – the oxygen cylinder in the vehicle was running dangerously low and there was not a minute to waste.It had to be third time lucky if Miskeen Begum had to survive. After being refused admission in two hospitals, her life hinged on getting that bed in GTB Hospital. And if not, enough oxygen in ambulance to see her through to another hospital for another try at getting admitted.Three hospitals, several kilometres, many hours and just one cylinder. That was what it had come down to for a despairing Ali as he fought to save his wife.Suffering from chronic kidney disease and diabetes, Miskeen Begum had lost consciousness in the morning and her 57-year-old husband had run the rounds of hospitals. From their home in Khajuri Khas in northeast Delhi to the Jag Pravesh Hospital, which turned them away, then to the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS), which also said no, and finally to the Delhi government-run GTB Hospital.“She cannot be transported without any oxygen mask,” Ali, a weaver by profession, said, as he rushed through the paperwork on Thursday.Miskeen Begum finally got admission and Ali heaved a sigh of relief.But it was touch and go.As increasing number of stories emerge of patients being sent from one hospital to another in search of a vacant bed, accessing an ambulance equipped with enough oxygen to see the patients through the traumatic journey is rapidly turning into a huge challenge.The numbers seem adequate enough on paper.The Centralised Ambulance Trauma Services (CATS) of the Delhi government has nine Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulances, 142 Basic Support Ambulances (BLS) and 109 Patient Transport Ambulances (PTA).Besides, 154 ambulances have also been converted to dedicated Covid-19 ambulances so the resources are divided between those suffering from the coronavirus infection and those with other diseases.However, while ALS and BLS ambulances have two oxygen cylinders, the PTAs are fitted with only one cylinder since the vehicles are small and there is not enough space. “Due to coronavirus, patients have to be taken to different hospitals. Admission of the patient takes a lot of time, sometimes even four hours. So, a lot of time goes in transit,” said Sanjay Tyagi, CATS programme officer.Private hospitals and several other institutes have their own ambulances. The fact that the vehicles need to be sanitised is another issue.Those operating Covid-19 ambulances have been given PPEs. Plus, the vehicle is either sanitised or fumigated after each trip, Tyagi said. The next call is only assigned after a break of 45 minutes. He denied that there was a shortage of oxygen cylinders. “Since a lot of time goes in transit these days, there could be a case that ambulances may not have been able to replenish the stock as our cylinders are kept at one central location.” It’s not always about a coronavirus patient but other health needs too.Also at GTB Hospital was 55-year-old Ashok Chauhan, who works for Uttar Pradesh’s Provincial Armed Constabulary and was brought from Meerut.He was suffering from typhoid and was also breathless. When doctors at GTB said it is a designated Covid facility and they can’t take him in, his family was faced with a fresh crisis – hunt for another hospital and an ambulance with a functional oxygen cylinder.The family arranged an ambulance, but the doctor warned them not to transport him in an ambulance without an oxygen cylinder.Chauhan’s two sons scrambled to arrange for one, rushing to each ambulance that drew up with patients at the hospital. They stopped the drivers to ask if their vehicles were equipped with oxygen and were free to transport their father.“Even an enemy should not go through the trouble we are facing,” Chauhan’s wife said, breaking into tears. After much running around, Chauhan’s son Birender managed an ambulance with a functional oxygen cylinder.The situation was not too different at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, another dedicated Covid-facility, in Dilshad Garden.Ashish Jain had brought his father Subhash who was suffering with pneumonia for a week. But doctors told him he was a suspected Covid-19 patient but had not yet tested positive and they could therefore not treat him.The super speciality hospital, they said, is meant for coronavirus positive patients.But Jain’s father could only be shifted to another hospital in an ambulance with a proper oxygen cylinder as he had respiratory issues.“There was an ambulance available, but it was only meant for Covid-patients. Since he is not a confirmed case of coronavirus, another ambulance is needed, but one with a proper oxygen cylinder,” Jain said as he scrambled to arrange for an ambulance.All for an ambulance with a properly functioning oxygen cylinder. As hapless families grapple with their ailing patients, endless bureaucracy and figure out which hospital they should go to, Covid-19 or not, that really has emerged as a big issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/breathless-in-delhi-ambulances-with-cylinder-challenge-for-families-patients/story-FuXmjrAI9yUuM3Ui7TK06J.html
12-06-2020||City||Man kills elder brother in sleep, arrested||Jawhar police on Thursday arrested a man for killing his elder brother while he was asleep. The accused then tried to trick police by calling them to inform about the murder of his brother, by an unknown person.According to the police, the accused Parshuram Gawte, 28, worked as a bus conductor with the Vasai civic bus service. He stayed at Umbarvihir village with his elder brother (victim), Vishnu Gawte, 35, who was an alcoholic. Inspector Appasaheb Lengare said, “On Wednesday night, Vishnu came home drunk and assaulted his family members. Parshuram in a fit of rage strangulated Vishnu while he was asleep. Parshuram then called us and informed that an unknown man had murdered Vishnu.”Later, Ramu, his father, to save his family, claimed to have committed the murder, said Lengare.“On interrogating them separately, we found discrepancies in their statement. Parshuram then confessed to the murder. The accused also said that he was tired of his alcoholic brother’s behaviour, hence he killed him, said Lengare. Parshuram has been remanded in police custody for a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-elder-brother-in-sleep-arrested/story-6BzTO2BeRQ4fmgFriQPHtO.html
12-06-2020||City||Himachal ready to meet greater Covid-19 challenges: CM Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal Pradesh is competent and fully prepared to handle any situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic in the future, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Friday.Interacting with media persons here through video-conferencing, Thakur said that the state has the necessary arrangements in place to deal with 5,000 cases if there is a community spread.“The facilities are being strengthened further in the health institutions across the state. We are fully prepared to meet greater Covid-19 challenges,” he said.Currently, the situation in the state was under control, the chief minister said, adding that 475 cases reported to date, of which most cases are of people who returned from other states.In May first week, Thakur said, the state was almost on the verge of becoming coronavirus-free but the arrival of people from outside the state resulted in the increase of cases.“These were either students or those who worked in the other states,” he said.More than 1.95 lakh people from Himachal who were stranded in parts of the country were brought back by the government, the CM said, adding that the spread of the virus has made a worldwide impact.CM said that the state has been tackling the situation better than the neighbouring states due to stricter quarantine norms. He thanked his team as well as the people of the state for battling the virus.Coronavirus is here to stay, we must march onThe chief minister added that coronavirus may stay for a long time, “but we need to march on to keep the economy afloat.”He said that the country was in the Unlock Phase-I and accordingly public transport and other economic activities have started in the state.He said that the country, as well as the state, has benefited from the ₹20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by the Centre.Thakur also slammed the opposition Congress for playing politics at the hour of distress.He alleged that opposition leaders were nowhere to be seen during the crisis but tried to take political mileage in matters where some people were involved in corruption.“If we make mistakes, the opposition has a right to criticise us but it should be in a constructive way and not for political gains,” said the chief minister.Thakur said that his government also took swift action in matters where people were involved in corruption be it the sanitiser scam or bribery case involving the director of health services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-ready-to-meet-greater-covid-19-challenges-cm-jai-ram-thakur/story-0mZAadFkpsAQFXpCOlAEAN.html
12-06-2020||City||Covid-19: Odisha Police collects Rs 1.25 crore as fine from people not wearing mask||Odisha Police has collected a sum of Rs 1.25 crore as fine from people caught in public places without face masks across the state, a top police officer said on Friday.Director General of Police (DGP) Abhay said this while attending a video conference chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik.While participating in the meeting, the DGP informed that Odisha Police has collected Rs 1,25,84,180 from people over violation of the mandatory mask use norm.The state government has made wearing of mask compulsory. It increased the fine amount for offenders from Rs 200 to Rs 500. The penalty amount was also increased to Rs 1,000 after two repeated violations on mask use, the official said.The DGP also said that Rs 11,74,350 has been collected from people who violated the social distancing norm and Rs 1,03,800 from offenders of night curfew norms imposed by the state government. The police have also collected a penalty of Rs 3,000 from violators of the week-end shutdown norms imposed in 11 districts, the DGP said.He said apart from doing its regular duties, the Odisha police personnel are also engaged in creating awareness among the people on mask use, social distancing and repeated hand wash practice.While implementing a directive issued by the chief minister on “zero walking inside Odisha for inter-state migrants”, the DGP said the police undertook 524 trips in different vehicles to transport as many as 24,587 people and dropped them at different border points. The police personnel also provide security to 8002 temporary medical camps set up by the state government to lodge the migrant workers returning from different states since May 3.As many as 5,22,148 people have returned to the state by June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-odisha-police-collects-rs-1-25-crore-as-fine-from-people-not-wearing-mask/story-1NigLoQ5wtotmDtZMC1uHI.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Retired teacher loses gold chain to snatcher in Chandigarh||A motorcyclist snatched a 62-year-old retired teacher’s gold chain while she was out for a morning walk in Sector 40 on Thursday.The victim, Nirmal Thakur, of Sector 40, told the police that she and her husband were taking a walk around 5.30am. While they were near the Radha Krishan temple, four men on two motorcycles stopped nearby, and one of them got down. Before she could realise, the man snatched her gold chain and fled from the spot with the help of his accomplices. Her husband chased them, but they managed to flee. On her complaint, a case under Section 379-A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 39 police station. Police said they were scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/retired-teacher-loses-gold-chain-to-snatcher-in-chandigarh/story-p1jPQu9HsEyFk9JDpcPpIP.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three arrested for consuming liquor in public||Police arrested three men for consuming liquor in public at the IT Park on Thursday. Those arrested are Arjun Mauli of Vikas Nagar, Sanjay of Saketri village, and Ravi of Phase 2, Ram Darbar. A case under the Punjab Police Act and Section 510 (misconduct in public by a drunken person) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the IT Park police station. The trio was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-arrested-for-consuming-liquor-in-public/story-dtou6Gsar9L1em2gCaASRN.html
12-06-2020||Dehradun||69 fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported in Uttarakhand, tally rises to 1,724||With 69 fresh Covid-19 cases reported from Uttarakhand on Friday, the tally of total cases in the state increased to 1724.Of these1724 cases, 947 people have recovered from CoviD-19. Fifty two Covid-19 patients have also recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state on Friday.A bulletin released by the state health department stated that 69 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The cases were reported from districts like Rudraprayag (7), Chamoli (3), Dehradun (17), Haridwar (30) , US Nagar (9) and Tehri Garhwal (3) and US Nagar (4).Out of the 17 cases reported from Dehradun, ten had no travel history. In Haridwar, of 30 positive cases, two were primary contacts of an earlier positive patient. All the other patients had returned to the state from places like Chhattisgarh, Nepal, Maharashtra, Delhi-NCR, Chandigarh, Meerut and NoidaDehradun has so far the maximum Covid-19 positive cases (449) followed by Nainital (334), Tehri Garhwal (259) and Haridwar (200) have reported the highest number of positive cases in the state so far. The state now has a total of 60 containment zones across five districts of which the maximum containment zones at 29 are in Haridwar district.According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Friday afternoon, the rate of infection in the state now stands at 4.53% and the recovery rate has reached 52.90.13%. The rate of doubling in the state based on the last seven days stands at 17.28 days. Uttarakhand has so far tested over 42,000 samples of which results of over 4400 are awaited.On Thursday, the state had reported 93 fresh Covid-19 cases. Samples of a patient who was undergoing treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh and had died on Wednesday, tested positive on Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/37-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-uttarakhand-tally-rises-to-1-692/story-trNza8P8n1kxRu3K60PsbK.html
12-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka’s Udupi, Yadgir among emerging districts of concern for Covid-19 in country||The Central government has identified Karnataka’s Udupi and Yadgir among the “emerging districts of concern” for Covid-19 in the country.Confirming the development, a top official of the state health department said, “they (centre) had reviewed these two districts a few days back...there was a sudden spurt of cases due to Maharashtra returnees turning positive.” Sources said union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, during a recent video conference with state chief secretaries and health secretaries, had shared his thoughts on the issue.According to the information shared, districts with more than 400 cases, half of which was reported post May 18 lockdown relaxation, have been identified as “emerging districts of concern.” They are concentrated in the seven states/union territories of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana. “Udupi and Yadgir from Karnataka, along with Gurugram in Haryana and Kolhapur in Maharashtra have 90 per cent of the cases recorded after May 18,” they said. As on June 11 evening, Udupi had a total of 969 positive cases, out of which 619 are active, while 735 positive cases have been reported in Yadgir, out of which 626 are active. The two districts had reported a total of only 11 cases each as on May 18.While Udupi till last evening had seen 349 discharges, it was 108 in Yadgir. Both districts have reported one Covid-19 related fatality so far.As of June 11 evening, cumulatively 6,245 Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed in the state, which included 72 deaths and 2,976 discharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-s-udupi-yadgir-among-emerging-districts-of-concern-for-covid-19-in-country/story-Me5vhsT4pbkTAupREFRnBK.html
12-06-2020||City||Lashkar militant held with weapon in south Kashmir’s Shopian||A newly recruited militant of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) was arrested by security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, police said on Friday.The arrested militant, identified as Zubair Hassain Khan alias Ameer, was arrested during a cordon-and-search operation by security forces and the police at Astanpora village in Shopian during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.A police spokesperson said the operation was launched after the security forces came to know about the militant’s presence in the village.“A pistol and 12 rounds of ammunition were recovered from the militant’s possession,” the spokesperson said adding that a case has been registered against him.In separate operations since Monday, 14 terrorists, most of them local militants, were killed in Shopian district in three different encounters. Police said the militants also killed a civilian in Pinjoora village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lashkar-militant-held-with-weapon-in-south-kashmir-s-shopian/story-JtZiBwxd5JZpfQfHIJJT0K.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||My father was brave, I too have to be brave, says murdered Anantnag sarpanch’s daughter||Days after her father was killed by terrorists in Kashmir, Niyanta Pandita, daughter of sarpanch Ajay Pandita Bharti said she will follow her father’s footsteps.Ajay Pandita Bharti, a sarpanch in south Kashmir’s Anantnag, was shot from close range by terrorists and killed near his residence on Monday.Niyanta said the family, which is currently in Jammu, will soon be moving back to Kashmir.“My father was brave and I too have to be brave, we will not allow anybody to snatch our rights,” she said.She said the terrorists who shot her father had been cowardly. “They didn’t have the guts to face him,” she said. “They could have shot him in the chest, but they fired from behind, it is simply a case of cowardice,” she said.PANDITA HAD DEMANDED SECURITY She said her father had demanded security cover from the government after a sarpanch was killed in November last year. She said though no security was given, it didn’t deter or scare him from speaking for his people.She said if her father had been given security, and his concerns had not been left unheard, maybe his death could have been averted. She said the incident should serve as a lesson for the government. “The government should not take people’s concerns lightly,” she said.“My father wasn’t scared for himself, but was concerned about the safety of his family,” she said. “Whatever the government deems right regarding providing security to sarpanchs, it must do that, I don’t want a similar tragedy repeated in Kashmir,” she said.She said her father was elected sarpanch with the support of the people and had contested the elections on the insistence of the locals.‘SOMEBODY TIPPED OFF TERRORISTS’ “They trusted him, I don’t say that every person is bad there, but there are some bad people too, otherwise how could they (the terrorists) have known when he left the block and reached home, and then went outside,” she said.She said her father was not dependent on any party. He loved his country and worked for the upliftment of the people.“He was the son of the nation. He doesn’t belong to any party,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/my-father-was-brave-i-too-have-to-be-brave-says-murdered-anantnag-sarpanch-s-daughter-niyanta-pandita/story-5BtrOD1llRnEoG8mftwpQK.html
12-06-2020||Pune||Without domestic helps, senior citizens in Pune struggle to manage homes as housing societies follow safety rules||Pune Since the unlock 1.0 has started in Pune city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given several relaxations to the citizens. One of them is allowing domestic helps to come to work at home, specially for the senior citizens in the city. Still there are large number of elderly people who are not able to get the help from their domestic helps due to various reasons like domestic helps are coming from containment zones, housing societies not allowing or making stringent rules for them. HT spoke to some of the elderly couples around the city who are struggling without domestic helps in day to day life.Manohar Chobhe (83) and Suniti Chobhe (77) resident of Subhashnagar area, Tilak road“We both are living alone here in our house and after the lockdown started one by one all our domestic helps stopped coming for work. We had three domestic helps for different works in the house, as we both are not able to do anything on our own. But as they didn’t come, both of us divided the work between both of us and somehow managing to do the work. I have back pain and spondylosis problem, so cooking, cleaning utensils and washing clothes was very painful for me,” said Suniti Chobhe.While Manohar Chobhe said, “More than physical pain we both are going through mental pain allot during this crisis situation. Both our son and daughter are living in other states due to their work and cannot come here to help us. There were positive cases found in our area, so domestic helps or any other people were banned to come here. We are just hoping that this lockdown ends soon and maids come back for work taking all safety precautions.”Satish Rajaram Jadhav (65) and Sarita Satish Jadhav (61) resident of Ganesh Complex housing society, Bibwewadi areaSharing their experience without the domestic help, Satish Jadhav said, “In the month of February I had a minor operation of stomach and since then I am not able to move easily. After the lockdown one domestic help which we had in the house stopped coming to work. This ultimately brought workload on my wife and also on me, so she used to do all cooking part and other household work. I would help her in sweeping and small cleaning work. But as my stomach used to pain allot, I would not do much work.”Sarita Jadhav said, “Initially it was going fine with us, but after few days it started taking toll on both of us. We would get exhausted by doing household things, so we started let go some of the works. For outside work like getting grocery items, milk and other things we have now contacted the shop owners and their person drops the things to our doorstep.”Charminkumar Oza (67) and Prafullaben Oza (66) resident of Shukratara Society, Shukrawar peth“We are living with our son and had two domestic helps coming earlier for work, also there was a woman caretaker which used to come to stay with my wife during the day time. My wife has medical conditions and is undergoing treatment from few months now, she needs a walker to walk and so all the household work we were dependent on domestic helps . But due to the lockdown everything stopped suddenly and we were left with option to work on our own. So I daily do the cleaning and other small parts of daily work in the house, even our son helps sometimes but as he works in IT field he has his own priorities,” said Charminkumar Oza.“Apart from that for getting groceries and vegetables from outside I only go to the nearby shops. It certainly affects our health allot and keeping the energy in such situation is more important. If the domestic helps come back soon it will be a great relief for us.” he added.Housing societies talking about the issue“There actually is no ambiguity about the government notifications. The trepidation caused by corona, resulted in some MCs misinterpreting these directions either because of majority opinion or their personal prejudices resulting in banning domestic helps or making their employment near impossible by imposing various internal conditions. Pune’s middle and higher classes cannot do without domestic helps beyond a point for various reasons and compulsions of the city life. While townships and large complexes, overwhelmed by the daunting task of domestic helps verification, safety measures are at times in a fix but to contravene the government directions and cause inconvenience to needy residents, especially the seniors, is not correct.” said Dhairyashil Vandekar who is the resident and administrator of Fragrancia Society in Koregaon Park area.“Domestic helps were also banned by us till such time the government permitted them to work. We ensure strict compliance of all laid down government instructions with regard to their engagements. They are regularly apprised of the situation and consequences in case of an eventuality to ensure they do not compromise on the precautionary measures. A routine check on their family activities, cautioning and counselling on the do’s and don’ts is also done. While use of all types of devices for health check are useful it is always more safe in having an informed and aware domestic help,” he added.While Satosh Sabnis, chairman of the Suyog Nagar housing society located off Senapati Bapat road said, “After the lockdown was started we stopped domestic helps from coming to our society, but then there was demand from some of the senior citizens that they actually are in need of the domestic helps. So we made a list of residents in our society who are in need of domestic helps, then we also took details of each and every domestic help coming to our society. We got a list of containment zones from the police department and then we came to know that 90 per cent of domestic helps coming to our society were coming from the containment zones. Accordingly only 4 to 5 domestic helps were allowed to come for work that too with all the safety precautions, as residents also want help from domestic helps but not by compromising safety of their own and other residents in the society.”Doctors sayDr Prakash Rokade, medical officer at Aundh Civil Hospital said, “The main thing is to follow all the guidelines given by the government about taking safety precautions. Domestic helps are allowed to come for work to the housing societies but there are several rules and regulations given for that. If the domestic help is coming from the containment zone then she is not allowed, others can come but with having face mask, proper cleanliness, using hand sanitizers, not roaming around the society premises without any reason and other majors. We all should first remove fear about the disease, but at the same time needs to be alert and aware about taking precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/without-domestic-helps-senior-citizens-in-pune-struggle-to-manage-homes-as-housing-societies-follow-safety-rules/story-Jn2w233yw7O5oGyJ7pTvwM.html
12-06-2020||City||Rajouri reports first Covid-19 death, J&K toll climbs to 53||A 65-year-old man from Kalakote area of Rajouri district succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the Government Medical College and Hospital here on Friday morning. With this, the J&K death toll stands at 53.Medical superintendent Dr Dara Singh said, “The man was hospitalised on June 1 after he took a tumble on the stairs in his house and suffered head injuries.”“He tested positive for Covid-19 on June 2, after which he was shifted to the isolation ward. He passed away around 9.30am,” Singh said. Around 1pm, his mortal remains reached his native Nangala village in Rajouri where he was buried as per the SOPs meant for Covid-19 victims, said Singh.With his death, Rajouri has reported the first Covid-19 fatality. Six people have been claimed by the disease in Jammu division.Meanwhile, Srinagar has recorded 12 deaths, Baramulla 10 deaths, Kulgam eight, Anantnag six, Shopian, Kupwara and Jammu three, Pulwama and Budgam two and Bandipora, Doda, Udhampur and Rajouri have reported one death each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajouri-reports-first-covid-19-death-j-k-toll-climbs-to-53/story-rybk2jkfndZLR1yoatYNfJ.html
12-06-2020||Jaipur||Four die due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan||Rajasthan registered four Covid-19 deaths and 92 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Friday, according to an official report.The number of fatalities in the state due to coronavirus has climbed to 269, wile the number of cases has increased to 11,930.Ajmer, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh and Sirohi reported one death each, while the maximum of the positive cases were reported from Sirohi (34).Jaipur and Jhunjhunu reported 24 and 10 cases each, while 7 cases were reported from Ajmer and Alwar each. Jhalawar reported 3 cases, Tonk, Kota and Sawaimadhopur reported 2 cases each. One person from another state also tested positive for Covid-19, the report said.As many as 8,843 Covid-19 patients have so far recovered and 8,479 have been discharged. There are 2,818 active cases in the state as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/four-die-due-to-covid-19-in-rajasthan/story-qvc2S5PwZ2zGUrSb7vuWNO.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister tests positive for coronavirus||A Maharashtra minister has tested positive for coronavirus but he is asymptomatic and his condition is stable, Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope disclosed on Friday.He is a third minister in Maharashtra to contract the virus. Jitendra Awhad (NCP) and Ashok Chavan (Congress) had tested positive earlier; both recovered from the infection.Asked whether others who had attended the cabinet meeting and the NCP event will be tested, Tope said social distancing was observed on both the occasions.If anyone has suspicion (of having caught infection) or develops symptoms, he or she should be tested as per the Indian Council of Medical Research’s guidelines, Tope said. “It is true he has tested positive. He is stable. He is asymptomatic, but there is a minor problem of breathlessness,” the health minister told reporters.“We are admitting him to Breach Candy Hospital (in South Mumbai). He is a fighter. He will be active in eight to ten days,” Tope said.“He was there at the cabinet meeting and NCP foundation day ceremony. But we observed social distancing during the meeting as instructed by Dada (Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar),” Tope said.The NCP’s foundation day event lasted only five minutes, Tope said, as only state NCP chief Jayant Patil made a short speech. “Only five NCP leaders were present for the flag hoisting. Social distancing was strictly observed,” he added.“Testing can be conducted if any person develops symptoms. No question of conducting tests if there are no symptoms,” Tope said.The minister urged people to take all precautions including social distancing at public places and workplaces “till a vaccine becomes available”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-dhananjay-munde-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-Z1Rk2Fv55Siqc0bGmoGULL.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||18-year-old woman abducted in broad daylight in Jhajjar||An 18-year-old woman was abducted by unidentified men in a broad day light in Jhajjar on Friday, the incident was caught on CCTV camera.The incident took place when the teenager with her mother was returning home. Unidentified men forced her into a car and drove away.CCTV footage shows the woman’s mother tried to stop the kidnappers but she was dragged away. Police have initiated an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-year-old-woman-abducted-in-broad-daylight-in-jhajjar/story-XAfaDVtHsvdtyMLDJXpqcO.html
12-06-2020||City||UP: Couple commits suicide after family objects to relationship||A man and a woman, who were in a relationship, allegedly hanged themselves from a tree in Kandhai area here after their families barred them from meeting each other, police said on Friday. Shubham (24) and Sujata (18) allegedly took the extreme step in Pragaspur village on Thursday night and their bodies were spotted by the passersby on Friday morning, Kandhai Police Station incharge Vipin Kumar Singh said. After coming to know about the relationship, the family members of the couple had recently barred them from meeting each other, he said. The bodies have been sent for post mortem, Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-couple-commits-suicide-after-family-objects-to-relationship/story-J1LpR4R21xO1L4RL6oRFQP.html
12-06-2020||Bangalore||Surge in Covid-19 cases likely in Karnataka after August 15: Minister||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Friday said experts have indicated a surge in coronavirus cases in the state after August 15 and the government was taking all precautionary measures in that direction.Speaking to reporters in Ballari, Sudhakar said, “About 97 percent of over 3,000 active cases in the state are asymptomatic.Experts after studying the developments in other countries and states have said that there will be a surge in infections after August 15.” He said the government was taking all precautionary measures in that direction.As of June 11 evening, cumulatively 6,245 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 72 deaths and 2,976 discharges, the health department’s bulletin said. It said, out of 3,195 active cases, 3,185 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 10 are in ICU.Meanwhile, in a tweet pointing out that nearly 60 per cent of the Covid -19 cases in the country are from 10 cities, Sudhakar said, despite being the fourth most populous city in the country Bengaluru has been successful in containing its spread. “Nearly 60% of total Covid-19 cases in India are found in 10 cities. Despite being 4th most populous, Bengaluru has been successful in containing spread of virus. I urge people to keep up the fight, continue vigil & together with #CoronaWarriors we can defeat the virus,” Sudhakar tweeted.Bengaluru that does not figure in the list of 10 cities shared by the Minister has reported 581 coronavirus cases till last evening, out of which 258 are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/surge-in-covid-19-cases-likely-in-karnataka-after-august-15-minister/story-EMMG87tPI5oNEgCdy4ZBSK.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Olympian, CWG gold medalist boxer Manoj Kumar’s coach Rajesh recommended for Dronacharya Award||Former boxing national coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu has recommended the name of Kurukshetra University’s boxing coach Rajesh Kumar for the country’s highest coaching honour, the Dronacharya Award, for the year 2019-20 in the lifetime achievement category. Rajesh is credited for shaping Olympian and Arjuna awardee boxer Manoj Kumar’s career, Manoj has competed in the 2012 London and 2016 Rio Olympics and won gold the 2010 Commonwealth Games held in New Delhi. His last major win was a bronze in the 2018 Commonwealth Games.Manoj, who was bestowed with the Arjuna award in 2014, said, “I am from a humble background and had Rajesh coach sahab not taken a keen interest in me, I would not have been able to pursue the sport. All that I am today is because of him. I had many bad phases in my boxing career and it was because of his (referring to Rajesh) efforts that I was able to pull through. Though he is my elder brother, our relation is that of guru-shishya. He is no less than Dronacharya to me.” 20-YEAR COACHING CAREER Rajesh has been a coach for 20 years. He had joined Kurukshetra University as a boxing coach in 2015.Apart from Manoj, Rajesh has produced a number of national and international boxers.Notably, Rajesh was also the coach of the Haryana women’s team, which had made a record for winning 10 medals in as many weight categories in the 2016 national championship.Under his tutelage, the Kurukshetra University won first position in the Khelo India University Games.As a Dronacharya awardee, Sandhu can recommend the name for this prestigious coaching honour. INTERNATIONAL AIBA TWO STAR COACH In his recommendation to the sports ministry, Sandhu, who was the national coach when Vijender Singh won the country’s first Olympic medal in 2008 Beijing Games, also highlighted that Rajesh was an international AIBA two star coach and is the only coach from India to represent the British franchise ‘The British Lion Hearts’ boxing team in the 2017 World Boxing Series.“It is an honour for me that a great coach like Sandhu sir found my credentials worthy enough to be recommended for the Dronacharya Award. I have learnt a lot from him as he is the one who changed the Indian boxing scene,” said Rajesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/olympian-cwg-gold-medalist-boxer-manoj-kumar-s-coach-rajesh-recommended-for-dronacharya-award/story-HsD7d7f4HZFKUhG5TAqDrJ.html
12-06-2020||Pune||SPPU prepares exam schedule for final year students||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), along with its affiliated colleges, has begun preparations to conduct the exams for final-year students, based on a notification issued by the state government on May 8.The notification states that only final-year students will appear for the exams.Uddhav Thackeray, state chief minister, had earlier said that final-year students will be promoted based on their previous academic record, after which the state governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari had opposed the decision and said the universities’ chancellors will take the final call on the same.NS Umrani, pro-vice-chancellor, SPPU, said, “The preparations for the final-year exams are underway. We have not received any formal orders from the state government on promoting students or conducting exams. So we are preparing as per the schedule which we had received from the state government on May 8.”“If we get any new orders from the state government we will implement the same,” said Umrani.According to SPPU officials, the management council meeting was held earlier this week in which it was decided to carry out preparations for the exams as scheduled. A time-table has been prepared, the process of collecting data from colleges and redesigning the exam process has also been decided.Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, said, “Our primary preparations for conducting the exams in the college are complete, but we are now waiting for detailed guidelines from SPPU.”“We are yet to get clarity on the duration of the exam and seating arrangements from SPPU. Once we get the clarity on it, the actual process of preparations will start within the college,” said Pardeshi.Sagar More, a student from Arts stream, said, “I am pursuing a degree at SPPU, but currently I am in my village in Kolhapur. We have not received any communication from the university about the exams.”“If we get the exam time-table we can start preparations accordingly,” he added.Ruksana Patil Shaikh, a student of Women’s Studies Centre, SPPU, said, “Exams are important for students, but safety is equally important. Whatever decision is taken about the exams the safety of the students should be the top priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-prepares-exam-schedule-for-final-year-students/story-vP9uT9xKqaGWn10r4rkNpL.html
12-06-2020||Lucknow||UP govt employs 300 workers under MNREGS on river restoration project||The Uttar Pradesh government has begun work to restore the Kalyani river in the Barabanki district with the aim to provide employment to around 300 people including migrant workers during the Covid-19 lockdown.The work, to be covered under the MNREG scheme, is being done on a 2.6 kilometre stretch in the Mavaiya area of Barabanki in an attempt to restore the river that is turning into a ‘nullah’.Deputy commissioner, MNREGA-Barabanki, ND Dwivedi said, “Yes, we have begun work on a stretch of 2.6 km from Mavaiya to Holi Purwa in Barabanki for restoration of the Kalyan river. A budget of about Rs 59 lakh has been earmarked under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) for the river restoration project. We propose to create work for about 30,000 mandays by making the river 1.5 metre deep and 25 metre wide. We hope to complete the work on the present stretch by June 30.”The source of the 170 km long river is Dhannag lake, a pilgrimage centre on the Barabanki-Sitapur border. Authorities hope the restoration work will help in ensuring smooth flow of the river which ultimately merges with the Gomti river in Ayodhya.The restoration work on the river will likely continue in other parts of the state as well, creating more jobs including for migrant workers. “This is a small stretch of the river. If the work being carried out under MNREGA is found satisfactory, more such stretches will be undertaken to restore the river all along its course,” said a district functionary associated with the MNREGS.A campaign demanding restoration of the Kalyani was launched in 2013. But it drew the attention of district administration only recently.“The Kalyani loses all signs of being a river right from the Dhannag lake (a large part of which is in Sitapur), the point of its origin where a fair is also organised on Kartik Purnima every year. A dried up stretch of about two kilometres is the only sign of the river’s origin from the lake. About a 30 km stretch of the river from Khujji to Nigoha is being illegally used for farming. Later, water seepage from the Sharada canal reaches the Kalyani and it takes the shape of a river in some parts,” said Ram Lakhan Shukla, convenor of the Save River Campaign launched in 2013.“The district administration’s decision to launch the restoration drive is a welcome move and will ensure flow of water in the river,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-employs-300-workers-under-mnregs-on-river-restoration-project/story-qZ1QYWr0a2b0LBDltQO0BL.html
12-06-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 58 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||The King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow informed that out of total 1,916 samples tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, results of 58 were positive.Out of the 58 new cases, one is from Hardoi, 19 from Barabanki, one from Gorakhpur, eight from Kannauj, seven from Shahjahanpur, three from Ayodhya, seven from Sambhal and 12 from Lucknow.India’s Covid-19 tally on Friday witnessed its highest-ever spike of 10,956 cases, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.396 deaths have been reported due to the infection during the last 24 hours.The total number of coronavirus cases in the country now stands at 2,97,535 including 1,41,842 active cases, 1,47,195 cured/discharged/migrated and 8,498 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-reports-58-new-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours/story-VQEwkTfy2au5nhK9o2gkDO.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Una superintendent of police’s office sealed after constable tests positive for Covid-19||The office of the Una superintendent of police (SP) was sealed late on Thursday after a constable deployed there tested positive for Covid-19.A resident of Ward 8 of the town, the constable had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient.SP Karthikeyan Gokulachandran said that the office will remain closed till further orders and the entire staff will be tested for coronavirus infection.Apart from the constable, three more Covid-19 cases were reported in the district. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said that the new cases include two sisters, aged 18 and 19 years, from Katohar Kalan in Amb sub division.They had returned from Delhi and were under home quarantine.The fourth case was reported from Pakka Parho village of Amb where a youngster has tested positive. He had also returned from Delhi and was under home quarantine. One case has been detected in Bilaspur where an employee of a herbal company has tested positive.So far, Himachal has recorded 475 cases, of which 276 have recovered, while six, including three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease.Eleven patients have migrated to other states.Kangra and Hamirpur are the worst-hit districts with 126 cases each.A total of 61 patients have been reported from Una, 37 from Solan, 34 from Chamba, 25 from Bilaspur, 23 from Sirmaur, 22 from Mandi, 15 from Shimla, four from Kullu and two from Kinnaur.The active cases in the state has come down to 177 as 26 patients have recovered.Kangra has a maximum of 58 active cases.SP, SDM OFFICES CLOSED IN BADDI, NALAGARH FOR A DAYThe Baddi SP’s office and Nalagarh SDM’s office were closed for a day on Friday.Baddi police station will also remain closed.Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said that a former pradhan of Gullerwala panchayat, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, had reportedly visited these offices.The office premises were sanitised on Thursday evening. Meanwhile, the Solan health authorities have traced all his 44 primary contacts and they have been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/una-superintendent-of-police-s-office-sealed-after-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-sAGtVhgMSX7zHDQORzx4lJ.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Missing 15-year-old girl found dead in Kullu’s Parvati river||A 15-year-old girl who was reported missing on May 28 was found dead near the Sandhya Hydro Power Project Balargha on Parvati river in Kullu on Friday. The victim was a resident of Pul village in Manikaran.The victims’ body was spotted by local residents in the river. The body was taken to the regional hospital in Kullu for a postmortem, after which it was handed over to her family.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said an investigation was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-15-year-old-girl-found-dead-in-kullu-s-parvati-river/story-tzNjhJMtXXMI7xxFiwtxEP.html
12-06-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan nearing 12,000; 92 new cases reported||Rajasthan registered four Covid-19 deaths and 92 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Friday, according to an official report.The number of fatalities in the state due to coronavirus has climbed to 269, wile the number of cases has increased to 11,930.Ajmer, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh and Sirohi reported one death each, while the maximum of the positive cases were reported from Sirohi (34).Jaipur and Jhunjhunu reported 24 and 10 cases each, while 7 cases were reported from Ajmer and Alwar each. Jhalawar reported 3 cases, Tonk, Kota and Sawaimadhopur reported 2 cases each. One person from another state also tested positive for Covid-19, the report said.As many as 8,843 Covid-19 patients have so far recovered and 8,479 have been discharged. There are 2,818 active cases in the state as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-nearing-12-000-92-new-cases-reported/story-pS4WvmtyynsnSQ0aPuNbeJ.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||67-year-old woman from Jalandhar succumbs to Covid-19 in Ludhiana||Ludhiana: A 67-year-old woman from Grover Colony, Jalandhar, died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana early on Friday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the woman, Shanu Sharma, was admitted on June 5 and tested positive the next day.Medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, who is in-charge of the Covid-19 units of the hospital, said the patient was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. She was suffering from diabetes and hypertension besides flu symptoms. She was on ventilator support ever since she was admitted in the hospital.LUDHIANA WOMAN DIES AT GMCH-32Dr Bagga said that a 42-year-old woman of Ajit Nagar in Amarpura of Ludhiana died at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, on Thursday evening.The deceased was identified as Sunita and was rushed to the civil hospital on June 9 with flu sumptoms. Her family members said she was trouble breathing.As her condition deteriorated, she was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H). On June 10, she tested positive for Covid-19. As ventilator support was not available, the patient was referred to GMCH-32 where she died.Sunita’s son, who has been kept in isolation along with other family members, alleged that they were made to rush from one hospital to another but his mother was not given treatment. He said that if his mother would have got ventilator support in time, she may have survived.179 CURED OF CORONAVIRUS IN LUDHIANAEight patients from other districts and states have lost their lives in Ludhiana’s hospitals while battling Covid-19, whereas 10 people from the district, including assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli, have succumbed to the virus.The total count of coronavirus positive patients in Ludhiana has reached 313, while 113 patients are from other districts and states.A total of 179 patients have been cured of the virus.Meanwhile, all 38 people whose samples were sent for the Covid-19 test on June 8 from the collection centre at civil hospital, Khanna, have come out to be negative. This includes 12 contacts of the positive doctor couple working at the Mohandai Oswal Hospital and 13 domestic travellers besides 13 other cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/67-year-old-woman-from-jalandhar-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-St1i3h0OUTgP3kyaRrZTsI.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Tribals in Spiti valley opt for self-governance in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic||In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, residents of Spiti in Himachal’s Lahaul-Spiti district have imposed self-governance and are following their own set of guidelines to ensure the valley remains corona-free. On June 9, villagers in Spiti valley did not allow local legislator and agriculture minister Ram Lal Markanda from entering the valley. While the minister termed the protest against him ‘politically motivated’, locals say Markanda was denied entry in a bid to protect the valley and its people from the deadly contagion, as the valley lacks adequate health services. JOINT COMMITTEE FORMED While the Centre only imposed the lockdown on March 24, Spiti valley had begun formulating strategies, raising awareness and holding discussions about the novel coronavirus in February 2020. On March 17, locals formed a ‘committee for preventive measures and sustainable development’ (CPMSD) comprising yuva mandals, mahila mandals, local panchayats, gram sabhas, social action groups and lamas from five monasteries.The committee decided to shut all hotels, dhabas, and transport services in the area before the national lockdown was imposed.The entry of non-locals was barred and a 15-day quarantine period was made mandatory for people of the valley coming from outside. The entrance to the valley is guarded by locals and the committee issued guidelines regarding arrangements to be made for home quarantine. The locals also monitored the arrival essentials such as LPG, diesel, petrol, fuel wood, and vegetables from outside the district. “As we are located in a remote and cold desert area, which is also a tourist hotspot, we realised we were vulnerable to the disease,” said a local, requesting anonymity. COMMERCIAL FARMING PUT ON HIATUS“We banned labour from outside and farmers decided to grow traditional crops instead of commercial crops even if it translated into losses,” said CMPSD member Lhmo Buitith.The locals have also urged the government to stop HRTC bus services from plying in the area.“CMPSD has ensured that all rules and guidelines are applicable to all people without any bias or discrimination,” said Buitith. “It is difficult to maintain physical distance due to heavy dependence on community due to shared lifestyle and livelihood practices in the tribal area,” Buitith said.“Separating elders and children was difficult as in most families three or four generations live together,” said Buitith. SPECIAL STATUS IN CONSTITUTIONScheduled areas and tribes have been given special status in the constitution of India. The 73rd constitutional amendment and provisions of different acts confer powers on the local communities through gram sabhas to take decisions to protect its area, resources, livelihoods and cultural and social existence.“At the time of such an unprecedented crisis, it is not just necessary for us to take steps to ensure our safety but also completely legitimate. Public health experts and the government’s ICMR Task Force has clearly said that the policy of lockdown should not be ‘one size fits all’, but rather be implemented according to local context,” said CMPSD member Lhmo Buitith.“The people of Spiti, to secure and protect their existence, have decided to postpone their regular means of income such tourism and commercial farming for a whole year as such it is the moral duty of the government and its representatives to cooperate with the locals,” Buitith said. The tribal community, which has a population of 13,000 spread across 30 villages, has also been concerned about protecting its existence, ethnic and cultural heritage, which has evolved over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tribals-in-spiti-valley-opt-for-self-governance-in-the-wake-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-ZdtaTt0XHrqc6MP5dXQJTO.html
12-06-2020||Lucknow||11 injured in violence in UP’s Azamgarh, dozen men arrested: Police||At least 11 people were injured in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh district after an altercation over objectionable comments on some girls, police said on Friday. The incident happened in Maharajganj town in the district.The dozen men who attacked them have been arrested, the police said.Superintendent of Police (SP), Azamgarh, Triveni Singh said that according to the complainants, Pervez and Faizan along with his accomplices used to sit at a tubewell on the outskirts of their village in Maharajganj and used to pass insulting and taunting comments on the girls and women of Dalit Basti.On Wednesday evening, they passed comment on the two girls from the Dalit Basti. When the people of Dalit basti objected to it, Pervej and Faizan along with his over one dozen accomplices attacked them and indulged into stone pelting in which 11 members of Dalit Basti suffered injuries, Singh said.Police said that after the incident, locals filed a complaint against Parvej, Faizan and other unidentified people.A senior officer said that a case has been registered against nine people and 10 unidentified under Section 147 (rioting), Section 149 (Unlawful assembly), Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), Section 504 (intentional insult), Section 506 (criminal intimidation), Section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), Section 188 (Disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), Section 271 (disobedience to rule promulgated by government) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocties) act has also been imposed.The SP said that 12 people have so far been arrested and seven others are on the run.He said that four teams have been formed to ensure their arrest. Those injured have been admitted to the hospital.SP said that there is a possibility that Gangster Act and NSA can also be invoked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/11-injured-in-violence-in-up-s-azamgarh-dozen-men-arrested-police/story-tKZv2Gg4LC0n1RU4b9nhAO.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, alumnus and soil scientist wins prestigious World Food Prize||Indian-American soil scientist Dr Rattan Lal, an alumnus of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, has won the prestigious World Food Prize, considered to be equivalent to a Nobel Prize in agriculture, in recognition of his contribution to increase the global food supply by helping small farmers improve their soil’s health.Dr Lal, 75, in his career spanning more than five decades and four continents, has promoted innovative soil-saving techniques benefiting the livelihoods of more than 500 million small farmers, improving the food and nutritional security of more than two billion people and saving hundreds of millions of hectares of natural tropical ecosystems, the World Food Prize Foundation said in a statement on Thursday.“Dr Rattan Lal, a native of Punjab and a citizen of the United States, will receive the 2020 World Food Prize for developing and mainstreaming a soil-centric approach to increasing food production that restores and conserves natural resources and mitigates climate change,” the Iowa-based foundation said.“Soil science has been recognised by this award. I feel very happy about it,” he told PTI in an interview after the announcement.The award is especially important because the first recipient of this prestigious award in 1987 was Indian agricultural scientist Dr MS Swaminathan, the father of India’s Green Revolution, Dr Lal said.RESTORING AND MANAGING SOIL HEALTHIn a country like India, he said, soil is prone to degradation because of harsh climate and other factors.“So this award to a soil scientist highlights the importance of restoring and managing soil health. We need to give more attention to Dharti Mata (mother earth). Our shastras and puranas also indicated that we must pay respect to Dharti Mata. So this award means a lot to me,” Dr Lal said.“Every year, we are astounded by the quality of nominations for the prize, but Dr Lal’s stellar work on management and conservation of agriculture’s most cherished natural resource, the soil, set him apart,” said Gebisa Ejeta, chair of the World Food Prize Selection Committee and 2009 recipient of the award.Dr Lal is a distinguished professor in the College of Food, Agricultural, and Environmental Sciences (CFAES) at the Ohio State University.PAU ALUMNI ASSOCIATION CONGRATULATES DR LALThe Alumni Association of Punjab Agricultural University, on behalf of vice-chancellor BS Dhillon, faculty, staff and students of the university, congratulated Dr Rattan Lal for the prestigious award bestowed upon him. “The association feels proud of him for bringing laurels to his alma mater and wishes Dr Lal many more years of service to humanity,” professor and dean Surinder S Kukal said in a release.Over the past five decades, Dr Lal has reduced hunger by pioneering agricultural methods across the globe that not only restore degraded soil but also reduce global warming, the university said in a statement.“It is a privilege and honour to be of service to the many small farmers from around the world because I was one of them. They are stewards of the land. They are the ones with the tremendous challenge of feeding the world,” said Dr Lal, who is the founding director of the Carbon Management and Sequestration Center in Ohio.He said that he would donate the award money of USD 250,000 (Rs 1.9 crore) for the future soil research and education.STOP CROP RESIDUE BURNING IN PUNJAB, HARYANADr Lal said that his soil organic matter content in the surface layer should from 2-3%. But soil in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi, central India and southern parts contain maybe 0.5% or maybe 0.2%.“They are severely depleted, degraded. Consequently, not only is the productivity and yields low but the efficiency of inputs such as fertiliser and irrigation are also low. When crops are grown on unhealthy soil, the quality of the food and nutritional quality is also poor.“When the health of soil is degraded, the health of people is also degraded. I think it’s important for India and other developing countries to pay attention to restoring the health of the soil,” Dr Lal said.The soil scientist called for the immediate stopping of burning of crop residue in states such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.“Taking everything away from land is not good for land. There is a law of return. Whatever you take from the earth, you must return it,” he said.SOIL PROTECTION POLICY NEEDEDBrick-making, which is fast depleting soil, is another concern for Dr Lal.“India should have a soil protection policy,” he said, adding that a certain part of agricultural land cannot be taken out for brick making.He also called for rewarding farmers who help in protecting the soil by not burning crops, more use of compost and manure.“Soil protection policy is important. We should have a soil health assessment report every five years at the national level. How is soil changing and we should protect agricultural land against other usage patterns such as urbanisation, brick making,” he said, adding that fertiliser is not a good substitute for crop management.Stating that the crop yields in India are about half of that in China and even lesser than that of the United States, Dr Lal noted that there appears to be no reason for that. “We should have crop yield as good as any country. The health of our soil is poor. We have given a lot of emphasis on varieties. Varieties are important. (But) One cannot do anything if the soil is poor. That is a part which we must recognise.“I think Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi can do a lot towards improving soil health and (launch a) movement. Modi can also indicate how our religious books preach this. It is a part of our culture,” he added.(With input from HT, Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-agricultural-university-ludhiana-alumnus-and-soil-scientist-wins-prestigious-world-food-prize/story-J5nmdUEt21vXbwtSD4JSoI.html
12-06-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand approves Comprehensive Mobility Plan for 3 cities including Dehradun||The Uttarakhand government has approved the Comprehensive Mobility Plan of the Uttarakhand Metro Rail Project, clearing the way for ropeway projects in Dehradun, Rishikesh and Haridwar to ease traffic movement.In a meeting of the Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) on Thursday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat gave the approval for the project. According to officials, a detailed project report for the rope-way system is being prepared with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation for Dehradun city. The state government also approved the project for the construction of Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) in Haridwar city along with the construction of Metro Light in Haridwar-Rishikesh and Nepali Farm-Vidhan Sabha Corridor.Jitendra Tyagi, managing director of Uttarakhand Metro Rail gave a detailed presentation on Dehradun, Haridwar, Rishikesh MetroLite System during which he shared information about the route plan study for the metro project from Haridwar to Rishikesh, Dehradun to Nepali Farm.In December last year, Uttarakhand had signed a contract with DMRC for the ropeway projects. A first instalment of Rs 43.30 lakh was also given to DMRC at that time.State urban development minister Madan Kaushik , who had signed the contract, had said that once completed, the ropeway system will ease the traffic problems in Dehradun.“Till date, the ropeway system is not being used as a mode of mass transport at any other place in India. Dehradun will be the first city to adopt this system,” said Kaushik.Two routes have been proposed for Dehradun city – the first from Forest Research Institute till Rispana Bridge via Clock Tower and the second one from ISBT till Madhuban Hotel via Clock Tower. The ropeway will have a carrying capacity of around ten passengers.In Haridwar, Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) or pod-taxis will be started and for Rishikesh light metro transit will be established for connecting Dehradun and Haridwar. The projects will cover around 20 to 25 km and likely to cost up to Rs 2200 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-approves-comprehensive-mobility-plan-for-3-cities-including-dehradun/story-qVdTtPWLrX8sYzgvNFJ5jP.html
12-06-2020||Lucknow||‘Ray of hope’: 97-yr-old Agra man recovers from Covid-19||A nonagenarian man from Agra has recovered from Covid-19, with the local authorities saying the recuperation has come as a “ray of hope” for the novel coronavirus patients.The 1923-born man (name withheld) was discharged on Wednesday from a private hospital.He is one of the oldest Covid-19 patients in the country to recover successfully.Agra District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh, speaking to PTI over the phone on Thursday, hailed the recovery as a “matter of pride” for the historic city.“Our team was keeping an eye on his condition daily, and the day his coronavirus test came negative after recovering, we felt so delighted. We hear of people trying to take their lives sometimes when they contract Covid -19, but not this 97 year old man. His recovery has come as a ray of hope,” he said.He also tweeted on Thursday about his recovery, saying, it will lend hope, especially to people of the older age, and wrote, “Salute to #CoronaWarrior”.The man was admitted on April 29 to Nayati Hospital, a level-2 hospital for Covid-19 care in Agra, sources said.He has hypertension and initially needed a bit of oxygen supply, but recovered fine, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ray-of-hope-97-yr-old-agra-man-recovers-from-covid-19/story-J5LKIpardsJsaEK3JwaM0L.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor trade in Punjab under ED lens||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has started a probe into the high-profile illicit liquor trade that has snowballed into a major political issue in Punjab with opposition parties --- the Akali Dal and the BJP --- targeting the Congress government. The ED wing at Jalandhar has shot off letters to Punjab Police seeking records, including FIRs, investigation findings, bank details related to illicit liquor trade cases, it is learnt.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu confirmed that they have received the ED letter and will send a reply soon. The directorate, conducting probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is looking into least 11 FIRs registered in various police stations in Patiala, Khanna and Ludhiana, said officials privy to the development.On May 14, an illegal liquor bottling plant was busted in Shambu area of Ghanaur constituency in Patiala and Congress sarpanch Amrik Singh and Dipesh Kumar of Rajpura, an aide of a ruling party MLA, were booked. Dipesh, who is believed to be the kingpin of the racket, has been arrested.Probe beginsThe ED wing at Jalandhar has shot off letters to Punjab Police seeking records, including FIRs, investigation findings, bank details related to illicit liquor trade cases.The directorate, conducting probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is looking into least 11 FIRs registered in various police stations in Patiala, Khanna and LudhianaThe ED decided to probe the matter as it has come to the fore that large amount of unaccounted wealth was generated through illegal liquor business during lockdownAfter two days, Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA), a primary raw material used for making illicit liquor, was seized from a tubewell owned by Akali leader and panchayat samiti member Darshan Singh in Pabri village of Ghanaur town. An illegal distillery busted in Khanna also under the ED lens. The focus of the ED probe is on financial transactions. “As per a conservative estimate, the accused of Ghanaur illegal distillery had earned Rs 100 crore in the last five months,” said an excise official, pleading anonymity.The ED has asked the Patiala police to provide photocopies of all FIRs registered in the case and details of properties of accused and suspects.They agency has also asked the excise and taxation department about details of ENA manufacturing and supply chain.The opposition --- Akalis, BJP and AAP --- has accused the state government of patronising illicit liquor trade. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, on his part, has said that the guilty will be brought to book and no one will be spared. Apart from constituting a special investigation team, Amarinder has also set up an excise reforms group to break the nexus between producers, wholesalers, and retailers. The five-member group has been asked to submit its recommendations on destroying any such nexus within 60 days, thus paving the way for the elimination of illicit liquor trade and maximisation of the state’s excise revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-trade-in-punjab-under-ed-lens/story-lbXP8AfMmr2A0XZoxyYuDN.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||52-year-old Malerkota woman succumbs to Covid-19 in Patiala hospital||A 52-year-old woman succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Friday morning. The patient, Bimla Devi, was a resident of Malerkotla town, which is around 35km from Sangrur. Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Ravinder Kaur Kaler said, “Bimla Devi was first rushed to the local hospital where she tested positive for Covid-19. She was referred to the Government Rajindra Hospital at Patiala as she was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension.”She was put on ventilator at the hospital but passed away. Sangrur district had recorded its first Covid-19 death on Wednesday after 70-year-old Mohammad Bashir of Malerkotla succumbed to the disease at a Patiala hospital.Malerkotla is one of the worst hit towns of the district. Of 33 active cases in the district, 19 cases have been reported from Malerkotla, five from Amargarh (near Malerkotla), three from Moonak, two from Sangrur, two from Longowal and two from Sherpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/52-year-old-malerkota-woman-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-patiala-hospital/story-ZtZkRUf5NtQTTohNGwKiDL.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Lockdown won’t be extended in Delhi, says health minister||The lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not be extended in Delhi, which has more than 34,600 cases, health minister Satyendar Jain has said.“No, the lockdown will not be extended,” Satyendar Jain said when asked if there have been discussions to extend the lockdown in the Capital city, according to news agency ANI.Delhi along with most parts of the country began Unlock 1.0 this week, allowing shopping malls, salons and places of worship to open in addition to several other activities that were approved in May.The Capital’s total tally of Covid-19 cases stands at 34,687 and of these, 1,085 have died, according to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin that accounts for cases and deaths from the day before.The death toll in Delhi due to the Covid-19 soared past the 1,000 mark on Thursday as the city recorded 1,877 new infections and 101 new fatalities.It was a new record for single-day numbers which reinforce fears about the outbreak worsening and the need to rapidly ramp up health care infrastructure.The latest figures push the city’s case fatality rate, or the proportion of infected persons who succumb to the illness, to 3.13%, the highest it has been since March 25, when a single death had taken place from among 35 infections.The 1,877 new cases came from testing 5,360 samples or a test confirmation rate of over 35%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-won-t-be-extended-in-delhi-says-health-minister/story-FAMkvFRjB7sOYABRWSXtKO.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 positive cases in Mumbai Police cross 2,000-mark||As the number of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rise unabated in Maharashtra, the police force of capital Mumbai is also seeing an increase in infections. There were a total of 2,028 Covid-19 positive cases in Mumbai Police till Thursday, reports news agency ANI. This included 290 officers while 1,233 infected personnel have recovered so far and 22 deaths from the disease.The State Reserve Police Force has reported 82 coronavirus positive cases so far including five officers. Maharashtra: There are a total of 2028 COVID19 positive cases in Mumbai Police and a total of 82 in the State Reserve Police Force. pic.twitter.com/nE5eDphQWaThe number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is inching closer to the one lakh-mark. The worst-affected state in the country now has 97, 648 positive cases, according to the Union health ministry’s figures at 8 am on Friday. As many as 3,590 people have succumbed to the infection while 46,078 have recovered. On Thursday, the state recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, reporting 3,607 new cases. The death toll also rose by 152 – 35 casualties over Tuesday-Wednesday and the remaining in the past nine weeks. Mumbai, the worst-affected city in India, now has 54,085 coronavirus cases while the death toll is at 1,954.Meanwhile, India on Friday recorded more than 10,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time, taking it tally to 2,97,535. There were 396 more deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 8,498.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-positive-cases-in-mumbai-police-cross-2-000-mark/story-UwuoIlS3HHniy3RfQuM0QL.html
12-06-2020||Bhopal||Recite Hanuman Chalisa 11 times: MP Congress leader’s remedy to keep Covid-19 away||A senior Congress leader from Madhya Pradesh has suggested reciting the Hanuman Chalisa will protect people from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected more than 2.86 lakh people and killed over 8,000 in the country.Ramesh Saxena, who was a member of the legislative assembly (MLA) for four terms from 1993 to 2008, made the comments while speaking to reporters in Sehore on Thursday.“I can say it with authority that if members of any family sit together to recite the Hanuman Chalisa 11 times, which will take hardly half an hour, corona can’t touch them,” Saxena said.Saxena, who won assembly elections once as an Independent candidate and three times on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket and joined the Congress in January last year, also offered an explanation.“There is a line in Hanuman Chalisa - Nase rog hare sab peera, japat nirantar Hanuman veera (Constant recital of name of Lord Hanuman cures all diseases and pain). We should trust it. Trust gives us the result,” he said.Before this, Saxena had similar advice to stop crops from being damaged during rains and hailstorm in 2018. He had asked people to recite the Hanuman Chalisa at least 500 times every day.“We all have a strong belief in the God and we all do prayers but such suggestions will only lead to confusion in public when we all are fighting Covid-19,” Dr KL Sahu, the former director of the health department, said.BJP was quick to react to the ex-MLA’s suggestion.“Recital of holy texts and our faith in God give a boost to our morale and thus immunity power to deal with any crisis but it doesn’t mean that any Covid patient can be cured with the recital of any text only,” Rajneesh Agrawal, the spokesperson of the BJP’s state unit, said.“When we are in public life we should not make any such statement that any person believes it blindly and avoids a medical treatment,” Agrawal added.The Congress, however, distanced itself from Saxena’s remedy and said it was not the party’s stand. “I am also a devotee of Lord Hanuman but religion and spirituality give us the strength to face and overcome any crisis in life,” Bhupendra Gupta, the Congress spokesperson, said.“However, when our PM exhorts people to ring bells and blow conches and the health minister in Madhya Pradesh says it’s not allopathy or homoeopathy but it’s sympathy that cures a Covid patient, there are aberrations like such a statement that came from the Congress leader,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/recite-hanuman-chalisa-11-times-mp-congress-leader-s-remedy-to-keep-covid-19-away/story-TGRzYvdITgnPm8ZCzeZfbM.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Traffic congestion outside Azadpur wholesale market; social distancing norms flouted||Scores of people arrived at the wholesale fruit and vegetable market in Azadpur here on Friday to make purchases amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe buyers and vendors present in the market were seen wearing masks but were found flouting social distancing norm.Not only in the market, the road outside the market area was also jammed because of the huge number of vehicles in the morning today.According to the state health department, the national capital till Thursday recorded 32,810 cases of Covid-19, out of which 19581 are active. Out of the total, 12245 have been cured and 984 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-congestion-outside-azadpur-wholesale-market-social-distancing-norms-flouted/story-yB9BVr7yWIYu9ghB0kxFIL.html
12-06-2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Markets in Bhopal to remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays||The Madhya Pradesh government announced on Thursday that markets in state capital Bhopal will remain close on Saturdays and Sundays in view of alarming rise in the number of coronavirus cases.“We have decided that Bhopal will remain shut for two days in a week - on Saturdays and Sundays,” state health minister Narottam Mishra said.Bhopal has so far reported 2,012 Covid-19 patients including 66 who died.After the lockdown was eased, the shops and markets outside containment zones were allowed to open.The coronavirus case count in Madhya Pradesh reached 10,241 on Thursday with 192 new patients being detected, 85 of them in Bhopal, since Wednesday evening.Four Covid-19 patients died during this period, taking the death toll to 431, the health department said.The state has added 2,152 new cases of the coronavirus disease since lockdown was eased on May 31.No new coronavirus case was reported from 28 districts since Wednesday evening. While cases have been reported from all 52 districts now, four of them did not have any active cases on Thursday, the bulletin from health department said on Thursday.Out of the total number of infections, 2,768 are active cases, 192 new and 7,042 have recovered. The state government has so far tested 2,33,740 people.The nationwide Covid-19 tally neared 2.9 lakh on Thursday with a record one-day increase of nearly 10,000 cases.In its morning update, the Union Health Ministry said the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases has risen to 2,86,579 after a record number of 9,996 cases were reported in 24 hours since Wednesday 8 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/covid-19-markets-in-bhopal-to-remain-closed-on-saturdays-and-sundays/story-bDWTdKeDjlAvrDg1d1pMAO.html
12-06-2020||Kolkata||Herbs, spices and no sugar: Kolkata sweet shop makes sandesh to boost immunity amid Covid-19||Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick, one of the oldest sweet shops in Kolkata has made an “Immunity Sandesh” with 15 herbs and spices for people to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Owners of Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick said turmeric, cloves, cardamom, cinnamon, saffron, black cumin, mulethi, bay leaves, honey and a few others have been added to the traditional sweet.“Immunity is the only way we can fight coronavirus. There is no vaccine yet, so we have come up with this sweet that is made of 15 different spices. Each sandesh costs Rs 25,” Sudipta Mullick, the shop’s owner, said, according to news agency ANI.“We have consulted with experts as per ingredients are concerned and the best part is that we are not adding any sugar. Immunity Sandesh is purely made out of Himalaya honey,” Mullick added.He said that the sweet is in huge demand and that people have said they like its taste.Researchers are racing against time to find treatments and vaccines for Covid-19, which has affected more than 7.5 million and killed 420,993 people across the world. They are also studying how the virus affects the body and its various organs as it is still spreading across the world.India is now the fifth worst-affected nation across the world as more than 2.86 lakh people have contracted the disease and over 8,000 have died.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/herbs-spices-and-no-sugar-kolkata-sweet-shop-makes-sandesh-to-boost-immunity-amid-covid-19/story-sqbVTA1lj9mojbIHP5lpeL.html
12-06-2020||City||No direct buses to Delhi or Punjab, passengers in Ambala a hassled lot||Despite easing of travel restrictions, there is little relief for passengers in Ambala as there aren’t enough inter-state buses, especially to Punjab and Delhi, two of the most sought after destinations from here. Many say that amid the long wait for bookings in trains, most of which are running to full capacity, they are left to their own devices to travel back home.A 23-year-old resident of Patiala, who was stuck in Delhi since the lockdown was imposed, said as she didn’t get train reservation, she boarded a bus from Panipat to Ambala, hoping to catch a bus to take her home. “The station manager of this bus stand told me I can board a bus to Punjab from here, but when I arrived here, I found there are no buses. Now, my brother is coming from Patiala in his car to pick me up,” she said. A few labourers sitting next to her say that they have been waiting to take a bus to Gurugram, from where they hope to travel to Bihar but to no avail. “There are no seats available on trains till June 23. Now, we are waiting for a bus to take us to Gurugram. We will only get an offline ticket if it doesn’t get full online,” they said. At least 17 buses operate from the Ambala depot everyday but most carry very few passengers, less than the prescribed limit of 30.Ambala cantonment bus stand station manager Vijender Singh said, “Around 7 to 8 buses leave for nearby districts from here every day, which carry around a dozen passengers. Except those headed to Panchkula, Delhi or Gurugram, most buses run below capacity. Sometimes, a bus waits for over two hours and has to depart only with a couple of passengers.”“I don’t think the services will improve until there are regular buses for Delhi or Punjab. There are several passengers for Delhi who wait here for hours but there are no buses for Delhi, so they board a bus to Gurugram and travel further,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-direct-buses-to-delhi-or-punjab-passengers-in-ambala-a-hassled-lot/story-yXO6kJRxOcIJAcCdpsluIN.html
12-06-2020||City||Kurukshetra police arrested 350 persons for lockdown violations in past two months||The Kurukshetra police arrested 350 people and registered 239 FIRs in the past two-and-a-half-months for lockdown violations, superintendent of police Astha Modi revealed during a meeting chaired by additional chief secretary TC Gupta on Thursday.Besides, the police also challaned 355 people for venturing out without a mask and collected fines to the tune of Rs 1.77 lakh from them. Apart from this, 11,089 people were challaned for traffic violations and 168 vehicles impounded during the period. The fine collected from them amounted to Rs 34.50 lakh, said the SP.Action was also taken against 132 shopkeepers for violations during the lockdown. The SP said that as many 1,300 cops and 46 mobile teams were on the ground for implementation of lockdown orders. During the meeting, Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dheerener Khadgata also presented a report about the working of the district administration during the lockdown.The ACS directed the officials to work as per the action plan to slow the spread of the infection in the district without affecting the normal life of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kurukshetra-police-arrested-350-persons-for-lockdown-violations-in-past-two-months/story-gAHMX4RDRWRj1oSExM5xFL.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi high court stays investigation against Vinod Dua||The Delhi high court has stayed the probe in a case against journalist Vinod Dua while saying there was an unexplained delay of nearly three months in filing the complaint and lodging of the FIR.The case was filed by a Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader who alleged that Dua made defamatory statements conducive to public mischief on his YouTube show.In an interim order, the court said it was of the prima facie view that further proceedings or probe were likely to cause unjustified harassment to Dua, and stayed the investigation till July 23.In a Wednesday order, which was uploaded on the web on Thursday, justice Anup J Bhambhani said the court was persuaded to think that the filing of the complaint and lodging of the FIR deserve to be considered and deliberated further, before allowing the investigation to proceed against Dua.The court also issued a notice and sought responses of the Delhi Police and the complainant on Dua’s plea seeking quashing of the FIR against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-stays-investigation-against-vinod-dua/story-RvKnN5oKcX1VJITJk3dACL.html
12-06-2020||City||Dragged on car bonnet, Panipat cop succumbs to injuries, driver arrested||A Kalkha village resident was arrested on Wednesday after a special police officer (SPO), who had been dragged on his car bonnet for almost 200 metres, succumbed to his injuries on the intervening night Monday and Tuesday.The incident had taken place last Wednesday near 8 Marla Chowk of Model Town, Panipat, when the SPO was trying to stop the car being driven by the accused, Sawan Kumar. Instead of stopping, the accused turned the car towards Model Town and hit the SPO, dragging him for around 200 metres until he fell off and sustained critical injuries.The car driver then hit an e-rickshaw driver, who also suffered critical injuries.Panipat DSP (headquarters) Satish Vats said SPO Singh had been admitted to a private hospital in Panipat, where he succumbed during treatment.The car driver has been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code.GANG OF ATM ROBBERS BUSTEDThe DSP said that Sawan’s arrest helped the police to bust a gang of ATM robbers. He said that Sawan was heading the gang and on the basis of information given by him, police arrested four other members of the gang. They were identified as Sunil alias Sunny, Sarwar of Jagsi village of Sonepat, Mohit alias Pindi, a resident of Badwasani of Sonepat district and Rahul of Ranvar of Karnal district. The DSP said the accused have admitted their involvement in 14 ATM robberies in Panipat, Sonepat, Karnal and Jind districts for the past seven months. He said that the police were investigating their criminal records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dragged-on-car-bonnet-panipat-cop-succumbs-to-injuries-driver-arrested/story-wmovYinz6blLtuQrVq2DqJ.html
12-06-2020||Jaipur||Over 3.57 lakh families to get free foodgrain for two months in Rajasthan||Over 3.57 lakh needy families and destitute people who are not covered under the National Food Security Scheme will be provided free foodgrain for next two months in Rajasthan. The proposal for free distribution of foodgrain was approved by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday. Under the initiative, five kg of wheat will be provided per person every month. Each family will be given 10 kg of wheat and 2 kg of gram per month. The decision was taken after a survey of the families. The foodgrain will be provided through the public distribution system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/over-3-57-lakh-families-to-get-free-foodgrain-for-two-months-in-rajasthan/story-CZx9ekT6tHxEAt0p3y7Z1H.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||12 more deaths, 389 new cases, Haryana’s tally close to 6,000 now||Twelve more patients in Haryana perished to the respiratory illness, Covid-19, taking the death toll in the state to 64. Among the dead, six were from Gurugram district, four from Faridabad and one each from Ambala and Rohtak.The state reported 389 fresh coronavirus positive cases on Thursday, taking the total tally to 5,968, according to a health department bulletin. The total number of active cases as on Thursday was 3,644. There were 47 critically ill Covid-19 patients across the state on Thursday, the bulletin said.The national capital region districts of Gurugram and Faridabad, with a joint tally of 265 cases, accounted for 68% of the total fresh cases reported across 17 districts of the state. Rohtak recorded 29 fresh cases followed by Karnal (17), Ambala (13), Palwal (10). Yamunanagar (9), Rewari (8), Mahendergarh and Fatehabad (7 each), Panchkula, Jhajjar, Hisar, Sirsa and Bhiwani (4 each), Jind (3) and Panipat ( 1).Five districts – Sonepat, Nuh, Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal and Kurukshetra did not report any fresh case on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-more-deaths-389-new-cases-haryana-s-tally-close-to-6-000-now/story-WXNeOU7Gbsv7rk9kwve65I.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Old landmark in a new normal||The battle hasn’t been won, the war hasn’t ended yet. Nevertheless, we are picking up the strands of our disrupted life in the wake of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.It is in this spirit that one ought to commemorate the reopening of a special landmark—a shop that serves one of the most delicious jalebis in the entire National Capital Region.Sardar Jalebi in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazar started producing jalebis again a few days back, shortly after the easing of the prolonged lockdown triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. The viral attack is only intensifying further but the city is trying to limp back to business and you see glimpses of the old normality in this much-loved icon.This late morning, a couple of cooks, whom the owner calls karigars, are deep-frying the jalebis in huge cauldrons. One gentleman is squeezing the batter through a thin cloth into the oil-filled vessel, constantly moving his hand anti-clockwise to get twirly-shapes befitting a jalebi. Another man is filling a fresh stock of jalebis into a paper bag for a customer.This Sadar Bazar’s signature jalebi is thin and extremely crisp and tastes excellent even when cold—unlike its thicker counterpart in the equally illustrious Old Famous Jalebi Wala in Old Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, which tastes best when eaten hot, just off the karahi. (That shop too has reopened, serving from 9am to 6pm daily).Each worker here at Sardar Jalebi is attired in gloves and mask, and no mask is slipping down under the nose as it is frustratingly the case with most people walking on the streets these days.All this is being viewed through a mobile screen that connects this reporter to Gurpreet Singh, whose family has been running this establishment for 70 years. Wearing a similar black mask as his staffers, the turbaned young man is chatting on WhatsApp video. He is sitting against a wall decked up with the portraits of all the 10 Sikh gurus. The portrait of Guru Nanak is decked with a garland of fresh marigolds.“We have five karigars at the moment,” says Mr Singh, his voice a bit muffled, perhaps because of the mask. All the employees in the shop have their families living in their native districts in either UP or Bihar, Mr Singh informs. But unlike many other migrants, they didn’t rush back to their villages following the closure of all business during the lockdown. “We looked after all of them,” informs Mr Singh. “They live on the floor above the shop and we made sure (during the lockdown days) to keep them supplied with enough food rations, and that they had enough money to send some of it to their families every month as they always have.”Some of the staffers at Sardar Jalebi have been working here for decades. Bhagwan Das has been here for 40 years. Chhedi Ram has been making jalebis for 32 years. (The rest of the men at work are Raju, Manoj and Arun).There has to be said something of the relationship that this small family-run business has developed with its karigars over the years. Maybe, this aspect explains the fact that, while so many other celebrity eateries in the Delhi region have lost that something special that made their signature dish so well-loved, the jalebis here continue to be universally admired without any ifs and buts. Indeed, it might be difficult to find a longtime patron complaining of a decline in Sardar’s standards.Despite its long life and reputation, the establishment itself is extremely modest. There are only a few benches to sit. Frankly speaking, this in not a place to lounge about. You get your jalebis and take it away to have it elsewhere.And yet, some of the afternoon scenes back in the BC (Before Corona) era used to be extraordinarily tender. Particularly after classes were over, when students of a government school nearby would excitedly come to receive their daily share of one jalebi each—for free!The Sardar Jalebi got its name from its Sikh founder, Arjun Singh, who moved as a Partition refugee from what is now Pakistan to what was then Gurgaon. “He passed away in 1994… he was my dadaji,” says Mr Singh. With his father passing away some years ago, he manages the business with his tauji (uncle), Jagmohan Singh.While there is no doubt that the shop must have suffered a serious setback due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, like many other businesses in this bazaar, one must not forget that this particular landmark has seen worse. During the killings of Sikhs, after prime minister India Gandhi’s assassination in 1984, the Sardar Jalebi remained shut for at least three months—says Mr Singh, who, in fact, was born in that fateful year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-old-landmark-in-a-new-normal/story-3SyHLoFIXZD4APDy01SaZJ.html
12-06-2020||City||It’s time bus services started in Mohali, health minister tells MC officials||The Punjab health and family welfare minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu has asked the municipal corporation commissioner to explore the feasibility of launching bus services in the city, for which ₹2 crore had been allocated earlier, and to strengthen its firefighting capabilities.Sidhu, while presiding over a meeting at the district administrative complex here on Thursday to review important developmental projects also underlined the need to procure sewerage cleaning suction machines and clearing the sewerage system before monsoon.The minister also advised the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to focus on developing social infrastructure such as homes for the elderly, women and the destitute as well as women’s hostels. GMADA officials were also asked to see if land was available for a motor market and transport nagar in the city.He also wanted development authority officials to check if additional floors could be added to booths to allow people to expand their businesses and help GMADA generate additional revenues.Apart from stressing on the need to build another hospital in Mohali, the minister directed the district mandi officer to initiate steps to denotify the mandi in Phase-1 and ensure that the Phase-11 fruit and vegetable market got going. The minister also discussed the scope of improving the water supply system, completion of re-carpeting of roads, building toilets in slum areas and suggested that GMADA adopt the main/big parks of the city and lay out cycle tracks along the main roads.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan assured all present at the meeting of time bound completion of projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-s-time-bus-services-started-in-mohali-health-minister-tells-mc-officials/story-Akdu5Kit2eEs4qQFU7NXFK.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 16 chemist’s four kin, two workplace contacts also found infected||The chain of Covid-19 infection, which was first detected after a chemist shop owner’s son tested positive, has spread to six more people, taking Chandigarh’s tally to 334 on Thursday. There are 36 active cases in the city now.Among the fresh positive cases are the 35-year-old chemist’s four family members. These include three females, aged five, 56 and 80, and a 60-year-old man. Another family contact has tested negative. All of them live in the same house in Sector 16.Health authorities said the chemist’s parents, who are among those infected, had travelled to Sangrur in Punjab about 10 days back, which may be the source of infection.Besides, two workplace contacts of the chemist — a 24-year-old man from Sector 16 and a 34-year-old man from Dhanas — were also found infected.Earlier on Wednesday, their other workplace contact, a 34-year-old man belonging to Khuda Jassu, was found positive.Meanwhile, four residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, were discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, and shifted to Post Discharge Quarantine facility at Sood Dharamshala. Those discharged include two males, aged 42 and 35, and two females, aged 18 and 19. As many as 293 patients have been discharged so far, a recovery rate of 87.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-16-chemist-s-four-kin-two-workplace-contacts-also-found-infected/story-xQrfsbeVXjxjOGYu1Qht8L.html
12-06-2020||City||NIRF 2020: PGIMER second best after AIIMS for third year in a row||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has, for the third consecutive year, been ranked second after Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in the medical category by the human resource development ministry.Among the first entrants, city’s Government Medical College and Hospital,Sector 32, has ranked 25th. Christian Medical College, Vellore, ranked third in the listings in which 118 institutes competed for excellence.PGIMER scored 80.06 points overall out of 100, improving by two points from last year.Its graduation outcome parameter increased by 10 points; perception category by seven points; outreach and inclusivity by four points and teaching, learning and resources by three points.Loses points for researchHowever, the institute did not do so well in research and professional practice as its score decreased by two points. Its outreach and inclusivity score too went down by four points.On the other hand, AIIMS maintained its top marks with a score of 90. 69; managing 100% in the perception category, the parameter on which PGIMER has been lagging.Meanwhile, responding to the rankings, a PGIMER press release on Thursday attributed the reason for the good showing to the combined team efforts of its faculty and staff under the leadership of Prof Jagat Ram, director.“The Central government has always been supportive and helpful for the betterment of the institute,” Dr Jagat Ram said. “Though it was difficult for the faculty to maintain a balance between research, teaching and patient care, they have been doing a wonderful job and we hope to improve in all the parameters,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nirf-2020-pgimer-second-best-after-aiims-for-third-year-in-a-row/story-Bkj0Ae5u3CVHHy0gvjvyxI.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||No Sunday mass in Chandigarh churches till June 30||Even though places of worship in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali reopened from June 8, church authorities, keeping in mind the Covid-19 outbreak, will stream Sunday mass and other prayer services on YouTube, Facebook live and WhatsApp till June 30 to prevent community gathering.The churches, however, will remain open for individuals and families to come in and pray. Tricity Churches Association have decided to stream Sunday mass and other prayer services online till July 30 though the administration had issued guidelines to repeat Sunday mass on weekdays for those who could not attend it because of social distancing. Use of liturgical booklets and hymnals are prohibited, with the directions that the Holy Communion will be received “strictly by hand or other alternatives prescribed by the bishop for the time being.”“Since Covid-19 cases are on the rise, we cannot risk holding prayers as ours is community prayer till June 30,” Ignatius Mascarenhas, the Bishop of Simla Chandigarh Diocese, said on Thursday.He added that the situation would be assessed later and a call taken on the reopening of the church after June 30. But, “All our catholic churches will remain open and if any individual wants to pray, (he or she) can come with their family and do it,” he said.Only Eucharist services (in which bread and wine are consecrated and consumed in remembrance of Jesus’s death or Communion) are allowed in the interim period and others such as novena prayers, baptism, first communion, marriage and others are prohibited.The parish priest is responsible for implementing safety measures to prevent Covid-19 transmission.“The guidelines of the government regarding prayers do not suit us and we have decided to postpone the reopening of churches till June 30,” said Lawrence Malik, adviser, Tricity Churches Association. “ I urge the Christian community to set up a sacred space at home for worship, which will help people stay at home during the pandemic and engage with the divine with devotion,” he added.Rev Brian Anderson, pastor, Light of the World Church, Zirakpur, said, “We will continue offering prayers through Facebook Live and YouTube. We are also using the Zoom app to talk to people and pray for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-sunday-mass-in-chandigarh-churches-till-june-30/story-0Ec05EUGawV7XNwiov7TPK.html
12-06-2020||City||Four new cases in Panchkula, tally now 47||As many as four new Covid-19 cases were confirmed in Panchkula, where the total cases are now 47. Among these, 21 remain active.The patients include, two men aged 24 and 36, and a 65-year-old woman, all residents of Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, Panchkula. Health authorities said the two men run a tea stall and had recently returned from Lucknow. Apart from these three, a 75-year-old man from Abheypur also tested positive.Meanwhile, after two persons were found infected in Sectors 8 and 16 on Tuesday, the deputy commissioner has declared a few areas in these sectors as containment zones.The areas sealed in Sector 8 are House Numbers 315 to 321 and House Numbers 322 to 328. Apart from this, areas sealed in Sector 16 start from House Numbers 514 to 516 and House Numbers 534 and 535.The DC’s order reads: “The areas enclosed within the aforementioned perimeter are ordered to be contained as containment zone and along with buffer zone surrounding aforementioned areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-new-cases-in-panchkula-tally-now-47/story-pgpHvNgzpZ5GxyI4B9d9EM.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to organise camps to resolve issues of inflated property tax bills||Facing criticism over inflated property tax bills to commercial establishments in the city, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to organise camps for commercial property tax payers to resolve their issues.The decision was taken at a meeting of the House Tax Assessment Committee here on Thursday.The camps, the committee decided, would be organised in collaboration with the market associations concerned as per their requirement and demand.The issues, related to settlement of arrears, current-year tax and other services related to their commercial property tax, including amendment and correction in the bills, would be taken up during the camps.The meeting, chaired by Charanjiv Singh, also discussed the mode of payment of property tax. It was decided that the payment be accepted only through e-Sampark centres and the option of collection through banks be avoided in future so that the reconciliation of individual accounts be made more easier.The meeting also decided that the corridor in front of the property tax branch in the MC building would be cleared of the renovation material and seating arrangements for the visitors/tax payers be provided keeping in view the social distancing and other precautionary measures.The members asked the officers of the tax branch to prepare separate details of previous year arrears and current bills to access the actual tax to be collected in the current year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-organise-camps-to-resolve-issues-of-inflated-property-tax-bills/story-12j2gaVW3yRpvgWQjVux9N.html
12-06-2020||City||Market committee official thrashed by Sonali Phogat appears before Haryana women commission||A day after Tik Tok star-turned-BJP leader Sonali Phogat submitted her statement before the Haryana state commission for women, Sultan Singh, the market committee official whom she purportedly thrashed, appeared before the commission along with his wife on Thursday.The commission’s vice-chairperson Preeti Bhardwaj said, “ We asked the market committee official whether he was booked in any other case of outraging the modesty of women.He clearly said that he has no such case against him. Then we ask him to give us an affidavit assuring the same. He said that he will talk to his lawyer before doing so. Sultan told us that he had not used any indecent language against BJP leader Sonali Phogat.”Bharadwaj further said that Phogat had submitted audio evidence of Sultan Singh purportedly expressing derogatory views about women in politics. The veracity audio clip is being verified, she added.As per reports, a relative of Singh had also accused him of abusing her but she had withdrawn the complaint following family pressure. The Balsamand police had registered an FIR against Sonali Phogat under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (hurting public servant to deter him from duty), 353 (criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), while Sultan Singh was booked under sections 354 (assault or criminal force against a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/market-committee-official-thrashed-by-sonali-phogat-appears-before-haryana-women-commission/story-ufFfws3I3nheMSX4iNrXbL.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration to focus on keeping Covid-related death rate low||Giving priority to prevention of deaths among all other steps being taken for the containment of the coronavirus outbreak, the UT administration has said it will be focusing its resources on high-risk patients including senior citizens and those with comorbidities.The decision came after the chief secretaries’ tele-conference with the cabinet secretary on Thursday in which senior UT officials also participated.Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “As per the directions of the central government, the focus of the administration will be on keeping the death rate low, and preventing any deaths due to Covid-19.”During the conference, the Tamil Nadu government had shared positive results when focusing on keeping fatalities down as a strategy to contain the spread of the disease.So far, five fatalities have been reported in the city. Chandigarh reported its first death linked to the virus on May 3 when an 82-year-old woman of Sector 18, who was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Panchkula, died.On May 8, the second fatality was reported after a man from Hallomajra tested positive for Covid-19, two days after his death at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16.On May 9, a 62-year-old man of Bapu Dham Colony tested positive posthumously at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.A three-day-old girl became the fourth fatality linked to the virus. After her birth at the civil hospital in Sector 22, she was reported to be brought dead at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on May 23. She was found to be Covid positive the next day. Her parents, who are from Dadumajra, had tested negative.The last fatality from the city was an 80-year-old woman from the containment zone of Sector 30, who was declared brought dead at GMSH-16 and had tested positive on June 2.In the last week, there has been a spike in cases coming from outside the Bapu Dham containment zone. “Opening of inter-state buses, trains, cars, planes remains a major challenge in restricting new cases. But our policy and timely decisions have successfully kept the figures low and within manageable limits,” said Parida.When asked whether UT will initiate random testing in the city, Parida said that the administration continued to follow the testing protocols set by Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR). “There is no community transmission of the disease in the city, and ICMR testing protocol is being strictly followed. We have made arrangements for any eventuality. Currently, for 30-odd active cases in Chandigarh, 3,000 beds on standby are adequate by any standards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-focus-on-keeping-covid-related-death-rate-low/story-mbzcfoGI7t0xTKQdhX5XsN.html
12-06-2020||City||Another blow to fund-starved Mohali MC as ₹141-crore cut imposed in budget||In a major setback to the already fund-starved municipal corporation of Mohali, the Punjab local bodies department on Thursday imposed a cut of ₹141 crore in the MC’s proposed budget for the year 2020-21.The local bodies department has approved a budget of ₹127 crore against ₹268 crore proposed in February this year. In 2019-20, the civic body had projected a ₹150 crore revenue, but received only ₹125 crore.What’s more, no funds have been allocated for the maintenance of parks or solid waste management, Swachh Bharat Mission, sewerage maintenance and sewerage augmentation project.The MC had been passing a deficit budget from the last four years, but in its last stint came up with a ₹17 crore surplus budget.In February this year, the civic body had shown ₹251.66 crore expenditure in the proposed budget, but the local bodies department approved only ₹92.26 crore. Even though the MC will remain in surplus of ₹35.6 crore against the earlier proposed ₹17 crore after the budget is approved, the MC officials said that it couldn’t compensate for a cut of ₹141 crore.Already during the nationwide lockdown, the MC has suffered a loss of ₹13 crore.A senior MC official requesting anonymity said, “We are passing through financial straits. Though we had proposed ₹100 crore for maintenance of parks, Swachh Bharat mission, water supply and sewerage maintenance and for solid waste management projects, not a single penny has been approved. We are totally clueless on how to tackle the situation. We will take up the issue with the local government.”The MC is now eying ₹66 crore from the Punjab municipal funds, ₹28 crore from property tax, and ₹11 crore from advertisements as the major income sources in the ₹127.86 crore surplus budget.The five-year term of the present office of the MC got over on April 26, and subsequently, powers had been vested with MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg.Every month, the civic body spends ₹5 crore on paying salaries, power bills, fuel charges, to private agencies and maintaining cleanliness in the city.Former deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said, “The government has completely failed on all fronts. More than 200 tenders of development works worth ₹30 crore have not been allotted in the last eight months. If they are not allotted soon, we will hold a massive protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-blow-to-fund-starved-mohali-mc-as-141-crore-cut-imposed-in-budget/story-SN7x722ibAJkTTI7Xe0eFM.html
12-06-2020||City||27-year-old techie, 32-year-old veterinarian killed in two cases of road mishap in Mohali||A 27-year-old man was killed in a road accident after his bike was hit by a speeding Swift car at a T-Point near primary school of Phase 2, Mohali, on Thursday late evening.The deceased was identified as Satish Kumar, a resident of Maloya, who was working as a computer programmer.According to the police, an unidentified woman who was driving the car brought the victim to PGIMER after the incident, where he succumbed to his injuries. Inspector Manphul Singh, station house officer, Phase 1, said, “The woman will be arrested soon. At present, we have registered the case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death due to negligence) of the IPC against her.”32-YEAR-OLD VETERINARIAN KILLED IN ROAD MISHAPA 32-year-old veterinary doctor was killed in a road mishap on Chunni-Sirhind road, the police said on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Dr Gursharan Singh, who was posted at Chunni Kalan village of Mohali and was a resident of Sector 67 here.The police said on Wednesday late evening, while he was returning back from work, the doctor’s car rammed into a truck. He was rushed to PGIMER where doctors declared him brought dead.Police in-charge Iqbal Mohammad said the truck driver has been identified as Parvinder Singh and will be arrested soon. The family of the deceased who live in Canada have been informed and they will arrive on Sunday, he added. The postmortem will be conducted thereafter.A case has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death due to negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/27-year-old-techie-32-year-old-veterinarian-killed-in-two-cases-of-road-mishap-in-mohali/story-Kv0KwFRxp5BWQtmWj99HtO.html
12-06-2020||City||12 cops in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail home quarantined after accused tests positive for Covid-19||Twelve personnel from Taloja police station have been home quarantined as a precautionary measure after a man arrested for burglary on Sunday was tested positive for Covid-19. This is the first case of an accused testing positive in a jail under the Navi Mumbai Police’s jurisdiction. Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector, Taloja police station, said, “The accused was asymptomatic but was tested as per the protocol. He is admitted to Panvel rural hospital now. The personnel – 10 constables and two officers – will also be eventually tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-cops-in-navi-mumbai-s-taloja-jail-home-quarantined-after-accused-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-c6degpwpeN1TMShbXCnF4K.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees big spike on day Covid-19 death count hits 1,000||The death toll in Delhi due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) soared past the 1,000 mark on Thursday as the city recorded 1,877 new infections and 101 new fatalities, a new record for single-day numbers that reinforce fears about the outbreak worsening and the need to rapidly ramp up health care infrastructure. According to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin that accounts for cases and deaths from the day before, the Capital’s total tally of Covid-19 cases stands at 34,687 and of these, 1,085 have died. The latest figures push the city’s case fatality rate – the proportion of infected persons who succumb to the illness – to 3.13%, the highest it has been since March 25, when a single death had taken place from among 35 infections.“We are planning to double the number of beds needed; there will be around 15,000 beds in another 10 days or so. This is the biggest disaster of the century,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a virtual press conference on Thursday.The 1,877 new cases came from testing 5,360 samples, translating to a test confirmation rate of over 35%. This number has steadily grown from about 21% at the beginning of June, a trend that experts say could indicate the outbreak is larger than detected, particularly due to the limited reach of testing, although the inherent bias in testing of largely symptomatic cases may also have something to do with this. According to the health bulletin, the number of active infections is 20,871, of which nearly 78% are in home isolation that is available as a treatment option for those with mild or asymptomatic illness. The current rate at which infections double in the city -- taken as a trajectory seen over the last week -- is 14.8 days. “The lockdown has been lifted, people are moving around and interacting with each other. The number of cases will go up. That is the natural course of the disease,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Officials in the administration have been divided over whether the rise in cases justifies the reimposing of the lockdown. “A lockdown would help but now that it has been lifted, we cannot ask them not to. They are not wearing masks and going to markets which will lead to increase in the number of cases. As it is, it has become difficult to trace contacts,” said a senior district-level health official, asking not to be named. A senior health department official clarified on condition of anonymity that “Delhi is not considering another lockdown for now. “If we impose lockdown again, there will be no logic as the cases will increase from around 2.5 lakh to 25 lakh despite the lockdown,” Jain had said in a statement on Wednesday.Delhi, as well as most parts of the country, began what has been called Unlock 1.0 this week, allowing malls, salons and religious places to open in addition to several other types of activity that were approved last month. Officials at the Union and the state level said it is now crucial to learn to live with the virus, a process that will involve new etiquettes such as always wearing a mask when away from home and keeping a distance of 2 metre from others.“We went into a lockdown a little early and even the relaxation of restrictions happened a little early. Other countries lifted their lockdown when their curve started to come down, but we did it when the curve is going up exponentially. However, economic considerations have to be kept in mind. The only strategy that the government can now adopt is aggressively test and isolate those with the infection or close areas where they think the infection is circulating in the community,” said Amit Singh, associate professor at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. The spike in cases comes in a week when the government begun preparations to add over a 100,000 beds, an exercise described as “an unprecedented challenge” by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, after initially attempting to restrict access to its facilities only to people who live in the national capital. On Wednesday, the CM said Delhi would need 65,000 beds by mid-July and 150,000 by the end of the month. On the basis of the current doubling rate of 12.6 days, the Delhi health department has projected that the number of active cases in Delhi will touch 60,004 by June 30; 134,722 by July 15 and 319,237 by July 31. According to documents reviewed by HT and comments by officials aware of the preparations, the administration has earmarked space for close to 25,000 hospital beds in banquet halls, a religious centre and two stadiums in the city. Officials are going over the experiences of their counterparts in Mumbai, where the civic agency converted some of the city’s most prominent sport complexes into health care facilities. “Our challenge will be bigger because we are turning all these spaces into makeshift hospitals while theirs were observation centres and Covid care centres,” said a senior government official, who was aware of discussions at a late-night meeting chaired by health minister Satyender Jain on Wednesday. Mumbai crossed the 1,000 deaths mark on May 26, when it had close to 32,000 cases – a scenario similar to what Delhi is staring at now. The Maharashtra capital then had a doubling rate of 13.1 days but has not brought it down to 24.6 days.Wednesday’s discussions in Delhi were described as the first round of scouting for space. It included a covered space that belongs to a religious group in Bhati area, where 10,000 hospitals beds can be accommodated. The exercise will require a mammoth logistical mobilization comprising medical and paramedical staff, crucial medical equipment such as oxygen cylinders and general infrastructure resources such as beds and electricity connections.Authorities in central China’s Wuhan, where the coronavirus is believed to have first emerged last year, built a 1,000-bed hospital in 12 days at the peak of the outbreak in February. It was among 16 makeshift hospitals the city built, the last of which were closed by mid-March after the region controlled the outbreak.(With inputs from Sweta Goswami)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/capital-sees-big-spike-on-day-covid-19-death-count-hits-1-000/story-XdcjxVrdXUuzlZwfJQN8bP.html
12-06-2020||City||10 ONGC workers test positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai||At least 10 Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) rig workers have been tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 10 days. ONGC had re-commenced rotating shifts for on-shore to offshore deployments this month. The workers displayed symptoms on the rigs and were flown to Mumbai, where they were tested positive. ONGC did not respond to HT’s queries. ONGC workers usually work in 14-day shifts on rotational basis. “ONGC had not rotated workers for around five weeks to nullify the risk of spreading the virus in Bombay High, an offshore oil field. However, it was only after the lockdown restrictions were lifted did ONGC arrange for charter flights for their workers to reach Mumbai, so that the workers stranded offshore could be given rest,” said a senior Juhu airport official.Sources privy to the development said that all workers were taken to rigs only after they were rechecked for symptoms just before taking off. A top helicopter company official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Even though the pilots flying suspected people are provided hazmath suits, ONGC might start conducting swab tests even for the pilots flying the workers who tested positive after being brought back to land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-ongc-workers-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mumbai/story-oys18EAHDZtKGyJgJZUiKO.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Remand of UP man held for supplying arms to Khalistani terrorists extended||MOHALI A local court on Thursday extended the police remand of a man arrested for supplying arms to Khalistani terrorists till June 16.Javad was nabbed by the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of the UP Police from Meerut on June 7. The special operation cell of Punjab Police brought the arms supplier on a production warrant to Mohali and produced before duty magistrate Amit Bakshi, civil judge (junior division. The court had earlier remanded Javed till June 11. The special operation cell pleaded that they have to ascertain Javed’s links with other terrorist groups, the source from where he procured arms and ammunition and funding.Javed was wanted in Punjab for his alleged involvement in supplying of arms and ammunition to Dharminder Singh, alias Gugni, of Ludhiana and a member of the banned Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), who was involved in the murder of a senior RSS leader Jagdish Kumar Gagneja. Javed’s accomplice Ashish was arrested earlier. Dharminder is currently lodged in Tihar Jail. In November 2019, Javed on the instructions of Dharminder, gave three pistols to his aide, the ATS said in the statement. Ina joint operation by the UP ATS and Punjab Police, in May this year, Tirath Singh, a suspected terrorist owing allegiance to the Khalistan movement, was arrested from Thapar Nagar in Meerut. He was handed over to Punjab Police after interrogation. In February this year, the UP-ATS arrested Ashish, a key arms supplier of the Khalistan Liberation Force members from Haridwar. In November 2019, the ATS arrested a man and his accomplice from the state’s Shamli district for their alleged involvement in supplying arms and ammunition to pro-Khalistan terror groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/remand-of-up-man-held-for-supplying-arms-to-khalistani-terrorists-extended/story-YIrNActqaWTLhR0jLrNQpM.html
12-06-2020||City||Man shot dead, pedestrian hurt in Rohtak||A 34-year-old man was killed and a pedestrian injured after five car-borne miscreants opened fire in Rohtak’s Sunaria village on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Devender alias Fula, 34. He died on the spot.The pedestrian, identified as Ankit, has been admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, with critical injuries.Sub-inspector Jaideep Singh of Shivaji colony policy station said the incident took place on Thursday when Devender was going somewhere on his motorcycle. “One of the car-borne assailants signalled Devender to stop his motorcycle. When he stopped, the assailants shot at him. The pedestrian, who was caught in melee, also got injured. The assailants fled the spot after committing the crime,” he said, adding that a case of murder and attempt to murder has been registered against Rajiv alias Raju, Ramu and three unknown assailants.MAN KILLS SONIn another tragic incident, a man killed his son with a sharp-edged weapon over a property dispute in Sonepat’s Jahri village.Police said that the accused, Rampat, is a retired army man. The deceased has been identified as Rahul. A case has been registered on the accused’s wife’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-dead-pedestrian-hurt-in-rohtak/story-iVjbw7onGczFqoBXTkGXoM.html
12-06-2020||City||2 ward officers of Kalyan-Dombivli civic body test positive for Covid-19||Two ward officers of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) have tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. One ward officer is home quarantined, while the other is admitted to Holy Cross Hospital in Kalyan (West). A supermarket in Kalyan was also sealed after a 32-year-old staffer was tested positive. “The supermarket has been sealed after a sweeper working there was tested positive. The health department will take further preventive measures,” said Kishor Kutade, ward officer, KDMC. The civic body has appealed to medical shops to collect information of patients who buy medicines. On Thursday, 87 new cases and five deaths were reported from within the KDMC jurisdiction, taking the total number of cases in Kalyan and Dombivli to 1,726 and deaths to 55. Meanwhile, eight deaths were reported in Thane on Thursday. “Seven of them were senior citizens who died at their homes. Later, their reports came positive for Covid-19,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation. On Thursday, 151 patients were discharged home after they recovered completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-ward-officers-of-kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-wQjgNl5MCqD58Cp9Cn5dRP.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster Bishnoi’s man destroyed phone used for planning Sec 33 shooting||Chandigarh Deepu Banur alias Deepak, a close aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and the man who planned the Sector 33 shootout from Ambala jail targeting liquor baron Arvind Singla , destroyed his mobile phone by burning it as it connected him to the crime, police investigations reveal.Banur, currently in Chandigarh police custody for his links to the firing incident at the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla by hitmen who planned to target his younger brother Arvind on May 31, is learnt to have arranged for weapons and ammunition after receiving a call from Bishnoi. After Banur confessed during interrogation to have used a cellphone and SIM card to make WhatsApp calls to Bishnoi and other gang members, police recovered the SIM card from the Ambala jail barrack in which Banur was lodged. The mobile phone, however, had been destroyed.The SIM had reportedly been given to Banur by a friend when he was out on a 20-day parole.Shooters identified, real estate developer too was a targetThe men involved in the shooting were identified as Karan Sharma from Ludhiana, a hotel management student and four others who were yet to be arrested. They included Rahul and Bacchi from Bhiwani and Balbir alias Mani from Ladwa, both in Haryana, and Nitin from Amritsar in Punjab. Police sources said the hitmen were directed to carry out the shooting to instil fear in targets and make money through extortion. Banur had also confessed to the police that the shootings were part of a larger conspiracy to target businessmen in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and instilling fear in them to extort money. Police investigations also pointed out that rivalry between the Bishnoi and another gangster, Vicky Gonder, had driven the former to plan the attack on Singla.A real estate developer had also been among the targets, Banur told police.Kala supplied weapons, 4 pistols recovered Investigations also revealed that the weapons of .9mm and .32 bore used in the crime were provided by Kulwinder Singh alias Kala of Sarangpur. While being interrogated, Kala had told the police that Banur often called him on WhatsApp to discuss how weapons could be acquired for the Lawrence Bishnoi Gang.Following Banur’s disclosures, the police had also recovered four pistols with 50 cartridges from a hideout in Rajpura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-bishnoi-s-man-destroyed-phone-used-for-planning-sec-33-shooting/story-E0yfwXkxrYXLFwb8f12EHI.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||TISS starts online interviews for admissions||The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, has started conducting online interviews as a part of the admissions for the upcoming academic session. The institute has now made special arrangements to accommodate aspirants with limited internet resources, especially in the wake of the lockdown and the ban on inter-state travel, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.“To make sure that all candidates have a fair chance in the interview process, we have made a few special arrangements. All selected candidates have to first register with us and then we allot them a schedule for the personal interview,” said P Shajahan, dean, academics.A dedicated team of telecallers will then get in touch with candidates via call to check with them about the availability of the internet.“If candidates don’t have access to the internet, we ask them to move to a location where they can get access to a computer or phone with internet connection. If they face issues with mobility, we try to help them get a pass for their travel to the institute,” said Shajahan.Candidates are also given the option to reschedule their interview if they cannot get online, he added. So far over 4,600 have completed their registrations and their interviews are ongoing.Around 5,300 candidates had cleared the written tests held in January and are due for a personal interview for admissions to the Masters programmes. However, in view of the lockdown, the institute had deferred the admission process but began online personal interviews in the first week of June but cancelled the pre-interview tests.Several student bodies of the institute, such as the Progressive Students’ Forum, had demanded that the institute’s administration make the online process accessible to all applicants. They had also demanded that candidates be given the option to reschedule their interview schedules owing to the lack of availability of internet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-starts-online-interviews-for-admissions/story-K1hVL7gaGbYUF19wGco8AN.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram among four emerging districts of concern in country||With 1,858 active Covid-19 cases, Gurugram has become one of the four “emerging districts of concern” in the country, as per a central government analysis. This was conveyed to the state government by a team of central officials, led by Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, during a video meeting on Thursday.“Gurugram has been bracketed with Udupi and Yadgir in Karnataka and Kolhapur in Maharashtra for having more than 400 coronavirus cases of which 90% were detected after May 18 lockdown relaxations. It is also one of the top 14 districts in the country that contribute to more than 60% of the total active caseload,” said an official. The district, which is part of the national capital region (NCR), accounts for more than 50% of the total active cases in Haryana. On Thursday, Gurugram recorded 191 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking its tally of active cases to 1,858. The cumulative number of positive cases in Gurugram is 2,737 which is more than 45% of the cumulative cases in the entire state. ‘ACTIVE SURVEILLANCE CRUCIAL’ The Union health ministry officials said that containment of the infection in such districts, strict perimeter control was crucial and active house-to-house surveillance through special teams was critical for early identification of cases.In these highly affected districts, emphasis should also be on community surveillance, the central officials said.The central officials said that in high-case load districts, additional testing and strict containment measures were needed and there was a need to focus on early testing of high-risk contacts and clinical triaging at facilities. Haryana officials were also told to ensure sufficient hospital capacity and sufficient logistics, including human resources, through advance planning for next two months. It was also emphasised that institutional quarantine was increasingly critical to reduce load on the health system and there was a need to ramp up institutional capacity (hotels, stadiums).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurugram-among-4-emerging-districts-of-concern-in-country/story-cGNJfzw4iFPE77Ize5s8hI.html
12-06-2020||City||Ventilators delivered to Thane by Central Railway, India Post from Nagpur in 24 hours||The Central Railway along with India Post Railway Parcel Service, in a door-to-door service, delivered two ventilators from Bajajnagar Nagpur to Thane’s Regional Mental Hospital on Tuesday within 24 hours.“Due to the lockdown, individuals and commercial establishments are finding it difficult to transport their large-size consignments, containing essential and other items. Keeping this in view, special parcel trains are being operated by CR. The zonal railway, along with Maharashtra Postal Circle, have synergised the capabilities of India Post and railways within the state by offering India Post Railway Parcel Service,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.The service is available between Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ventilators-delivered-to-thane-by-central-railway-india-post-from-nagpur-in-24-hours/story-8ixwDv2XYELk6MMw0ZdF3J.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man who shot dead cop in Moga dies in hospital||Faridkot A 36-year-old man of Khosa Pando in Moga district, who had shot dead a head constable and injured two cops, succumbed to his injuries at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hosptial (GGSMCH) at Faridkot on Thursday.On June 9, Gurwinder Singh fired around 50 rounds from his father’s licensed 12-bore rifle at a police team that reached the village in connection with a complaint of arson against him. Head constable Jagmohan Singh, 42, died on the spot, while inspector Tirlochan Singh and head constable Vedam Singh were injured. Gurwinder had sustained six bullet injuries in the crossfire.“Initially he was admitted to the civil hospital at Moga, after monitoring his condition doctors referred him to Faridkot hospital. The hospital authorities have informed us that the accused succumbed to his injuries at around 3pm today,” DSP Barjinder Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-who-shot-dead-cop-in-moga-dies-in-hospital/story-46migo98RxeUyeF9O9AmUM.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Jalgaon patient’s body found in hospital’s toilet: Maharashtra health minister admits to lapses||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has admitted to lapses in an incident from Jalgaon Civil Hospital, where the body of an 82-year-old Covid-19 patient was found from the hospital’s toilet on Wednesday, after she went missing from the hospital on June 2. Tope said that action has been initiated against the dean of the medical college and other officials concerned.“I admit that the Jalgaon incident is true. We took strict cognisance of the negligence and suspended the dean, superintendent, professor and nursing staff of the hospital based on an initial report. We will ensure that no such cases take place henceforth in Maharashtra,” Tope said.State home minister Anil Deshmukh too said that stern action has been taken in the Jalgaon incident.Speaking to ANI, Deshmukh said, “We have taken a serious note of the Jalgaon incident. A few have already been booked for this criminal offence, while stern action is being taken against those responsible for the inhuman act. An inquiry is ongoing.”Earlier, two cases of missing patients have been reported from hospitals in Sion and Kandivli, even as Maharashtra has over 97,000 cases – the highest number in the country.The health minister said that a security guard of Kandivli’s Shatabdi Hospital has been suspended after an 80-year patient left the Covid-19 facility and was later found dead near the railway tracks a few kilometres away.“There have been two incidents – one in Sion and the other at Kandivli. In the latter, when the patient had left his bed, the staff thought he had been to the toilet. But the man left the hospital and was absconding,” Tope said.A repeat of such incidents has raised questions over the efficacy of the state’s health care machinery to deal with the rising number of Covid-19.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in the Opposition in the state, has slammed the Maharashtra government and its agencies for the negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jalgaon-patient-s-body-found-in-hospital-s-toilet-maharashtra-health-minister-admits-to-lapses/story-kStrf8rssajSqa0tmGqy3J.html
12-06-2020||City||Mumbai-born Reuben brothers donate £80mn to Oxford varsity college||A new college established in the University of Oxford in 2019 has been named ‘Reuben College’ following a £80 million donation from a foundation of the Reuben brothers, David and Simon, who were born in Mumbai and went on to build a business empire across the globe.Figuring annually at the top of the UK rich-list, the brothers have major interests in real estate and metals. Their activities include business links with groups in India such as Sahara, as well as philanthropic and education-related activities in the UK and elsewhere.Calling the donation a ‘transformational gift’, the university said on Thursday that the college’s initial research themes are: Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning; Environmental Change; and Cellular Life, which includes work in understanding Covid-19.The Reubens’ gift expands the Reuben Scholarship Programme, which was established in 2012 for disadvantaged undergraduate students, the university said, adding that the college is preparing to recruit its first cohort of graduate students in September.Louise Richardson, Oxford vice-chancellor, said: “Thanks to the extraordinary generosity of the Reuben family, Reuben College will join the storied ranks of Oxford Colleges. For generations to come, the lives of young people will be transformed as they learn to engage in research that pushes at the frontiers of knowledge”.The college is located in a suite of buildings on the Radcliffe Science Library site. The buildings are currently undergoing refurbishment to create a central site for students. Some of the space will be shared with the library and the university’s museums.A university release quoted the Reuben family as saying: “We hope that this endowment for the Reuben College will help keep Oxford University at the global forefront of research in the vital areas of Environmental Change, AI and Machine Learning and Cellular Life, thereby helping to improve the lives of millions of people long into the future.”According to college president Lionel Tarassenko, it was launched last year with a focus on the three themes of artificial intelligence, environmental change and cellular life. The donation will now enable it to envisage a future that includes more cross-cutting research themes and offer richer engagement opportunities for academics, graduate students and the community, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-born-reuben-brothers-donate-80mn-to-oxford-varsity-college/story-rVDn3fMnOSmSEADDVecODP.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||NIRF-2020 rankings: IIT Ropar, GNDU, Thapar institute among 5 from Punjab in top 100||Patiala/Jalandhar/Amritsar Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar; Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology (TIET) and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, were among the five institutes from Punjab that figured in the top 100 list of the annual National Institute Ranking Frame (NIRF)-2020 rankings released by the human resource development ministry on Thursday. Ranked at 34th, IIT Ropar secured the best ranking from the state; followed by Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology (TIET) at 51th, Indian Institute of Science Education & Research (Mohali) at 59th; Guru Nanak Dev University at 88th, and Lovely Professional University at number 99.NIRF ranks the institutes on the basis of five parameters — teaching and learning resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcome, overall inclusivity and perception.Among the universities, TIET emerged as the best in Punjab with 31st spot. Guru Nanak Dev University improved its ranking by 8 notches to bag 51th position, while Punjabi University made in list of top 100 universities for the first time by bagging 64th place. Lovely Professional University is ranked 78th, while Central University, Bathinda, is at 87th position.LPU ONLY PVT VARSITY FROM PUNJAB IN LISTLovely Professional University (LPU), Phagwara, ranked 99th in the overall category, is the only private university from Punjab to figure in the top 100 list. Besides, the varsity’s school of pharmacy has been ranked 29th in the top 75 institutes of the country. Similarly, the management department is ranked 49th, whereas the engineering faculty bagged 87th rank in the country. LPU secured the 78th ranking among all government and private universities of the country. LPU chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated the staff and students for the feat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nirf-2020-rankings-iit-ropar-gndu-thapar-institute-among-5-from-punjab-in-top-100/story-sMe0i6zhqnOwRJrlVGpWQP.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||4 held for breaking into mobile shop, stealing phones worth ₹7.99 lakh||Four people were arrested on Thursday by Kurla police for breaking into a mobile phone shop and stealing 62 mobile phones and accessories worth ₹7.99 lakh. The four accused, all Dharavi residents including one with previous criminal antecedent, had broken into the shop on Sunday night.The arrested accused are Shafiullah Atiullah Ansari, 24; Zulfikar Ali Haidar Shaikh, 35; Atif Asif Khan, 20; and Ayan Rafi Alam Shaikh alias Ishan alias Bitu, 28. According to Kurla police, Shafiullah has a previous case of mobile theft registered against him at Vasai police station. Police suspect the three others joined Shafiullah to make some quick money.According to police, Zulfikar is a driver by profession, Atif a gold jewellery designers, while Ayan was a mobile repairer and knew how to change the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number.Police officers said they broke open the locks of the shop in Kurla (West) using a gas cutter and stole the phones, and they also took the DVR which would have stored the footage of the CCTV camera to avoid detection. “We scanned the CCTV camera footage of those available in the area and found that the accused had used two bikes, based on which we tracked the accused and arrested them,” said Dattatray Shinde, senior inspector, Kurla police station.The police have recovered all 62 mobile phones from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-held-for-breaking-into-mobile-shop-stealing-phones-worth-7-99-lakh/story-htFrLTQMWxKBmk08aG1hhM.html
12-06-2020||City||Relatives say no information on Covid-19 patient; Thane hospital says he’s doing well||The family of a 46-year-old Covid-19 patient, admitted to Thane Civil Hospital on June 6, has alleged they have been unable to contact him or get information about his condition for the past five days. The man’s 25-year-old son said he has tried to find out about his father’s condition from hospital authorities and Ambernath Municipal Corporation (AMC), but neither has responded to his queries.“The day he was admitted to Thane Civil Hospital, I spoke to him on his mobile phone. But the next day, his number could not be reached. I called the hospital on their landline number, but it isn’t working. I can’t even visit the hospital, as it is risky and the authorities have denied permission. At least the civic body should inform the family about the patient’s condition. We are worried as his condition was critical on the day he had been taken to the hospital,” the son said.The family lives at Shiv Nagar locality in Ambernath. The man works in a salon in Ambernath, while his son works with a private company.AMC said the patient has been responding to treatment and his family need not worry about his condition. “We had informed the family that he had been admitted to Thane Civil Hospital. The hospital is now supposed to communicate with the patient’s family. But as per our knowledge, the patient is doing well,” said N Rathod, AMC’s nodal officer.Thane Civil Hospital said they inform the patient’s family only when there is any “major change in the patient’s condition”. “Only if there is a development in the patient’s condition, do we inform the family. For instance, a patient’s family is contacted during the time of discharge or if the patient is critical. Our control room number 022-25471541 is also available for families of patients and they can enquire about their kin on it,” said a hospital official, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/relatives-say-no-information-on-covid-19-patient-thane-hospital-says-he-s-doing-well/story-E8eRJ8oJfFJavVp3L4w85O.html
12-06-2020||City||Four arrested for stealing ATM machine with ₹17.9L cash||Four people have been arrested by Thane Police’s crime branch unit 1 on Thursday for stealing an ATM machine filled with cash at Shil Daighar. The accused robbed the machine filled with ₹17.9 lakh cash on Monday and carried it in a tempo. All four accused have been remanded in police custody for eight days.The incident took place between 2am and 3am in Mori village of Shil Daighar, said police officers, adding the ATM had no security guards. The group had initially tried to break open the machine, but when they failed to do so, they took the entire machine with them in the four-wheeler.The arrested accused are Atul Davane, 22, a mason from Turbhe; Suraj Mhatre, 29, rickshaw driver from Ambernath; Suraj Kamble, 24, a security guard from Belapur; and Phulaji Gaykar, 36, a Xerox shop owner from Ambernath. “The four accused were questioned on Tuesday. The main accused in this case is Bhim Nepali, a resident of Nepal. Based on a tip off that he has left for Uttar Pradesh in a bus, we informed the UP police who laid a trap and caught him. A team has left for Uttar Pradesh to get the accused here,” said Sandeep Bagul, assistant police inspector. Bagul said while the ATM machine has been recovered, they are yet to seize the stolen cash, and suspect it is with Nepali. The police are on the lookout for others involved in the crime.All four have been arrested under sections 380 (theft) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-stealing-atm-machine-with-17-9l-cash/story-pBpjEhM2k7brWiCyvptyyJ.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Woman has primary claim on children: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) observed that a woman in a live-in relationship has an indefeasible claim of natural guardianship of the children born from said relationship, and on Tuesday rejected the plea of a Pune resident seeking custody of his minor son born out of a romantic relationship with a woman from New Zealand.The 26-year-old, who has a son with his ex-wife, said he met the New Zealand citizen in 2008. Three years later the couple began a romantic relationship that lasted till June 2012, by which point the woman was pregnant. She gave birth to a boy about six months after the break-up.The man had moved the family court at Pune for temporary custody of the minor after he learnt that his partner had decided to shift back to New Zealand with the child. Claiming that the woman was mentally unstable and unable to be a guardian, the man had also sought an order restricting her from taking the child out if India.He moved the HC after the family court rejected his plea. HC too dismissed his claims.Justice SC Gupte said the man claimed that the child was born not out of wedlock but out of a romantic relationship. “In other words, it is his own case that the child is an illegitimate child, and if that is so, it is difficult to see how he, as a putative biological father, can claim the custody of the child over the woman, who admittedly is his biological mother,” the judge added.Justice Gupte said under section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act the mother is the natural guardian of an illegitimate boy or an illegitimate unmarried girl, and the father’s claim of guardianship comes only after hers.There are only two exceptions to this rule – either the woman ceases to be a Hindu or completely renounces the material world and becomes a hermit or an ascetic, HC said. Thus, it added, the woman had an indefeasible claim to natural guardianship of her child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-has-primary-claim-on-children-hc/story-RwX5iYnIYyFIZfGaZTLiXO.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Petrol price rises to ₹80.98, diesel to ₹70.92||Fuel prices surged in the city on Thursday with petrol price increasing by 58 paise for each litre, bringing the price to ₹80.98 a litre from ₹80.40 a litre. Diesel price also increased to ₹70.92 for each litre from ₹70.35 a litre. Petrol and diesel prices saw a hike for the fifth consecutive day in metro cities across the country. Transporters have protested the daily increase in fuel prices. “There has been a consistent increase in petrol and diesel prices in the country. About 70% of the retail price of fuel constitutes Central and state taxes, which is about 275% and 255% over the base price for petrol and diesel, respectively. Transporters cannot absorb the daily hike as the freight depends mostly on demand and supply forces. The road transport fraternity of India strongly protests the daily hikes that are making their operations unviable,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman and former president of All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/petrol-price-rises-to-80-98-diesel-to-70-92/story-XcjR1jXnOgg68p16nSNCUK.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Level-2 fire breaks out at Crawford Market||A level-2 fire broke out at Mumbai’s iconic Crawford Market near the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus railway station around 6pm on Thursday. However, no injuries were reported. Six fire engines and five jumbo tankers were rushed to the spot. The fire was confined in four of the commercial spaces in the market, which market houses several shops. The fire increased in intensity and was reported at level 2.Mumbai Fire Brigade chief Prabhat Rahangdale said the fire has been confined to two or three shops but has heavy smoke. “Meanwhile, shutters of adjacent shops are being broken to check the spread of the fire. Fire was confined to corrugated boxes, large stock of packing material, bamboos, electrical installation and electric wiring.” The fire was brought under control by 8.48pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/level-2-fire-breaks-out-at-crawford-market/story-VrxWSlmF7y0shbRZAEirbI.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to probe case of 62-year-old who couldn’t be traced for 48 hours||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday initiated an enquiry into the incident involving a 62-year-old suspected Covid patient, whose family could not locate the woman for around 48 hours after she was admitted to the Covid care facility in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) last week and later moved to Sion Hospital, where she died. The enquiry will be headed by Prashant Narnaware, one of the five IAS officers appointed by the civic body to keep a check on bed management at private hospitals. Narnaware said preliminary information is being collected about the entire case.The patient, Gyanti Devi, was first admitted at the BKC facility at 5am on June 2 with breathing issues and lower body pain. The same afternoon, as many as 200 patients were moved from the BKC centre to the Covid care facility at NSCI Exhibition Centre in Worli and Sion Hospital due to the threat of Cyclone Nisarga. Gyanti Devi was taken to Sion Hospital, where she succumbed on June 3.Her grandson, Sandeep Sharma, had to run from pillar to post for 48 hours to locate Gyanti Devi. The family claim they did not receive any intimation from the BKC facility about transferring Gyanti Devi even though they had submitted their contact details. Sharma and his family then did the rounds of Worli NSCI and Sion Hospital for two days, but could not find Gyanti Devi at both places. Finally, on the evening of June 4, while enquiring with the Sion Hospital staff, the family was told that there was an unclaimed body of a woman who had died on June 3. “We searched in all wards at Sion Hospital and went to the enquiry counter multiple times. The staff then suspected that she could have died and they contacted the Sion crematorium. They then found out that an unclaimed body had been sent to the cremation. It was my grandmother,” said Sharma. After Sharma reach the crematorium, the body was handed over to him, but the family still does not know if Gyanti Devi was Covid-19. Her body was handed over without conducting a Covid test although her death certificate states she died of type-two respiratory failure, lower respiratory tract infection, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Respiratory failure with comorbidities is one of the causes of deaths in Covid-19 patients. HT reported about the case on Wednesday.“I will be looking into this, too, whether a test was conducted or not. We will do a thorough investigation. We are gathering details from the staff that was present on the day the patient was transferred at Sion,” Narnaware said. Civic chief Iqbal Chahal said the matter is being “examined”.Meanwhile, BJP leaders along with family members of Gyanti Devi have lodged a complaint at the BKC police station against the civic body, alleging criminal negligence by Sion Hospital and the BKC facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-probe-case-of-62-year-old-who-couldn-t-be-traced-for-48-hours/story-S9t4qrEejYjIeBmz0CTEKM.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur man murdered over property, son among 3 of family held||A 65-year-old man was murdered at Balian village near Sangrur town allegedly by three family members, including his son, over a land dispute, police said. The body of Jagroop Singh was found in his house on Wednesday. Police have arrested his son Gurmeet Singh, daughter-in-law Balwinder Kaur, grandson Harinder Singh, alias Harry. Another accused, Amar Singh, a resident of Patiala, is absconding. Sangrur sadar police station in-charge Rakesh Kumar said that three accused were produced on Thursday in a court that sent them to four-day remand.As per the FIR, Jagroop stayed separate from his son who wanted to grab the 14 bigha land he owned. He recently executed a deed to sell 4 bigha land and the registration was scheduled on August 19, says the FIR, adding he was thrashed by the accused on Tuesday night.On the complaint of the victim’s son-in-law Chamkaur Singh, a case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-murdered-over-property-son-among-3-of-family-held/story-VujIIJZcd3ow7YCo6UjWSJ.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Crop loans: State to sign agreement with banks||As banks are not ready to sanction fresh crop loans to defaulting farmers even after assurance from the Maharashtra government for repayment of loan amount under its loan waiver scheme, the state has now agreed to sign an agreement with the banks as a guarantee that they will get their money back by September.The move will bring relief to more than 11 lakh farmers who are eligible for the loan waiver scheme — Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mukti Yojana — but could not avail its benefit as the state government is facing serious financial crisis owing to lockdown imposed after Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. The government had also expressed its inability to pay amount to the banks for the time being.On May 22 when the state government asked banks to provide crop loans to farmers saying the government was ready to pay the pending amount along with interest, banks were not ready to listen and demanded guarantee in black and white, officials said.“We have decided to sign an agreement with the banks to guarantee that they will receive the pending loan amount of the eligible farmers by September,” confirmed state cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil.“The process has started and the agreement will be soon signed with the banks. With the decision, all 11.12 lakh eligible farmers will get crop loans,” he said.The state government needs ₹8,100 crore to write off the debts of the farmers.“The draft of the agreement is ready. Soon banks will appoint someone who will be signing it on their behalf,” said a senior official requesting anonymity. He added that the rate of interest against the delay on the loan amount is yet to be decided.The loan waiver scheme promises to write off loans with an outstanding of up to ₹2 lakh for farmers from April 1, 2015 to September 30, 2019. The state has transferred ₹12,000 crore in the bank accounts of over 19 lakh beneficiaries so far, and the other 11.12 lakh beneficiaries are yet to get the benefit.In a meeting held on June 8 to review preparations for kharif season, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed displeasure after he came to know that the nationalised banks have disbursed only 7% crop loans to farmers against the target set for the fiscal.Thackeray was informed that nationalised banks have disbursed ₹2,300 crore, which comes to 7%, and district central cooperative banks have sanctioned ₹6,250 crore as crop loans, 46% of the target determined for this year.The ongoing financial crisis has led the state government to declare a 67% cut in its expenditure for developmental works in this fiscal in view of the estimated revenue losses of more than ₹40,000 crore in March and April 2020 owing to Covid-19 outbreak.The state, expecting the cumulative losses to be more than ₹50,000 crore in the current fiscal, has also decided to not take up new development schemes and scrap or defer the schemes that can be put on hold. Among other measures, the government has also decided to stop recruitment for government jobs, meaning that recruitment underway for 35,000 posts is unlikely now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crop-loans-state-to-sign-agreement-with-banks/story-t1WvNPNGIsvZhlFf9xRH4L.html
12-06-2020||City||97 Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai for second day in a row||The city on Thursday recorded 1,418 new Covid-19 cases and 97 deaths, taking the count to 54,085 and toll to 1,954. So far, 24,209 people – 44% of Mumbai’s total cases – have recovered. There are 27,915 active cases in Mumbai. The city recorded 97 deaths, the highest single-day figure, for two days in a row, on Wednesday and Thursday.According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the recovery rate is high in patients in the 10-40 age group. Until May 30, which is the latest data available with BMC for age-wise closed cases (cases that had an outcome of recovery or death), 74% cases in the 10-20 age group recovered with 0% mortality. Similarly, 71% of cases in the 20-30 age group recovered with 0% mortality. In the 30-40 age group, 68% of the cases recovered, while 2% died.For cases in patients beyond 50 years of age, the percentage of closed cases has gone down, which means more patients in this age group are taking longer to recover and are still ailing. Also, among the closed cases, the mortality is higher. While 65% of cases in the 40-50 age group had an outcome, it was death in 6% of the cases, which means only 59% recovered. Of the 62% cases that had an outcome in the 50-60 age group, 11% were deaths, suggesting 51% recovery.In senior citizens, 57% cases in the 60-70 age group had an outcome, with 18% deaths (39% recovery). In the 70-80 age group, 51% cases had an outcome – 30% recovery and 21% deaths.Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer in BMC, said, “This is expected as younger people have better immunity to fight the infection. A higher percentage of older patients have co-morbidities. A sluggish metabolism among older people is another reason for longer recovery time. However, we have had cases where senior citizens are asymptomatic, and recover fast.”As of June 9, there were 9,993 cases in the 50-60 age group, with 523 deaths. There were 6,669 cases in the 60-70 age group, with 514 deaths. There were 9,420 cases 40-50 in the age group, with 281 deaths. On the contrary, there were 9,372 cases in the 30-40 age group, with only 85 deaths.Of the 97 deaths reported on Thursday, 43 occurred before June 7. Sixty-five had co-morbidities; 63 patients were men and 34 patients were women. Ten deaths were of people below 40 years, 53 above 60 years, and 34 between 40 and 60 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/97-covid-19-deaths-in-mumbai-for-second-day-in-a-row/story-PDFP8ah4miVjP7WMPG8IiP.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Second cluster varsity all set to begin admissions||Almost a year after the state cabinet approved the formation of a second cluster university in the state and city, the Hyderabad Sind National Collegiate University (HSNCU) was launched on Thursday. HSNCU will be open for admission for the academic year of 2020-21 as a cluster university that will bring together Hassaram Rijhumal College of Commerce and Economics (HR College), Kishinchand Chellaram College (KC College) in Churchgate as well as Bombay Teachers’ Training College in Colaba (all of which are part of the HSNCU board).The university was officially launched by Maharashtra governor and chancellor of state universities Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray along with minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant.The first cluster university, Dr Homi Bhabha State University (HBSU), started admissions and operations in 2019-20. It brings together four existing colleges — the Institute of Science (ISc), Elphinstone College, Sydenham College of Commerce and Economics and Secondary Training (ST) College — all located in Fort and Churchgate.“This university is a step towards greater global academic standards and eventually towards economic independence. It will open up curriculum reforms and more autonomy in designing of syllabi,” said Niranjan Hiranandani, provost of the university. He added that HSNCU designed the syllabi in consultation with industry experts and top academicians to ensure its students are industry and future ready. Like HBSU, HSNCU too will introduce a range of integrated courses with options of interdisciplinary courses. “This university will allow horizontal mobility as well as creative options to students from all disciplines —commerce, humanities, science and economics,” said Hiranandani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/second-cluster-varsity-all-set-to-begin-admissions/story-dhAHxnIsbUfk1OCCx1bN3K.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir names party office-bearers, Bhunder is SAD secy general||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday announced the first list of party’s office-bearers, appointing Balwinder Singh Bhunder as the secretary general.Tota Singh, Nirmal Singh Kahlon, Charanjit Singh Atwal, Upinderjit Kaur, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Daljit Singh Cheema, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Adesh Partap Singh Kairon, Naresh Gujral, Jagmeet Singh Brar, Prakash Chand Garg, Harmanjit Singh Delhi and Harmel Singh Tohra have been named as senior vice-presidents, according to a party release.NK Sharma has been appointed as the treasurer. The party has also included Hira Singh Gabria and Manjinder Singh Sirsa as members of the core committee announced on Monday. Gabria has also been reappointed as president of BC Wing of the party. Former minister Sikander Singh Maluka has been appointed as president of kisan wing of the party and coordinator of employees’ wing of the party. MLA Pawan Kumar Teenu has been appointed as secretary general of the SC wing whereas youth leader Sarbjit Singh Sabi has been appointed as secretary general of the Youth Akali Dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-names-party-office-bearers-bhunder-is-sad-secy-general/story-E8abFLuvlxtC5nKcAe3mcI.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Examine all those quarantined at home, Punjab health minister tells civil surgeons||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday issued instructions to all civil surgeons to conduct thorough examination of 18,929 people quarantined at home. In a statement, Sidhu said, “Besides rapid response teams of health department, special teams have been constituted under the supervision of deputy commissioners to examine such people.” He also warned of strict action against those found violating the guidelines. The health minister also said that RT-PCR tests have been made mandatory for all people arrested by police whether symptomatic or asymptomatic as they belong to the high-risk category . The same test will also be conducted on all prisoners before shifting them from special jails to regular jails. “If the number of samples is 40 or above, a medical team from the health department will visit the jail to collect samples,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/examine-all-those-quarantined-at-home-punjab-health-minister-tells-civil-surgeons/story-0021Pd51PTOs0iyaX6fVNP.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||5-year-old boy falls in nullah in Ghatkopar, search operations on||A five-year-old boy is feared drowned in an open nullah in Ghatkopar on Thursday afternoon. The child’s mother tried to rescue him but failed as she, too, got stuck in the muddy sludge of the nullah. While locals who had gathered rescued the mother, fire brigade officials have launched a search operation for the boy.According to Pantnagar police, the incident took place around 12.30pm when the boy, Hussain Hamid Shaikh, a resident of nearby slums, was playing near the 10-foot-deep nullah at Savitribai Phule Nagar in Ghatkopar (East). The boy slipped and fell into the nullah. His mother, upon seeing him in the nullah, jumped in to save him. “The mother had managed to hold the boy’s hand, but later he slipped away as the nullah was full of sludge. Locals rescued the woman,” said a police officer from Pantnagar police station.The fire brigade has launched a search operation using ropes, hooks, anchor and dingy boat.“The boy’s father has been helping police since long. The family resides in the nearby slum. The boy could not be found till night. Search operation was going on till late night,” said Suhas Kamble, senior inspector of Pantnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-year-old-boy-falls-in-nullah-in-ghatkopar-search-operations-on/story-JFn5g8ojFlq8iZ5baJNtEK.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Not enough passengers, Punjab’s small private buses go off roads||Amritsar Small private bus operators and those running mini-buses in the state have decided to take their vehicles off roads, for now, with tepid response from passengers, even as the lockdown has been lifted. Livelihood of thousands of staffers, including drivers and conductors, has been hit. Operators say with no reduction in major fixed expenses like tax and insurance premium, operating with fewer passengers in view of social distancing norms did not make sense.“Livelihood of nearly 1 lakh people who work as drivers and conductors, is dependent on the operation of mini buses in the state. In Amritsar itself, there are 500 mini-bus operators, employing 1,500 persons. All are struggling for survival with no help from the government,” said Baldev Singh Babbu, president, Punjab Mini-Bus Operators Union.He added, “We pay Rs 3,100 per bus per month as tax for getting on the road. A huge financial crisis stares at us. Many operators will wind up business over the next few months.”Choudhary Ashok Manan, who operates buses from Amritsar to locations in Gurdaspur district, adds, “Unlike Kerala where a concession of 1/3 of quarterly tax has been offered to private buses, Punjab government has asked us to pay full tax. We pay approximately Rs 30,000 per bus per month as tax. The total insurance premium is Rs 93,000. Due to social distancing, we are to ferry a limited number of passengers. Fuel and wages remain high. Survival is nearly impossible.”Manan, who represents small private bus operators of Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts, said, “Around 80 small bus operators run around 500 private buses.” A bus driver Sher Singh, 46, who plies on the Amritsar-Pathankot route says, “For people like me, the lockdown is still on, as even now I am struggling to earn my daily wage of Rs 400. I am the only breadwinner and am living on borrowed money from friends or relatives. Transport must get normal, as I cannot find any other job now.” Operators also rue the fact that even in these tough times, those without their own garage for buses have to pay parking fee at the bus stand. Theft of batteries and tyres is also an issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-enough-passengers-punjab-s-small-private-buses-go-off-roads/story-ZfgDDDzn8UWoh7ZTPgjAII.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Signs of bickering in MVA||While the developments over the past few days suggest the three parties forming the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) are bickering over various issues, insiders claim more differences could crop up over various other issues, including nominations of party members to the Council and reshuffle of the bureaucracy. The Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) want the names for 12 members of the council to be recommended to the Governor at the earliest, while the Shiv Sena wants it to be handled cautiously. A tiff is also likely over extension for chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, as only the Sena is in favour of the move.The state recommends names to the Governor for nominations to the Council as per the constitutional provision under Article 171. The six-year term of 10 of the 12 council members appointed from the Governor’s quota in 2014 ended last week, while two others will retire on June 15. The Sena, NCP and Congress are expected to give four names each for the vacant seats. The Congress and NCP state chiefs have reportedly approached chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for a decision on the vacant council posts.“We have asked the chief minister for a coordination meeting to finalise the quota and names to be recommended by taking a decision in the cabinet. The list should have been sent before the term ended on June 6, but there is no discussion yet,” said a senior Congress leader.The ruling parties feel the Governor may stall the recommendation, similar to the situation when Thackeray’s name was recommended two months ago. The Congress leader said the Sena leadership is treading cautiously, as it does not want another tussle with the Governor. Meanwhile, Mehta’s second extension ends on June 30. Thackeray is reportedly in favour of giving him another term of three months in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress and NCP have opposed the move. “Mehta is also likely to be appointed in a special role in the chief minister’s office. The two ruling parties are against any such move,” said an NCP leader.The leader said they were of the opinion that the administration is enjoying dominance in decision-making and it has been proven true after a showdown between ministers and bureaucrats in the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, where NCP leader and food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal slammed Mehta for bringing a proposal in the cabinet without having consulted with him. Even as Thackeray claimed on Wednesday that there was no face-off between the ministers and officers, the Congress held two meetings of its senior leaders over the past two days. “The Congress is part of the ruling alliance and we have our own expectations. We want to have a say in decision-making and will convey our feelings to the CM,” Congress state chief Balasaheb Thorat said. Political analyst Hemant Desai said there are differences within the MVA, but it has not reached the stage of bickering. “NCP chief Sharad Pawar was known as a leader with full command over bureaucracy, but in the given scenario, he does not appear to be happy with the way the administration is functioning. The stand-off between ministers and bureaucrats in the cabinet meeting was an indicator that three ruling parties are not on the same page,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/signs-of-bickering-in-mva/story-LFJiRERKeUShHTqjay4oGO.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Gujarat university designs Covid testing unit in autorickshaw||In an effort to boost testing facilities and provide portable oxygen facilities, Anant National University has designed a compact, mobile and contact-free Covid-19 testing and oxygen facility in a cargo autorickshaw. The Gujarat-based university has created three variations of the rickshaw. One is an oxygen response facility with a stretcher that can act as an emergency response vehicle, one with contact-free swab testing facilities for two patients, and one with x-ray testing and swab-collection facilities. While the first two cost ₹4.25 lakh and ₹5.4 lakh respectively, the rickshaw with x-ray facilities will cost ₹11.4 lakh. The autorickshaws are also fitted with a stretcher on the side to transport patients to the hospital. A large number of patients have not been able to access ambulances and hospitals in Mumbai in the past few days. “These are compact autorickshaws that can reach the narrow lanes of slums and facilitate door-to-door testing. The interiors of the facility are also partitioned in three chambers, one for the driver, one for healthcare provider and one for the patient,” said Dr Miniya Chatterji, Director, Anant Centre for Sustainability, and CEO of Sustain Labs. The vehicle for swab testing is contact-free as it is fitted with two windows from which healthcare providers can collect swab samples.The university is in talks with local governments in Maharashtra and Gujarat where the facilities are expected to roll out soon, said Chatterji. To run the equipment 24x7, a diesel generator is fitted on top of the vehicle. Professor Dhaval Monani, Director of Affordable Housing and Associate Professor, Anant National University who designed the rickshaws, said in order to maintain high standards of sanitation, the patient area comes with an automated sanitiser spray that is activated by four jet nozzles that thoroughly disinfect the area each time a patient leaves the chamber.“We found two challenges in the country with Covid-19. One is that the testing costs are high and the second is that patients are not able to make it to the hospital in time owing to shortage of ambulances. Therefore, in consultation with different medical practitioners, we re-engineered the autorickshaw so that the facility can reach all patients,” Monani said. The university had earlier designed cardboard beds that have been utilised in quarantine facilities in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gujarat-university-designs-covid-testing-unit-in-autorickshaw/story-veOxxNmISphbtRNBvquoWO.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||State delays schedule, RTE students can’t confirm seats||Even as the state education department has announced the commencement of new academic year from June 15, admissions under the 25% Right to Education (RTE) quota have still not begun across the state, leaving thousands of students in a lurch. Several students who have been allotted schools based on the RTE lottery are waiting for the state government to release a schedule following which they can confirm their admission.A delay in starting the admission process means that the students who have applied for admissions under RTE quota are unable to take part in the online classes of the respective schools. “My son got allotted to a school through the lottery. We got to know that the school has already started its online classes for the year 2020-21. However since his admission is not yet done, the school is unable to put him on their rolls and he is missing out on online learning,” said the parent of a Class 1 student from Khargar. An official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s education department who is in-charge of RTE admissions said the government is yet to issue any directive on the matter. “We are waiting for official instructions from the government about admissions. Once a schedule is out, we will start the process,” said the official. Officials from the state education department did not respond to calls and messages. This year a total of 14,135 students applied for RTE seats in Mumbai, of whom 5,371 have been allotted schools through online lottery. More than one lakh students were selected in a lottery for admissions to Senior KG and Class 1 under the quota across the state. While the lottery for admissions was conducted in March this year, admissions have still not started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-delays-schedule-rte-students-can-t-confirm-seats/story-DwoOujVj6cnIKfAFOvZnTL.html
12-06-2020||City||Woman kills 7-year-old daughter, herself at Badlapur residence||A 30-year-old woman killed her seven-year-old daughter before dying by suicide at their Badlapur residence on Wednesday night. On Thursday Badlapur (East) police registered an offence against the deceased woman, who was the wife of a constable from Deonar police station, under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), for murder. The case was registered after the woman’s 64-year-old mother-in-law filed a complaint with the police. According to the police, the incident took place at Shirgaon in Badlapur (East) around 11.30pm on Wednesday. “The daughter was sleeping with the mother-in-law initially. Around 11.30pm the accused woman took her daughter to her bedroom. After a few minutes, the mother-in-law heard screams and she rushed to the room, which was locked. She then called the neighbours and the police were alerted,” said Harshal Kulkarni, assistant inspector, Badlapur (East) police station. “The mother had stabbed the daughter multiple times with a knife and later she killed herself. Both were rushed to Badlapur rural hospital and were declared dead there,” said Kulkarni. Primarily, it is suspected that the mother had a history of mental illness as per the statement provided by her husband. “The husband was not at the residence when the incident took place. He was on his duty. He stated that earlier the woman was mentally ill. We are trying to verify this claim,” added Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-kills-7-year-old-daughter-herself-at-badlapur-residence/story-vSKeXzRQfGA9It5jVnPIyM.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sultanpur Lodhi farmers take to DSR sowing of paddy||Kapurthala Farmers in the sub-division of Sultanpur Lodhi in the district have planted around 50% of the area under paddy using the Direct Seeding of Rice (DSR) technology. Of 34,000 hectare under paddy, 16,000 hectare has used this technology. This is a major increase over last year, when the area under DSR was negligible (just 90 hectare). Using this technology that involves fertilising and planting directly into the soil, using a machine, the farmer can cut down on cultivation cost in terms of labour and water.Farmers, however, need to be extreme vigilant against weeds when they grow this variety, said Sultanpur Lodhi agriculture development officer, Jaspal Singh Dhanju. “Farmers of this region are enterprising. This year, they have gone in for DSR technology, and that too after modifying the zero till drill, mainly used for wheat sowing,” Dhanju added. Baldev Singh from Talwandi Chaudriyan village said he had gone in for DSR in 450 acre. Another farmer Harman Singh from Nurowal village said he had used the technology in entire land holding. Farmers Ajaypal Singh and Yuvraj Singh from Sarai Jattan village, who own the machine for DSR sowing of paddy, said the technique had gained popularity as they had sown over 650 acre on rental basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sultanpur-lodhi-farmers-take-to-dsr-sowing-of-paddy/story-xTKqXaD5oS5vHcpgKVzVqO.html
12-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records new highest one-day spike with 195 cases; total 3,414||A day after reporting a high of 156 new Covid-19 cases in a day, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Thursday reported the highest one-day spike so far with 195 cases, taking the total number of cases to 3,414.NMMC also reported six deaths on Thursday, taking the death toll to 107. Meanwhile, 83 patients have recovered and were discharged on the same day.In Navi Mumbai, 14,273 people have been tested for Covid-19 so far. Of them, 10,416 persons have tested negative and the results of 443 are pending. Of the total cases, 1,309 are currently active while 1,998 persons (59% of total cases) have recovered from the disease. In addition, 30,426 people have completed their quarantine period in the city.Of the 195 new Covid positive cases, Belapur recorded 12, Nerul seven, Vashi 22, Turbhe 30, Kopar Khairane 37, Ghansoli 42, Airoli 35 and Digha 10.There are also 10 children among the positive patients, including a 10-year-old boy from Sathe Nagar in Rabale; a 4-year-old girl, a 7-year-old girl and a 3-year-old from sector 5 in Ghansoli; a 15-year-old girl from Shramik Nagar, Khairane; a 15-year-old girl from Rabale; a 12-year-old girl from Koprigaon; a 3-year-old boy from sector 14, Diwalegaon; a 16-year-old girl from sector 12, Kopar Khairane; and a 2-year-old girl from Airoli.Of the 83 people who were discharged after recovery on Thursday include 15 from Belapur, 12 from Nerul, one from Vashi, nine from Turbhe, three from Kopar Khairane, 21 from Ghansoli, 18 from Airoli and four from Digha.Meanwhile, the civic body is providing 1,080 persons including migrant workers, homeless citizens, persons with disabilities and senior citizens with free meals twice a day from the 17 community kitchens. The meals are being provided by NMMC with the help of NGOs and citizens volunteering to support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-new-highest-one-day-spike-with-195-cases-total-3-414/story-FHPQCYi0kMmbDzxnvUXV6J.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab agri dept yet to identify farmers who bought spurious paddy seeds||Though the paddy sowing has begun, the state agriculture department is yet to identify the farmers who purchased ‘spurious’ seeds, mainly PR128 and PR129 varieties.The kharif season was marred by the seed scam with recovery of unauthorised seeds of the said varieties from private seed producers and traders across the state in past three weeks.The failure of the agriculture department in identifying the buyers may cost the farmers dear as experts believe the spurious seeds will affect the paddy production.It may be mentioned that the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) introduced these varieties for the first time and didn’t provide the source seed to any private player. The PAU sold the seeds directly to farmers.Already, there are reports of seed samples collected from Ludhiana’s private Brar Seeds Store failing the germination test, while the reports of samples confiscated from Patiala, Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Muktsar and other parts of the state are still awaited.Agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi said the seed producers illegally sold seeds claiming they were of PR128 and PR129 varieties. “The district heads of agriculture department have already been directed to find how much of unauthenticated seeds have been sold in the open market,” Airi said.Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) said the department was already late in taking action. “The farmers who purchased these seeds have already sown them or have transplanted saplings for manual transplantation of paddy,” Singh said.Patiala chief agriculture officer Surjit Singh Walia said they were taking all precautions and have directed block-level officers to take feedback from farmers on the crop. “It is not possible on the ground to identify farmers who purchased seed varieties from unauthorised dealers,” Walia said.Farmers were sold PR128 and PR139 varieties for ₹200-250 per kg by private players even as PAU was making available the same for ₹70 per kg.As per the PAU, PR128 matures in about 111 days, while PR129 takes about 108 days to mature, which is three weeks earlier than PUSA 44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-agri-dept-yet-to-identify-farmers-who-bought-spurious-paddy-seeds/story-y7UKZKbFYnPozAF3z5lp1N.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon arrives in Maharashtra; Mumbai misses its date||The weather bureau on Thursday declared the onset of the south-west monsoon over parts of south Konkan and south-central Maharashtra, but Mumbai missed its date.An orange alert (be prepared) has been issued for Sunday for the entire Konkan coast including Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for heavy to very heavy rain across isolated areas. A yellow alert (be updated) has been issued for Friday and Saturday for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for the possibility of heavy rain or thunderstorms across isolated areas.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said monsoon had advanced into parts of Konkan, central Maharashtra, and Marathwada on Thursday with the onset line passing through Harnai in Ratnagiri district and Solapur district in southwest Maharashtra.“The conditions are favourable for further advancement of monsoon in some more parts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, over the next 48 hours. A warning for heavy rainfall has been issued,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD. “Rain intensity is likely to increase across the Konkan coast, central Maharashtra and Marathwada owing to a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal (around north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coast), a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat region, and an active offshore trough extending from Karnataka to Kerala.”According to IMD’s new onset dates released last month, normal onset for Maharashtra is around June 8. Last year, Maharashtra and Mumbai witnessed its most delayed monsoon onset in 45 years on June 20. In 2018 and 2017 it was June 8, while it was delayed in 2016 and 2015 on June 18 and 14. Earlier this week, IMD had predicted that the onset of monsoon is expected in Mumbai around Thursday (June 11). “But the progression of monsoon towards Mumbai was marginally delayed because of a slight slower movement of the weather system over the Bay of Bengal. However, the onset over Maharashtra and expected onset over Mumbai by June 13 will still be considered as normal onset as we consider a standard deviation of plus-minus seven days for monsoon arrival,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Independent meteorologists, however, said present weather conditions over southern Maharashtra were not conducive enough to declare monsoon onset. “Monsoon winds are yet to reach Konkan and south-central Maharashtra since the near-surface wind direction over these areas is from the northwest instead of required west or southwest. The wind pattern over a region needs to be seriously considered, while declaring the monsoon’s progression,” said Akshay Deoras, meteorologist and PhD researcher at the department of meteorology, University of Reading, the United Kingdom (UK). “Several models including that of the IMD continue to indicate the arrival of the monsoon in most of Konkan, including Mumbai during June 14-16.”Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet said, “Conditions look favourable for monsoon onset over Mumbai by June 14 or 15.” Skymet had earlier said onset was expected on June 13.Deoras added that coastal districts of Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and Raigad were expected to receive moderate to heavy rain between June 14 and 16. “Mumbai is likely to witness more persistent and some intense showers during June 15 and 16,” he said.Mumbai and its suburbs recorded light overnight showers between Wednesday night and Thursday morning. South Mumbai recorded 1.1 mm rain, while the suburbs received 5.6 mm. No rain was recorded between 8.30am and 5.30pm Thursday as the maximum and minimum temperatures were close to the normal mark.MUMBAI FLOOD WARNING SYSTEM TO BE LAUNCHED TODAYThe country’s second urban flood warning system will be launched on Friday by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. HT had reported on Wednesday that the system will provide early warning for flooding, specially during high rainfall events and cyclones. Jointly conceived by several departments of the ministry of earth sciences and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the system will estimate ward wise flood levels, assess vulnerable areas and identify mitigation measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-arrives-in-maharashtra-mumbai-misses-its-date/story-1xypiPFiJcKedFfLunCHfJ.html
12-06-2020||Mumbai||Record spike for 2nd day in a row takes Maha closer to 1 lakh cases||For a second consecutive day, Maharashtra recorded its highest 24-hour jump in coronavirus cases with 3,607 more infections on Thursday, taking the tally to 97,648. The government said it is ready to tackle the surge anticipated after relaxing lockdown curbs. The state announced the addition of doctors and beds in Mumbai, even as it pushed for slashing the restriction period for containment zones by half and reiterated its demand for resumption of local train services for essential services workers.The state’s Covid-19 death toll also rose by 152 — 35 casualties in the past two days and the remaining in the past nine weeks — pushing the fatality count to 3,590. India’s worst-affected city, Mumbai, reported 1,418 new cases and 97 more deaths, pushing its tally and toll to 54,085 and 1,954 respectively.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday asked the Union health ministry to reduce the restriction period in containment zones from 28 days to 14 days. Tope made the request during a meeting with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.The state’s recovery rate is 47.2%, as 46,078 patients are reported to have recovered so far, with 1,561 patients discharged on Thursday. The recovery rate in the state was 26.25% on May 20, 29.06% on May 24, 31.26% on May 28 and improved to 43.38% on May 29. Tope described the current availability of ICU beds in Mumbai as “hand-to-mouth”. However, he said the city will get 500 additional ICU beds by next week. The minister said the state and local administration in Mumbai is prepared to tackle a spike in cases. He said that beds in Covid Care Centres (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) are available.“We are prepared to tackle the situation even if there is a spike in the coming days following the lifting of curbs. The beds at CCC and DCHC, where there is an oxygen line with beds, are available. The current situation of ICU beds today is hand-to-mouth, but in the next eight days, an additional 500 ICU beds will be made operational in Mumbai,” Tope said.The minister said the state government is getting more doctors to ensure there is no shortage of doctors in Mumbai . “We are getting around 200 to 300 doctors from other districts to serve in Mumbai. Our preparedness plan is in place. There will be no shortage of beds or doctors,” he saidThe state, meanwhile, wants to reduce the period needed for restrictions in containment zones. Containment zones are areas where a significant number of cases have been detected, after which the authority puts movement restrictions in those areas and implements strict lockdown measures. The area is declared free after there is no case reported in 28 days after the last case tests negative.Heavy police deployment is made outside these areas to ensure the effective implementation of norms. As of June 9, Mumbai alone has 798 containment zones in the city. A statement from Tope said that the minister made a request to the Centre to take a re-look at the norms and halve it to reduce the strain on the police personnel deployed outside hotspots.“All activities are restricted inside a containment zone until no cases are reported for 28 days. Heavy police deployment is done to ensure the implementation is carried and a large chunk of the police is deployed in these areas. The Centre should look at reducing these curbs from 28 days to 14 so that the police force can be rested and put on duty elsewhere. The Centre should issue guidelines on this,” the statement said.Of the 152 deaths reported on Thursday, 35 were from the last two days while remaining had taken place from April 1 to June 8. Of the total fatalities, 119 are from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including 97 from Mumbai, nine from Mira Bhayander and seven from Kalyan-Dombivli. Eight each were from Pune and Solapur. 85 of the people who died were above 60 years of age and 107 of them had comorbidities.A total of 15,533 samples have been tested in the past 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 23.22%. With 41 private and 54 owned by the government, state has 95 laboratories for coronavirus tests. Currently, 5,73,606 people are under home quarantine.Tope also reiterated the state government’s demand to resume suburban train services for the workforce in essential and emergency services. “I have requested the Union health minister that limited local train services for the workforce in essential and emergency services should be allowed. I am confident he would discuss the demand with the prime minister and we expect a decision at the earliest.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday had reiterated the demand to start local train services so that people who reside in far-flung suburbs and employed at hospitals and in other essential services can resume work to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the city.According to the officials from the state government, the Centre has been informed how it is important to ease out the stress on essential services, including healthcare workers and police. “After private offices are allowed to operate, BEST buses are plying at crowded areas, making it difficult for these frontline workers to commute. We cannot be fully dependent on road transport, while easing restrictions,” the officer said. The mortality rate in the state went up in the past few days, reaching 3.7% on Thursday, from 3.25% on May 25 and 3.37% on May 31, even as the national rate witnessed a gradual fall. The national mortality rate too saw bit of rise and reported 2.83% on Thursday from 2.78% on Sunday, but it has been on a gradual slide from 3.06% on May 21 and 2.84% on May 31.“There could be a marginal hike in the rate, but it’s not worrisome as the difference it not too high. The rise may be because of a few elements related to test, disease pattern, late admission and it has been witnessed globally. Our mortality is well within control, compared to other countries,” said Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the expert committee appointed by the state to recommend steps to curb the spread. Dr Supe said that the surge the state has been witnessing a mix of trends, as in some parts like Dharavi the cases are on decline, while in some areas like Malad, the cases are on the rise. “Until we are prepared with good health infrastructure and patients are getting required line of treatment, there is no need to worry about the surge,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/record-spike-for-2nd-day-in-a-row-takes-maha-closer-to-1-lakh-cases/story-xPQuZxmTquaQG8YBfQivxK.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt allows its offices to have 100% staff, but with strict protocol||CHANDIGARH The Punjab government has allowed its offices across the state to function with up to 100% staff, provided strict social distancing, and sanitisation protocol is followed.The permission has been granted by the personnel department after chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh held a meeting with administrative secretaries of all departments. “The heads of departments (HoDs) have been allowed to decide their staff requirement in office and they can have up to 100% attendance from today. They do not need special permission now, but have been asked to keep the chief secretary’s office in the loop,” a senior officer said, quoting the instructions issued to all HoDs, administrative secretaries and deputy commissioners on Wednesday.The state government, which has 3.15 lakh employees, had only permitted the departments providing essential and emergency services such as health, police, power, water supply and fire to work with full staff strength till now whereas other departments that deal with non-essential services were allowed to first work with a skeletal staff and later have a maximum of 50% employees in the office at any time.The restrictions on work from office have been eased even as Covid-19 positive cases saw an increase of almost 32% in the state during the past 15 days, going up from 2,139 on May 27 to 2,805 on June 10. However, the personnel department has issued a strict protocol to check the spread of coronavirus. “The departments have been directed to divide their staff into separate teams and ensure they do not meet each other so that if any employee tests positive, the entire working is not affected and only members of that particular team go into quarantine as per the guidelines issued by the health department,” said the official, who did not want to be named.As for the departments working with less than 50% attendance, HoDs have been allowed to rotate their staff on a weekly basis or alternate days. The chief secretary had initially allowed weekly rotation of staff but some departments sought flexibility and more attendance in office, according to sources.The latest guidelines have been issued after feedback was gathered by the chief secretary’s office from all HoDs through a 33-point questionnaire regarding their Covid-19 plan, sanitisation, compliance with social distancing norms, use of masks, sitting arrangements, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-allows-its-offices-to-have-100-staff-but-with-strict-protocol/story-OZmrnag5CNcEjesasJiZgJ.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pak court denies bail to 3 in Sikh youth’s killing||A Pakistani court has rejected the bail applications of three accused allegedly involved in the killing of a Sikh youth in the country’s restive northwestern tribal region.Parvinder Singh, 25, was shot dead by unknown gunmen weeks before his marriage in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in January this year.Additional sessions judge of a Mardan city court Khursheed Iqbal rejected the applications after prosecution counsel Asfandyar Yusafzai opposed them, saying there are solid evidences against the accused.The data relating to the foreign remittances made to Prem Kumari, 18, fiancée of Singh among other evidences are available, the counsel said.Singh’s killing had drawn sharp condemnation from India which demanded exemplary punishment to the perpetrators of the crime.Prem was arrested for her alleged involvement in plotting the murder.The police in its initial report stated that Singh and Prem loved each other. After their engagement with their consent, they started preparations for the marriage.However, Prem befriended a Muslim boy, who happened to be the brother of her friend, they said.Prem called Singh to Mardan where her friends killed him and dumped the body in open fields near Chamakani, a rural area, where police found it on January 5, they said.Prem’s father is a Hindu and mother is a Sikh. Singh had returned to Pakistan after working in Malaysia for six years.The murder took place a day after a mob attacked Gurdwara Nankana Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pak-court-denies-bail-to-3-in-sikh-youth-s-killing/story-AwDOxULHRMQ26vhXpyBmzK.html
12-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram administration issues draft SOP for Covid treatment; plans to increase beds||The district administration has prepared the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the clinical management of Covid-19 patients in both private and public hospitals across the city. From providing functional services at the hospitals to procedures to be followed for attending suspected patients, the draft copy of the SOP lays down the rules for handling Covid-19 cases and states that a hospital can refer a Covid-19 patient elsewhere only if it lacks enough beds.“It will be the responsibility of the hospital to transfer the patient to another hospital in the absence of enough beds and till that happens, the hospital would provide available medical facilities,” reads the draft SOP, accessed by HT. Several instances have been reported in the city over the past few weeks, in which private hospitals have refused to admit Covid-19 patients. The deputy commissioner in May also issued an order, making it mandatory for the hospitals to take every Covid-19 patient. At least three private hospitals have been issued notices for allegedly turning away Covid-19 patients.The SOP allows private hospitals to transfer patients with mild or moderate symptoms to Covid care centres, which include self-paid and government-paid isolation facilities. The guidelines state that patients who do not require to be admitted in hospital because of their mild and moderate symptoms, but can’t be home-isolated either due to lack of space, will have to be transferred by the hospital to isolation centres. The district administration has already arranged more than 1,000 beds for isolation in more than 20 hotels and guest houses.“The criteria is to keep aside beds for patients who need immediate treatment facilities. If the patient does not require hospitalisation, he/she will have to be transferred to isolation facilities. Before such a transfer, the patient has to be counselled,” said Vivek Kalia, nodal officer for health facilities. He added that the challenge many hospitals have been facing is that Covid-19 patients, who don’t need hospitalisation, insist upon getting admitted. Data shows that of the 1,858 active cases, 538 patients are hospitalised and the rest are in quarantine, either at home or other facilities. A total of 335 beds are currently occupied by the confirmed Covid-19 cases; 62 suspected patients have been admitted for having ILI (influenza-like illness) or SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) like symptoms and given their samples for testing. 102 patients are admitted in ICUs of private hospitals, 37 patients are under ventilator support, while two of the Covid-19 positive patients are on dialysis.To check the availability of beds in isolation centres, hospitals will have to coordinate with the nodal officer of the isolation facility. “All the information about availability of beds and isolation facilities will be soon available on the portal called coronaharyana.in,” said Kalia. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “A total of 63 Covid-19 positive patients are in government paid hotels, while 31 in self-paid hotels.”As per the SOP, every hospital needs to have separate counter for a Covid-19 patient. The guideline, however, doesn’t mention the time duration under which patient has to be admitted. It only states that doctors on triage duty must attend to the patient immediately depending upon the urgency of the requirement of treatment. The guideline also focuses upon recording and reporting mechanisms of data, where hospitals will have to follow standardized reporting protocol. Each hospital will get a unique ID/password to access an internal portal to feed the data which has to be updated twice in day.For the treatment in hospitals, the guidelines say that the patient will be managed as per the medical protocol and there will be minimal interaction between quarantine people and healthcare professional so that transmission of disease is prevented and controlled.Besides, the health facility management team is in the process of acquiring 1,000-1,500 additional beds. Kalia said, “As the number of cases are likely to increase further in the city, we are trying to augment the existing infrastructure. Bed capacity for Covid-19 patients in SGT Medical College will be increased to 120 from 80. The college has offered 300 beds for quarantine. 10 additional hospitals under the Clinical Establishment Act will all also be requisitioned.” Currently, 921 beds are reserved in 23 hospitals for Covid-19 patients across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-administration-issues-draft-sop-for-covid-treatment-plans-to-increase-beds/story-qDk94cuKSAgNmAcmjt5KeN.html
12-06-2020||City||Haryana varsities’ dismal show in Centre’s NIRF rankings||Haryana universities have failed to find a place in the top 50 spots of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF-2020), released by the ministry of human resources development on Thursday.The only saving grace was Maharishi Dayanand University in Rohtak, which managed to secure the 76th rank in country among universities. It was followed by Maharishi Markandeshwar, Ambala, at the 93rd spot, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, at the 94th position and Kurukshetra University at the 99th place.HRD minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal had announced the rankings on Twitter on Thursday. The institutes were assessed on the basis of teaching, learning and resources, research and professional practices, graduation outcomes, outreach and inclusivity and perception.In the overall category, which included universities as well as colleges, none of the institutes in Haryana were able to make it even to the top 100. In engineering institutes category, National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, topped Haryana by achieving the 40th rank among engineering institutes in India. In management institutes, Gurugram-based management development institute got the 10th rank and Maharishi Markandeshwar, Ambala, bagged the 28th rank in pharmacy category and 33rd rank in medical category. IC College of Home Science in Hisar was selected as the best college in Haryana and it secured 49th rank in India. Post Graduate Institute of Dental Science got the 15th in the dental colleges category.Maharishi Dayanand University vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh said that the varsity’s ranking has climbed from 90 in 2019 to 76 this year, which is the highest by any University in the state this time. “The combined efforts of the staff and students of the varsity have resulted in this growth,” the VC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-varsities-dismal-show-in-centre-s-nirf-rankings/story-cO1le6nhy0mR2PevDC2oaO.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER refuses to treat critically ill frontline Covid warrior, then admits her after 6 hours||She tested positive for Covid-19 while working at the Sector 22 Civil Hospital and her condition deteriorated while she was being treated at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16 (GMSH-16). However, when referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), doctors there first refused to treat the frontline Covid warrior and then took six hours to admit her as a senior UT administration official intervened, it has been learnt.“The doctor, isolated at GMSH-16, developed critical symptoms on Wednesday evening. She was supposed to undergo supervised medical care at the Covid-19 hospital at PGIMER’s Nehru Hospital Extension Block,” said a senior UT official requesting anonymity.However, when a request was made to PGIMER for admitting her, the hospital refused and “a tussle ensued between the UT health department and the institute,” said the official.It was only after six hours of intense negotiations that PGIMER finally relented and accepted the patient. “A senior UT administration official had to take up the case with the institute’s authorities and only then was the patient admitted,” he added.The Covid-19 hospital has a 200 bed capacity and is equipped with ventilators. Currently, 12 patients are admitted at the centre, of which one is from Jammu and Kashmir, three from Haryana and two from Punjab. Among them seven patients are in the intensive care unit. When asked for a response, PGIMER spokesperson, Dr Ashok Kumar, said, “cases are first discussed by the institute’s doctors and their counterparts in other hospitals before referring patients.” “It must have taken time for the doctors to discuss the case, but I cannot confirm whether there was some issue or not as I do not have any intimation,” Dr Kumar said.Earlier, PGIMER had said that despite repeated requests, cases with mild Covid-19 symptoms and other minor ailments were coming in from neighbouring states, following which the UT adviser was asked to take up the matter with the states to ensure that such patients be treated locally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-refuses-to-treat-critically-ill-frontline-covid-warrior-then-admits-her-after-6-hours/story-I0FLZ5rx81EkURdHRGykUO.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||With leaf from Mumbai’s book, Delhi stadiums to turn Covid-19 hospitals||The Delhi government has earmarked 12,000 beds in banquet halls, 10,000 beds in a religious institute and 2,700 beds in two stadiums in its first round of scouting for spaces that can be turned into makeshift hospitals, anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases.The modalities of the operation were worked out in a late-night meeting chaired by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday. The Delhi government has also reached out to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the civic body in Mumbai, for insight into how they converted stadiums in the city into observation centres and Covid care facilities.Iqbal Singh Chahal, commissioner of the BMC, said, “Top officers from Delhi have approached me to help them with construction of Mumbai-like jumbo facilities in Delhi.”“The BMC has told us how they converted the NSCI Dome in Mumbai’s Worli area into a 457-bed facility. We will have a greater challenge on our hands because we are turning all these spaces into makeshift hospitals, while the BMC converted them into observation and Covid care centres. In the stadiums category, we have estimated bed capacities in two facilities so far. Pragati Maidan can accommodate up to 2,500 beds, keeping social distancing norms in mind, and Talkatora Stadium will have around 200 beds,” said a senior Delhi government official, asking to stay anonymous.The government has also identified more than 50 banquet halls across Delhi’s 11 districts and one religious institute in south Delhi’s Bhati area, to set up makeshift hospitals.Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is monitoring Mumbai’s Covid-19 bed augmentation plan, said the city increased its municipal hospital beds from 400 to 5,000 in about a month. “Beyond that, we are making field hospitals, mostly in stadiums. We have operationalised about 15,000 beds at field modular hospitals, so far,” he said. Asked how the city addressed the issue of manpower shortage, Thackeray said, “Most of these field hospitals have contactless clinics, CCTV camera monitoring, remote sensing for patient parameters, and do-it-yourself processes for patients. These innovative measures have helped us operate these facilities with a thinly spread staff.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had, on Tuesday, said the Capital would have 550,000 cases of Covid-19 by July 31. On Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal added that the city would concurrently need 150,000 beds to treat Covid-19 patients, including those coming from other states. To this effect, the government has put in place augmentation plans to meet the city’s hospital bed needs as cases of the infection rise.As per the list of banquet halls submitted by three districts — northwest, west and south — to the health department, which HT has accessed, the criteria set for the identification of such spaces included central air-conditioning, separate entries and exits, toilet facilities, pucca roof and pucca floor.The west district administration has identified 22 banquet halls that met the criterion. A total of 3,280 beds have been earmarked in these halls. The northwest district identified 13 banquet halls in Punjabi Bagh and Rajouri Garden areas that will accommodate 2,350 beds. The south district identified two halls, which may house 225 beds. The district also identified a large covered area owned by Radha Saomi Satsang Beas — a religious institution — in Bhati, which will accommodate 10,000 beds. However, the space does not have ACs, and only has fans. “We are focusing only on air-conditioned facilities in the first phase. All such makeshift hospitals will be divided into zones or enclosures for better management. These zones will also be split up for those who need critical care and those whose condition is not very serious. Sanitisers and essentials kits will be provided at every bed,” said a second senior government official. Arranging thousands of beds will not be a challenge, the official said, as many private companies have already presented before the government different versions of one-time use beds. The problem the government is facing now, though, is of staff shortage. “Getting medical personnel and supporting staff is the biggest challenge. Ideally, there should be one medical team for 10 patients, but because of manpower shortage, we might have to go with one team for 50 patients. We are making it clear that nursing associations and private hospitals will have to chip in with staff,” the official said. Banquet hall owners, however, wondered how the government will set up makeshift hospitals in their spaces since the majority of those operate on generators and they too are faced with a shortage of staffers. “All our workers have gone to their home states. Who will provide basic necessities such as plumbing and power supply? Most banquet halls also have very few toilets, especially those meant for females. There is no bathing area. A wedding is a matter of just six hours or so for which generators suffice, but running a full-fledged hospital on our generators is difficult,” said Ramesh Dang, president of Delhi Banquet Federation.In response, government officials said they will rope in the Public Works Department and the power department for civil engineering and power supply related tasks. “Bathrooms will have to be built in some places and power supply points for medical equipment will have to be set up and monitored. We are also considering putting up large LED screens for patients’ recreation,” the official added. Several mobile toilets will also have to be installed at every facility, which will also have dedicated ambulances, ICU/ventilators and oxygen concentrators, officials said. Swab collection centres and diagnostic centres will also be set up at every facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-leaf-from-mumbai-s-book-delhi-stadiums-to-turn-hospitals/story-iLSF6iXSJtsktSscufs4WI.html
12-06-2020||Lifestyle||World Day against Child Labour 2020: Punjab among laggard states, rescued just 15 children under law, says study||Punjab is among the laggard states in the country in rescuing and rehabilitating child labour, says a study conducted by the Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation.The state, where the count of child labour was 1.76 lakh as per Census 2011, registered only 14 FIRs and rescued 15 victims under the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act (CPLRA) between 2016 and 2018. No FIR was registered in Punjab in 2016 and only six and eight cases were filed in the subsequent two years, according to the study titled ‘Extent of Child Labour and Prosecution of Cases under CPLRA’.The findings of the study were released on Thursday, a day before the ‘World Day against Child Labour’ that is observed on June 12. The study ranks Punjab 15th among all states on the basis of number of children rescued from forced child labour under the provisions on the Act during the three-year period. The state’s additional chief secretary, labour, VK Janjua said the state government was alive to this problem. “There are district-level teams comprising officers of different departments. When we get any information, these teams immediately carry out raids, rescue children and register cases,” he said.Of the total 1,130 FIRs registered with rescue of 1,879 child workers during the three-year period, 313, or say 28%, were in Maharashtra where 420 victims were rescued and rehabilitated. Uttar Pradesh, which has the highest population of child labourers in the country, registered only 15 FIRs under CLPRA in the last three years, rescuing only 20 child labourers, says the study. Yadvinder Singh, state coordinator, Punjab, said the study is a secondary analysis of data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Census 2011 and information collected from government departments to assess efforts towards achieving the sustainable development goal of eliminating child labour by 2025 in the country.An analysis of prosecution of cases filed under CLPRA has brought out a huge gap between the number of prosecutions lodged in a year and the number of cases whose trials were completed, it said.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/world-day-against-child-labour-today-punjab-among-laggard-states-rescued-just-15-children-under-law-says-study/story-1BkU59zyQT9DFTwnAcLK4N.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Pinjra Tod: Don’t share case info, high court to Delhi Police||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday restrained the city police from issuing any statements or circulating information to any person, including to the media or on social media platforms, regarding allegations and evidence allegedly collected against Devangana Kalita, student activist and member of women’s activisit group Pinjra Tod, who is currently lodged in jail in connection to her alleged involvement in the north-east Delhi riots.Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued notice to the Delhi police on the plea by Kalita, through her counsels Adit S Pujari and Kirti Awasthi, while directing the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Crime Branch to file a personal affidavit within two weeks detailing “affirming” the allegations made in the plea.Counsel for Kalita told the court that the Delhi Police, through a media note, and selective leaks to the media on contents of charge-sheets, has caused immense damage to her reputation and fundamental right to a fair trial and a presumption of innocence.The plea also said that such coverage, which is directly attributable to leaks of the Delhi Police, has caused Kalita to fear for her own safety, as also the safety of her relatives in Assam and her husband in Delhi.Advocate Chaitanya Gosain, appearing for the Delhi police, accepted the notice and said that he would file a reply on the petition. The matter would be now heard on July 9.Kalita was arrested by the Special Cell and charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for her alleged role in the conspiracy to the north-east Delhi riots which left more than 50 dead and several others injured. Kalita has been named in four separate FIRs by the city police, its Special Cell and its Crime Branch who are probing the riots.On June 3, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the crime branch members filed a charge sheet in a city court charging Pinjra Tod members—Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita—for “actively being involved in hatching the conspiracy to cause riots near Jaffarabad metro station on February 25. The police said that they were also part of a larger conspiracy and were found to be connected to the “India against Hate” group and its member Umar Khalid, a former union leader from the Jawaharlal Nehru University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pinjra-tod-don-t-share-case-info-high-court-to-delhi-police/story-uZAg1YsB15aKa9Ll302PlI.html
12-06-2020||Pune||Seven deaths, including PMC employee, reported in Pune city on Thursday||The city reported seven deaths and 268 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday. The death toll in the city is now 413 and progressive positive cases 8,777.According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health officials, of the 2,582 active cases currently admitted in city hospitals, 216 are in critical condition. As many as 207 people have been declared cured and discharged taking the count of such people to 5,782 in the city.The deaths reported on Thursday include that of a PMC employee who was working in the water supply and pumping department. The deceased has been identified as a 54-year-old male residing at Ganj peth. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and declared dead due to Covid-19 positive pneumonia with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The patient was admitted to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital on May 23 and declared dead on Wednesday.The second death from the hospital is that of a 44-year-old male residing at Dhankawadi. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension and cause of death is reported to be Covid-19 positive pneumonia with severe ARDS. The patient was admitted on May 23 and declared dead on Wednesday.Three deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital including that of a 75-year-old male residing at Kondhwa. The patient was admitted on June 1 and declared dead on Thursday. The person was also suffering from myocarditis, acute kidney injury (AKI), diabetes, hypertension, obesity and ischemic heart disease. The cause of death is said to be multiple organ dysfunction syndromes and acute respiratory failure due to ARDS.The second death from the hospital is that of a 31-year-old male residing at Hadapsar. The patient was admitted to Sassoon on June 4 and declared dead on Thursday. The patient suffered from diabetes, acute kidney injury (AKI), hypertension, lactic acidosis, sepsis, myocarditis and diabetic ketoacidosis. The cause of death is said to be MODS and acute respiratory failure due to ARDS.The third death from the hospital is that of a 70-year-old male residing at Hadapsar. The patient was admitted on June 5 and declared dead on Thursday. The cause of death is said to be sudden cardiac arrest due to atrial fibrillation due to cardiomyopathy with myocarditis with Covid-19 positive pneumonitis.The other deaths reported on Thursday include an 82-year-old female who was a resident of Saswad. She was reported dead on Wednesday at District Hospital Aundh. The patient was admitted on June 9 and cause of death is said to be bilateral Covid -19 positive pneumonia and bronchial asthma.The seventh death includes that of a 56-year-old male residing at Ambedkarnagar Bhawan. The person was admitted at Jehangir Hospital on June 9 June and declared dead on Thursday. The person also suffered from diabetes, hypertension quadriparesis and declared dead due to Covid-19 positive pneumonia with severe ARDS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-deaths-including-pmc-employee-reported-in-pune-city-on-thursday/story-zCn7eSSDuMIEbc2bkGoRON.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Man dies after he is thrashed in east Delhi on suspicion of being a thief||A 23-year-old man succumbed to injuries at a government hospital on Tuesday after he was beaten up by a crowd in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar who suspected him of being a thief, the police said.The alleged assault was captured by CCTV cameras installed in the lane where the incident took place. The video clips show three men assaulting the man with sticks while at least three others stood by watching. The victim of the attack is not visible in the footage because of the parked vehicles.“The man was identified as Salman, a resident of Dadri in Uttar Pradesh. His previous involvement is being examined. A medical board has been constituted to conduct the man’s autopsy. Our probe is on,” deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said.According to the police, the incident took place in Pandav Nagar’s C-block early Tuesday morning, when one of the locals caught Salman and his friend on the rooftop of a building where they allegedly intended to commit a theft. When a local resident raised the alarm, the two men panicked and jumped off the rooftop.“Salman fell into a drain and got stuck while his associate fled. We have learnt that some locals beat him up with sticks before calling the police. A police team reached there and admitted Salman to a government hospital where he succumbed to injuries the same day. Prime facie, it appears that he died of internal injuries sustained in the attack,” an investigator, who asked not to be named, said.In another video clip, almost two hours after the alleged attack, two policemen are seen standing at the incident spot and, one of them, holding a stick, is signalling the injured man to get up. The policeman is further seen prodding the man from behind with the stick even as he limps through the lane, dangling a piece of rope tied around his left wrist.Police said they have also got a mobile phone video in which the injured man is lying on the ground and admitting that he and his associate had climbed the building with the intent to commit a theft. In that video, his hands was seen tied to some structure with ropes.One of the assaulters, identified as Rajesh Kumar, has been arrested and booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, a case regarding which was registered under Section 304 of Indian Penal Code at the Mandawali police station, said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-dies-after-he-is-thrashed-in-east-delhi-on-suspicion-of-being-a-thief/story-GRimr5Io2qEDA7ePkxT8qL.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Businessman’s body found hanging from tree, nearly 40 km from his shop||A day after he went missing from outside his grocery store in east Delhi’s Karkardooma, a 37-year-old trader was found hanging from a tree with his hands tied behind in outer Delhi’s Baprola Vihar on Wednesday, police said. The man, Gaurav Bansal, lived with his family in a residential apartment in Patparganj. His family suspects he was abducted from outside his shop by unidentified persons, who murdered him and hanged his body near a lake in Baprola Vihar near Ranhola , 40 kilometres from Karkardooma. The family had filed a missing complaint at the Anand Vihar police station late Tuesday night. A case of murder has been registered and the police are probing the case from all possible angles.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan said the body was hanging from a rope near the banks of a lake around 8.30 am Wednesday and his hands were tied from behind. “We are probing the murder case,” Koan said.Bansal’s brother-in-law, Amit Kohli, said he had left home for the shop in his Creta car at 10.30 am on Tuesday. Bansal’s phone was switched off when his family members tried contacting him at 3 pm. Around 4 pm, they went to check on him and found that the shop’s shutter was partially closed and the employees were standing outside.“The employees told us Bansal left the shop around 2.30 pm, asking them to go out for their lunch. We got worried and approached the police when his wife, Shanu, got a call from an unknown person, who claimed to be calling from Pune. The man asked about my brother-in-law and abruptly disconnected the call when Shanu asked who he was,” said Kohli.According to Kohli, they called back on that phone and the person who answered the call said he lived in Delhi’s Mohan Garden, before disconnecting the call. “The phone is switched off since then and we suspect he knows something about my brother-in-law’s murder,” he added.Bansal’s family alleged that despite filing a missing complaint and giving information about activities on his social media profile, the police made no efforts to find him.“Around 2.30 am on Wednesday, there was some activity on my brother-in-law’s (Bansal) Facebook profile and it showed his location in Mandi House area. We alerted the police but they did not take any action, saying it would take at least a fortnight to get details regarding investigation from the social networking site,” said Kohli.The police said the family reported the matter late and did not suspect any foul play. Bansal’s wife in her complaint mentioned that he had suffered losses in business and had undergone treatment for depression, a senior police officer from Shahdara district said, requesting anonymity. The officer quoting his wife said he had taken a personal loan of R6 lakh and had lost around R 3.50 lakh after somebody stole his wallet and illegally used his credit card.“Our Anand Vihar personnel were already looking for Bansal when the Ranhola police informed them about his body,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/businessman-s-body-found-hanging-from-tree-nearly-40-km-from-his-shop/story-kuZUoajoVqMPxGKst8GzcO.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||After Kasturba Gandhi, Hindu Rao docs threaten mass resignation over salaries||The Delhi High Court on Thursday took suo moto cognisance of news reports related to non-payment of salaries to doctors of Hindu Rao and the Kasturba Gandhi hospitals. Advocate Akhil Mittal, standing counsel for the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, the nodal agency for all the three civic bodies, confirmed that the court had taken note of the reports and will hear a plea on it on Friday.Earlier in the day, resident doctors at the North corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital in Malka Ganj on Thursday threatened to tender mass resignations if pending salaries for four months were not paid by June 18.Just a day ago, doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital in the walled city had also warned of a similar move if their salaries were not disbursed by June 16. Calling for mass resignations, the resident doctors’ association of Hindu Rao Hospital said in a letter, “...with every passing day it’s getting very hard and tedious to get through the daily expenses of a lot of doctors. It’s cumbersome to commute to work and earn livelihood. We feel our voices are unheard. We request you to release our pending salaries (not just one month) by June 18...we are helpless to inform you that we are choosing ‘no pay, no work’ rule in order to mark agitation and if issues persist, we might have to take uncalled decision in the form of mass resignations.”“We have not been given salary since February 2020. Now it’s becoming very hard to manage. We cannot work without pay for long. We can understand one month’s delay at a time of Covid-19 pandemic but it has been four months now and we are yet to get our salaries. We can’t work like this. We will tender mass resignations after June 18 if our pending salaries are not cleared,” Abhimanyu Sardana, president Hindu Rao Hospital Residents’ Doctors Association, said.Earlier in April and May, Hindu Rao doctors had raised the issue of non-payment of salaries and had threatened to go on strike. Sardana said it had become a regular feature as salaries were never released on time despite several communications with the hospital and corporation authorities. There are around 250 resident doctors at Hindu Rao, which is north corporation’s largest hospital.The north corporation runs hospitals such as Hindu Rao, Maharishi Valmiki Infectious Diseases, Kasturba Hospital, Girdhari Lal Maternity Hospital and Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis. According to civic officials, the corporation employs around 1,000 senior doctors, 500 resident doctors, and 1,500 nursing officers.North corporation mayor Avtar Singh said they were in constant touch with doctors and their salaries would be released in a week. “We are trying our best to pay our doctors and teachers. But since our income had been curtailed due to the lockdown and the Delhi government has not yet released our Rs 1,500 crore, we are unable to pay the workforce in the hard times of coronavirus pandemic,” the mayor said.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for a comment.Jai Prakash, the standing committee chairperson of the north Delhi corporation, said, “We need Rs 350 Crore per month to pay salaries in different departments. We are making efforts and we will pay the salaries of our doctors in a week’s time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-kasturba-gandhi-hindu-rao-docs-threaten-mass-resignation-over-salaries-hc-takes-suo-moto-notice/story-evXoN7kiuimuiVCd6BotAI.html
12-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram doubling rate highest among 20 worst- affected districts in India||After recording a Covid-19 case doubling rate of 36 days in the last week of April, Gurugram now has a rate of a week. This is the highest among the 20 worst affected districts in the country (by case load), according to data from the Union ministry of health, since at least June 7. Experts say this shrinkage in rate implied that the containment measures have been inadequate and that increased transmission could result in a surge in cases.While the position of different districts on the ministry data sheet varies every day, Gurugram had a doubling rate of around seven days throughout May. A faster doubling rate, experts said, indicates continuing transmission of the coronavirus among the population, and a surge in the number of cases.In comparison, latest data for the three worst affected districts in terms of cases -- Maharashtra’s Mumbai (over 52,500 confirmed cases) and Thane (over 14,700), and Tamil Nadu’s Chennai (over 25,000) --- the doubling rates was 19, 15 and 13 days, respectively. In neighbouring Delhi (34,687 cases), the doubling rate was 12.6 days. The national average is 17 days, while for Haryana it is eight days.On Thursday, Gurugram recorded a total of 2737 cases, with 191 fresh cases. The city suffered 19 deaths due to the coronavirus disease.Experts warned that Gurugram’s lower doubling rate points to another surge in cases in coming days. “India is still in a phase of linear growth, not exponential growth, so the doubling-rate metric is not particularly important at this stage. However, a faster doubling-rate means that cases will definitely rise in the near future, and authorities need to prepare by ramping up testing, contact tracing, and making preparations for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and ventilators,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor at the department of community medicine, PGIMS Chandigarh.At the current daily growth rate of cases for Gurugram, which stands at 10.8 percent (based on new case data over the past two weeks), the district is likely to see between 25,000 to 30,000 cases by the end of the month, indicating that the district’s doubling rate may shrink further in coming weeks. A senior Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme(IDSP) official in Panchkula, who was not authorised to speak to the media, confirmed that this might indeed be the case.“Authorities should work in anticipation of this surge. A shrinking doubling-rate may also imply that previous containment and contact tracing measures have been inadequate, if not ineffective,” said Dr Prabhakan Dorairaj, vice president (research and policy) at the Public Health Foundation of India.Sonal Goel, additional chief executive officer (additional CEO), Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority(GMDA), and nodal officer for managing hospital beds and ventilators, did not respond to requests for comment on Thursday.However, a district health official confirmed the availability of 4,000 beds and 350 ventilators across public and private hospitals, and revealed that at least a 1,000 more beds are being arranged. “Even if we do get 30,000 cases by end of the month, we will be able to treat those who need attention,” the IDSP official said.Experts warned, however, that the doubling rate metric on its own should not be taken as an indicator of the severity of the outbreak. “Each state is working with its own strategy, and dealing with differing population sizes. One cannot say that Gurugram is facing a more severe outbreak than Mumbai just because its doubling rate is faster. But, given the shrinkage in Gurugram’s doubling rate, one can say that transmission of the virus has not been curbed,” said Dr Lalit Kant, an independent public health consultant and former head of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s epidemiology division.Haryana, meanwhile, had a doubling rate of 8 days, with a daily growth rate of 7.1%, as of the morning of June 11. This is the highest in the country, followed by Karnataka (11 days), Jammu & Kashmir (12 days) and Delhi (13 days). “We have to be more careful about enforcing social distancing, as these states all have a lower daily growth rate than Haryana,” said the senior IDSP official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-doubling-rate-highest-among-20-worst-affected-districts-in-india/story-6vqF3gmCi2JZK8VEKkwUBJ.html
12-06-2020||Gurugram||City reports 6 new deaths; Covid-19 tally reaches 2,737||The city on Thursday reported six deaths related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) – the highest single-day jump in fatalities due to the virus so far. This takes the city’s Covid -19 toll to 19. The new fatalities include the death of a police official and three other people who were declared dead on arrival by hospitals and were later tested to be Covid positive. Gurugram has the second-highest coronavirus fatality in the state, after Faridabad where 22 deaths have been reported so far. In the four days, 14 deaths have been reported in Gurugram. The total count of deaths in Haryana stands at 64.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), said, “Six deaths have been reported in the city, out of which three were brought dead and were later tested Covid-19 positive. They were in the age bracket of 60-80 years. A 42-year-old woman, who was admitted in AIIMS Jhajjar, was confirmed positive but her cause of death is yet to be ascertained as the details have not been shared by the hospital.”Yadav also said, “A 60-year-old woman having diabetes succumbed to the infection at Medeor Hospital. Also, a police officer who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 positive at a private hospital died due to cardiac arrest.”.Gurugram also recorded 191 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus to 2,737, according to the state health bulletin. Out of the total number of cases, 1,858 are hospitalised while 860 have been discharged so far. As of Thursday, Gurugram’s Covid-19 burden was nearly 51%. Since June 1, the city has reported more than 1,700 cases. The district is currently among the 38 worst-affected districts noticing a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. According to the state health bulletin, 21 overseas travellers, residents of Haryana brought to India from USA under the Vande Bharat Misssion, have also been tested Covid-19 positive. Out of the 21 travellers, 5 have been discharged while 16 are being treated at different districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-reports-6-new-deaths-covid-19-tally-reaches-2-737/story-9JOmWQVGNZgn2oGadqLv9K.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC panel to assess if hotels can be made Covid-19 facilities||The Delhi high court on Thursday constituted a committee of two doctors who will visit two hotels in the city and give a report on the feasibility of these facilities being used as extended Covid hospitals. The court committee comprises AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and VK Paul, who is a member of Niti Aayog. The committee will visit two hotels in the city that had moved the court challenging the decision of the government to convert them into hospitals for Covid-19 patients.Justice Navin Chawla directed the committee of doctors to submit its report on or before June 14 after the two hotels—CHL Limited and Today Hotels Private Limited — had raised several issues and problems in converting their facilities into hospitals. The court posted the matter for further hearing on June 15.On Thursday, the counsels for the petitioner hotels told the court that it would not be feasible for them to convert their premises into hospitals due to various infrastructural constraints.The lawyers submitted that since the hotels are centrally air-conditioned, which increases the risk of Covid-19 virus, and it would be difficult to now change the use for patients.The hotels, through their counsels, also raised concerns on the fate of the employees, who would not be able to come because of the place being turned into a hospital. Additionally, the employees also do not have the expertise to look after the patients.The counsels also said that patient transportation will be a difficulty since their lifts are not big enough to allow stretchers. They also said that since there was only one exit and entry point, it would be fatal for patients if a fire broke out.However, appearing for the Delhi government, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain, submitted that these apprehensions are unfounded and looking into the grave nature of the situation that has arisen because of the Covid-19 pandemic, certain drastic measures had been taken by the government.He also said that the hotels were being used for quarantine purposes even before the order to take them over was passed. Hence, the hotel authorities should have prepared themselves prior to the order was passed.After hearing the arguments, the court said, “Be that as it may, as the issues raised by the petitioners would also have a bearing on whether it is advisable/feasible to use these hotels as Covid hospitals and may not lead to an adverse impact on the patients or the staff working therein, I deem it proper to constitute a committee of doctors, with a request to visit these two hotels and give a report on the advisability/feasibility of these hotels being used as extended Covid hospitals.”“I request Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS and Dr VK Paul, member of the Niti Aayog, to visit the two hotels in question and give their report on advisability/feasibility of using them as extended Covid hospitals”.Advocate Sugam Seth, appearing for CHL Limited said that since the matter is sub-judice, he would not comment on the order. The counsel for Today Hotels Private Limited, advocate Rahul Sharma, also said the matter is pending adjudication and hence he would refrain from making any comments.Dr Guleria confirmed to HT that he has received a mail informing him about the development. Dr VK Paul did not respond to requests for a comment .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-committee-to-study-feasibility-of-using-hotels-as-covid-hospitals/story-mzXGEZb9uwt27Ps1gkDEoO.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||HC tells Delhi govt to allow equipped private hospitals to test for Covid-19||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed that all private hospitals that have been asked to reserve 20% beds for admitting Covid-19 patients should conduct tests on symptomatic and asymptomatic persons, who seek admission in the hospital for undergoing surgeries and procedures of other nature as well, saying that the city is “fast heading towards becoming the Corona capital of the country, an epithet the city can well do without”.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said it was the need of the hour that all private hospitals which are equipped with labs to conduct coronavirus tests and have the sanction of ICMR to do so should be permitted to conduct tests.Also read: Seven states see rapid increase in Covid-19 cases in 10 daysThe high court also noted that non-Covid patients, who are approaching private hospitals for admission to undergo emergency surgeries and other such procedures, are not being admitted before getting a coronavirus test done, for which they are compelled to go elsewhere.“It is most unfortunate that non-Covid patients are being made to wait to undergo a test for Covid-19 at labs other than those which are situated within the premises of the hospitals, that is equipped and authorised to conduct the said test,” the bench said.“In view of the aforesaid situation brought to our attention, it is directed that all the private hospitals in Delhi that have been called upon to reserve 20% beds for admitting COVID-19 patients are equipped with labs to conduct the COVID-19 test and have the sanction of the ICMR to do so, should proceed to conduct tests on symptomatic/asymptomatic persons, who seek admission in the hospital for undergoing surgeries/procedures of other nature as well,” it added.The order came on the application by advocate Sanjeev Sharma who contended that there have been several instances where non-Covid patients needing surgery or other procedures were asked to undergo testing before that, but the hospital concerned did not conduct the Covid test since they don’t have the government permission. The application, filed through advocate Rakesh Malhotra, has also sought a direction to the Delhi government and all the hospitals and nursing homes permitted to treat Covid-19 cases to daily publish on their respective websites the status of vacancy of beds so that patients need not run from pillar to post for the same.Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel Satyakam filed a status report stating that currently, there are 17 labs in the public sector and their current combined capacity for undertaking Covid-19 tests is 2,900 samples per day. In the private sector, 23 labs have been permitted to conduct the test and their combined capacity of testing is 5,700 samples per day.However, the counsel for the petitioner said that the status report is also incorrect as the Delhi government has not allowed about six laboratories from taking up Covid-19 tests. However, the Delhi government counsel disputed this submission stating that the details furnished in the status report have been collated only last night and they are correct.Also read| Use mobile data to keep tabs on home quarantine patients: GovtFollowing this, the court issued notice to all the 23 private laboratories who are testing samples to file affidavits clarifying whether they have been permitted to undertake tests for suspected Covid-19 patients by adopting the RT-PCR test or the CB-NAAT test.“They shall also point out the difficulties, if any, faced by them on account of any bureaucratic red tape,” the court added. It also asked the ICMR to file a status report indicating the number of applications submitted by accredited labs in Delhi that had sought permission to conduct Covid-19 test and the status of the applications.The matter would be heard next on June 18.Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-all-private-hospitals-with-equipped-labs-to-test-for-covid-hc-tells-delhi-govt/story-qbisVZQaMFQhntJIUqAZEP.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Masks, gloves and Aarogya Setu app in Delhi govt SOP for offices||The Delhi government on Thursday directed offices to ensure that all employees wear face masks and gloves and they install and use the Aarogya Setu application as part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) for preventing the spread of Covid-19 in offices that are functional in the city. The SOP applies to both private and government offices.On May 18, the Delhi government had issued an order allowing private and government offices in the city to function with the physical presence of full working strength but directed them to follow a set of rules concerning social distancing and other measures related to safety and hygiene. It also asked the organisations to allow working from home, if possible.The SOP issued by the Delhi government conforms entirely to the guidelines issued by the union health ministry on June 4, shows the document which HT has seen.The guidelines direct offices to ensure employees above the age of 65, pregnant or those with co-morbidities are not required to mark physical presence, arrangements are made to enable frequent hand washing, premises are sanitised periodically and supervisory officials are appointed to record regular health check of each employee.The Delhi government order makes screening of all employees mandatory and only asymptomatic individuals to be given access to the office premises, meeting to be done through video conference facility as much as possible, ensure adequate gap (at least 6 feet) in the seating arrangement, restricting the number of people in elevators, management of crowd in parking lots and canteens and maintaining the centralised air conditioning between 24-30 degree Celsius and relative humidity between 40%-70%. The offices should ensure a system for proper disposal of the gloves and face masks.The order said, for up to two cases recorded, the particular areas frequented by the concerned individuals will be sanitised. In case of an outbreak (three or higher cases), the entire building has to be closed for at least 48 hours and sanitised. For each suspected case, the document said, it is the role of the supervisory officer to inform the district surveillance teams of the government or call the 1075 helpline and initiate an assessment of “exposure history” to help medical officials trace contacts and seal the appropriate portions of the building premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-issues-sops-for-all-offices/story-AUZcbsm2v1xdut3iGKL2NL.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||Jama Masjid to close doors again, this time till June 30||Old Delhi’s Jama Masjid will be shut till June 30 amid fears over the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the mosque’s Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari declared on Thursday evening. The iconic mosque had only reopened on Monday, after being shut for over two months due to the nationwide lockdown.Bukhari had sought public opinion on the matter on Tuesday after his personal assistant, Amanullah, died of Covid-19 in Safdarjung Hospital.“After taking public opinion and consulting scholars, it has been decided that from Maghreb (sunset) today till June 30, no congregational prayers will be performed in Jama Masjid…Only the staff inside the complex will offer five times namaz while the general public is requested to pray at home. The decision taken is just a precautionary measure,” Bukhari said in a statement.He has also appealed to the heads of other mosques across the country to take a decision regarding the matter depending on their local situation.The administrations of some mosques in the city said they were considering whether or not they would stay partially open, or shut completely. Others, however, have decided to follow in Jama Masjid’s footsteps and stay shut till June 30. Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the Shahi Imam of Fatehpuri Masjid in Chandni Chowk, said, “We have been holding consultations with the imams associations in the city. Jama Masjid has a proper boundary and can be kept closed easily. But this is not the case with other mosques. We are planning to keep the mosque partially open and allow only a few who do not have any other place to go to offer the daily prayers. A decision is yet to be taken.”He added that they will request locals to pray at home like they used to do during the lockdown.Maulana Mohd Suleiman of Khajur Wali Masjid in Daryaganj, said, “We have eight or 10 small mosques around Daryaganj. Most have agreed to stay shut till June 30 following the Shahi Imam’s decision. We have a meeting with others to request them to join us in this fight against the virus.” Similarly, Hafiz Mohammad Javed, president, Purani Masjid Panchsheel Enclave, Chirag Dilli, said they have been making regular announcements and circulating messages on social media requesting people to pray at home. “We have decided to remain shut till June-end. We are asking people to think of their homes as places of worship and stay safe,” Javed said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jama-masjid-to-close-doors-again-this-time-till-june-30/story-sAaRIsGnpU6f8JZ1dvNkYJ.html
12-06-2020||Delhi||BJP, AAP making people of Delhi suffer: Congress||The Congress on Thursday said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were making the people of Delhi suffer due to their “misgovernance and political bickering” during the Covid-19 crisis.Referring to a notice issued by the National Human Right Commission (NHRC) to the Delhi government and the Union health ministry on former Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken’s complaint, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the party had highlighted the real situation on ground before the commission. Singhvi said, “The health atrocities are a fundamental assault on human rights and we are very happy that the NHRC has taken this up….The common man are suffering because of the political blame game, bickering and misgovernance or non-governance of the duo AAP-BJP,” he said.In an online press conference, addressed by Singhvi and Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary, Singhvi hit out at the Delhi government while referring to the number of containment zones in the national capital.Singhvi said when the number of positive cases was 3,000 plus, there were 102 containment zones and now when the number of Covid-19 cases have crossed 30,000, there are 285 containment zones. He said thousands of people were running from pillar to post in search of beds and struggling to even get a Covid-19 test done.“Despite having the largest number of hospitals and the most advanced healthcare facilities in India, these two mismanaging musketeers have cost Delhi dear, both in precious lives and the exponential and unceasing rise of the virus. Thousands of people are running from pillar to post in search of beds and fighting tooth and nail to even get a Covid test,” he added.The Congress claimed the Delhi government had reduced testing. “It is astonishing that instead of progressing, it is regressing as far as testing is concerned,” he saidChaudhary said, “Neither was the AAP government able to send labourers safely, nor were they able to make health arrangements in hospitals in Delhi. Kejriwal is misleading the people of Delhi.”AAP did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-aap-making-people-of-delhi-suffer-cong/story-cqT3RX86Qm6RV87drI8hiJ.html
12-06-2020||Pune||SPPU in top 10 universities in India as per NIRF; ranked 9th||The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) ranking in the university category of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) has risen from 10th last year to ninth in 2020.The NIRF rankings were released by HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Thursday, and in the overall rankings of educational institutes SPPU stood 19th.“We are happy about the ranking and the score. SPPU has performed better on all parameters, especially research output, like publications and citations. We have enhanced public perception this year. This is the collective achievement of Team SPPU,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin R Karmalkar.In the NIRF top 100 universities, Symbiosis International University ranked 43 (56 last year) and the D Y Patil Vidyapeeth retained its 2019 ranking of 46. Bharati Vidyapeeth (deemed university) is ranked 63 in the university category.Among the engineering colleges, the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) has dropped a spot to 50th this year from 49th in 2019. The Defence Institute of Advanced Technology has gone down from 57th in 2019 to 63rd this year.In the college category, Fergusson College has slipped from 27th in 2019 to 42nd this year.The rankings are given by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD) based on scores out of 100 on various parameters – research and professional practice, outreach and inclusivity, teaching learning resources and graduation outcomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-in-top-10-universities-in-india-as-per-nirf-ranked-9th/story-eB2xuiRDt2dVrQdYQsX1nM.html
12-06-2020||City||Shiv Sena activists, parents protest against private schools in Ludhiana||To mark their protest against private schools forcing parents to deposit school fee, Shiv Sena members and various parents held a demonstration in front of the Bhim Rao Ambedkar statue at Jalandhar Bypass Chowk on Thursday.The Shiv Sena members raised slogans against the state government for not taking action against such schools. “Parents’ financial condition has taken a huge hit amid the lockdown. Most parents are unable to pay the fee, but schools are sending them messages repeatedly,” said Rajiv Tandon, chairman, Shiv Sena, Punjab.He alleged that many private schools were demanding fees for facilities such as smart classrooms and computer fee, even when these were not being used during the lockdown.He said they will protest outside the residence of Congress ministers and private schools if the government fails to act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-activities-parents-protest-against-private-schools-in-ludhiana/story-pmMx8zdzfROci1gyX35JVK.html
12-06-2020||Pune||Pune to redraw micro-containment zones, allow non-essential stores to open by June 15||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has assured to redraw the Covid-19 containment zone map and add micro-level areas to allow resumption of commercial activities in central parts of the city as per the demands made by the Pune traders’ association.At a meeting held by Sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao, who is given the additional responsibility of managing containment areas in Pune, and additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goyal with traders on Wednesday, Rao said that the new containment zone map will be released by June 15.“As per central government’s instructions, once the containment zone is announced, the local authorities cannot make changes in it for 14 days. The containment zone announcement’s cycle will be ready by June 15. The administration is taking steps to declare more micro containment zones that will allow businesses to resume in the central parts of the city,” said Rao.Pune currently has 65 containment zones, with restrictions imposed in areas like Raviwar peth, Bhavani peth, Nana peth and Ganesh peth known for wholesale businesses, including furniture, jewellery, toys, electronics, automobile and cloth market. These areas have 6,000 business establishments employing at least one lakh workers, according to Pune traders’ association.The traders’ body told the authorities said that shutters of shops in central parts of the city has been down for 85 days. They demanded reopening of businesses and assured to follow precautions related to Covid-19 spread.Fattechand Ranka, president, Pune Trade Association, said, “We have cooperated with the government and administration till date. If the authorities keep business areas under restriction zones in the redrawing of the containment map on June 15, it would be difficult for us to sustain. The traders’ union may also boycott meetings with the authorities after June15, if the decisions taken by the latter is against our interests.”The Pune civic body earlier last week had permitted Tulshibaug and Mandai areas to resume operations with restrictions of restarting business establishments on odd-even days and between 9am to 7pm. PMC health chief Ramchandra Hankare said, “The containment policy is framed by the central and state governments which is getting executed by PMC. As a medical expert, it is true that if people movement is increased in containment zones, there are chances of more positive cases being reported. The decision on containment zones is taken by the municipal commissioner in consultation from the police. It is being planned to follow the Mumbai model by adding more micro containment zones only for small pockets or specific buildings, but a decision is not yet taken.”Vicky Khanna, a resident of peth area, said, “Despite lockdown and containment zones, Covid-19 cases are increasing. People belonging to low income group are severely affected. It would be better if only selected buildings or pockets are sealed instead of containing large areas.”Avinash Sakat of Bhavani peth area said, “People are on the streets to purchase essential commodities. It is true that there is fear that if businesses restart, more people would be on roads and chances of more positive cases being reported, but for how many days will be asked to stay at homes? We will have to learn to live with it.”Pune city’s Covid case tally on Wednesday reached 8,509 of which around 50 per cent have been reported from the central parts of the city, according to the PMC health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-traders-demand-reopening-of-shops-by-redrawing-micro-level-zones/story-zmHoNiFQBTeZPjUsH1O1AK.html
12-06-2020||Pune||CM launches 450-bed Covid hospital on Wipro premises in Hinjewadi||Pune’s Covid-19 treatment facilities received an additional 450 beds on Thursday, after the chief minister of Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray, inaugurated Wipro’s intermediary care facility at Hinjewadi.Wipro has re-purposed its IT campus into a Covid hospital on a public-private partnership basis, housed at its Hinjewadi facility.The hospital, according to Wipro, will admit moderate cases. The facility has an intensive care unit (ICU) with 10 beds and ventilators. According to the district administration, the hospital’s beds capacity can be extended to 504.After the inauguration through video conferencing, Thackeray said, “Maharashtra has built up significant health facilities in the state since the first patient was found. The state had only two testing centres, but now, this number has reached 80 and very soon, it will cross 100. Even the number of isolation, and ICU, beds has increased significantly. Wipro is known for its quality and the same status will be maintained at this hospital. The state government congratulates them for the same.”Pune’s Zilla Parishad and district administration will provide the medical staff and manage the hospital while Wipro will provide is providing beds and meal to patients.Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope, Wipro chairman, Rishad Premji, and MP Supriya Sule were all present online; while Pune’s Zilla Parishad president Nirmala Pansare; divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar; PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Vikram Kumar; and district collector Naval Kishore Ram, were present in person at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-launches-450-bed-covid-hospital-on-wipro-premises-in-hinjewadi/story-QQFNVvOPgRzL0OWW17gnqN.html
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||NIRF 2020: Panjab University slips to 44th rank among country’s educational institutions||Panjab University slipped 10 notches to rank 44 among educational institutions in the country in the Union human resource development ministry’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced on Thursday.From rank 34 last year, PU is now ranked 44th. Among universities, PU’s ranking slipped from 21 in 2019 to 26 this year. The top three universities are IISc Bangalore, Jawaharlal Nehru University and Banaras Hindu University.In the very first NIRF rankings released in 2016, PU was ranked 12 among all universities in the country.This year, PU’s score in teaching, learning and resources,which include its total student strength, faculty-student ratio and financial resources, dropped to 50.08 from 51.09 in 2019. It scored lower in research and professional practice as well with a 42.83 score against last year’s 44.82. This parameter includes the varsity’s patents both published and granted, combined metric for publication and footprints of projects. Besides, its score decreased in graduation outcome; outreach and inclusivity, and perception as well. Graduation outcome includes metric for university exams and number of PhD students graduated. Outreach and inclusivity includes percentage of students from other states and countries; woman students, economically and socially challenged students and facilities for disabled students. SOME SILVER LININGThe university’s pharmacy department retained the second rank this year also.“In the pharmacy category, the top institute is Jamia Hamdard in Delhi followed by Panjab University, Chandigarh. The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, Mohali, stood third,” Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced.Also, for the first time, PU ranked 15th among the law institutions of the country. In the medical colleges category, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, got the top spot followed by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and Christian Medical College, Vellore.In management, PU improved its rank from 48 in 2019 to 42 this year. Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad, ranked as the top B-School in the country followed by IIM, Bangalore and Calcutta.POOR SHOW IN ENGINEERINGIn engineering, PU slipped from rank 54 last year to 72. Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, deemed to be university, however, improved from rank 78 in 2019 to 68 this year among the engineering institutes of the country.Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras, IIT Delhi and IIT Bombay bagged the top three positions in this category.“NIRF is an important ranking for us. PU has performed well in pharmacy, law, management and dental rankings this year. Law department has secured 15th rank after no position last year, which is commendable. The university has slipped in the engineering discipline, but we are looking into the reasons and are hopeful to improve next year,” said Ashish Jain, director of PU’s internal quality assurance cell.The annual rankings are usually announced in April but had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panjab-university-slips-to-44th-rank-among-country-s-educational-institutions/story-JKMChOvtBkwasRteon4NRM.html
