13-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 2nd highest one-day spike||Two days after a record 195 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has reported the second-highest single-day spike with 191 cases on Saturday. This takes the total count in the city to 3,734. Five deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 114. Sixty-two people were discharged on Saturday, bringing the recovery count to 2,186 at a rate of 59%.An officer from NMMC said, “There are 15 children among those who tested positive, the youngest being a one-year-old boy from Sanpada, two five-year-old girls from Chinchpada in Airoli and Baba Galli in Turbhe, and a four-year-old boy from Sector 9 in Kopar Khairne. Airoli reported the highest number of cases at 46, followed by 24 in Turbhe on Saturday.In Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC), 37 new cases were reported, taking the total to 928. Two deaths were also reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 39. Kamothe has reported the highest number of deaths at 14, followed by eight in Kalamboli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-2nd-highest-one-day-spike/story-F8MZb61xNDuAWKwwJlPSfN.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis slams government for reducing testing in Mumbai||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has accused the state government of under testing in Mumbai to keep the numbers low. Fadnavis said that the number of Covid-19 infections has not reduced but the percentage of cases has come down because of fewer tests being conducted. “Against the capacity of 38,000 tests daily, only 14,000 samples are being taken in the state, while the number of tests in Mumbai has been reduced to 4,000 a day against the lab capacity of 12,000. Even now, 1,300 to 1,500 cases are reported daily in the city. Out of fear of the rise in numbers, the government is conducting fewer tests. Winning over the pandemic will not be possible by hiding the cases,” he said. The Leader of the Opposition in the state said that the case fatality rate in Maharashtra is too high, accounting for 42-45% of the total deaths in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-slams-government-for-reducing-testing-in-mumbai/story-DJpQvBKHcgcJedNPlXUhfJ.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||20K doctors respond to call for help; only 700 found eligible||There is an acute shortage of doctors at Covid care centres-2 (CCC-2) and hospitals despite the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) making Covid-19 duty mandatory for qualified doctors. Although 20,000 doctors responded to DMER’s call for doctors to report for duty in May, so far only 700 fulfil the criteria laid down by DMER, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).On May 4, DMER issued a circular asking the 25,000 registered doctors in the city to report for 15-day stints of compulsory Covid-19 duty. Non-attendance would be considered a breach of the Medical Council of India Code, which could lead to a doctor’s licence being suspended or cancelled.Of the 20,000 registered doctors who responded to the circular, DMER selected 4,246 and sent this list to BMC for screening. The shortlisted doctors were between 25 and 45 years of age since DMER disqualifies doctors above the age of 55 for Covid duty. Those working at civic, state government and central-government run hospitals were exempted. Later, doctors already practising at hospitals were also exempted. After screening the shortlisted doctors, BMC found only 700 doctors were available.“Most of the doctors are out of India. How are we supposed to assign them Covid duty in Mumbai? Also, many of the doctors are already working in private hospitals. We can’t uproot from their duty and assign them Covid duty. There is also a need for non-Covid doctors. We need general physicians who run clinics,” said a senior BMC officer on condition of anonymity.Though there is no available data for the number of physicians running private clinics, Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) estimates around 5,000 such doctors are available in Mumbai, who are below 55 years old. “The notice was mainly aimed at doctors who have clinics. They can work both in civic hospitals and their clinics simultaneously,” said Dr Shivkumar Utture, president, MMC, who clarified that approximately 5% of the registered live abroad. With the number of active Covid-19 cases rising to 28,682, BMC says more doctors are urgently needed. “We need a permanent solution to meet the shortage of doctors. After every 15 days, we can’t go through the same process of scanning or hunting for doctors,” said a senior official with BMC’s health department.As per the latest data from BMC, 26% of the available beds for Covid-19 patients are occupied. Of the 4,355 beds in dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) — where moderately-ill patients are admitted — only 794 are vacant. Only 558 beds out of the 6,095 in dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH), where critically ill patients are admitted, are available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20k-doctors-respond-to-call-for-help-only-700-found-eligible/story-FOdzI7jyGVXUx4vnlfzwTK.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Factory worker booked for thrashing wife, son in Ludhiana||A factory worker has been booked for thrashing his wife and son and also not allowing the son to study.The accused has been identified as Rajinder Verma of Mohalla Basant Nagar.The case has been registered following a statement of Tej Partap, 15, son of the accused.In his complaint, Tej Partap said his father is a drunkard and usually thrashes him and his mother. He added his father also does not allow him to study and forces him to work in a factory.ASI Paramjit Singh, investigating the case, said a case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/factory-worker-booked-for-thrashing-wife-son-in-ludhiana/story-56wAWyytNDnc3dvj8TzPIO.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Blanket ban on online learning might not help, say experts||A day after the state education department recommended that the government set up rules barring online learning for students up to Class 2, several experts said a blanket ban on all e-learning might not be practical.Dr Samir Dalwai, developmental paediatrician from New Horizons Child Development Centre, said that children need positive age-appropriate stimulation for optimal brain development.“Pre-school teachers are an invaluable resource to keep children on their social-communication developmental track. We must restrict online learning to an hour of supervised, co-play between the child, parent, and the teacher, over an online medium,” he said. Dalwai, however, stressed that formal reading and writing must be banished from all preschool education — online and offline.On Friday, the education department submitted a list of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for restarting the new academic year 2020-21 from June 15. The document is now awaiting the chief minister’s nod.Dr Sagar Mundada, a city-based psychiatrist said “While students won’t miss out on any learning if online education does not take place for three months, they do need some kind of interaction with their peers. It is necessary for children to see new faces, to communicate, and hear someone else apart from their parents.”Experts on early childhood education said the government could put guidelines in place to regulate screen usage and ensure teaching is age-appropriate.“Schools will not open for another three months, which means children will lose out on connection and engagement with teachers. Parents will use online apps to ensure that children learn, and these apps will not be able to give the ‘serve and return’ interactions that teachers can give through live engagement platforms,” said Swati Popat Vats, president of the Early Childhood Association.Francis Joseph, co-founder, SLN Global Network, a professional network of schools and educators, said the government could allow online interactions for students of Classes 1 and 2 up to an hour daily. “This should be done with a break in between, and schools should ensure its implementation. Across the world, online learning has become the norm. While we do need regulation and guidelines about online learning, a blanket ban would not solve any purpose,” he said.Vikram Adsul, a teacher from Bandgar Wasti Zilla Parishad School in Karjat taluka, Ahmednagar, said most teachers in rural areas send e-content to the parents for their children’s viewing. “Our parents do not have sophisticated technology so we send them a few short videos and text which children can see and read in their free time. This kind of instruction is flexible and should not be banned,” he said.A section of parents, however, supports the state education department’s recommendation, they contend that it was becoming difficult to manage online classes for kids in addition to their work and household chores. “Children as young as two years are being forced to sit for online classes which should stop. However, with no online learning for students up to Class 2, parents will now have to be more hands-on and ensure that learning continues within the home,” said Aashna Sheikh, a city-based parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/blanket-ban-on-online-learning-might-not-help-say-experts/story-Bsh1EFOxlsWEtHdosTgZyO.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two gangsters attack jail staff in Ludhiana after being caught with mobile phone||Inmates of the Central Jail here seem to have an easy access to mobile phones and internet.Two gangsters, Gurjant Singh alias Janta and Jagroop Singh alias Joopa, attacked jail guards when they recovered a mobile phone from them.The Division number 7 police have lodged a case against the gangsters for possessing mobile phone and attacking jail employees.The accused Gurjant Singh alias Janta of Saddu Shahwala of Ferozepur and Jagroop Singh alias Joopa of Chananke village are already facing trial in several criminal cases, including kidnapping, robbery and attempt to murder and possessing illegal weapons.Joopa and Gurjant were arrested by the Amritsar police in 2016 with weapons. Joopa is also a member of the Jaggu Bhagwanpuria gang.Gurjant was again arrested by the Jagraon police in 2019 for possessing illegal weapons.According to Shiv Kumar, assistant superintendent of jail, the jail staff conducted a special checking in the jail on June 11. Both gangsters are lodged in the high security zone of the jail. When the jail staff, along with CRPF jawans, recovered the mobile phone from them, they attacked them in an attempt to snatch the mobile from them. ASI Harshpal Singh, investigating the case, said a case under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of Common intention) of the IPC and section 52 (A) of the prisons Act has been registered against the accused at the Division number 7 police station.The police will bring the accused on production warrant for questioning to know from where they had procured the mobile phone.FIRING AT JAIL INMATE’S HOUSE: ‘CONSPIRACY HATCHED IN JAIL’Investigators, probing the incident of firing at the house of Rishav alias Nannu, an accused in an attempt to murder case and lodged in the jail, have claimed that the conspiracy was hatched inside the jail.Three accused, who are lodged in the jail and had easy access to mobile phones, internet and social networking sites, had directed their accomplices to fire at the house of Rishav and district Youth Congress (central) president Shubham Arora.The Division number 3 police on Friday brought the three accused on production warrant from Ludhiana central jail for questioning. The police have booked a total of ten accused in the case.The accused, brought from the jail, are Manwinder Singh alias Nikka Jattana, of Jattana village of Mansa district, Manpritpal Singh Pratty of Jamalpur, Krishna Sahni of Sector 32 of the Chandigarh road.Nikka Jattana had taken the responsibility of attack through a Facebook post on Wednesday. According to the police, the accused had uploaded the post from the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-gangsters-attack-jail-staff-in-ludhiana-after-being-caught-with-mobile-phone/story-n5M6XnhSXxE3hb7MmkzlTJ.html
13-06-2020||City||Anti-malaria workers threaten strike over better salary, insurance||New Delhi:Anti-malaria workers of Delhi’s three municipal corporations, who are tasked with the work of spraying disinfectants amid the Covid-19 pandemic, have threatened to go on strike from June 25 if their demands related to free monthly check-ups, life insurance of Rs 50 lakh and an increment in their stipend were not met.Representatives of the workers’ association said their colleagues -- at least four employees tested positive -- had contracted Covid-19 but no help was provided by the civic agencies in terms of monetary help or treatment. Anti-malaria workers comprise domestic breeding checkers (DBC), contractual field workers (CFW) and contractual anti-malaria inspectors. The three corporations employ nearly 8,000 to 10,000 contractual and permanent anti-malaria workers.According to civic officials, contractual employees are generally deployed for anti-larva spraying, fogging and fumigation in residential and market areas to control the spread of mosquitoes. They also visit households and check breeding of mosquitoes. But ever since the Covid-19 outbreak, they have been tasked with the work of spraying disinfectants.Om Prakash Panchal, general secretary, Anti-Malaria Chaturth Shreni Union, said that during the pandemic, anti-malaria workers have been deployed in containment zones to perform “dangerous” task of sanitising those areas along with households. Panchal said the civic bodies should provide life insurance of Rs 50 lakh for each anti-malaria worker who joined after April 1, 2020, and conduct monthly health check-ups.These employees, both contractual and permanent, do not have any insurance cover.“We are frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19. We were deployed in hots pots to sanitise these areas. We perform our duties risking our lives but we don’t have any life insurance. There are no health check-ups for us. We will go on strike from June 25 if our demands are not considered. We have already written to the authorities of all the three civic bodies but to no avail,” Panchal said.Panchal said contractual workers are paid between Rs 15,000 and Rs 18,000, which is a meagre amount and should be increased. During lockdown, we spent all this stipend to commute to our work areas so that the sanitisation exercise is not affected. We cannot survive with such a low income. It should be doubled at least for the period till the Covid-19 situation is normalised,” he said.Jai Prakash, standing committee chairperson in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “These workers are like our spine. They have played a very important role in carrying out sanitising exercises in containment zones. We had conducted Covid-19 checkups of all our employees and if anyone is left, we will ensure that they are covered. We had discussed their demands with the commissioner and will solve their problems as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anti-malaria-workers-threaten-strike-over-better-salary-insurance/story-rAMtukF7qSQTm8yr4EBEFI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Residents movement in and out of Ludhiana containment zone goes unchecked||A day after the Habib Ganj, Sansi Mohalla and Islam Ganj areas of the city were declared part of the city’s second containment zone, free movement of residents was witnessed in the areas in the absence of any checks on Saturday. A visit to the areas revealed that not even a single police official was deputed at the entry and exit point and residents were moving about freely. Besides, non-essential shops were also found to be open and children were playing on the roads. On enquiry, residents said the security men deployed in the area may have gone for a break.Manjot Singh, a shopkeeper in Islam Ganj area, said, “The authorities have put up barricades near the house of the person whose cousin tested positive. But we have not been told anything about the restriction on movement or opening of shops. The barricading and announcement regarding the containment zone has only left residents in a state of panic.” Sunil, a resident of the area, said, “Though most residents are themselves not moving out of their house due to fear of catching the infection, the absence of checks at the entry and exit point is a cause of worry. Even the barriers installed at the entry and exit points is of no use as residents are moving about freely despite this. The administration should deploy a force on a permanent basis to impose the restrictions.”From Chhawani Mohalla, the city’s first containment zone, too similar complaints had been coming in, with many saying that the authorities lackadaisical attitude is set to prove fatal for the residents.Meanwhile, in Prem Nagar area, adjoining Islam Ganj, 10 residents, who returned from Mumbai, were sent to quarantine centres. Their reports are still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-movement-in-and-out-of-ludhiana-containment-zone-goes-unchecked/story-TnY4Kh4ZHh3EuCHM7KVXMI.html
13-06-2020||City||1 killed, 3 injured as car rams into tree on Ghodbunder road||One person died while three others suffered severe injuries in a car accident on Ghodbunder Road on Saturday evening. The driver of the car lost control and it rammed into a tree, near Manpada, along Ghodbunder Road. The police have found a liquor bottle from inside the car, and are trying to establish if it was a case of drunk driving.Senior police inspector, Anil Deshmukh said, “The car first dashed the divider and later rammed in to a tree.”According to Kapurbavdi police, the man died on the spot, while other three suffered severe injuries and are admitted in Titan Hospital.Raviteja Kannadi, 24, Himanshu Garg, 24, Prachi Pediwal, 24 and Rishi Rathod, 24, were in the car. Kannadi was at the wheels, when he lost control of the car. Rathod died on the spot, while the three others have suffered serious injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-killed-3-injured-as-car-rams-into-tree-on-ghodbunder-road/story-PZWklgQPVUYWfG64AtqaFL.html
13-06-2020||City||Delhi: Cash collection agent shot at, robbed of ₹2.5 lakh||New Delhi: A 35-year-old cash collection agent was shot at and robbed of ₹2.5 lakh by motorcycle-borne assailants in north Delhi’s Wazirabad on Friday afternoon. The agent suffered the bullet wound in his arm and was taken to a hospital where he was treated for his wound, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said that the victim, Rakesh Mishra, was returning after collecting payments in the Chandni Chowk area for his employers when the robbers waylaid him and tried to rob him.“Mishra resisted, after which the assailants fired a bullet at him, which hit his arm. The robbers then fled with his bag containing around ₹2.5 lakh. A case has been registered and teams are working on it,” said DCP Bhardwaj.Police said that Mishra works for a factory owner in Bawana and lives with his family in Budh Vihar near Rohini. On Friday morning, he left home on his scooter to collect payments from different clients.He collected money from Chandni Chowk and was riding towards Bawana factory around 2.30pm. The incident took place near the Gandhi Vihar traffic signal, when two men on a motorcycle intercepted his scooter, forcing him to stop.“One of them tried to snatch his bag and fired a bullet in the air to scare Mishra. When the victim refused to have over the bag, the robber fired a bullet at him, took his bag and fled,” said a police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity.The police are now scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene and of the probable routes the suspects took to follow Mishra and to flee.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-cash-collection-agent-shot-at-robbed-of-2-5-lakh/story-NJ0NtraZRS3u0vWW5gbFoK.html
13-06-2020||City||BJP leader’s son among two held with drugs in Ambala||The special task force (STF) on Saturday arrested the son of a local BJP leader and an Uttar Pradesh resident with 60 grams of heroin.An official from Parao police station said the STF seized 60gm heroin and a Honda City car from the accused, identified as Amit of Sector 7 in Ambala city and Kalknath of Gonda in Uttar Pradesh. They were coming from Delhi to supply the drugs in the city, police said.STF (Ambala range) in-charge DSP Kulbhushan said the accused will be presented before a court on Sunday to seek police remand.As per sources, Amit is the son of a senior BJP leader of Ambala and he had also been arrested by the Punjab Police with heroin last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-leader-s-son-among-two-held-with-drugs-in-ambala/story-lMgXrfIZRd5WozaBPEw0rO.html
13-06-2020||Noida||Fire at fashion designer’s factory in Sector 3, no injuries||A fire was reported Saturday morning at the garment factory of a renowned fashion designer in Sector 3. No injuries were reported.At around 9.30am, a guard at the factory Rohit Bal Design Private Limited at B block of Sector 3 saw smoke coming out of the second floor of the three-storey building.“A call came to us at 9.38am after which fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The fire station officer for the area was at the spot in minutes. There were no injuries of casualties in the incident,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer (CFO).Fire officials said that they were able to contain the fire to the affected floor.“There was a lot of smoke but we were able to control it completely in almost two hours. Eleven fire tenders were used in dousing it. Though there are other factories around the building, there was sufficient gap and it did not spread,” said the CFO.The officials also said that the factory had not opened post the lockdown, which helped prevent any injuries. It was scheduled to open on Monday and only a few staff was around.The CFO said that the cause of the fire was unclear although police believe that it could have been a short circuit on the main switch board. A few sewing machines, garments, furniture, etc. were destroyed in the fire at the garments factory though officials do not have an estimate for the damage.No official from the factory could be contacted for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-at-fashion-designer-s-factory-in-sector-3-no-injuries/story-fumFWIWDN6CKywyDWAjBxL.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis meets CM, submits demands for Cyclone Nisarga-hit areas||Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday and submitted a memorandum of 19 demands for coastal districts, including Raigad and Ratnagiri, which were hit by Cyclone Nisarga. Saying that the shelter camps set up for the people who lost their homes are in bad shape and that the announced relief has not reached villagers even 10 days after the cyclone, Fadnavis has also demanded immediate arrangements for roof tins and kerosene for the villages that are yet to get back power supply. Fadnavis, who toured parts of Konkan over the past two days, has also demanded a hike in the relief for loss of perennial crops. The state government has announced the relief for the same would be ₹50,000 per hectare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-meets-cm-submits-demands-for-cyclone-nisarga-hit-areas/story-2pKqJGf7aLCgDSKVZqhuEJ.html
13-06-2020||City||Greater Noida: Manager of e-biz portal, two associates arrested for cyber fraud||Greater Noida: Three people, including a manager of an e-business portal, were arrested by the Knowledge Park police and a unit of the Noida cyber cell for allegedly duping people on the pretext of e-business transactions.The suspects were identified as Ishan Jain, a resident of Ghaziabad, a manager at an e-business portal and Pankaj Kumar and Hari Singh, who are from Hamirpur district.According to the police, Jain allegedly stole customers’ data.“He stole customers’ data from the company where he was employed and along with Pankaj, he would call customers pretending to be employees of the company. They would even make fake email ids and WhatsApp numbers and convince people to send the money to them,” said Meenakshi Katyayan, deputy commissioner of police (crime).Police said that the suspects were allegedly using Hari’s bank account for the transactions and the money was being divided among the three in equal shares. Jain had met Pankaj at a job fair some time back and due to financial problems, the three decided to go ahead with the fraud, the police said.“The bank accounts have been frozen and Rs 1.5 lakh of customers’ money has been traced. We are investigating how many people were duped by the trio and how much money the suspects made,” said Baljeet Singh, station house officer, Knowledge Park police station.He said a complaint regarding the data theft and fake offers of membership to customers had been filed by the company a few days back following which a case was registered for cheating and criminal breach of trust (sections 420, 406 and relevant sections of the IT Act), after which the suspects were traced and nabbed. Police said they recovered Pan Cards, Aadhaar cards and mobile phones from the suspects.The three were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-manager-of-e-biz-portal-two-associates-arrested-for-cyber-fraud/story-FxezNYq8yEENzwMMt8wCkK.html
13-06-2020||City||After four Covid-19 cases, Kaushambi residents dial CM office to initiate containment exercise||Ghaziabad: Alleging delay in the implementation of containment exercises, the residents of Kaushambi on Saturday approached the office of Uttar Pradesh chief minister after four Covid-19 cases emerged from different towers during this week. After directions from the top officials, the Ghaziabad health department sprung into action and initiated action at ground level. District health officials said that they initiated the containment activities on Saturday afternoon.According to members of the Kaushambi Apartments RWA (KARWA), the umbrella body of residents’ welfare associations in Kaushambi township, two residents from the locality have died of Covid-19 in Delhi during the past two days and four positive cases have emerged.“On Saturday, I called up the CM office and made the officers there aware about the situation in Kaushambi. They promised all help. Thereafter in the afternoon, the health department officials arrived and took up sanitization and containment exercises. Later in the day, I received another call from Lucknow and they asked about the progress. I told them that the work has started,” said VK Mittal, president of KARWA.The Kaushambi township is located near Delhi’s Anand Vihar border and home to about 20,000 people.“The high-rises were not sanitized and no containment exercises were taken up despite two deaths and four positive cases which have emerged during the week in different areas of Kaushambi. In the morning, I even contacted the divisional commissioner (Meerut) who said that she will be directing the local authorities to initiate works at the earliest,” Mittal said.Health officials said that teams have started the sanitization work in affected towers.“Our teams have taken up sanitization in affected towers and sampling of close contacts is also being taken. In one of the death cases, the family denied sampling as they said that patient was initially positive but had turned negative later on. However, sampling of family and close contacts in second death case is being taken up. Both the deaths have taken place in Delhi and we are awaiting formal cross notification from Delhi authorities,” said GK Mishra, district malaria officer.He said that the health department will soon issue recommendation of taking up containment of four towers and one house in Kaushambi.“In all, four towers and one house will be sealed as per the protocol. The recommendation of sealing will be issued by Saturday night. The rest of the process will be taken up by the magistrate concerned,” Mishra added.With the rising number of Covid-19 cases, different localities and high-rises in Ghaziabad have been placed under containment zones as part of sealing. There have been instances where residents have complained of delayed sealing and also delay in reopening of containment zones.When asked about the alleged delay, Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad’s chief medical officer, said, “Our teams are working round the clock to take up containment exercises. There may be some delays in instances, but we are getting a lot of help from locals and RWAs who apprise us about their issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-four-covid-19-cases-kaushambi-residents-dial-cm-office-to-initiate-containment-exercise/story-JOu6DJhTxtYz7GnDQ1y1dN.html
13-06-2020||Noida||With 35 new cases, GB Nagar’s count reaches 865||The Gautam Budh Nagar district on Saturday reported 35 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the overall count of the district to 865 cases.Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said as many as 494 patients, including 17 on Saturday, have been discharged from different hospitals until now. “Apart from them, 69 other patients have been cross notified to other districts and states. Twelve Covid-19 positive patients have so far lost their lives in the district so far. As a result, the district now has 359 active cases,” he said.The CMO further said out of 35 positive cases on Saturday, 19 persons were tested by private laboratories, while the remaining 16 were tested positive at government laboratories. “Of these 35 positives today, as many as 30 people have ILI (influenza-like illnesses),” he said.Dr Ohri further said that 13,066 samples have been collected in the district for testing so far. “Tests per million population in the district is at 6,221, which is much better than the national index of per million tests of 3,913.”He further said in the last 24 hours, 493 tests have been conducted in the district. “The district has started special campaign to collect maximum samples for detecting Covid-19 at the earliest and identify the high-risk patients. Sampling is being done in old age homes, orphanages, and urban slums. We have decided to focus on hospital staff, vendors, delivery boys, drivers, conductors, autorickshaw drivers, healthcare workers, and chemists for sampling,” he said. Giving details of 69 cross notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said while 20 of them are from Delhi, one patient each is from Haryana, West Bengal, and Andhra Pradesh. “While 10 patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 36 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including 11 from Ghaziabad, eight from Bulandshahr, two each from Hapur and Aligarh and one from Agra,” he said.Ohri also said health camps were organised in 12 places in the district on Friday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, and sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 663 patients were screened on Saturday and four of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Meanwhile, to give relief to patients in light of the rising mercury levels, Covid-19 hospitals in the district are making arrangements for installing individual air-conditioning units, .GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said as per the Covid-19 guidelines, hospitals can use window ACs, after getting the unit certified from a team of specialists from Agra. “Even for centralised ACs, the ducts must be separate. Sharda hospital and the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital have already sent their requests to get the experts’ opinion about the dos and don’ts regarding the use of AC units in their isolation wards. I hope that very soon the ACs will be operational in these hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-35-new-cases-gb-nagar-s-count-reaches-865/story-7BrWHCKqoBcopJofLWHk9I.html
13-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad crosses mark of 600 Covid-19 cases but recovery rate over 60%||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad crossed 600 on Saturday with the addition of 23 fresh cases. The district now has 604 cases. One death too was recorded on the day, taking the total death count in the district to 20.The new death was of a 60-year-old woman who had comorbid conditions. She died at the tertiary care hospital in Meerut.In June, 299 cases and 16 deaths were added to the district’s tally in the first 13 days. Till May 31, the district had only 305 total cases with four deaths. The first case was reported on March 5.The district recorded its first 100 cases in 61 days, the next 100 in 16 days, then down to 10 days for the next 100, following which it fell to six days to reach a total of 400. Two days later, on June 8, the case count crossed 500.The ministry of home affairs’s had earlier allowed the reopening of the economy under its unlock 1 guidelines on June 8. States, however, were permitted to take necessary restrictions as per their analysis to contain Covid-19.According to officials, the district has a recovery rate of about 62%, which is better than the national average of about 50%.“It is also better than the state average of about 60%.We have discharged 373 in all from different hospitals,” Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer, said.According to the report of the state surveillance officer, the state of UP till June 13 had total of 13118 Covid-19 cases and 7858 of the patients were discharged from different hospitals.“To deal with severe cases, we have initiated a severe acute respiratory infection ward at MMG Hospital where patients having such indictions are getting admitted. These are the cases which are getting critical and also leading to death. In another direction, we have asked our L-3 (tertiary care for critical patients) hospital to not refer patients to L-3 hospital at Meerut. In several cases, patients were declared brought dead in Meerut. So all patients requiring critical care will be treated at L3 hospital in Ghaziabad,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Although we have 20 cases of death which have taken place so far, only nine deaths have actually taken place in our hospitals while nine have taken place at Meerut and one each in hospitals of Delhi and Noida. We are trying to treat our patients in Ghaziabad but there are cases when patients directly go to Meerut. So, we cannot do much in such cases.”Of the 23 cases which were added on Saturday included three cases each form Kaushambi and Khoda while two cases were reported from Vasundhara and one from Indirapuram besides other cases in different localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-crosses-mark-of-600-covid-19-cases-but-recovery-rate-over-60/story-NmVAByn6OTSsepWLoEH5AP.html
13-06-2020||City||After Supreme Court order, administration focuses on containment zones in Vaishali, Khoda and Loni||A day after the Supreme Court directed the Ghaziabad district magistrate to ensure that national guidelines are followed with regard to the creation of containment zones, in connection with a petition filed by a Vaishali resident, the administration officials said that the sector scheme will continue in Khoda, Vaishali and Loni.The petition had challenged the sealing of Gateway Towers and the implementation of the administration’s sector scheme in Vaishali. Petitioner Mohammad Faizul Khan, a resident of the high-rise, had contended that the sector scheme finds no mention in the Unlock 1.0 guidelines of the Centre and should be abolished.“The directions of the court will be complied with. The sector scheme is a process or procedure through which the containment exercise is implemented by roping in a team of magistrates, medical staff and the police, etc. We will be taking into consideration the containment zones in each of the localities,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, said.“If we go by the containment zones norms, a majority of the areas in the three localities will be covered. More containment zones will be chalked out in the future due to the rise in the Covid-19 cases,” he added.According to the latest list of containment zones available with the health department till June 9, the Ghaziabad district has a total of 217 containment zones, with 188 under category-1 and 29 under category-2.Category-1 containment zones comprise those areas which have a single Covid-19 case and the area of containment zone has a radius of 250 metres or covers the entire mohalla, whichever is less.Category-2 containment zones comprise areas with more than one case, covering a radius of 500 metres and an additional 250 metres as a buffer.“If we add up the areas covered by the different containment zones, a majority of Vaishali, Khoda and Loni will be included. Even if a particular area is not declared a containment zone and its residents move out, they will have to pass through the radius area of a containment zone nearby. So, their movement will be restricted,” an officer from the district health department said on condition of anonymity.According to officials, a containment zone will be scrapped within 14 to 21 days in case no more cases emerge from there. The administration had implemented the sector scheme in wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Khoda, Vaishali and Loni.According to the list of containment zones, Vaishali has 13 zones under category-1 and three under category-2. Khoda comprises 30 different category-1 zones and two category-2 zones. Loni has eight category-1 zones and five category-2 containment zones.The sector scheme was implemented in Khoda, Loni and Vaishali on May 10, May 27 and June, respectively. Lately, however, the administration has relaxed some restrictions in Vaishali and Khoda—markets have been allowed to open up.“The worst part about the sector scheme is the restriction on the movement of Vaishali residents towards Delhi. After the Supreme Court order, the administration might release a revised order. Once they roll out the revised directions, we will decide upon the future course of action,” said Mohammad Faizul Khan, the petitioner in the case.The officials of the health department said that two engineers on Saturday have been roped in and will submit a report to the district magistrate.“The engineers will take stock of the containment zones based on active cases and other parameters and will submit a report to the district magistrate. Their report will determine how much of localities such as Vaishali and Khoda can be placed under containment,” said another officer from the health department on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-supreme-court-order-administration-focuses-on-containment-zones-in-vaishali-khoda-and-loni/story-V4ki4Y6uOjVNpamLriW3RI.html
13-06-2020||City||Noida: Mercury to remain below 40 degrees C over next two days||Noida: The city witnessed light rains on Saturday afternoon, bringing down the maximum temperature by two degrees Celsius, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. With scattered rains likely to continue over the next two days, IMD has expected mercury to remain below 40 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 39.4 degrees Celsius, the season’s average, against 41.5 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature was 30.2 degrees Celsius, against 29 degrees a day earlier.“There is a trough line, which is a low pressure line, passing through Punjab and Odisha via Haryana. There is also cyclonic circulation over Punjab and Haryana, which is causing thundery activities over the region. These activities lead to light rains and thundershowers that will continue till Monday leading to patchy rains across NCR, including Noida and Ghaziabad, at different time,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.According to the weather department, while the monsoon is moving towards the region at its normal pace and is expected to hit Noida, Ghaziabad and other areas of western Uttar Pradesh by June 27, thundery activities will continue to keep the temperature under check.“Temperature will not rise much, and is expected to remain under 40 degrees Celsius. It will oscillate between 38 to 40 degrees Celsius, of next two days at least. The on and off rainfall would keep the mercury under control,” Srivastava said.“The monsoon has already covered certain parts of Bihar and is moving at a favourable speed. We expect it to reach Delhi by June 27 and in 90% of the cases the time of monsoon’s arrival in Delhi is the same for Noida and rest of the western Uttar Pradesh,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-mercury-to-remain-below-40-degrees-c-over-next-two-days/story-xEtJhaHU7r6BuKwn4i5zVL.html
13-06-2020||City||Doctors, other staff found ‘partying’ inside OT of MMG hospital, inquiry initiated||Ghaziabad: The administration of MMG district hospital has constituted a committee to inquire into allegations that several doctors and health care staff members of the hospital were allegedly ‘partying’ inside the operation theatre (OT). The MMG hospital is presently a non-Covid government facility located in Ghaziabad city. Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the hospital, said that he initiated an inquiry after receiving a written complaint from one of the doctors of the hospital.“After a complaint by the doctor, I have constituted an inquiry that should bring out all the facts. Prima facie, it has come to light that the event was held at a doctor’s room and not inside the OT. In the room, the doctors and staff generally have tea and snacks during the duty hours,” Bhargava said.According to hospital sources, certain photographs of the event, which took place on June 10, were also captured.According to the sources, the event was held in presence of Dr Ravinder Rana, former CMS of the hospital, who had recently been transferred to Etah and had come to the hospital on Wednesday to collect some pending documents. The sources said that the event was held for farewell of the former CMS.However, Rana has denied the allegation. “When I met the staff, they urged me to have tea and snacks in the pre-anesthesia checkup room. Generally, the health care staff members during the duty hour take breaks to have tea or snacks in the room. There was no outside person present in the room. It seems that someone tried to exaggerate the matter and submitted a complaint,” Rana said.Meanwhile, authorities of the L2 Covid hospital at Sanjay Nagar have written to the chief medical officer (CMO) that all the eight ventilators, including five previous ones, were made functional and now ready for use during the treatment of Covid patients.During an inspection earlier this week, state observer Dr VK Sonkar had found that none of the eight ventilators was used by the hospital authorities. The three out of eight are new and provided by the UP government for treatment of Covid-19 positive patients.“The ventilators have been made functional, and I will take up one more inspection in some days to assess whether patients are being treated through the ventilators or not. A report about the inspection has been submitted to the district magistrate and he will call for the explanation that why the ventilators were not being used,” Sonkar said.The state observer is sent by the UP government for regular inspections of Covid and non-Covid hospitals in Ghaziabad and point out any shortcomings in the health care facilities.Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical superintendent of the Sanjay Nagar hospital, did not respond to several calls.The state observer on Saturday said that he also inspected L1 category hospital at Nandgram and found that one of four ventilators deployed there was not functional.“I have asked them to get it operational while three were found operational during the inspection. The hospital has 10 oxygen cylinders and I have asked them to rope in five more. The chief medical officer has also been apprised and he will help out in arrangement,” Sonkar said.The L1 category hospital at Nandgram with 60 beds for Covid patients was made operational earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-other-staff-found-partying-inside-ot-of-mmg-hospital-inquiry-initiated/story-fBQNP2NRv6rl2nX70Jt7CL.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||HCQ not banned by ICMR, can’t stop doctors from using drug: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday, refrained from passing orders against the alleged indiscriminate administration of the Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) drug to slum dwellers on the grounds that it is the only drug which doctors are using as a last resort to treat patients. In its detailed order pertaining to various issues raised in seven public interest litigations (PIL), the court held that though there is no clinical proof to show that the drug was effective in combating Covid-19, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had not banned the use of the drug, and therefore it could not restrain doctors prescribing it as a prophylaxis (preventive treatment).The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Amjad Sayyed, while hearing the PIL filed by Jan Swasthya Abhiyaan, had been informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai that people living in the slums of Dharavi and Worli had been used as test subjects to study the viability of HCQ as a possible deterrent/antidote to the virus.Desai had submitted that it was alarming as the drug was known to cause diarrhoea and, considering the lack of water and toilets in slums, the administration of the drug to slum dwellers would only aggravate the problem.Desai had further submitted that the action of the state to subject some people to HCQ was without their consent, which was against the principles of democracy. He also pointed out that the trials were being conducted without the consent of the ICMR and hence, the authorities should be asked to submit details of the trials, their results, and outcomes. In light of these submissions, Desai had sought a restraint on the authorities from conducting the tests and trials.However, the state had submitted that the use of HCQ was recommended by the National Task Force (NTF) for Covid- 19 as a prophylaxis against the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, for selected individuals and hence, there was nothing wrong in it being administered to select groups in Dharavi and Worli.Desai in his reply to the state’s averments had submitted that the Ministry of Home and Family Welfare (MoHFW) guidelines on Covid-19 specified that HCQ was not recommended for children below the age of 12 years and pregnant and lactating women. He also noted that the Directorate of Medical Education Research (DMER) had no such restriction. Rather, it permitted the use of the drug on children prior to their being shifted to the ICU. Desai had submitted that as DMER was silent on protocols for the usage of HCQ, the state should be restrained from administering it indiscriminately.After considering both arguments, the court observed that Desai’s submission could not be ignored. “One cannot turn a blind eye to the present situation and wait for the lengthy process laid down in the statute for trials to be completed,” the court said.“Now, in a given case, if abiding by the law stricto sensu and waiting for a clinical trial of a drug would result in loss of valuable time for saving a patient and the choice is between the devil and the deep sea, i.e, no other drug except an HCQ sort of a drug, though not clinically tried for treating the disease, is the last option left for a doctor to save the life of such patient, should the doctor fold his hands and leave the patient to the mercy of the Almighty on the ground that the relevant drug has not been registered for use as prophylaxis? The answer, we are minded to hold, should be in the negative.”The HC bench pointed out that the guidelines of the ICMR have not banned the use of HCQ as prophylaxis to treat Covid-positive patients and said that reports have shown that the physical harm caused by the administration of HCQ outweighs its benefits.The court held that it was reluctant to interfere with policy decisions taken by the government in matters of public health and concerning whether a particular drug ought to be banned or not.In light of the fact that the MoHFW guidelines had restricted the administration of HCQ to children and pregnant women, the court said that it should not be administered to children below the age of 15 years and pregnant and lactating women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hcq-not-banned-by-icmr-can-t-stop-doctors-from-using-drug-hc/story-NyhN43b7DSeQe8pFwmMVEK.html
13-06-2020||City||Three arrested for illegal sand mining in Greater Noida||Three men were arrested by the Ecotech 1 police on Friday for allegedly mining sand illegally on government land in a village in Greater Noida. The police said they also seized earthmoving machines and vehicles used by the suspects.The suspects were identified as Sonu, a resident of village Bhaisarni; Naresh and Dinesh, who are brothers and are from village Puvari.According to police officers, they received a tip that sand was being mined on land owned by Greater Noida authority’s in village Puvari. A police team rushed to the spot based on the tip-off.“The three suspects were engaged in sand mining and were nabbed. Sonu is the driver of the earthmoving machine which was seized from the spot along with a trolley truck. Neither of the vehicles had a registration number,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh.The police said the three suspects are not a part of any organised syndicate. The suspects were mining the sand for personal use and not selling it for any commercial purpose, they added. The suspects were booked under sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the sand mining act. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.Police officers said incidents of illegal sand mining in the area have gone down this year.“There have been three isolated incidents in Knowledge Park, Dankaur and Ecotech 1 jurisdictions respectively so far. This zone 3 belt is not prone to organised sand mining mafia,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-greater-noida/story-Vh2hvGUiT0pCoaLxt3IieP.html
13-06-2020||City||Noida to spend ₹1,000 crore to boost economic activity affected due to Covid-19 lockdown||NOIDA: In a bid to boost economic activity in the city amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Noida authority has decided to spend ₹1,000 crore on 274 infrastructure and other development projects. The move will generate work and employment for construction firms, small vendors and daily wage workers left jobless due to the Covid-19 crisis, officials said on Saturday.In April this year, the authority had decided to finish all formalities related with important developmental work in the first week of June so that the work can be started by mid-June. In May, the authority’s civil and traffic cell departments had conducted all tendering process to rope in construction firms. The officials said that the authority awarded the works to those agencies, which were hired through tendering. “We have awarded 274 projects to make sure the developmental work is not disrupted during this ongoing crisis. We want to continue repair of all basic civic infrastructure so that the basic amenities are delivered to general public without any interruption,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.The 274 projects include construction of roads and drains, repair of central verge and other traffic cell projects. Apart from this, the authority has also started developing basic civic facilities in Sector 145, which is a new residential area being developed along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The basic civic amenities include laying of drainage network, sewage network, parks and other projects, the officials said.As all developmental projects were halted due to the Covid-19 lockdown for about one-and-a-half months, it also affected the economy and daily wage workers started facing livelihood issue, the officials said.“Now with this ₹1,000 crore fund, the city will get an economic boost as many will start getting jobs,” said another Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.The authority had to finish all tendering formalities in May for the financial year 2020-21 after the process got delayed due to the implementation of nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-to-spend-1-000-crore-to-boost-economic-activity-affected-due-to-covid-19-lockdown/story-CHUN9j8kWcY6MYjRzzr8BP.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||4 cops succumb to Covid in 24 hours||Four policemen from the Mumbai Police have died due to Covid-19 within 24 hours. This is the maximum Covid deaths recorded in single day in a police force, claim police sources. The total death toll in the city police force has reached 26 on Saturday. Beside Mumbai Police, 14 more police personnel have died of Covid-19 till date across various districts in the state.According to the police, a constable from Dindoshi police station had fallen sick on June 4 and had fever and breathing problems. “He was immediately admitted to SevenHills hospital at Marol and a Covid test was done. On June 6, the report revealed he was Covid positive. He was also suffering from diabetes. It is yet to be ascertained how he contracted the virus” said senior inspector Dharnendra Kamble.“The constable was on ventilator for a long period, but he succumbed around 11.10pm on Friday. He lived in Goregaon police colony with his wife, son and daughter and mother,” said a police officer.A police inspector from the same station had earlier tested positive but he is now healthy and is home quarantined, the officer added.Among the three other police personnel who died was a constable attached with Borivali police station. “He started having breathing problem and high fever from June 2, prompting him to stop going to work. He was admitted to a hospital at Nalla Sopara and his report came positive on June 6,” said Dr Mohan Dahikar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 11.The constable was a fit cop, said one of his colleagues. He was a resident of Vasai and lived with his parents, wife and a daughter.Similarly, 57-year-old head constable attached with Vakola police station also died due to the disease. Inspector Pravin Rane from Vakola police station said, “He was on leave since April as the police commissioner has exempted constables above 55 years from duty. On Friday, he suddenly developed breathing problem and was immediately taken to Niron Hospital for treatment. He succumbed on Saturday morning and the doctor told us he died of Covid-19,” Said Rane.The constable, a resident of Bandra (West), was set to retire on June 30. He lived with his two children, wife and an elderly mother.Another cop, a 56-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) attached to the protection and security department of the city police, died due to Covid-19. He was posted at the office of the joint commissioner of police (law and order), but was on official leave due to his age.“On June 4, he was admitted to DY Patil Hospital after he complained of high fever. Test report revealed that he was Covid positive. He was on ventilator support since then and on Saturday at around 8am he succumbed to the disease,” said a police officer.The ASI lived with his wife and son in Navi Mumbai. At present, 516 infected police personnel are being treated in different Covid care centres across the city while 224 are admitted at hospitals. Of the total of 2,028 police personnel who tested positive, 290 are officers while the rest 1,738 are from constabulary. Of the total cases, 1,233 police personnel have recovered and 334 of the recovered policemen have joined duty.The state government has promised to give the family of deceased policemen a compensation of ₹50 lakh. In addition, ₹10 lakh would be given from the Police welfare fund or martyrs fund. One family member of the deceased personnel will also be given a government job.(With inputs from Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-cops-succumb-to-covid-in-24-hours/story-ezhKA10KQSc9QjY4uob3dN.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway sets up infrared cameras at CSMT, LTT||The Central Railway (CR) on Saturday introduced infrared cameras at railway stations in the city to conduct thermal screening of passengers. The cameras have been introduced at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT). “The thermal cameras can cover large areas. It can detect the temperature of multiple people entering at once and record temperature automatically while passengers are on the move,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR. The infrared cameras will also screen on-duty railway officials at CSMT and LTT railway stations.CR recently introduced digital screens at Nagpur railway station and robotic system at Pune railway stations to conduct thermal screenings of passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-sets-up-infrared-cameras-at-csmt-ltt/story-0G1gd0NeZVGLWBL2BQKVBI.html
13-06-2020||Gurugram||Unlocking Gurugram: In 11 days, city witnessed 2,148 cases||Gurugram has witnessed a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases after lockdown restrictions began to be eased on May 18, with around 92.5 percent of the district’s total cases as of Saturday emerging since then .A sharper surge has been seen in the last 11 days alone, during the first phase of a nationwide ‘unlocking’, with 71.7 percent of the district’s total cases emerging during this time.From 204 positive cases being detected between March 4 and May 17, Gurugram’s total tally rose to 774 by May 31. The tally further kept climbing, with at least 2,922 Covid-19 positive cases being registered till June 12Despite the alarming numbers, experts and officials insisted that there was a need to reopen Gurugram’s economy, where major industries — particularly automobiles, IT, pharmaceuticals — are concentrated.Rohit Prasad, an economist and professor at Gurugram’s Management Development Institute, said, “The economic fallout of the lockdown has been unprecedented. There is really no alternative to reviving the local economy, except for allowing people to go to work. Most people in India do not have the luxury of working from home.” He added that Gurugram, as the largest urban agglomeration in Haryana, generates a lion’s share of the state’s revenue (close to 60%), and is also its largest employer in both formal and informal sectors. Any further restrictions on movement will mar their employment prospects, and Gurugram’s financial revival,” Prasad added. Ramping up testing, surveillance is imperativeThe need to open up poses two major challenges for Gurugram’s Covid-19 response. The first is an urgent need to increase testing capabilities, and the second is to increase the number of available field staff for contact tracing and isolation of patients, according to Gurugram’s newly appointed chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav. “Before lockdown, things in Gurugram were under control. From late April to mid-May, Gurugram’s contribution to the national case load was not very high, unlike Delhi, Mumbai, or Ahmedabad. The surge has happened post lockdown, but other parts of the country are facing this issue too. We cannot remain under lockdown indefinitely,” Yadav said. Gurugram’s rising Covid-19 cases are reflected in a range of data-points, from its quick doubling-rate (7 days), to its test-positivity rate (which stands at an all time high of 44.4 percent for June, so far), along with a high daily growth-rate of cases (about 10 percent), and a declining recovery rate (due to an increasing daily case load). “Our test positivity rate is extremely high, which rules out any option of pooled testing. A high test-positivity rate also indicates that we may not be testing enough people. So, we need to meet the increase in number of cases with more tests. This is my first priority. We have conducted a trial of 40 samples in Gurugram on Thursday, and by next week the lab here should be testing 200 samples per day,” Yadav said. Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice president (research & policy), at the Public Health Foundation of India, also emphasised the need to ramp up testing in light of new cases which have emerged post-lockdown. “The more cases you find, the more primary contacts you will need to trace and test. So naturally, increasing that capacity at this stage is imperative. Another cause of concern is the strain on the healthcare system. Authorities need to ensure that those who can stay at home are able to do so, and will need to deploy a larger workforce to trace and isolate positive cases,” he said. Keeping mortality rate low is keyA senior official in Haryana’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Program explained that, without adequately ramping up testing and without strengthening field surveillance, the district may possibly see a rise in case fatality rate, which is so far much lower than other severely hit districts. “Our surveillance is strong because we have been able to detect cases early and have been able to treat them. As numbers rise, we need more tests and better field surveillance with more officers so that we can continue to achieve this. Without a combination of these two, the danger is that upcoming cases will either go undetected, or may be detected too late. This would lead to a higher mortality rate. We are working to avert such a scenario,” said the official. However, available reports suggest that such adverse consequences are already starting to emerge in the district. Of the 19 deaths registered in Gurugram so far, 15 occurred in the last five days. Of these, three of the victims had passed away before they could reach Civil Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/unlocking-gurugram-in-11-days-city-witnessed-2-148-cases/story-DYwS5ocJvROKA4ikfa5BfL.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Waterlogging spots rise to 336; BMC readies dewatering pumps||Mumbai’s waterlogging spots have increased to 336 from 273 during last year’s monsoon. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), however, said it has taken preventive steps at 266 spots, while work was in progress at the remaining 70 spots. While some of the major flood-prone spots in the island city are Geeta Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Sandhurst Road, Nana Chowk, Matunga, Parel TT, Hindamata, Gandhi Market, Janata Colony and Dhobi Ghat, for the eastern suburbs, they are LBS Road, Shell Colony, Tilak Nagar, Mankhurd Subway, Deonar Abbatoir, Shanti Campus.There will be 120 dewatering pumps functional to pump out water into the stormwater drain system in the island city. Two of the pumps will be set up at KEM Hospital and Sion Hospital, both major Covid facilities, located near low-lying areas. In the eastern suburbs, the civic body has identified 100 dewatering pumps.Major flood-prone spots in western suburbs are Kala Nagar, Khar subway, Milan subway, Andheri-Kurla Road, Shastri Nagar, Malad subway, Poisar subway, Borivli subway, and Dahisar subway. The BMC has planned to use 105 dewatering pumps for these spots.According to municipal commissioner IS Chahal, BMC has identified a total of 336 flooding spots in the city — 125 in the island city, 97 in the eastern suburbs and 124 in the western suburbs. Of these, 54 are localised flooding spots. So far, he said, BMC has tackled 266 flooding spots and is in the process of tackling 70 others before monsoon kicks in over the next few days.Over the past five years, the flooding spots in Mumbai have increased from 40 in 2014, to 273 in 2019. During the municipal commissioner’s budget speech of 2014-15, he had listed 40 flooding spots. However, in the budget speech of 2017-18, the number increased to 66, and in 2018-19, they were upped to 146. However, before the monsoon of 2018, BMC declared that there were 225 flooding spots, and the number further shot up to 273 after 48 flooding spots were added to the list during the monsoon of 2018.In February 2020, the BMC budget, presented by the then civic chief Praveen Pardeshi, listed 273 waterlogging spots for the city, of which work on 69 was pending.Meanwhile, BMC has also installed 2,772 protective grills under manhole covers across Mumbai, of which 2,008 are in the island city, 203 in the western suburbs, and 399 in the eastern suburbs. In 2017, renowned doctor Deepak Amrapurkar died after falling down an open manhole near Elphinstone. It was later investigated that a local had removed the manhole cover to quicken the pace of water draining out of a waterlogged street. Following this, BMC had decided to install protective grills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/waterlogging-spots-rise-to-336-bmc-readies-dewatering-pumps/story-JspIVew187Jxfg4sUw0oaN.html
13-06-2020||City||MCG shuffles 37 senior officials||Gurugram: In a major administrative move, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has effected a shuffle of 37 senior officials, including additional commissioners, joint commissioners and senior sanitation inspectors. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh passed six different orders in this regard on late Friday night. The orders resulted in senior MCG officials such as additional commissioners, joint commissioners, senior sanitation inspectors, zonal taxation officers, assistant engineers, and junior engineers either being moved to a new zone or given a new task entirely. Although such rejig in the MCG is not rare, it is done in a phased manner. “The rationale behind shuffling and assigning new duties to MCG staff members is to make them familiar with different scope of civic issues faced in the city, so that they can use both their past and present experiences to deal with such matters in the best possible way. This will ensure that civic operations are more streamlined,” said the MCG commissioner.Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner of zone 4, has been appointed as the nodal officer for dealing with issues related to the biodiversity park and reuse of recycled water. Surender Kumar, additional commissioner of zone 1, is now the nodal officer for water and sewerage billing issues, septage management, sewerage treatment plants, 900-metre ammunition depot restricted area, and property tax. Similarly, Amardeep Jain, additional commissioner of zone 2, has been tasked with the responsibility of overseeing all types of grievances filed against the MCG, and also streetlight management. Inderjit Kularia, joint commissioner (headquarters), is the nodal officer for plastic shredding plant and its usage in road construction, while chief engineer ND Vashisht is the nodal officer for the C&D waste plant at Basai.In the enforcement wing, four assistant engineers and six junior engineers have been shuffled to different zones. At the advertisement wing, new assistant engineer and two junior engineers have been deputed to look after MCG’s all four zones. Eight outsourced junior engineers have been given the responsibility of providing assistance to executive engineers in all eight divisions of the engineering branch until September for dealing with waterlogging related issues. As per the orders, they will have to each day submit photos of waterlogging stretches and also mark out such areas on a map and submit the file to their respective executive engineers who can then get the drains cleaned.The positions of two zonal taxation officers in MCG’s zones 2 and 4 have been swapped. All seven staff members of the MCG’s sanitation branch, including senior sanitary inspectors, sanitary officer, and sanitary inspectors, have been reshuffled to different zones.Mahender Singh, city project officer (CPO), has been given additional charge of assisting Jaspreet Kaur with all works pertaining to coronavirus.Apart from the six orders, the MCG commissioner also issued two more orders on Friday night, chalking out the standard operating procedure to be followed by officials for streetlights and water supply management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-shuffles-37-senior-officials/story-BDM1Hr32MJ384Eu1DUEJwJ.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||HC junks PILs on temporary accommodation for Mumbai’s essential service staffers||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday upheld that humane approach is the need of the hour, while rejecting two public interest litigations (PILs), which had sought a direction to the authorities to provide temporary accommodation in Mumbai to the essential-service providers, who are battling the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, instead of travelling to their homes daily in far-off suburbs such as Vasai-Virar and Panvel.The petitioners had expressed fear that the daily commute could risk the lives of the residents of Vasai-Virar and Panvel municipal corporation areas because the essential-service providers are suspected to be the prime carriers of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Virar resident Charan Bhatt and the member of the legislative assembly (MLA) from Panvel, Prashant Thakur, had filed the pleas in the court.A two-member division bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Amjad Sayed, however, refused to accept the petitioners’ contention.Earlier, the petitioners’ counsel, advocate Uday Warunjikar, had submitted that the concern expressed in the pleas was genuine and that the PILs were filed to safeguard the interest of the residents of Vasai-Virar and Panvel civic body areas. Warunjikar had cited that the essential-service employees formed a potent threat to other residents in these civic body areas.He prayed that the state authorities were duty-bound to provide temporary accommodation to the frontline workers near their workplaces in Mumbai.Maharashtra advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the PILs revealed the petitioners’ insensitivity.He argued that when the frontline workers are engaged in combating Covid-19 and Maharashtra government has been trying their best to contain the spread of the virtual outbreak, the petitioners want to keep the essential-service staffers in isolation and ensure that they are denied the opportunity to return to their homes on completion of their hard day’s work. He termed the petitioners’ demand as “most unfortunate”.The state government also pleaded helplessness to provide temporary accommodation to the essential-service employees in Mumbai because of their high numbers.The bench accepted the state government’s submission. “Humane approach is the need of the hour,” it said.The court added: “Even if some of such staffers might have unfortunately been infected by Covid-19 that is no ground to ostracise them.”The court while disposing of the PILs made a scathing remark that the essential-service providers must be encouraged in discharging their duties without any fear or favour amid these hard times triggered by the viral outbreak.The court hoped that the frontline workers would take the utmost care to protect themselves from the viral infection and also safeguard their family members by exercising caution and restrain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-junks-pils-on-temporary-accommodation-for-mumbai-s-essential-service-staffers/story-0yBfDI4nI5JAH5MA1oxgHN.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Textile finishing dye turns Ulhas River water turquoise’||Despite the Supreme Court (SC) being apprised of high pollution levels in Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers, untreated effluents continue to be discharged by industries in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). An inspection report submitted in SC by the environment group Vanashakti, on Friday showed pollutant discharge at the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area at Sonarpada, Dombivli, had turned the river water turquoise (see image) with foam. “Effluents are being discharged by industries at unauthorised locations entering stormwater drains and polluting a 1.5-km stretch of Ulhas. The violations are going unnoticed as there is the preferential treatment meted out to Dombivli MIDC textile and chemical industries,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.Following this, a complaint was filed with the state environment department and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) on Saturday. A stream passing through Dombivli was identified carrying effluents to the main channel, the complaint said.The Friday’s inspection also revealed that untreated industrial effluent discharge into the Waldhuni river by Ambernath MIDC and Anand Nagar Additional MIDC where a section of the river turned black. This is the same area where MPCB had issued closure notices to seven firms earlier this year for violating water pollution norms. “The brazenness of the polluters, backed by active support from state agencies, has killed the Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers,” added Stalin. MPCB said they initiated an investigation into the source of pollution. “On taking cognisance of the SC petitioner’s complaint, a team has been directed to undertake a site visit on Monday and submit a report on alleged violations. Necessary action will be taken based on the report,” said SL Waghmare, regional officer (Kalyan), MPCB.In May, a section of Waldhuni river had turned red due to water pollution forcing MPCB to issue a ₹5 lakh penalty on the Badlapur wastewater treatment plant. Ulhas and Waldhuni are among 53 of the most polluted rivers from Maharashtra, highest for any state among 351 most polluted rivers in India, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Ulhas supplies drinking water to over 30 lakh residents of the Badlapur-Thane belt.MIDC officers said they identified a textile industry in the belt using finishing dyes, and had released its effluents in the river. “The frequency of violations have risen. Only essential industries are being allowed to function, and this industry is not one of them. We will ask MPCB to action against this industry for violating norms,” said Kalidas Bandekar, MIDC superintendent engineer for MMR.Another Vanashakti member Nandkumar Pawar countered, “Despite repeated violations, there is mere lip service by authorities that action will be taken but nothing happens on the ground. Amid all this, MPCB has tripled the consented capacity of perennial violators.”During Friday’s inspection, common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Dombivli and Ambernath were dysfunctional in curbing industrial waste. “Discharge of effluents is going on in broad daylight. The CETP is being bypassed and untreated effluents are being discharged into the stormwater drains,” said Stalin adding, “After seven years of fighting to save the Ulhas river, we have now realised that the MPCB has taken an adversarial stand to support the violating industries.”Ulhas river was much cleaner during lockdown: MPCBAs repeated complaints of water pollution from Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers pile up, the state pollution control board’s water quality assessment of Ulhas river showed that the water quality had improved during the lockdown. The water quality index reflected non-polluted status based on samples collected from six regions along the river. “Apart from a drop in industrial effluents, other activities such as the washing of vehicles, jeans washing units, service centres etc. all stopped improving Ulhas water quality,” said YB Sontakke, joint director, MPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/textile-finishing-dye-turns-ulhas-river-water-turquoise/story-vPDfGlKIAQGNS0g5yRAHUO.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi records over 2,000 Covid-19 cases, total tally closer to 40K-mark||The national capital recorded 2,134 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the Covid-19 tally in the city closer to the 39,000-mark and the death toll due to the disease to 1,271, authorities said.It was the second consecutive day when the number of reported cases breached the 2,000-mark. On Friday, Delhi had witnessed 2,137 cases, the highest single-day spike here.As many as 57 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours. The death toll from coronavirus now stands at 1,271 and the total number of cases at 38,958, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin.So far as many as 14,945 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated to another country, while there are 22,742 active cases, it said.As many as 2,83,239 tests have been conducted till date, it said.The total number of Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 19,535, the bulletin said.A total of 385 patients are on ventilators or in ICU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-2-000-covid-19-cases-total-tally-closer-to-40k-mark/story-TPynsfyFoKr0wVl259ZJKM.html
13-06-2020||City||Two Kashmiri youth held in PoK on charges of spying, families appeal for release||After the Pakistani security forces arrested two Kashmiri youth on charges of spying for India, from an area along the Line of Control in Gilgit-Baltistan, their families said that the duo had been missing since 2018 and appealed for their release.Pakistan media released a video showing two Kashmiri youth—Feroz Ahmed Lone and Noor Mohammad Wani, both residents of Achoora, Gurez, Bandipora, under its custody. The duo was made to address the media in a blindfold. In a video message, Feroz’s father Abdul Rahim Lone said, “My son has been missing since 2018. And now the Pakistan Army is claiming that he is an Indian spy. I appeal to both the governments to release my son.”A relative of Noor, Bashir Ahmad Wani said that his nephew was never a spy and he doesn’t know how he went across the LoC. “I believe they have been forced to make such a statement. I appeal to the governments of India and Pakistan to release the duo.”Pakistani media reports stated that Gilgit SSP Raja Mirza Hassan said the duo had been forcibly sent to Pakistan for spying and were arrested soon after they crossed the LoC in Gilgit-Baltistan.Bandipora senior superintendent of police Rahul Malik said that the missing report of Feroz Ahmad Lone was registered in 2018. The SSP said that there was no record to suggest that the duo was involved in any spying activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-kashmiri-youth-held-in-pok-on-charges-of-spying-families-appeal-for-release/story-A0rDoFc05A3oDFnrqevQtO.html
13-06-2020||City||With 16 fresh Covid-19 cases, Himachal crosses 500-mark in 86 days||Sixteen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 502, officials said.The state has crossed the 500-mark in 86 days. The first case in Himachal was reported on March 20.Ten cases were reported from Kangra, four from Shimla and one each in Solan and Sirmaur.TEN INCLUDING THREE OF A FAMILY TEST POSITIVE IN KANGRAKangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 30-year-old woman from Jaisinghpur sub-division of the district and her seven-month-old daughter have tested positive for the virus. “Her 24-year-old sister-in-law who is a banker is also infected. The family had travelled from Delhi on June 1 in a taxi and were under home quarantine,” the DC said.A 29-year-old man from Jawali sub-division who works as airport staff in Delhi was also found positive for the disease. He returned on June 5 by train. A 49-year-old driver of Khundian area, who also returned from Delhi and a 27-year-old engineer who came back from Vijaywada have also contracted the disease.All three were in institutional quarantine at Radha Soami Satsang Beas’ Parour complex near Palampur.The seventh patient is 11-year-old student from Baijnath who was under home quarantine. All of them were asymptomatic and are being shifted to Dedicated Covid-Care Centres (DCCC) at Dadh and Baijnath.Three more people who returned from Delhi, including a 42-year-old man from Jawali, 30-year-old old from Dehra and a 36-year-old from Tharu in Jawali have also tested positive.Four cases were also reported from Shimla and one each from Solan and Sirmaur late evening. 179 ACTIVE CASESSo far, Himachal has recorded 502 cases, of which 309 have recovered while six, including three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.Active cases in the state are 176 as sixteen patients recovered today, said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal. The recovery rate in the state is 61%. Kangra has exceeded Hamirpur in terms of the most cases with district’s tally rising to 138. Hamirpur has 131 cases.Sixty-one cases have been reported in Una, 39 in Solan, 35 in Chamba, 27 in Sirmaur, 24 in Bilaspur, 22 in Mandi, 19 in Shimla, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-16-fresh-covid-19-cases-himachal-crosses-500-mark-in-86-days/story-o03aibATEnw1exTlwFEBbP.html
13-06-2020||City||Two killed in separate hit-and-runs in Kurali||Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in Kurali on Saturday.The first accident took place near Banmajra village on Kurali-Ropar road after a truck hit motorcycle-borne Jaspreet Singh of the same village. He was on his way home when he got crushed under the truck and died on the spot.The police have registered a case against the truck driver, identified as Mukesh Meena. Jaspreet is survived by a married sister. His parents had passed away earlier.In the second case, Paramjit Singh of Sailba Majri village was walking his friend when an SUV hit him. An injured Paramjit was rushed to PGI, Chandigarh, where he was declared dead on arrival.Following his death, the villagers protested outside the Majri police station and refused to cremate the body, seeking action against the driver. The deceased’s father, Surinder Singh, alleged that there were two drunk persons in the SUV that hit his son, but the police registered a case only against one of them.Majri SHO Himmat Singh said, “We have already arrested the accused driver Prince, who is a resident of the same village, under Section 304 (a) (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-killed-in-separate-hit-and-runs-in-kurali/story-BGMgw0W384tim5xfqlMTcM.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh touches 350 mark with 5 fresh Covid-19 cases||With five more Covid-19 cases, including that of a six-day-old baby’s, reported on Saturday, Chandigarh’s tally has touched the 350 mark. As many as 50 of these cases are still active in the city, which reported its first case on March 18 and has seen 295 people being cured and five succumbing to the disease so far. While the recovery rate stands at 84%, case fatality rate is 1.4%.Three of the fresh cases have surfaced in Sector 47, and there is one each from the hotspot Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 and Khudda Jassu village.The six-day-old girl child found infected is from Bapu Dham Colony and is a contact of a positive case from the same area. Meanwhile, a 14-year-old girl, who is the family contact of a Khudda Jassu man, has also tested positiveThe three cases in Sector 47 — three females, aged 2, 13 and 40 — are from the same household and are family contacts of a 45-year-old man who was found infected. The man does not have any travel history and source of his infection is not known yet. New chain of infectionThe 14-year-old girl from Khudda Jassu is a secondary contact of the 35-year-old medical store owner from Sector 16 who tested positive on June 9.Fourteen of his primary and secondary contacts, including four family members and three workers, have been found infected so far. The first workplace contact to be tested positive was a 34-year-old man from Khudda Jassu, whose four family members, including an 18-month-old girl, have also been found infected. An auto driver from Khudda Lahora, who had taken him to hospital, was also tested positive. Other cases have been reported in Dhanas and Mohali.Delhi NCR a source tooIn the past one week, eight cases pertain to people who returned from Delhi or are their contacts. These include two brothers who arrived from Delhi and were found infected, following which their three local contacts were tested positive on Friday. A pregnant woman from Delhi who came to visit her brother in Colony No. 4 was also found infected, following which 30 people from the area have been put in institutional quarantine.On June 9, a 28-year-old man who returned from Gurugram was found infected, while a 25-year-old man who came from Delhi tested positive on June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-touches-350-mark-with-5-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-jyTthN010cgQCIxj8i6OkK.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC stays regularisation of services of part time, guest lecturers||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed regularisation of services of any part-time, ad hoc, or guest lecturers, and others recruited to the post of lectures other than by the regular selection process in Punjab colleges.The HC bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh also added that the state government will not resort to invoking any statute which allows regularisation of such services and issue letters to those working against such designations.The court acted on a plea which highlighted that regularisation of any person not recruited through the regular recruitment process as prescribed by the rules, should not be allowed.The order was passed as senior advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains told court that government is in the process of regularising the service of such people, whereas there are people seeking appointment by the way of regular selection after due advertisements for the posts.“Many such people are working against college cadre posts, where only Punjab Public Service Commission makes recruitments. However, for years, regular recruitment is not being made and these persons are being allowed to continue. Now, attempts are being made to regularise them,” Bains said.The matter is pending before court since 2011, when some petitioners had alleged that they are qualified for the post of lecturers as they fulfil all requisite qualifications but some of the employees, who are not even qualified, are being allowed to work.It was further alleged that the state has acted in a mala fide manner just to deprive the eligible to be appointed on posts for which they are qualified.Bains said that recently a committee had recommended that those working against such designations be regularised. The government was in the process of regularising the services after the recommendation. The petitioners had challenged a fresh attempt by the state to regularise these appointments, he said.The court, while fixing the matter for July 1, told the state’s counsel to convey the order to the authorities concerned immediately, and added that any non-compliance will be viewed as ‘contemptuous’. The order was passed on Wednesday and made available on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-stays-regularisation-of-services-of-part-time-guest-lecturers/story-jBJgyiFR9s844lcx3XbT4H.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon almost covers Maharashtra; intense rain predicted in Mumbai||Monsoon has arrived in most parts of Maharashtra with parts of the state, including Mumbai, receiving rainfall on Saturday, an IMD official said.Monsoon is expected to cover the rest of Maharashtra in the next 24 hours, the official said.Meanwhile, heavy showers have lashed Nashik in north Maharashtra.The Met department predicted that parts of North Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Mumbai will get rains overnight.India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai centre’s deputy director general K S Hosalikar said Nashik reported “very intense” showers over the past two-three hours and added that rains will continue overnight in parts of central Maharashtra, Marathwada and Mumbai.“Satellite image indicating a thick cloud band around 18-19 Deg N over Maharashtra. Nasik reporting very intense showers in last 2,3 hrs. Rainfall to cont over night in parts of N Madhya Mah, Marathwada, Mumbai to get rains overnight today,” Hosalikar tweeted.As per IMD, monsoon has arrived in most parts of Maharashtra.“(Today) rainfall was reported in Harnai (in Ratnagiri) in Konkan, Ahmednagar in central Maharashtra, Aurangabad in Marathwada and Gondia in Vidarbha. In the next 24 hours, the rest of Maharashtra is expected to be covered,” the official said.Heavy rainfall was reported at two places in Ratnagiri at 8:30 am while some parts of Sindhudurg, also a coastal district, witnessed “very heavy” rainfall, he said.“Over the next four to five days, Konkan, central Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidarbha are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall,” the official added.Meanwhile, the Regional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai issued warning at 5:30 pm, predicting “thunderstorm accompanied with lightning, intense spells of rain and gusty winds speed reaching 30-40 kmph likely to occur” at isolated places in the districts of Mumbai, Palghar, Hingoli, Parbhani and Jalna in the next few hours.The Colaba weather station in Mumbai recorded 1.5 mm rainfall between 8:30 am and 5:30 pm on Saturday, while the Santacruz bureau reported 2.1 mm rainfall during the same period.The Chikalthana weather bureau in Aurangabad reported 29 mm rainfall during this time span.The Matheran bureau in Raigad district recorded 80 mm rainfall during the period.There were “traces” of rainfall, the Dahanu weather station reported.The arrival of the southwest monsoon was announced in south and coastal Maharashtra on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-almost-covers-maharashtra-intense-rain-predicted-in-mumbai/story-l5sorkGMhzHBpGIOPUJXsM.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC allows filing of all types of cases||Almost three months after court functioning was restricted due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab and Haryana high court will resume filing of all types of cases from June 15. Lawyers can also file ‘ordinary cases’, where there is no urgency of hearing, but these cases will be taken up only after normal functioning of courts resume.On March 16, the HC had restricted court functioning and subsequently decided to take up ‘urgent cases’ only through video conferencing. Lawyers have been demanding that more cases should be allowed to be listed and physical hearing should be resumed.An HC official said that seven counters will be set up on the court complex where lawyers can file petitions. For this purpose, they will have to seek online appointment and a fixed time slot will be given. For law officers of both the states, Centre and Chandigarh, a separate counter has been established.The official added that objections, if any, in the petition will be notified when normal functioning of court resumes. As of the cases with some urgency where hearings are already taking place, there will be no change in the manner of filing.Last week, the HC had allowed trial courts to take up all types of cases. As of physical hearing of cases, which lawyers have been demanding, the high court is yet to finalise the protocol. A committee was set up on May 27, to suggest ways to allow physical hearing of cases. However, it is yet to come out with its recommendations.The panel headed by justice Rajiv Sharma is to deliberate on how to resume normal functioning and regulate entry in courts. It will further delve into the procedure for filing of cases, norms on social distancing, sanitisation and norms with regard to use of common facilities and air conditioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-allows-filing-of-all-types-of-cases/story-r1fn2wwN0Xk216NF5lWQUL.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Let’s value the lessons we are being taught in the times of Covid-19||Despite Vision 2020, 2030, 2040 and 2050 having burst like a bubble, it is amazing to see how man still finds it impossible to live in the present. Man by his innate nature is either lost in the past or daydreaming about the future. You can call it vision or planning, but the fact remains that there are times when everything goes topsy-turvy. If you have past wounds and scars, they too become insignificant and irrelevant. Amassed wealth, high positions, burning desires and ambitions – all lose their relative importance.Believe me, what matters is the present, and there’s a reason why an old saying also simply echoes as ‘No time like the present’. I can’t agree more. I find the present times to be unique, something that truly is in our own hands.Currently, we might be overwhelmed by the fear of coronavirus, but it’s still teaching us so much.It has already helped us slow down, to stand still and ultimately reach a balance in our lives. It has also given us time to ponder upon, reflect on and start valuing what really matters in life, without having to read any self-help book.In the last decade there has been a surge in self-management guides, spiritual gurus and pursuit of happiness, and now, time has suddenly taught us what’s really essential for a good life. The focus for a majority has moved to good health, peace and survival instead of materialistic pursuits. Each individual is worried about remaining healthy and alive now. Some are even paranoid. What is right? Do we become obsessed with the fear of Covid-19 or do we have a blind faith that nature will save us? Is it a divine plan or will science and technology come to our rescue? The questions are simple for those who believe in balance. The pandemic, however, proves that nature is the most powerful and yet we have to depend on science and technology to be rescued.Several paradoxical facts too have been revealed. Many youngsters addicted to social media have realised the importance of human connect. People who criticised technology are experiencing its benefits.The last few months have also taught us that the world will never be the same again, no matter what anyone’s nationality, colour, gender, creed and faith is.We have to agree that we are learning a new way of life which will become the new norm. Alfred, Lord Tennyson’s words, “The old order changeth, yielding place to new,” are so apt. Yet we don’t have to be scared that everything will come to an end. It is true; some will succumb to the battle. It is equally saddening to see the plight of the poor. It is not even appropriate to categorise the present situation as a boon or bane. We just have to be sensible, cautious, pragmatic and optimistic to sail through. Man no longer needs complicated philosophy for life. The post Covid-19 world will most probably follow what HW Longfellow said in The Psalm of Life:“Trust no Future, however pleasant! Let the dead Past bury its dead!Act, act in the living Present!Heart within and God o’erhead!”So let us learn all that we can from the lessons being taught to us now!gurvinderk2000@gmail.com(The writer is an English teacher at Punjab Public School, Nabha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/let-s-value-the-lessons-we-are-being-taught-in-the-times-of-covid-19/story-yzAoWPfHQqntIip1DBZS3N.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: What’s in a name that we call sambar||The Sambar is the most widespread deer species of Asia and the largest of the Oriental deer. The occurrence of the Sambar is seemingly common enough in our region and its status does not attract the attention of wildlife conservationists and policy makers. Only poachers seem to pay an unwholesome attention to this species. In its natural state, birds such as the Cattle egret and Rufous treepie associate with Sambars by clinging to them and removing parasites from body parts such as the deer’s ears. The Sambar is also the stock prey of the tiger. But there is much more than meets the eye to the deer’s name, the Sambar’s seeming omnipresence and its perceived conservation status in India’s besieged wilderness.International scientists changed the scientific or zoological nomenclature of the Sambar from Cervus unicolor to Rusa unicolor to notify the change in genus. This means that while the common English or vernacular name of the species will vary according to the culture and linguistics of the regions where it is found in India, South Nepal, Sri Lanka, South China and South-east Asia, the scientific nomenclature remains the same, Rusa unicolor. For example, in India the deer takes its common name, Sambar, from the South Indian vegetable stew with a mix of spices as the deer’s pelt resembles the colour of that popular dish while in Nepal it is referred to as the Jarao and in China as the Four-eyed deer.The complications start when we find that the scientific nomenclature of the deer remains unchanged in the official records and wildlife protection laws of India, which persist with the outdated, genus-wrong and taxonomically-incorrect, Cervus unicolor. Not only that, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has placed the species as a “vulnerable” one in its Red List primarily due to its poaching for meat. However, India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, persists with a decades-old placing of the Sambar under Schedule III, which does not reflect the IUCN’s heightened concern over its diminishing population. The IUCN estimated the Sambar to have declined globally by more than 50%. However, the evaluation of the Sambar’s conservation status in India will require an appraisal of numbers, declines and distributions specific to India as the IUCN’s “Vulnerable” status is global in coverage and spans several nations with differing variables on the Sambar’s status. The above discrepancies between Indian laws and an international evaluation of the Sambar’s scientific classification and its contemporary vulnerability were noticed by former Punjab chief wildlife warden and a current member of the IUCN’s Commission on Education and Communication, Gurmit Singh. “Our laws need to be amended to bring them in line with the international standards on the Sambar. I wrote to the IUCN’s SSC co-chair of the Deer Specialist Group, Dr Naom Werner. I then brought my correspondence on the above subject with the IUCN to the notice of the Punjab chief wildlife warden, who has promised to take up the issue with Union ministry of environment and forests, which alone can introduce the required amendments in legislation. A change or amendment in the scientific name will be helpful in Indian wildlife litigation involving Sambars, such as poaching or environmental clearance for diversion of Sambar habitats,” Singh told this writer.Responding to Singh’s query, the Jerusalem-based Dr. Naom Werner, wrote back explaining the change in scientific nomenclature from Cervus unicolor to Rusa Unicolor. “The sambar has had a turbulent nomenclatural history. While the genus name, Rusa, was already suggested in the mid-19th century, it has not been used continuously and the genus name, Cervus, was preferred until some 15 years ago (with Rusa sometimes being used as a sub-genus). Since 2005, the name, Rusa unicolor, has been in use and recent studies support this separation. I agree with you that following this change, national Acts (such as India’s) should be amended accordingly,” stated Dr. Werner in his email to Singh.Tailpiece: What’s in name? Plenty of controversy and confusion! It is Singh’s similar and painstaking efforts to get to the root of wildlife technicalities and seek clarifications from authorities on the subject that the puzzle over the change in the common name of Punjab’s State Bird was resolved. When the ‘Baaz’ was declared State Bird in 1989, it went by the common name of Eastern goshawk. Later, it was changed to Northern goshawk by international ornithologists. However, the Punjab government notification persisted with Eastern goshawk till a few years back leading to speculation that there were two distinct species, Eastern and Northern. A section of mediapersons and uninformed critics assailed the supposed “duplicity” of the Punjab Wildlife Preservation department.So, which one was the State Bird, Eastern goshawk or Northern goshawk? In stepped Singh, who wrote to a world-famous authority on the sub-continent’s raptors, Rishad Naoroji. He wrote back to Singh explaining that the scientific name remained one and the same (Accipiter gentilis) but since the Goshawk was primarily a bird of the northern latitudes, the common name had been correctly changed from Eastern to Northern goshawk! vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-what-s-in-a-name-that-we-call-sambar/story-aVBvl635VZZG7Sa49IeVLK.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister warns of action against pvt hospitals overcharging covid patients||State health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday warned of stringent action, including cancellation of licence, against private hospitals if found charging exorbitant fee for Covid-19 and other treatments.In a statement, the minister said the Punjab government will soon be fixing charges for covid treatment keeping in view the interest of patients and the private hospitals.“But at no cost will the government allow exploitation of patients during this critical situation,” he added.The minister said that his attention had been drawn towards the unprecedented high charges imposed by private hospitals for covid treatment. “It is sad and shameful on their part that instead of making positive contribution towards fighting the pandemic, some hospitals have resorted to extortion of patients, which will not be allowed at any cost,” he said.Sidhu warned that licences of all such hospitals will be cancelled and their facilities withdrawn. He added that the government reserves the right to withdraw land provided to these hospitals at concession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-warns-of-action-against-pvt-hospitals-overcharging-covid-patients/story-ztPIdIDNwULgUNvONXsGTO.html
13-06-2020||City||Stringent checking of those coming from Delhi: Capt||Chandigarh Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday called for intensive checking of passengers and commuters coming from other states, particularly Delhi where the situation appears to be grave.During his Facebook Live #AskCaptain session, he said Punjabis in Delhi were welcome to come to the state for Covid-19 treatment after getting a referral and booking a hospital bed in advance.Amarinder said while Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh had sealed their borders with Punjab, people in large numbers from Haryana and Delhi were coming daily to the state. On Friday, 6,500 vehicles (roughly 20,000 people) entered Punjab from Delhi and Haryana, he said.“We are mulling more stringent entry norms, given the increasing number of positive cases in the state. Of the 2,986 cases in Punjab, 1,471 could be traced to outsiders and their contacts,” said the chief minister.He attributed the spike in cases to influx of people from outside the state and more testing. The CM said testing facilities will soon be made available in Pathankot and Gurdaspur.He said shooting of movies was permitted in the state and instructions to this effect have been issued to the DCs.Chief Minister also said by June 30 the Punjab government will take a decision on examinations by universities and colleges, in line with the fresh guidelines expected from the Centre.Follow restrictions, get rewarded Amarinder also announced a month-long `Mission Fateh Warriors’ campaign to reward citizens who are following diligently health advisories and norms.The CM said those following the norms stringently for four weeks will be eligible for a bronze certificate and a T-shirt; while T-shirts, along with silver and gold certificates will be given to those adhering to protocols, such as wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing, through the week and month respectively. All the certificates will bear personal signature of the chief minister.Registration for the same will begin on the COVA app from June 17, said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stringent-checking-of-those-coming-from-delhi-capt/story-uFeM3Bhy96tekeVq4zYZwO.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Fun, environmentally friendly and good for you, here’s how Chandigarh can become bicycle-friendly||Chandigarh roads were never designed for today’s heavy traffic and what’s to come in the future. Therefore, early action is called for to find ways and means to reduce vehicular traffic by developing alternate means of transportation. Many cities in the world have tried to limit the number of vehicles on roads, by developing mass transportation facilities such as metro rail and buses and encouraging carpooling and cycling – especially across short distances. In Chandigarh, some attempts have been made by the engineering wing of the UT administration to assist cyclists to cross over at light points which have been painted red.Repairs due alreadyIt has also been claimed that 70 km of new cycle tracks have been laid out, but some stretches are already in need of repairs. Proposals have also been made to light up a stretch of the track from the lake towards Madhya Marg at a cost of Rs 80 lakh. This amount can be better used to make new cycle tracks, While marking cycle tracks at crossings and light points is a good effort, these are mere ad hoc measures. Without well laid out tracks, these would be inadequate and unsafe and in no way promote cycling culture in the city.Cyclists must wear helmets and ensure their cycles have suitable reflectors at the rear and in the wheels. Lights are a must too for the night.The plan in Chandigarh to have 600 dock stations for 5,000 regular as well as battery operated cycles, has not fructified. This too requires a push. We have to make cycling in the city safe to the extent that parents can feel confident sending their children to schools on cycles. Fortunately, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore is particularly keen to encourage people to take up cycling. He himself has tried to set an example and demonstrate that even as governor he prefers to cycle.To put such a scheme in operation, what is called for is a comprehensive plan for layout of cycle tracks within and in between sectors, integrating traffic lights with the movement of cycles. At some spots one side of the road could be dedicated only for cycles.In some places cycle tracks can be segregated by putting up railings. The location of dock stations for cycles and their hiring too needs to be worked out with due diligence.Give the job to engineering colleges The task of working out a comprehensive plan for cycle tracks, location of ‘dock stations’ and integration of traffic lights with the movement of cycles at traffic light points can be given to a few engineering colleges. They can field teams of four to five students working on a two-month deadline. The best and acceptable plan could be offered a prize of Rs 10 lakh. Such plans should address cycling within sectors and inter-sector movement, as also between Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. To encourage children to take to cycling, a track around the lake should be laid out, a few hundred cycles made available with Sundays and holidays dedicated for the purpose. To this end, the Chandigarh administration should work out a plan to lay a safe cycling track around the lake including bridges for cycles over various streams that flow into the lake. To reduce up and down traffic between Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali, besides a metro rail (which will take time) a large number of small buses (deluxe class – preferably electric ) with capacity range of 10 to 12 passengers should be inducted. Their routes should be carefully worked out across sectors. Small buses will not crowd the roads and also be acceptable to car owners. To that end, vehicle owners too should be encouraged to use the buses for inter-city movement. As a disincentive for using own cars, parking charges should be substantially increased and parking along roads stopped.The proposal to transform Chandigarh into a cycle friendly city needs to be taken up on priority and it should serve as a model for most other towns of Punjab to emulate. genharwant@gmail.com(The writer is a former deputy chief of army staff and commentator on defence and security matters. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fun-environmentally-friendly-and-good-for-you-here-s-how-chandigarh-can-become-bicycle-friendly/story-IY9cYrAgaIjXs7YTGkzj8I.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Panjab University has miles to go after NIRF rankings||The Union human resource development ministry’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced on Thursday did not bring good news for one of north India’s top universities: Panjab University (PU) was 10 positions down from rank 34 to 44 among educational institutes in the country.PU’s ranking among universities too slipped from 21 in 2019 to 26 this year, a very poor performance for an institute that in 2016 was ranked 12 among all universities.PU’s scores in all vital parameters dropped – in teaching, learning and resources, including total student strength, faculty-student ratio and financial resources, it scored 50.08 as against 51.09 in 2019.Scores dropped in research and professional practice as well to 42.83 against last year’s 44.82. This parameter includes the varsity’s patents both published and granted, combined metric for publication and footprints of projects.PU also didn’t do too well in graduation outcome; outreach and inclusivity, and perception. Graduation outcome includes metric for university exams and number of PhD students graduated. Outreach and inclusivity includes percentage of students from other states and countries; woman students, economically and socially challenged students and facilities for disabled students.The top three universities in the rankings were Indian Institute of Science Bangalore, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Banaras Hindu University (BHU).Interestingly enough, though PU slipped 13 notches in the eighth edition of Times Higher Education Asia University Rankings 2020, missing a spot in the top 100, it was placed higher than University of Delhi, which was at the 155th spot; as well as JNU and BHU, putting a question mark over how the rankings are arrived at.Nonetheless, with PU grappling for some years with a financial crunch and facing strong opposition from students to its proposed 7.5 % fee hike in self-financed courses and 5% in all traditional courses for the new entrants, any chance of the institute getting its act together to revamp its departments and taking immediate measures to improve upon its research output looks bleak.With the Covid-19 lockdown, economy on the downswing and no clarity on exam date – everything at present seems to be going against the university.That said, however, nothing can stop PU’s highly qualified faculty, its strong alumni network as well as student bodies from putting their heads together and figuring out a course of action for the future.Special incentives for researchers, more stress on getting research grants, pushing for additional funding from the Centre or even a relief package are a number of steps that can be taken immediately to help PU improve its position among universities in India.POOR SHOWCan PU power up its performance?What does Panjab University need to do to improve its performance in global and Indian rankings? Send your responses by June 19 to Chandigarh@ hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-panjab-university-has-miles-to-go-after-nirf-rankings/story-E0mTd9l0wnbK6RCnFiWAsN.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt asks all hospitals to share Covid-19 treatment charges amid high cost buzz||Amid a social media buzz over high cost of coronavirus treatment at a private facility, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the government has sought fee details from all hospitals and will decide on “what to do” after overall observation. The rate card of Max Hospital had gone viral on social media on Friday with many users noting that the charges were too high for a common man. The rate card showed that the facility was charging Rs 72,000 for an ICU with ventilator. On its part, Max Healthcare, which runs the facility, said the viral rate card did not carry “all the facts such as inclusions of routine tests, routine medicines, doctor and nurse charges”. Asked about capping fees being charged by private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment on Saturday, Jain said, “All the hospitals have been asked to share the rates that they are charging for Covid treatments. We will decide on what to do after observing every hospital.” Delhi recorded 2,137 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest single-day spike here, taking the Covid-19 tally in the city to over 36,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,214, authorities said. After its rate card went viral, Max Healthcare tweeted, “A picture related to the pricing of Covid treatment at Max Patparganj (stated in some tweets as Max Gurgaon) is being circulated on social media. However, it did not carry all the facts such as inclusions of routine tests, routine medicines, doctor and nurse charges, etc.” Max Healthcare also issued a statement saying that its Saket branch, which is a Covid only facility, has incurred a loss of Rs 6.5 crore. The statement, however, did not refer to the rate card being circulated on social media. “We are today running close to 1000 Covid beds and have so far treated over 2000 Covid patients. We have 1970 HCWs (healthcare workers) taking care of these patients round the clock, we had over 427 HCWs falling sick and admitted, we had 3220 staff quarantined, and intermittently off work over the last two-and-half-months, yet we continue to serve,” a senior director at Max Healthcare, who did not wish to be named, said. The senior official also said the facility provides “research backed cutting-edge care and the outcomes are comparable to the best”. “This does make Covid care expensive. However, the accusations of profiteering are completely wrong; our Covid only facility in Saket, which is fully occupied for the month of May 2020, incurred a cash loss of Rs 6.5 crore. This, when we had cut salaries of our senior clinicians and management by 20 to 50 per cent,” the official sad. Max Healthcare has been serving patients from EWS sections (10 per cent) free of cost and serves CGHS, ECHS and other panel patients at subsidised pricing, where they have refused to even pay for the PPE costs being incurred by the hospital, the statement said.  The insurance and TPAs too have been dragging their feet on the reimbursement of these costs, it said. “We are a privately invested organisation with finite resources, we have been at the forefront of the Covid-19 battle in the country and yet making huge losses. Clearly, from a financial point of view we cannot sustain operations,” the senior representative said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-asks-all-hospitals-to-share-covid-19-treatment-charges-amid-high-cost-buzz/story-niyhnQCqLtDAMvhkSRoFwO.html
13-06-2020||City||Two deaths, 148 new Covid-19 cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday reported two more fatalities due to Covid-19 and 148 more people tested positive for the virus, taking the total number of cases to 4,878, officials said.Officials said a retired doctor from Srinagar and 65-year-old man from south Kashmir have succumbed to the disease. With this, the death toll in the Union territory has risen to 55.The retired doctor was admitted at JVC SKIMS hospital and died on Friday morning. He had returned to Kashmir after working in Middle East for two decades. Doctors said he was on ventilation support and his condition deteriorated due to comorbidities. Srinagar nodal officer said a 65-year-old man who was admitted at SMHS hospital has also died due to the virus.Principal SKIMS Medical College Bemina, Dr Reyaz Ahmad Untoo, said with the emergence of more cases in Kashmir, several hospitals, including SKIMS Hospital Bemina, have been designated for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “So far, 415 patients were admitted at the hospital. Out of these, 310 were discharged after recovery,” he added.“With 176 bed capacity at present, SKIMS Bemina is the biggest Covid hospital in Kashmir. The hospital has registered 75% recovery rate and less than 0.5 mortality rate so far,” he said.“Patients with comorbidities like high blood pressure, diabetes, hypertension, orthopedic patients etc are also admitted at the hospital. Around 20-30 patients with 50-56 percent saturation level needed oxygen and have recovered,” Dr Untoo said.22 CRPF personnel test positive in south Kashmir At least 22 CRPF personnel from several battalions have tested positive for coronavirus in south Kashmir, officials said.The health authorities had collected samples from CRPF personnel from various battalions at Uranhall in south Kashmir, out of which test results for 22 samples have come out as positive. None of these troopers have any recent travel history, the officials added. The contact tracing of the COVID-19 positive CRPF personnel has been started so that those who came in contact with them can be quarantined, they said. Markets in Srinagar open with safety measures Markets in Srinagar reopened on Saturday after remaining closed for nearly three months due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus, officials said. They said the decision to reopen the markets was taken by the district administration after deliberations with various trade and business bodies. The administration asked the markets to adhere to the necessary standard operating procedures and has come out with a detailed schedule for the opening of various sectors. While chemist shops, book shops, departmental stores, etc. have been allowed to remain open throughout the day from Monday to Saturday, shops selling readymade garments, cosmetics, footwear and jewellery will remain open from 11 am to 5.30 pm on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, the officials said. Similarly on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, beauty parlours, service stations and shops selling handicrafts, handloom, hardware, building material and furniture would remain open, they said. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-deaths-148-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-j-k/story-U8s4yfV26HC6vJM6nBqVYP.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||5 days on, Chandigarh cops clueless about kidnapped girl||It’s been five days since Chandigarh Police registered a case of kidnapping after a 17-year-old girl went missing from Kishangarh on June 7, but the investigating officials have no clue about her whereabouts. In his complaint made on June 8, the girl’s father stated that his daughter had been missing for a day. He told police that he is suspicious of his neighbour, who belongs to Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, and is also missing. The suspect sells soup and boiled eggs on the roadside An official, privy to the investigation, said on Saturday that the girl’s photograph has been shared with counterparts in Punjab and Haryana and efforts are on to trace her. Police are also trying to trace the mobile phone of the suspect, as he has uploaded some pictures on social media.Family members of the suspect are also being questioned about his whereabouts. A case has been registered under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-days-on-chandigarh-cops-clueless-about-kidnapped-girl/story-Pu4mXmgR9AVx1kGJCURILL.html
13-06-2020||Kolkata||Bengali filmmaker dons doctor’s hat to treat patients in cyclone-hit Sundarbans||Bengali filmmaker Kamaleswar Mukherjee, also a qualified doctor, is treating patients in Cyclone Amphan-ravaged Sundarbans region of West Bengal.He had been a full-time medical practitioner, having worked in state-run and private hospitals, before taking a plunge into the world of cinema in 2011 and directing several critically-acclaimed movies.The director of movies like ‘Urochithi’, ‘Meghe Dhaka Tara’, ‘Chander Pahar’ and ‘Amazon Obhijaan’ said he was moved by the developments of 2019-20, starting with the anti-CAA protests followed by the COVID-19 outbreak and then Cyclone Amphan. The last left behind a trail of devastation in the Sundarbans.“I was part of a community kitchen organised in Kolkata by students and youth for people hit by the lockdown.After Cyclone Amphan struck Sundarbans, I decided to put to use my experience as a doctor,” Mukherjee told PTI on Saturday.He joined hands with groups like the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum and the Shramajibi Swasthyo Udyog to help the affected people.“I am just a foot soldier. I have been able to attend only a few of the 35 health camps organised by these groups.From treating patients to ensuring maintenance of social distancing in queues and helping in manual work, we work as a team of health workers in the camps,” he said.Mukherjee had been to areas in the Sundarbans like Patharpratima and Raidighi and has plans to visit Hasnabad on Sunday.“We will continue reaching out to people in the worst-affected areas of South and North 24 Parganas districts,” he said.Mukherjee, who was a student of Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata, said he is happy to see voluntary organisations and college students rushing to the aid of the people in distress, both due to the lockdown and Cyclone Amphan.“In this ‘Krantikal’ (critical juncture), any conscientious person cannot just remain indifferent,” he said.Mukherjee’s effort has been appreciated by people associated with the Bengali film industry. Filmmaker Anik Dutta wrote on Facebook, “Proud of you Kamal. I am filled with so much pride as I see the work of all these young men and women...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengali-filmmaker-dons-doctor-s-hat-to-treat-patients-in-cyclone-hit-sundarbans/story-DCHHllehlR0tynpBfQg18J.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Differences can be resolved, don’t burn your bridges||It’s natural to agree to disagree with someone. We all have differences – at work, within the family, with our children, our spouses, grandparents and amongst siblings too. Wherever there is a little bit of intellect, differences are bound to arise because of our capability of looking at the same thing from different angles.Differences are good, in fact many organizations can benefit from managers with different takes on solving one problem. Different ways of thinking sometimes lead to innovation and creativity and lay the foundation of strong and stable organisations provided our differences don’t degenerate to disputes. Differences cause damage only when we are not able to appreciate someone else’s point of view. We become judgmental too early. These differences make this world beautiful and interesting. We can have minor differences that we can easily manage. Just ignore them, live with them and, in fact, celebrate them. But then there are times when we have to sort out our differences within the family or the organisation or the society just to amicably coexist with the other. However, sometimes major differences between top leaders can create problems and hamper the progress of an organisation if not resolved. Similarly, some major differences can disrupt a family’s peace – perhaps forever.Dialogue worksI have the firm belief that the best way to resolve differences is through dialogue. The only condition is that we should have an open mind to respect diversity and divergent views and dignity of the other party. We should initiate dialogues without any preconceived notions and not let it degenerate into heated debates that we see every day now on various TV news channels.Dialogues should also be held in a cordial manner, only aiming at fostering mutual insight and common purpose.The other party should be given a patient hearing with maturity and empathy, with efforts made to seek common ground and explore new ideas and perspectives. Our shoulders should be broad enough to embrace criticism, transforming it to collaboration by even co-opting the ideas of the other party if possible. Any continuation of dialogue will ensure that our communication channels don’t break down and that we always remain focused on a solution.Disruption of dialogue will only create more barriers, leading to mistrust and then enmity and hatred.Building confidenceSo, we must keep talking, maybe more about our commonalities first before moving to minor differences which can be resolved easily. These may be called confidence building measures between the two parties. We can build bridges and strong bonds even with people who hold very different views from us.Differences will start disappearing when we focus more on the commonalities.Dialogue enables us to find common ground between two opposing parties and establishing priorities for action. Remember, effective dialogue requires all participants to have equal standing. Participants in the dialogue should listen to each other with mutual respect, empathy and dignity. Ideas and assumptions should be explored openly and without being judgmental in an effective dialogue. People will have to remove their coloured glasses before commencing any dialogue to be effective, meaningful and fruitful.They should remember, dialogue gives them an opportunity to build bridges and not burn them.mahavirindia@yahoo.com(The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor, views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-differences-can-be-resolved-don-t-burn-your-bridges/story-QCu7kVsYwjBKvRe0S5rh1L.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Embrace your heroes early on, sports columnist Joy Bhattacharjya tells students||Renowned author and sports columnist Joy Bhattacharjya on Saturday addressed the students of Chitkara University through a virtual session on Saturday.The online session was organised under the theme ‘What does it take to be a champion’.During his virtual address, he said, “Champions start taking shape in schools and colleges itself when students have heroes within their schools that inspire them to no end. We need to identify, celebrate and embrace our heroes in early years. Our children need heroes in their schools and colleges to inspire them to make it big.”He said 90% of Indian schools need to have a full-time sports teacher who can actually give his 100% to the students and unleash and channelise their spirits.Growing hunger and urge to make it big and compete globally is the reason that more and more sporting stars are emerging from hinterland and slums, he said.Bhattacharjya exhorted the students to explore careers in sports like golf, distance running, tennis etc.Stating that one must seek inspiration from the champions who take both victory and defeat in their stride with same elan, he also dwelled upon the importance of being a team player as a vital key to success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/embrace-your-heroes-early-on-sports-columnist-joy-bhattacharjya-tells-students/story-7z8oQNwHdBnqwtvjMndidJ.html
13-06-2020||City||Delhi: Man stabbed in front of 10-year-old daughter in north Delhi||New Delhi: A 37-year-old videographer was stabbed to death, allegedly by three men on a scooter, outside his home in outer Delhi’s Kiran Vihar near Aman Vihar Thursday night. According to the police, the man was killed in front of his 10-year-old daughter, who raised an alarm when she saw the suspects stabbing him.The family said that Bharat Bhushan was murdered allegedly for stopping some local boys from gambling and drinking publicly in the neighbourhood. “The family members have identified two of the three suspects and have told investigators that the attackers live 200-300 metres away from their home,” alleged DK Saxena, a friend of the family.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra, however, said that the initial probe has indicated that Bhushan was killed over some financial dispute.The victim lived on the first floor of a three-storey building in Kiran Vihar. He ran his studio from the ground floor of the building. The second floor is occupied by his brother.On Thursday around 11 pm, Bhushan was having dinner at his home when someone called out his name from outside the building. He went outside while his daughter went to the balcony, where she saw her father discussing something with the man, said DCP Mishra.“Two more men arrived. Soon, an argument broke out between Bhushan and the three and one of them stabbed him in the chest. He screamed for help and collapsed on the ground. His daughter raised an alarm and alerted her mother. The attackers fled by the time the family members and neighbours rushed to his help,” added the DCP.According to Saxena, Bhushan was stabbed three times – once each in his chest, abdomen and thigh. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.“Some local youths often indulge in public drinking and gambling in the neighbourhood. Bhushan used to actively advise them to refrain from doing such illegal activities. We strongly suspect that he was murdered over this same issue,” alleged Saxena.DCP Mishra said, “We have registered a case of murder and have identified the suspects. Raids are on and they will be nabbed soon.”Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-stabbed-in-front-of-10-year-old-daughter-in-north-delhi/story-tdYQIsQergkiWtcZw0hQWK.html
13-06-2020||City||Govt should fix reasonable rates for Covid treatment in private hospitals||The situation created by Covid-19 is truly unparalleled, exceptional. However, we had ample time and opportunity to understand the magnitude of the problem, learn from the failures and successes of other countries and prepare adequately for the tsunami that would hit us. And the indications that one got from the government at the centre and the states were that we were well equipped to handle the situation.Yet, the ground reality today is frightening and the health infrastructure seems to have completely collapsed under the weight of the growing number of cases. So much so that consumers are forced, like beggars, to go from one hospital to another, desperately seeking medical help. And this is true in both Covid as well as non-Covid cases. And then they have to beg, borrow or steal to pay for the exorbitant payments demanded by the hospital -- if they happen to be privately run.A reader said he had a bad cold and some breathing problem and his employer admitted him to a small private hospital in Delhi, suspecting it to be Covid. The hospital however did not do any Covid test, just gave him a nebuliser and discharged him after two days, when his fever came down. His bill was Rs 2.16 lakhs. But price gouging is just one of the many problems that consumers are grappling with.The other is the treatment of the patient – since no family member is allowed to be with the patient, the latter is completely at the mercy of the hospital and many patients have complained that let alone treating their ailment, they were not even given food or a glass of water during the day. There have also been complaints of missing patients, relatives not informed of the death of a family member, bodies being handed to the wrong family and worse, the most undignified manner in which some of the dead are being handled.Usually, a chart on the patient’s bed carries his or her name, medical history, treatment given. The nursing staff also maintain a register of the patient. However, given the load on the hospitals, shortage of beds and the work pressure on the medical and the non-medical staff, there is every possibility of a patient being shifted to a different ward or bed (or moved to the mortuary if he is dead) without the accompanying identification. So in an epidemic of this magnitude, common sense dictates that every patient be given an arm band or a neck band identifying the person and his or her contact details. This must be a standard protocol and adhered to as soon as a patient is admitted. That would ensure proper identification of the patient.Similarly, since most relatives are anxious about the welfare of their dear ones admitted to the hospital, there should be proper mobile charging and WiFi facilities in the hospital that will enable patients to keep in touch with their family through video calls. This will not only allay the anxieties of the families, but also considerably boost the morale of the patient. This will also help relatives keep a watch on what’s happening and bring transparency in the hospital treatment .The hospital should therefore provide the facility to those patients who may not have a mobile phone that allows video calls. I am sure cell phone manufacturers would be only too happy to provide such phones free of cost to hospitals for the benefit of such patients.Doctors and nurses are putting their lives at risk to treat patients today and hats off to them. But hospitals in the private sector are not showing the same spirit and ruthlessly exploiting consumers, who are in a highly vulnerable position. Unless the central and the state governments come to their aid, fix reasonable prices for the treatment of Covid and other diseases and enforce it, many consumers will face abject poverty , not so much from the economic slowdown, but from paying hospital bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-should-fix-reasonable-rates-for-covid-treatment-in-private-hospitals/story-Z1NmEV41cirQIzlxZAh9XO.html
13-06-2020||City||Despite opening of trade, no import from Afghanistan via Wagah for 15 days||Despite opening of trade with Afghanistan, zero import has been witnessed through the Attari-Wagah border, 28km from Amritsar, in the last 15 days.Indian traders suspect Pakistan government’s design of not allowing free movement of trucks from Afghanistan as the reason behind this. They said that since opening of trade, many Indian importers had placed orders for goods from Afghanistan, but no truck was being allowed to cross the Chaman border in Pakistan.Cross-border trade and movement of passengers through the Integrated Check Post (ICP) in Attari had remained suspended for over two months as a precautionary measure to check spread of coronavirus. Trade between India and Afghanistan was resumed on May 28. And Pakistan had opened Chaman and Torkham border crossings for trade and civilian movement between Afghanistan and Pakistan mid-May.The ICP had been witnessing over Rs 1,000 crore trade with Afghanistan every year. Indian traders import dry fruit, herbs, cumin and liquorice (mulethi) from Afghanistan.On the first day of trade resumption, a truck of imported dry fruit from Afghanistan had crossed over at the ICP. However, from May 29 till date, no other Afghan truck has entered the ICP, said Land Port Authority of India (LPIA)’s ICP manager Sukhdev Singh.Another LPAI official said, “We got information that an Afghani truck carrying goods reached Wagah border in Pakistan two days ago, but the truck has not crossed over to India till Saturday. There may be some problems on Pakistan side due to coronavirus, which may have been hampering import.”Indian traders have alleged the Pakistan government of deliberately not allowing import from Afghanistan to India. “Pakistan is not allowing goods movement through the Chaman border,” said Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association president Anil Mehra.He demanded that the Imran Khan government should allow movement of trucks from Afghanistan and open trade between India and Pakistan. “With opening of India-Pakistan trade the economy of both countries will be boosted and relations will be improved. We have demand resumption of Samjhauta Express between both the countries,” said another Amritsar-based trader.In the wake of the Pulwama attack in February 2019, the Indian government had revoked the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status given to Pakistan and raised customs duty on every item being imported from Pakistan to 200%. Following this, import from Pakistan had dipped drastically.Pakistani had shut trade with India and Samjhauta Express’ operations after India abrogated Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-opening-of-trade-no-import-from-afghanistan-via-wagah-for-15-days/story-9ydN061DTH4g9dX6UGEZTK.html
13-06-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan a catalyst for BJP’s new poll strategy in Bengal||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership in West Bengal is wooing voters by physically visiting areas affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and Cyclone Amphan while holding virtual meetings in zones, where movement is difficult because of the pandemic. The opposition BJP’s outreach is aimed at crucial assembly polls slated to be held next year, while the civic body elections in the state have been postponed due to the pandemic.Bengal has reported over 10,000 Covid-19 cases. The pandemic and the destruction in Cyclone Amphan-hit districts have turned into catalysts for the BJP’s new strategy to wrest more ground from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had bagged 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, while the TMC’s tally came down from 34 to 22.State BJP leaders told HT that during the virtual conference on June 9, Union home minister Amit Shah had urged BJP workers and leaders to help people in every community block and polling booth area.In his public address, Shah had promised to oust the TMC government and criticised chief minister Mamata Banerjee for not implementing the Narendra Modi government’s welfare programmes for the poor, such as the Ayushman Bharat scheme.Shah’s strategy comes at a time when senior TMC leaders, such as panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, have criticised party leaders for not visiting Amphan-hit areas. On June 12, BJP state president and Midnapore Lok Sabha member of Parliament (MP) Dilip Ghosh visited a quarantine centre in the Arjuni gram panchayat area in Kharagpur.On the same day, party general secretary and MP Locket Chatterjee met people in Hooghly district, while in Kolkata, the new BJP Mahila Morcha president Agnimitra Paul stood in rain to distribute hand-made masks and copies of the PM’s message on Atma Nirbhar Bharat.“You cannot see a single TMC minister visiting Amphan-affected districts. The Centre is sending funds, but you cannot see any relief work on the ground,” alleged Ghosh.“Our party’s entire focus is on the 2021 assembly polls. Since the CM is a woman, the Mahila Morcha has to play a key role. Poor people have been affected the most by the pandemic and Amphan. We distributed over 33,000 masks and the PM’s message on Friday. This will continue in all the districts for a week,” said Paul, a well-known fashion designer, who also holds a degree in business management.The masks have emerged as a symbol of the ongoing political war.Around a fortnight ago, Ghosh appeared before the media wearing a saffron mask with a big lotus (the party’s symbol) printed on it. This caught on.Earlier this week, a photograph of CM Banerjee wearing a white and blue (the state’s official colours) mask with a map of Bengal and the word ‘Maa’ (mother) written in bold in Bengali did the rounds on social media. “Copying is the best form of appreciation, but it’s a bad design. Had she sought my help I could have designed a better one. Many TMC leaders are in touch with us, waiting to join,” quipped Paul.On Saturday, Soumitra Khan, the new state president of the BJP Yuva Morcha, visited a blood donation camp and distributed hand sanitisers in Howrah. “The Yuva Morcha is strengthening BJP’s position at polling booth level in Howrah, Kolkata, Birbhum, Midnapore and the North and South 24 Parganas. Our motto is ‘apna booth, apna dum’ (our booth, our strength),” said Khan. “The party’s media and IT (information technology) cells are helping us hold virtual meetings at places, where physical gatherings cannot be held,” he added.“In the Lok Sabha polls, our vote share was low in several south Bengal assembly segments. Many of these were later hit by the pandemic and Amphan. The disasters exposed the cracks in governance, something we had been trying to tell the voters for long,” said Ritesh Tiwari, one of the new state vice-presidents of the BJP.The TMC has not taken the BJP’s new campaign strategy lightly.The CM’s nephew and Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee, who also leads the youth wing, launched the Banglar Jubo Shakti (Bengal’s youth power) programme on June 11.“I am pleased to announce the launch of #BanglarJuboShakti, an initiative of TMYC to onboard, unite and join hands with one lakh motivated youth who are willing to help the people of Bengal during this time of crisis,” tweeted Banerjee.On June 4, Banerjee had tweeted, “@BJP4Bengal leaders have made no contribution towards improving the lives of people in Bengal but have definitely started preparing for Bengal elections 2021. Priorities are clear. @MamataOfficial continues to stand by her people & protect them from every danger #BanglarShotruBJP”“It’s unfortunate that the BJP is trying to take political advantage of the pandemic and the cyclone that have affected millions. No party in the world has done such a thing. The BJP has no organisational strength in Bengal. Their desperate efforts won’t yield any result,” said Tapas Roy, minister of state for parliamentary affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-a-catalyst-for-bjp-s-new-poll-strategy-in-bengal/story-DiVooywHBfaZryEjvleP9L.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bhavan Vidyalaya kicks off its first-ever online MUN conference||The 11th edition Bhavan Vidyalaya Chandigarh Model United Nations (BVCMUN) was kicked off on Saturday through videoconferencing.This is the first time that the BVCMUN has been structured through the virtual mode.This year, around 80 schools from 15 countries are participating in the two-day conference. The MUN was inaugurated by CM’s chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar via videoconferencing.The opening ceremony witnessed over 400 participants, including Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan chairman R K Saboo. This year’s theme is ‘From Repression to Expression’.Speaking to over 300 student delegates of various countries, Suresh Kumar advised them to uphold expression against any repression. He said, “Everyone had a right to speech and expression, but in no way was one to repress another human being. We should bring about transparency, ensuring systemic change.”“BVCMUN is close to my heart for it mirrored the values that the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan stood by. Students should live by the tenets of Mahatma Gandhi and grow beyond differences of caste, colour, race, religion and intolerance,” said chairman Saboo.Bhavan Vidyalaya senior principal Vineeta Arora lauded the efforts of the student body in putting together the online version of the event, despite the odds due to the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bhavan-vidyalaya-kicks-off-its-first-ever-online-mun-conference/story-Jqa36BziMEYqpJRKtjGrkM.html
13-06-2020||City||In virtual rally, Irani fetes Modi govt for its response to Covid pandemic||New Delhi: Union minister Smriti Irani on Saturday said the central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is making commendable efforts in dealing with coronavirus pandemic. She also thanked Delhiites for supporting the Central government in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Irani was addressing Delhi BJP’s Jan Samvad virtual rally, from the state unit office of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Pant Marg. The event was organised to mark the achievements of the BJP-led NDA completing one year at the helm at the Centre. The rally was broadcast through all the official BJP social media platforms.The Amethi MP expressed her sympathy with people in Delhi who have lost their loved ones in the pandemic, and assured that party workers were available to them whenever needed.“My heart gets disturbed when I see long queues to cremate dead bodies at Nigambodh Ghat in Delhi. I express my condolences for those who lost their lives in battle with Covid-19 and I wish speedy recovery to those who are suffering with the disease,” she said.Irani said that the central government and it’s representative are making all possible efforts to deal with the crisis.“Our health minister and Delhi MP Harsh Vardhan is dedicatedly discharging his duties. He is monitoring the situation closely by visiting hospitals, quarantine centres, Covid-19 healthcare facilities amid the pandemic. I want to assure every citizen of Delhi that each and every BJP worker will be there for you whenever required,” Irani said.Irani also talked about the Vande Bharat initiative of the Modi government that brought 1.75 lakh Indians expatriates reach home and how Shramik Trains ferried lakhs of migrant workers to their villages.She said that India is in a better situation as compared to other countries due to the efforts by the government to control the disease.Listing achievements in the first year of Modi government’s second tenure, Irani mentioned free ration for three months, direct benefit cash transfer of Rs 20,000 crore in Jan Dhan accounts of 20 crore poor women, eight crore gas cylinders under Ujjwala Yojna, and Rs three lakh crore package for MSME sector were some of the steps the government took to help people affected by the pandemic.“The past six years have witnessed growth of the country in every aspect and filling of the potholes in the road of development left in the previous 70 years,” she said, citing abolition of Article 370 and Triple Talaq, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-virtual-rally-irani-fetes-modi-govt-for-its-response-to-covid-pandemic/story-RHoE5czW09uXnO0UM5ZvnM.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||BEST employees have received no salary, claims union||The Sanyukt Kamgar Kruti Samiti (BKKS), an umbrella body of BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) unions, on Saturday, claimed that many BEST employees have not received their May salaries.“It is inhuman behaviour. Employees have received zero salaries, despite administration knowing that many employees are not able to travel due to the coronavirus lockdown. Who will be responsible if there is a reaction from the employees,” said Shashank Rao, president, BKKS.The management in response has stated that the employees were paid fully till April and salary of those who did not turn up for work have been deducted.“As offices resumed with 10% staff, employees were being called on shift basis. However, there were many employees who did not turn up, even after repeated messages from the administration. The management has paid salary till April without any deduction. Salary has been deducted of employees who were asked to report and have not turned up.” said a senior BEST official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-employees-have-received-no-salary-claims-union/story-rN5OqMT1nQz70OAGIjeilJ.html
13-06-2020||City||40-yr-old woman found positive in Panchkula||A 40-year-old woman from Sector 12 tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 49. On these, 23 cases are active.Meanwhile, two Delhi residents, who had come in contact with a 21-year-old person from the Industrial Area found infected on Friday, also tested positive. Their cases will be added to the tally of the national capital.All the patients have been isolated. Cases have started rising in the district since June 3, when people from other states started returning here upon lockdown relaxations. Most of those found infected have returned from Delhi, which has seen a steep spike in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-yr-old-woman-found-positive-in-panchkula/story-dF2bEoshuJJVFp4QyOm02N.html
13-06-2020||City||J&K Congress slams BJP for conducting virtual rallies, terms it as attempts to divert attention||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Saturday questioned BJP over politics amidst the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic which was growing out of proportion and magnitude, besides the grave external mischiefs and threats by hostile neighbours like China, Pakistan and Nepal.“As the situation worsens on both the fronts and people have started questioning the Modi government and its handling of the situation, especially when India has come at number three after Brazil and USA in terms of growing Covid graph. The BJP has crafted a policy to divert the attention of the people and engage them by holding public rallies by top brass, who are required to fully dedicate and devote to the most important assignments with them to deal with the grave challenges today,” said Congress chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma.Reacting to the proposed rally of BJP top brass and Union defence minister on Sunday, Sharma regretted that BJP was indulging in diversionary tactics when the people expect the government and the ruling party to be on the forefront to deal with this situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-congress-slams-bjp-for-conducting-virtual-rallies-terms-it-as-attempts-to-divert-attention/story-QMLni6xa1IMCtqnUmcCbNP.html
13-06-2020||Dehradun||Pregnant woman dies after 4 hospitals refuse admission, govt orders probe||A magisterial probe has been ordered by the Dehradun district administration after a pregnant woman (24) died on June 11 because four hospitals in Dehradun allegedly denied her admission. Kamlesh Sahni, the woman’s husband, alleged that a private hospital did not admit her on June 9 on the pretext that she was only seven-month pregnant.“On June 9 morning, we visited a private hospital, where the doctors refused to admit my wife because she was seven-month pregnant and instead gave her some medicines. My wife also said we should go back home. However, shortly after we reached home, she went into a labour pain shortly and delivered twin babies,” said Sahni.“One of the babies died soon after the delivery on June 9, while the other baby passed away a few hours before my wife expired on June 11,” he added.Surrender Sahni, the deceased’s brother-in-law, said, “I went to see the babies at around 4 pm on June 9, when the newborns and my sister-in-law were doing well, but she was complaining of pain in one of her legs. My brother said he had administered her medicines to relieve her pain in the leg. Though she was keeping well the following day, her health condition started worsening overnight. On June 11, we went to four different hospitals, where we were denied admission without any reason.”He added: “Finally, we managed to get in touch with a lawmaker, who told officials at Government Doon Medical College Hospital to admit her. However, we lost a precious day because of the denial of admission by the four hospitals. My sister-in-law was admitted to the hospital around 4 pm on June 11, but she died within a few hours. Her other baby, who had survived, also died a few hours before her. Perhaps, my sister-in-law would have survived had she been admitted before.”NS Khatri, deputy medical superintendent at Government Doon Medical College Hospital, said that the woman was brought to the hospital on June 11 at around 11 am and she was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), as her condition was not stable.However, the family members alleged that though she was brought to the hospital at around 11 am, she was denied admission, after which they went to a few more private hospitals before finally going back to Doon Medical College Hospital again at around 4 pm, when she was admitted because of the lawmaker’s call.Dr. Khatri said that the woman passed away at around 6 pm on June 11.The cause of death is not known. However, her family members are claiming that it could be the loss of blood, as the deceased had felt weak and during her pre-natal care one of the doctors had also told her that she was anaemic.Dehradun district magistrate (DM) Ashish Srivastava ordered a magisterial probe into this matter on the following day.Arvind Pandey, additional district magistrate (administration), said that a private hospital had turned away the pregnant woman on June 9, as she was not due for delivery. She was only seven-month pregnant, instead of nine months, when the delivery usually happens, he added.“On June 11, she was taken to Coronation Hospital for treatment of a leg injury. Initially, she was referred to Gandhi Shatabdi Hospital, and later to Government Doon Medical College Hospital, as the doctors wanted her to undergo a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test. However, she passed away before she could receive proper treatment,” said Pandey, who has been appointed as the nodal officer for the inquiry.“The DM has urged people to volunteer information about the woman’s death within a week, while the probe is also underway,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/pregnant-woman-dies-after-4-hospitals-refuse-admission-govt-orders-probe/story-X4BDo0GOGosZQzOcWgBDQK.html
13-06-2020||City||Ladakh Covid-19 tally rises to 437 with biggest single-day spike of 198 infections||Ladakh recorded the biggest single-day spike of 198 Covid-19 infections on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 437, officials said.All fresh cases were from Kargil district, which has been witnessing a surge in number of positive cases. “198 more people tested positive for the virus in Kargil district. With this, the number of active cases in Ladakh has gone up to 368—including 68 in Leh and 300 in Kargil,” a health official said.“Of the 300 active cases in Kargil district, 81 patients are admitted in Covid hospitals, 111 are in home quarantine and 108 at Covid care centres,” he added.Six patients were discharged from a Covid hospital Mahabodhi in Leh on Saturday.So far, the UT has reported only one death due to the virus.Since April this year, the UT administration has been evacuating its residents by air and road from various parts of the country and even abroad.Amid the sudden spike, Leh magistrate Sachin Kumar Vaishya ordered the suspension of public transport in the district to contain the spread of virus. Private vehicles will be allowed to ply as per the odd-even formula. However, essential services have been exempted from this system. “On every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday, vehicles registration numbers ending with odd numbers will be allowed to ply while those ending with even numbers will move on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,” Vaishya said.Kargil magistrate Baseer-ul-Haq Choudhary has also clamped strict restrictions in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ladakh-covid-19-tally-rises-to-437-with-biggest-single-day-spike-of-198-infections/story-aVbs1er7lus2JjDSRduAHN.html
13-06-2020||City||No community spread in Punjab: ICMR||Blurb: Of the 1,600 samples tested from state, only 5 were found positiveAMRITSAR After analysing 1,600 random blood samples from four vulnerable districts of Punjab under the community transmission surveillance programme, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that community transmission of Covid-19 has not started in Punjab as the virus was found only in less than 1%.For ICMR’s nationwide survey, the state health department collected 400 blood samples each from Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Gurdaspur districts where community transmission was highly suspected. Out of 1,600 samples tested at the Chennai-based National Institute for Research, only 5 tested positive for Covid-19.“The ICMR, along with state health departments, had collected 400 samples each from nearly 69 districts across the country. In Punjab, four vulnerable districts were selected for the survey and 1,600 blood samples were collected for testing. The sample collection in the state started on May 19. The blood samples were tested through rapid antibody test kits and ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) test kits, developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune,” state health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said.He added, “The ICMR concluded that the prevalence and spread of the Covid-19 infection is less than 1% in Punjab. Of the five positive patients, three were from Patiala and two from Jalandhar. None was found positive in the samples from Ludhiana and Gurdaspur.”The ICMR will reveal more nationwide findings from the survey in its second report in a month’s time. The final report will give an idea about the transmission based on gender, age and socio-economic characteristics. Though Amritsar has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab, it was not included in the survey as most of the cases at that time pertained to Nanded-returnees and didn’t fall in the category of community spread, health officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-community-spread-in-punjab-icmr/story-Ek42us59Od04vQuPyNIA8O.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||PU to conduct Covid-19 impact studies in its adopted villages||Panjab University (PU) will conduct impact studies related to Covid-19 in its adopted villages as directed by the University Grants Commission (UGC).The university will soon invite proposals from its faculty members for the same.The UGC had directed the universities to constitute research teams and submit a report by June 30. Dean university instructions Prof R K Singla said, “The UGC’s notice is under consideration and we will circulate it among our faculty members to invite proposals.”In a communiqué on Friday, the UGC had directed higher educational institutes to facilitate the study on the impact of Covid-19 in five to six adjoining villages adopted by them. PU has adopted five villages – Dhanas, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Ali Sher, Sarangpur and Daddu Majra.PU senator Prof Rajat Sandhir said, “We welcome the initiative taken by the UGC and varsity should utilise this opportunity to help in preventing the virus spread in its adopted villages.”WHAT ARE THE STUDIES?In its communication UGC said, “As we fight this pandemic, we require greater cooperation, understanding and adaptability to the situation. Importantly there is a pressing need to sensitively analyse the impact of the pandemic as well as the role played by communities in agrarian part of the country.”The institutes have been told to study the awareness levels in the villages regarding Covid-19 and how the villages withstand various challenges posed by the pandemic. They have also been told to study the best strategies adopted by the villages to combat the challenges posed by Covid-19.PU syndicate member Prof Navdeep Goyal said, “Some of our members have carried out many programmes in the adopted villages. They may be assigned to do this study also.”NSS programme officer assistant professor Gaurav Gaur said, “In the past many years, we have carried out various programmes in these villages and we are ready if the university assigns us the Covid-19 impact study.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-conduct-covid-19-impact-studies-in-its-adopted-villages/story-T9bqPyCewfHIQRILtROd8O.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||4 persons who assaulted cops get bail, asked to deposit ₹5000 in CM’s Relief Fund||The Bombay high court on Friday granted bail to four persons who were part of a mob which attacked police patrol unit in Govandi during the lockdown on the condition that they deposit a fine of ₹5000 ‘as punishment to be responsible citizens’ in the chief minister’s relief fund. The fine amount is over and above the personal bond of ₹10000 that each of the accused has to furnish for the bail.The single-judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre while hearing the bail applications of Gaus Mohammed Shaikh and three others were informed by advocates Jigar Agarwal and Shaikh Shafi Ahmed that there was no evidence against the four and they were arrested and booked only because they were in 22-25 years age group and were residents of the locality where the incident happened.The incident according to the prosecution occurred on April 26 when a police patrol was enforcing the lockdown in Govandi by shooing away hawkers squatting on the footpath. A mob of 25-30 persons brutally attacked the patrol team by throwing bricks and pelting them and their vehicles with stones. The prosecution submitted that the mob resorted to vandalism intending to impair police personnel from discharging their duty.Advocate HJ Dedhia appearing for the police submitted that the attack destroyed one of the police vans. “Entire conduct of the mob was shameful and they attempted to assault the police personnel engaged in official duty and who are rather putting their life at risk in the situation of Covid-19 pandemic to keep citizens safe and free of Covid-19,” said Dedhia. After the situation was brought under control the Shivaji Nagar police arrested the four and charged them with an attempt to murder and for damaging public property and for disobeying orders by Police under Maharashtra Police Act.Dedhia also informed the court that two of the applicants had tested positive for Covid-19 and tested negative after appropriate medical treatment.After hearing submissions, Justice Dangre observed, “No doubt, the incident is unfortunate in the present scenario and the fact that several such incidences and occurrences are being reported in the entire country cannot be lost sight of.”The Court further said, “Though the applicants are entitled to the benefit of the doubt, alleged act policemen being attacked apparently while trying to enforce the corona virus-induced lock-down need to be tackled on a serious note. The applicants should be made to bear the consequences of assaulting the police team and causing an interruption in the discharge of their official duty.”While granting bail to the applicants on furnishing a personal bond of ₹10, 000 with sureties, justice Dangre said that the applicants could be released on bail if they deposited ₹5000 each to the CM fund on their immediate release adding that, “Failure to do so would result in recalling of the said order releasing them on bail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-persons-who-assaulted-cops-get-bail-asked-to-deposit-5000-in-cm-s-relief-fund/story-dcKdAk07NivRpKtodZdkSM.html
13-06-2020||City||Ulhasnagar hosp staff demand better facility to deal with Covid patients||After three doctors and eight nurses of the Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar tested positive of Covid-19, a group of nurses have raised their concern about the lack of preventive measures taken for the working staff of the hospital, shortage of PPE kits, no proper wards categorising Covid and non-Covid patients.The family members of six of the nurses also have tested positive for the virus. With staff testing positive, the hospital is now falling short of manpower. The existing staff is now overburdened, said the nurses.A group of nurses met the Thane collector Rajesh Narekar on Friday and narrated their ordeal. They demanded proper facilities at the government-run hospital at Ulhasnagar-3.Kavita Nimje, 54, a nurse said, “Even though the Central Hospital is not a Covid hospital, several suspected Covid-19 patients were admitted in the ward. This led to the spread of the infection among the staffs and non-Covid patients. We are not even provided with proper kits.”“The Red Cross Hospital for Covid patients, which is located opposite to the Central Hospital is facing a shortage of staff, so our doctors and nurses work there and deal with Covid patients. The Red Cross Hospital has only 23 beds, which is not sufficient. Hence, the suspected patients are sent here,” said Nimje.The Central Hospital has an isolation ward which has 21 beds and has another 202 beds in the general ward for other patients coming from Karjat, Kasara, Badlapur and other nearby cities.Another nurse on conditions of anonymity said, “We have asked the collector to improve the infrastructure at the Central Hospital, so that suspected Covid patients can be dealt with separately. Also, we have asked for more staffs at the Covid hospital. We are ready to work anywhere, but there should be clarity on whether we have to deal with Covid patients or non-Covid patients, as we need to take precautions accordingly.”Thane collector, Rajesh Narvekar said, “There is a need to increase infrastructure to deal with suspected Covid patients. The civic body is setting up more Covid care centres in Ulhasnagar. A hospital is being set up with 200 beds in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-hosp-staff-demand-better-facility-to-deal-with-covid-patients/story-1KhOtN3HEKiyyr8kd7af2H.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for snatching chain of bizman Motilal Oswal’s wife||Two people who snatched the chain of 55-year-old Vimala Oswal, wife of businessman Motilal Oswal, on June 4, were arrested on Friday. According to Malabar Hill police officers, the incident happened at around 6.30am on June 4 following which Vimala registered an FIR.Vimala told police that they were walking past Doshi palace building on Walkeshwar road when two men on a bike snatched her chain. Her husband tried to chase them but the robber sped away.The police officers scanned the CCTV in the area and identified the bike used by the robbers and arrested them from the central suburbs. Neelkanth Patil senior inspector from Malabar Hill police station said, “The accused Akash Kanaujia,21, and Afsar Shaikh, 27 are arrested. They seem to be habitual criminals, however, we are checking their antecedents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-snatching-chain-of-bizman-motilal-oswal-s-wife/story-dAEdyMVON8jbG0QZMyQl1K.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Reconsider reopening of Panjab University, teachers urge V-C||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Saturday urged the vice-chancellor to reconsider reopening of the university amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Universities are scheduled to resume the session on June 16 after a month-long summer break.“Since ours is an educational institution, your kind attention is invited to the guidelines issued by MHA and UT administration from time to time. Since the outbreak of pandemic special directions have been issued for all educational institutions, including universities, to ensure the safety and health of students, teachers, staff and general public, including parents, who are likely to visit the university offices and departments in view of the ambiguous situation regarding admissions and examinations,” reads the letter to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar“Your kind attention in this regard is invited to the following order issued by MHA on May 30, 2020, in which specific and clear guidelines have been issued for all educational institutions, including universities. In light of MHA guidelines, the decision of reopening of the university on June 16 needs to be reconsidered, especially when there are serious apprehensions of community spread of Covid-19 in the coming days,” PUTA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reconsider-reopening-of-panjab-university-teachers-urge-v-c/story-NxgLYMSvSNQTltjCIzmCuJ.html
13-06-2020||City||Non-covid patients in J&K must get proper medical facilities: Altaf Bukhari||Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari on Saturday said the Union territory can no longer afford to focus exclusively on Covid-19 patients as it is jeopardising the health of those suffering from other diseases. In a statement issued here, Bukhari said, “It’s time we realise that Covid-19 containment is critical but healthcare services for other patients can no longer be ignored.” “Amid this situation, halting OPD and non-emergency services especially at government hospitals in order to divert all its resources to combat Covid-19 is affecting thousands of patients across Jammu and Kashmir whose lives are on the peril in absence of requisite healthcare facilities,” he said.“Reduced access to both out-patient and in-patient services can prove fatal for non-Covid patients—both suffering from communicable and non-communicable diseases, Bukhari said, adding that the health and medical education departments must ensure that these patients don’t bear the brunt of the crisis.“Patients with scheduled surgical procedures and follow-up visits are undergoing an unimaginable crisis. The state in which Cancer patients are forced to live without hospitalisation will prove fatal for many. Similar is the condition of patients suffering from last stage renal disease and dependent on haemodialysis,” he said.The government and health department should also facilitate routine check-up of psychiatry patients, particularly those suffering from depression, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-covid-patients-in-j-k-must-get-proper-medical-facilities-altaf-bukhari/story-0kubMUOJeEPdqK0tbE1wbL.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt allows Sir Ganga Ram hospital to resume Covid-19 testing||Delhi government on Saturday allowed Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) to resume testing for coronavirus, almost 10 days after it prohibited the medical institute from conducting tests for the infection.In an order issued on June 3, Delhi government had prohibited the hospital from carrying out RT/PCR sampling for Covid- 19 suspect/contact cases with immediate effect.The Delhi government had also filed an FIR against the hospital for allegedly  violating Covid-19 regulation norms.SGRH has approached the Delhi High Court, seeking quashing of the FIR lodged against its medical superintendent by Delhi police. The petition is listed for hearing on Monday.In a statement, Dr DS Rana, chairman (Board of Management), SGRH said, “Government of Delhi has allowed Sir Ganga Ram Hospital’s facility of Covid testing to be restored. We have now been authorized to use RT-PCR App”.With this, the hospital can start conducting tests for Covid-19 as per government guidelines, the statement said.He thanked Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain for their intervention.“Sir Ganga Ram Hospital assures our whole hearted support with Government to stand together and fight this crisis together,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-allows-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-to-resume-covid-19-testing/story-hRVE6yxCKMTGmKvEZ4GJxL.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||3.4mm rain cools down Chandigarh||The 3.4mm rain on Saturday afternoon brought down the maximum temperature from 37.8 degrees Celsius to 29.2 degrees Celsius for a short while. However, as the rain lasted for only around an hour, the temperature returned to a high of 34.4 degrees around 5.30pm. Sunday onwards, the weather is expected to remain dry.Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, “A western disturbance was active in the region and wind up to 40km/h was blowing in the city. However, it is unlikely to affect the region from Sunday onwards and dry weather will follow.”With this, IMD officials said, the temperature is likely to cross 40 degrees in the coming days. On Saturday, the maximum temperature went down to 37.8 degrees from Friday’s 39.6 degrees. The minimum temperature saw only a slight change from 29.8 degrees to 29.2 degrees. In the next three days, the maximum and minimum temperature will remain around 40 degrees and 29 degrees, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-4mm-rain-cools-down-chandigarh/story-b2lCeins0D7LFRlpaO7n7K.html
13-06-2020||City||Children’s Bank of India notes available at Pune toy shops, but sale is poor||Pune: The Rs 1,000 denomination notes found in the possession of six men arrested for fake currency racket recently are hard to find in the local market. However, notes of denomination Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 are available in shops and used by children as toy or for various projects. Apart from Rs 1,000 denomination, 1.52 lakh notes of Rs 500 denomination and 2.17 lakh notes of Rs 2,000 denominations were found from the accused’s possession.“The notes of Rs 1,000 denomination are unavailable in the market. The sale of notes of other denomination is not even 5 per cent of the total stock. Every bundle of 100 notes of any denomination costs around Rs 30-35. Now even board games have started using plastic chips or credit and debit cards,” said Sachin Kulkarni, owner of Toy station in Kunte chowk, Pune.“Whenever required, multiple suppliers are available in Ravivar peth. Most of the toy shop owners take notes from them,” said Viral Shah, owner of Maahi toy shop in Camp, Pune.“We rarely see customers asking for these notes for school projects or as a plaything. Notes of Rs 1,000 denomination are not in demand. The lockdown has even affected the supply,” said a vendor on Laxmi road.In the local market, one set of 10 different denominations, including Re 1, Rs 2, Rs 5 notes can be bought for Rs 20. The notes mention the ‘Children’s Bank of India’ in Hindi and English.One of the demarcations between Children’s Bank of India and legal tender bank notes are the electrotype watermark and Mahatma Gandhi image which can be seen on the blank white strip on each of the legal notes. The Reserve Bank of India emblem, which has a tiger in it, is replaced with the word ‘colours’ with each alphabet printed in a different colour for Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 denomination notes. The text in the language panel on the backside of the Rs 500 note is also altered in the Children’s Bank of India notes and the Ashoka pillar in also missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/children-s-bank-of-india-notes-available-at-pune-toy-shops-but-sale-is-poor/story-x7e6H2z7oKMaNBGiMO6VvL.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Animals in focus during Covid-19 webinar at Panjab University||A webinar on Covid-19 and its relation with animals was organised by the Panjab University (PU) hostels here on Saturday.The online session was conducted by the various hostel wardens under the theme ‘Covid-19 and animals: Myth debunked with facts’. It saw more than 110 participants.Throwing light on the topic, epidemiologist and Padma Shri awardee Dr Omesh Kumar Bharti said, “It is true that coronavirus is a zoonotic virus that lives inside animals, but it does not cause disease to them. It afflicts humans when transmitted through unsanitary means, so sanitisation is the prerequisite.”“Not all bats harbour the virus. The take-home message is that nature harbours several pathogens and if we disturb the environmental balance, pathogens are going to take an advantage of it and we will see many more pandemics,” he cautioned.In his address, PU vice-chancellor Professor Raj Kumar ensured the students that all the decisions regarding exams would be made keeping in view their welfare and safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/animals-in-focus-during-covid-19-webinar-at-panjab-university/story-TTiEH5lrPiElsrv3kRasKO.html
13-06-2020||Real||‘Urban spaces changing rapidly’: Bengal govt paper on cities in post-Covid-19 era||The West Bengal government has prepared a white paper on the future of cities in the post- COVID-19 world, as urban spaces are changing “drastically and rapidly”, an official said.Speaking at a webinar on real estate sector, organised by CII, West Bengal Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation chairman and managing director Debashis Sen said his department has come out with the document on “Reconfiguring Cities in the New Normal”.“Changes are now rapid and a lot of things are changing drastically in terms of cities, work, home, business and social spaces,” a statement quoted him as saying.Sen cited examples of the Haj House, which has been converted to an international quarantine centre, the Central Forensics Building and part of the Netaji Subhas International Airport here, which have been transformed to isolation centres, while describing how the “adaptive use of buildings” taking place rapidly.According to him, the shopping malls will become “warehouses of e-commerce” with home delivery of everything becoming the new normal in the post-COVID era.Cinema halls, multiplexes are very likely to become “data centres” as per the study, he said on Friday.As far as residences and houses are concerned, he said that home spaces would need to expand as families will work or learn from there.“Cities will dissolve into small, coherent, hyper- local townships like the IIT campuses, industrial townships in Durgapur and Jamshedpur, which are, in a sense, self- sufficient and gated with their own schools, colleges, shops, workspaces, parks and hospitals,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/urban-spaces-changing-rapidly-bengal-govt-paper-on-cities-in-post-covid-19-era/story-27bEEk62USpUXGskQR5fsJ.html
13-06-2020||City||Income down by 90%, PRTC seeks ₹210-cr dues from govt||Patiala After the daily income of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) took a 90% dip, the corporation has approached the Punjab government to get back its dues worth over ₹210 crore to meet its committed expenditure, including salaries and pensions.The state government owed PRTC the said money against the free and concessional facilities being provided by the PRTC, mainly to police personnel and students.Amid the transport restrictions since March 18, the PRTC daily income dropped from ₹1.40 crore to ₹15 lakh. Though the PRTC resumed its services on May 20, but it is running only 150 of a fleet of 1,045 buses on select routes. The corporation has failed to pay last month’s salary and pension to over 10,000 current and former employees as it requires ₹19 crore per month for the same.Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener of trade unions linked with PRTC, said it was a sad state of affairs that the government and transport department had orphaned the PRTC in these hard times.“If only the government provides the departmental claims on time, pension and the salary can be cleared. The government has stalled claims related to free and departmental concessional travelling for three years. Even over ₹2 crore are due against ‘Mukh Mantri Tirath Darshan Yatra’ scheme,” he said. The corporation was not been compensated for bringing back Punjab residents from Hazur Sahib, students from Rajasthan and ferrying migrant labourers to railway stations and elsewhere, he said.PRTC managing director Jaskiran Singh said the case related to clearing ₹200 crore has already been submitted to the state government. “We are already holding meetings with top officials of transport department so as to get immediate financial relief for clearing of committed expenses,” he said. Singh said they expect to clear payments to employees in the coming week.The corporation faced a loss of ₹51 crore in the first 60 days of the lockdown, with average daily loss pegged at ₹85 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/income-down-by-90-prtc-seeks-210-cr-dues-from-govt/story-Iq8vg1K7MmLFQkcRsTaPFL.html
13-06-2020||City||Mohali to have wider link roads, says health minister||To prevent traffic bottlenecks, link roads in the district are going to be widened.“The link roads of Mohali sub-division are in for a transformation under which the 10-km road stretch from Derri to Nagari, Gigemajra, Middhemajra and Gajjukhera would be widened 10-18 ft at a cost of ₹4 crore,” said Punjab health minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu.He added that the 15km stretch from Saneta to Gudana, Abrawan, Manakpur and from Gudana to Dhelpur and thereafter to Tasauli would be widened up to 18ft at the cost of ₹6 crore. He added that the tendering with regard to these projects was in progress and the work would begin soon.Sidhu said the transformation of these roads would fulfil the long-pending demand of the people of the constituency and mitigate the traffic related problems along with minimising the possibility of road mishaps.“People who have to commute to Mohali, Chandigarh or Kharar for jobs and other works, especially farmers, milk and vegetable vendors, would not encounter any problem now,” said Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-to-have-wider-link-roads-says-health-minister/story-Na3cBwH4kKO9N58mQsHC4J.html
13-06-2020||City||Selection of SHRC chairperson mires into controversy, HP’s leader of opposition questions move||Selection of State Human Rights Commission chairperson in Himachal Pradesh has mired into controversy, with opposition Congress questioning the government’s move to reconstitute the commission that had been lying defunct for the last 15 years.Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri shot off a letter to governor Bandaru Dattatreya, opposing the process adopted by the government to select chairperson and members. In the letter, he said that the presence of the opposition leader was mandatory. Agnihotri in the letter cited that he had ascribed the reason for not attending the meeting due to his prefixed engagement on June 9.“I’m writing to inform you that proceeding with the selection of the chairperson and members of the State Human Rights Commission on basis of the decision made on June 9 would constitute an affront on the statutory norm and the democratic values. Section 22 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 mandates the inclusion of leader of opposition in the appointment committee,” the letter read.“I intimated the government about my unavailability on that specific day due to unavoidable circumstances. As per the precedent if a member cannot attend the meeting on a specific day, it has to be rescheduled,” he said. Mukesh also cited examples of previous Virbhadra Singh-led government where leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal could not make it to the meetings on three occasions and the government reorganised them each time.“Importantly according to the statute, the government could carry on with the selection only in case there was a vacancy in the office of the leader of opposition, which is clearly not the case here. It is also pertinent to mention that no agenda was served,” he added.He said that it was appalling that the government chose to proceed without abiding by the precedent and the statute in the very first meeting. It is a cause of grave concern as the independence of the commission would be threatened by such appointments. It would also erode the public confidence in the pious commission.” Agnihotri aid urging the government to reschedule the meeting so that democratic values and rule of law are upheld in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/selection-of-shrc-chairperson-mires-into-controversy-hp-s-leader-of-opposition-questions-move/story-Mw06k5f3nIFxjbZH01OGvM.html
13-06-2020||City||Tricity Buzz: HT Reporters’s tracker on all those making, or faking, news||MeT not far off the markThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has acquired new equipment for weather forecasts and its accuracy has improved to a large extent. The IMD forecast rain due to a western disturbance from Thursday to Sunday. However, most parts of Haryana and Punjab, including Chandigarh, remained hot and humid. The saving grace for the tricity was the storm followed by light rain on Saturday afternoon.Shoestring budget has Mohali MC officials on the backfootApart from tackling coronavirus, municipal corporation officers of Mohali face the challenge of carrying out developmental works on a tighter budget. Last week, the local bodies department of the state government cut Rs 141 crore from the MC budget, leaving officials in a fix. They are wondering how to meet expectations of residents when the finances, which are already in the red, have been cut. Tough times, indeed.CTU’s blessing in disguiseThe slowdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic has hit Chandigarh Transport Undertaking, too. Already struggling with financial issues, the lockdown has further hit its ability to generate revenues. But the cancellation of long route buses two days after they were started is a blessing in disguise. “We can carry only 50% of the seating capacity because of social distancing norms. The passenger turnout was hardly 10% but we were incurring full running costs. With the long-route service suspended, at least we can save on running costs,” an employee said.For Chandigarh cops, alcohol is no “nasha”For the police in Mohali and Chandigarh, alcohol is no “nasha (addiction)”. Chandigarh Police recently arrested a man for stealing copper transformers from the traffic light of Sectors 21-22 in Chandigarh. Asked if the accused does drugs, a Chandigarh Police personnel replied, “Na, koi nasha nahi karta tha bus sharab peeta tha (No, he doesn’t have any addiction, he only takes liquor).”Speeding to meet curfew deadline in ChandigarhAs the clock strikes 9pm, people on the roads of Chandigarh speed past police checkposts or nakas even if it means jumping red lights to reach their destination and meet the curfew deadline. Police checkpoints have been set up in different parts of the city to note down details of defaulters. Many commuters, who would otherwise have stopped at traffic signals, scramble the moment they hear the siren. It seems the fear of the siren in the distance is more than police standing metres away.PU exams in corona times: Students respond with memesMemes trolling Panjab University’s plan to conduct semester exams are doing the rounds on social media, especially on Instagram pages operated by students. One such page named PU-Chandigarh-updates with over 34,000 followers asked, “Where are you? Don’t know but here exams are happening in Covid-19 times. Welcome to Panjab University.” Another video being shared on social media shows PU authorities carrying a coffin named students.No pat for GMCH-32 after NIRF rankingEven though Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, managed to get the 25th position in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings among medical colleges across the country, the hospital authorities chose to stay mum on the achievement. Requests to them on their assessment of the ranking and key takeaways went unanswered. The UT administration also expressed satisfaction regarding Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research retaining the second rank in the country among medical institutions and congratulated Punjab Engineering College for improving its rank by 10 points.Change of heart or change of times?District education officer Alka Mehta, who was replaced by Harbir Singh on Thursday and promoted to the post of deputy director-3, was known to avoid press reporters for she had even blocked some of them on social media. Now that she has left the post, she has unblocked the reporters within a day. Change of heart or change of times? Time will tell.(Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh, Ovais Dar, Amanjeet Singh and Srishti Jaswal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-reporters-s-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-FBAesiHBpkSGdwjNxbnkHL.html
13-06-2020||City||Day after arrest of 2 LeT terrorists, accomplice held in Pathankot||PATHANKOT A day after two Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) operatives — Aamir Hussain Wani and Wasim Hassan Wani — were arrested with weapons, Punjab Police on Friday arrested their accomplice while he was trying to flee to Kashmir.Javed Ahmed Bhat, 29, of Shopian was apprehended and his truck impounded from Dhobra Bridge, Pathankot. DGP Dinkar Gupta said Javed is a co-villager of the other two LeT operatives. “The trio had been doing transport business for the past over 2-3 years, and had been making trips to Delhi, Amritsar and Jalandhar. Brother of a J&K home guard, Javed too was selected by the unit in 2012 but he quit the job,” he said.“In the questioning, Javed said that he had come with Aamir and Wasim from the Kashmir to Amritsar to collect a weapon consignment. They came in two trucks and after collecting weapons from near Vallah Road on June 11, Aamir and Wasim asked Javed to stay back in Amritsar to contact the weapon supplier on the directions of their handler Ishfaq Ahmed Dar alias Bashir Ahmed Khan of LeT,’ Gupta said.“Further investigation is in progress to identify further links and associates of the three men in Punjab and J&K,” said the DGP, pointing out that these arrests indicated Pak-backed terror network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-arrest-of-2-let-terrorists-accomplice-held-in-pathankot/story-yXqwQvMKFX7YE9KveddcQO.html
13-06-2020||City||Use social media for dissemination of govt policies: Jai Ram to party functionaries||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday exhorted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionaries to make effective use of social media in countering the opposition’s evil propaganda against the Centre and state government.He was addressing a virtual rally of Palampur block from Shimla through video conferencing.Thakur said that despite being a country with a population of over 135 crores, India has reported only 8,500 Covid-19 deaths as compared to over 4.30 lakh deaths in 15 most developed countries of the world having a collective population of 142 crores.He said that this was possible due to the prompt decisions taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to effectively tackle the situation.“All the party functionaries should effectively use the social media to disseminate policies and programmes of the Centre and state government counter the evil propaganda of the opposition parties,” said Thakur.“The state government is striving hard to come out of this crisis. A stimulus package of ₹20 lakh crore announced by the Centre would go a long way in reviving the economy of the country as well as the state,” said the chief minister.Effective measures taken to revive Covid-hit economy: CMSHIMLA: The state government has taken effective steps and launched various schemes to revive the Covid-hit economy, Jai Ram Thakur said on Saturday.He was addressing a virtual rally of party functionaries of Dharampur block through video conferencing.CM said that 5.90 lakh eligible women in the state have been benefitted under Jan Dhan Yojana while under the Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, ₹2000 each was transferred in the accounts of farmers.He said that Himachal Pradesh has become the first state in the country to launch ‘one nation one ration card’ scheme to provide ration at subsidised rates from fair price shops anywhere in the country.The ₹ 20 lakh crore economic package announced by the Union government would help bring the country’s economy back on track and provide relief to the people, said Thakur.“People not only generously donated towards the HP Covid fund and PM CARES, but also provided food, ration and face masks to the needy and the poor,” said Thakur.He said that BJP workers also played a major role in sensitising people regarding the importance of social distancing to thwart the spread of the virus.“The state government has effectively fought the Covid-19 pandemic and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appreciated the active case finding campaign launched by the state government, and asked other states to emulate Himachal,” he said.He said that although the state has witnessed a sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, people need not worry as patients have been placed in institutional quarantine or home quarantine.Union minister Anurag Thakur said that under the leadership of the PM, the Centre effectively tackled the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-social-media-for-dissemination-of-govt-policies-jai-ram-to-party-functionaries/story-G3PTDbjPKCfzu1EZumefYN.html
13-06-2020||Arts||Noted Uttarakhand folk singer Heera Singh Rana passes away in Delhi||Noted folk singer of Uttarakhand Heera Singh Rana died at the age of 78 in the wee hours of Saturday in Delhi due to a heart attack.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has expressed deep condolences on the sudden demise of Rana. He said that his demise has caused irreparable loss to the world of folk songs and music in the state.Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya also expressed deep condolences and prayed for the peace of the soul of the late Rana.OP Pandey, a cultural activist of Haldwani, said, “Rana was very popular in the state for his heartfelt folk songs. His songs were attached with the soil of hills and had a deep sense of hill people’s struggle. His death has left a vacuum in folk songs and music in the hill state.”Heera Singh Rana was born in 1942 in Manila Dandholi village of Almora. After completing his primary education, Rana left for Delhi in search of job. Later, he went to Kolkata with a scholarship to study music. He began singing in various forums since the age of 15. Recently he was appointed vice-chairman of Garhwal, Kumaoni and Jaunsari Academy by the government of Delhi.In 1980s and 1990s, his songs like ‘Rangile Bindi Ghanghri kai dhoti lal kinara yai hai-hair re mijata’ became were very popular among the hilly regions of the state. His song ‘Tyar pahad-myar pahad hoi dukhon ko dyar pahad’ depicted the migration problem of the hills.Rana’s folk songs not only entertained people but were also used by locals in several agitations and movements in the hill state.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/noted-uttarakhand-folk-singer-heera-singh-rana-passes-away-in-delhi/story-zs0RLA9Q0sdYdcc4z4GYWJ.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three held with stolen weapons, cash in Jalandhar||Three people were arrested with a 12-bore double barrel rifle, 50 cartridges, a Swift car and Rs 19,851 in Adampur on Saturday.The accused are Pardeep Kumar of Fatehpur, Gursewak of Fatehgarh Sahib and Jagvir Singh alias Atul of Amritsar. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the weapons were stolen from ‘gaddi nashin’ Tarsem Singh, a disciple of Sant Santokh Singh, who is the caretaker of Nirmal Kutia, on the Main Road, Adampur.On June 6, the three accused paid obeisance at Adampur, while two of them returned three days later, one of the accused remained there and served tea to the caretaker and his followers. On June 10, Tarsem Singh was found unconscious with his hands and legs to a wooden bed. It was found that his licensed 12-bore double barrel rifle, 50 cartridges, Rs 45,000 and a car had been stolen, said the SSP. The accused were captured on CCTV and were caught in Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan, he said.A case was registered under Sections 392 (robbery), 482 (using a false property mark), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using a forgery as genuine) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act. The SSP said Atul, along with other accused persons, had kidnapped a person on September 20, 2019 from Anandpur Sahib and murdered him between Pojewal and Garhshankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-held-with-stolen-weapons-cash-in-jalandhar/story-jTQ5FtB8aRHSkrpOgCB56H.html
13-06-2020||Real||Examine viability of building housing complex near DU campus, SC tells committee||The Supreme Court has directed a committee to examine various aspects including viability of construction of a high-rise housing complex by a private real estate firm adjacent to the Delhi University campus.A bench comprising Justices R Banumathi, Indu Malhotra and Aniruddha Bose refused to interfere with the order of NGT restraining the real estate developer from any activity.Applying the ‘Precautionary Principle’ of environmental law, the NGT on January 8 had directed Young Builders (P) Ltd in north Delhi that no construction activity should be carried out.It had also formed a joint committee comprising representatives of the Central Pollution Control Board, Ministry of Environment and Forests and IIT Delhi to evaluate the project.The builder then challenged the order in the apex court, which set aside the order. Later, the green panel once again restrained the real estate developer from any activity The apex court has now directed the committee to examine various aspects including the viability of the project without being influenced by any of the opinions expressed by the NGT.The top court granted liberty to University of Delhi and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to file their respective representation along with requisite documents before the committee within two weeks. The committee, before it starts its first deliberation, shall afford an opportunity of preliminary hearing to the appellant, University of Delhi and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, it said.“The committee shall complete the deliberation and submit its final report within two months from the date of the representation being filed by the appellant and University of Delhi and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. The Member Secretary, Central Pollution Control Board, shall coordinate and take necessary steps for convening the meeting of the Committee. “The meeting of the Committee shall be conducted by virtual hearing, or video conferencing, and afford an opportunity of hearing to the representatives of the parties,” the bench said.The apex court further said that after submission of the final report by the committee, the varsity and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation are at liberty to raise all the contentions before the National Green Tribunal.Senior advocate Shyam Diwan, appearing for the petitioner Young Builders, argued that National Green Tribunal was not justified in constituting a committee.Senior advocate K V Vishwanathan and advocate Sanjay Upadhyay, appearing for Delhi University, said the builder has obtained a fresh clearance and NGT has rightly constituted the committee to examine the various aspects. The apex court was hearing an appeal by Young Builders against NGT January 8 order.The tribunal had passed the order on a plea by Delhi University challenging the environmental clearance granted to a housing project by Young Builders (P) Ltd in North Delhi.The plea challenged the order of the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority granting Environmental Clearance (EC) for the housing complex located at 1 and 3, Cavalry Lane and 4, Chhatra Marg at Civil Lines here.It said EC could be granted by the Ministry of Environment and Forests and not by SEIAA as the project is within 10 km from Critically Polluted Area, notified by CPCB.DU said the permission sought by Young Builders Private Limited for construction of a group housing society in the University enclave was violative of the Master Plan of Delhi-2021 and was against the larger public interest, “given the fact that the project site in question and its vicinity are within the North Campus of the University and that it contains various historical and archaeological buildings”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/examine-viability-of-building-housing-complex-near-du-campus-sc-to-ngt-committee/story-o4PBy00jrP1xGBZD08RswO.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||29-year-old arrested for murder||A 29-year-old man was arrested for stabbing a 50-year-old resident at Govandi to death on Friday. According to Shivaji Nagar police, the deceased, identified as Zulfikar Chaudhary, was against the accused marrying his brother-in-law’s daughter.The accused, Afsar Abdul Shaikh alias Panchhi, had married Chaudhary’s brother-in-law’s daughter without parental consent. As Chaudhary was against the marriage, Shaikh stabbed him multiple times around 5pm on Friday.Chaudhary was rushed to Rajawadi hospital but was declared dead on arrival. Nasiruddin, Chaudhary’s son, told police officers that Shaikh had married his cousin sister a week back, and that his father was against it. Kishor Gaike, senior inspector at Shivaji Nagar police station, said, “We have arrested the accused.” Shaikh has been booked under sections 302 (murder) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/29-year-old-arrested-for-murder/story-ChfEPG6qiLA5tQySKTC4AO.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||22-year-old booked for firing in the air while shooting Tik Tok video in Sangrur||A budding TiK Tok star was booked for allegedly firing two firearms at Lehal Kalan village near Lehragaga while shooting a video for the popular video-sharing social networking service on Friday. Three people who provided him with the firearms, including his father, were also booked. The accused are 22-year-old Mandeep Singh alias Rinku, and his father Gurmail Singh of Lehal Kalan, Jaswinder Singh of Lehra and an unknown person.Rinku allegedly fired shots from a .32 bore pistol and a .12 bore double barrel gun in an agricultural field on June 10. The pistol belonged to Jaswinder and the .12 bore gun belonged to Gurmail .A case was also registered against the owners of the firearms under the Arms Act for creating panic and promoting gun culture at Lehra police station.Rinku and his companions are absconding but police teams are conducting raids to arrest them.The complainant, Varider Singh alias Dhakar, who filed a police complaint, showed the police some Tik Tok videos in which Rinku can be seen firing from a pistol on Punjabi songs. Lehra police station SHO Ravinder Bhalla said, “The accused fired in the air, which panicked the locals. Police will not tolerate promotion of gun culture and the accused will be arrested soon.” A case was registered under Section 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25, 27, 29 and 30 of Arms Act at Lehra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-booked-for-firing-in-the-air-while-shooting-tik-tok-video-in-sangrur/story-LXquDRbDJBYiD7Zf8fot4L.html
13-06-2020||Football||Mohun Bagan not to reopen club tent from Monday due to spike in COVID cases||I-League champions Mohun Bagan on Saturday decided against reopening its club tent in the wake of the spike in COVID-19 cases in the city.Kolkata has recorded over 1,000 COVID-19 cases in the past 10 days, even as the number of positive patients in Bengal surged past the 10,000 mark on Friday.The Mariners’ tent was slated to reopen from Monday but the club, who have merged with Indian Super League champions ATK, said in a statement that they are reversing their earlier decision.“The situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic is very serious and the rate of infected people is drastically increasing everyday. We regret to inform you that in view of the prevailing situation and for the safety of all our members and supporters, the club management has decided not to open the club tent from Monday,” the club said in a statement.“We are keeping a close watch on the situation and will do periodical review,” it said.However, their merchandise would be available online and the details of the sale would be updated, the club said.West Bengal on Friday registered its highest single-day spike with 476 cases and the overall toll went up to 451 with nine more deaths.The situation has also delayed the launch of the merged entity, which is likely to be named as ATK-Mohun Bagan.The merged entity was slated for a June 1 launch but due to the pandemic the respective Boards’ meeting has not yet taken place.Sanjiv Goenka-owned RPSG Group has acquired a majority stake of 80 per cent in Mohun Bagan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/mohun-bagan-not-to-reopen-club-tent-from-monday-due-to-spike-in-covid-cases/story-E0cGrSvSZOGVQjEMc78eDJ.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||BJP steps up efforts to quell rebellion in Himachal||At a time when the opposition Congress has mounted an attack on the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in Himachal Pradesh in the backdrop of the health department scam, the Bharatiya Janata Party high command has swung into action to quell fresh rebellion in the party.The high command has sought a report on the dissidence in its state unit. The move follows Jwalamukhi legislator Ramesh Chand Dhawala, who is also the chairman of the state planning board, opening a front against state unit organising secretary Pawan Rana recently.Dhawala, a four-time legislator, vented his ire against Rana at the BJP legislature party meeting to counter Congress attacks on the government that became intense after BJP state president Rajeev Bindal stepped down as his name was dragged into the bribe for purchase of medical equipment controversy.Legislators from the Kangra region, which has 15 assembly segments, too joined the chorus but later backtracked. Dhawala, who was keen on a ministerial berth after the BJP won a majority in the 2017 elections, alleged that Rana was interfering in the day-to-day functioning of his constituency, while his supporters were facing humiliation.‘IT WAS AN EMOTIONAL OUTBURST’On Saturday, however, Dhawala apologised for his remarks against Rana. “It was an emotional outburst,” he said in a letter to the state BJP leadership. “I have always worked for strengthening the party and had no intention to hurt the government or the organisation,” he said.The former minister said that he had some issues which he raised with the chief minister who has assured to resolve them at the earliest after discussing them on the party platform. “I sincerely apology for the remarks which I made in the media driven by emotions,” he said.Earlier, chief minister Thakur had convened the meeting of BJP legislators from Kangra at his house over lunch in a bid to placate them. Most of them fell in line but Dhawala was defiant. He said he remained with the party in thick and thin and alleged that some new leaders were trying to create a space for themselves and destroying party cadres. Dhawala accused Rana of giving preference to Congress workers in his constituency. He said he had written to Thakur and national BJP president Jagat Parkash Nadda to apprise them of Rana’s “arbitrary functioning”.After fresh infighting, the BJP went into damage control mode with leaders denying that the meeting had anything to do with party matters. Rather, they said, the meeting was convened to review developmental works in Kangra.“Legislators from Kangra could not raise issues pertaining to their constituencies during the meeting so the chief minister convened an informal meeting at his residence,” Nurpur legislator Rakesh Pathania later said.BINDAL TO RANA’S DEFENCEBindal also defended Rana, saying he had been instrumental in strengthening the party at the grassroots. “Using harsh language against him was uncalled for,” Bindal said.The rebellion comes three weeks after leaders owing allegiance to former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal stepped up their activities in Kangra district, known for tilting the political scales. The Dhumal group led by former irrigation and public health minister Ravinder Singh Ravi along with Kangra Lok Sabha member Kishan Kapoor and others had met in Dharamshala to discuss the political scenario in the state after Bindal’s resignation. Dhumal’s group had been lying low ever since his unexpected defeat in the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-steps-up-efforts-to-quell-rebellion-in-himachal/story-58tq2BRJF2LwlEforr9SEP.html
13-06-2020||Real||Builders’ body to train youth from villages near Mumbai to tackle labour shortage||As economic activities pick up pace in India with industries re-opening after an over two-month long hiatus, many sectors including the construction business are still finding it difficult to cope due to a lack of workers, many of whom returned to their native places during the lockdown imposed to curb Covid-19 disease.To overcome this shortage of workers, the Builders Association of India (BAI) has put forward a proposal to train unemployed local youth from villages near Mumbai, according to a report in web portal ETRealty dot com.The association intends to take the help of NGOs in finding such youth and train them in various trades such as carpentry, masonry, etc.“By finding unemployed youth who are interested in working as carpenters, masons, fitter etc,with the help of NGOs, they can be trained accordingly,” Mohinder Rijhwani, the newly appointed Chairman of Builders Association of India’s Mumbai Centre, was quoted in the report. “The industry will thus be able to find skilled workers and tide over the shortage on one hand and the local youth can get the jobs on the other,” he added.The training centres for skill development will be set up the BAI with the help of the Maharashtra government. The issue of lack of workers is being faced not just by construction business but by almost every industry ever since lakhs of migrant workers went back to their native towns and villages on Shramik Special trains started by the Indian Railways on May 1.This has led companies to becoming proactive in wooing back the migrant workers by adopting measures such as paying the workers’ train – and in some cases, even flight - fare, offering higher wages and better working conditions.In the midst of efforts to bring the economy back on track, the number of coronavirus cases in India continue to rise. With more than 11,000 new Covid-19 cases recorded between Friday and Saturday, the country’s total count has crossed the three-lakh mark, standing at 308,993, as per the Union health ministry data. The death toll from the infection is now at 8,884.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/builders-body-to-train-youth-from-villages-near-mumbai-to-tackle-labour-shortage/story-keXDmcorqAvSxoZluZh7YI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||It is inappropriate for any BJP leader to publically criticise a senior party leader: Former Himachal BJP chief||Former Himachal Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Dr Rajeev Bindal on Saturday said it was inappropriate for any BJP leader to make a statement against a senior party leader.Bindal was defended party organisation general secretary Pawan Rana, whom Jawalamukhi legislator Ramesh Dhawala called a black sheep for interfering in Kangra. In a statement, Bindal said the BJP was an ideological organisation, not a specific person, or a means of gaining power. “Leaders such as Dr Syama Prasad Mukherjee, Deendayal Upadhyaya, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, LK Advani and numerous workers have worked hard to build the party,” he said. Bindal said Pawan Rana had been working for social and national causes for the last 25 years. Disrespecting him was tantamount to disrespecting the party. Bindal said all decisions made within the party are made collectively and blaming one person was wrong.“Rana has worked very hard to ensure the progress of organisation. He has put his health on stake, left his family and renounced other pleasures for the organisation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/it-is-inappropriate-for-any-bjp-leader-to-publically-criticise-a-senior-party-leader-former-himachal-bjp-chief/story-jdZnFa1pPyWcsvdXPcNx3J.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||10,000 beds under sprawling tent: Delhi may get China-like makeshift hospital to fight virus||The Delhi government is planning a 10,000-bed makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients under a sprawling tent in south Delhi to prepare for a projected surge in cases in the city.The planned COVID-19 facility will come up at the south Delhi campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas.The lush green campus is located near the Delhi-Haryana border. The COVID-19 facility, which will be 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide, will have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each, said Vikas Sethi, secretary of Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Bhati Mines.This makeshift hospital will be the largest such facility in the city so far. The work is expected to be completed by the end of June, he said.The metal tent has lights and fans installed. Coolers will be needed considering the heat. The medical staff can also be accommodated in a building on the campus, he added.The spiritual organisation gave its approval for the makeshift hospital two-three days ago.According to the Delhi government’s estimates, coronavirus cases in the national capital are likely to breach the 5 lakh-mark by the end of July. Around one lakh beds will be needed for COVID-19 patients.The city has a total 9,647 dedicated COVID-19 beds in state-run, central and private hospitals. Of these, 5,402 are occupied.The Delhi government has also started the process to identify community halls and stadiums which can be converted into makeshift COVID-19 hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/10-000-beds-under-sprawling-tent-delhi-may-get-china-like-makeshift-hospital-to-fight-virus/story-bP6Mm6HYM2ZsMcmBfFPtHJ.html
13-06-2020||Lucknow||Anti-Covid fight is a war against invisible enemy: CM Adityanath||Terming the government efforts to curb the COVID-19 pandemic as a “war against an invisible enemy”, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officials to ensure proper arrangements in hospitals to treat patients. Chairing a meeting of senior UP government officials at his residence here, Adityanath said, “The war against COVID-19 is a war against an invisible enemy. Until an effective medicine or vaccine is developed for the treatment of COVID-19, prevention is the only way out.” Instructing officials to ensure proper arrangements in COVID-19 hospitals, he said, “The oxygen level of the COVID-19 patients should be monitored time-to-time using Pulse Oxymeter.” The chief minister added that awareness about the disease too should be spread to the maximum possible limit so that people can keep themselves safe from infection. Adityanath also said the common public should be told that by hiding COVID-19 symptoms, treatment is not possible, one should consult a doctor at the earliest, if symptoms appear. He also emphasised on disciplined livings to avoid COVID-19 after unlocking of the state. Terming human resource as the backbone of economy and industry, he said a large number of workers are now available in the state and they should be fully utilized. “Human resources are the backbone of industry sector. A large number of workers are now available in the state. They have built the nation and the society. The workers who have returned to the state will now do ‘nav nirmaan’ of UP through their hard work,” said the CM. Adityanath also directed the Industrial Development Department and MSME Department to explore employment opportunities for workers. He said a manpower supply app should be developed by industrial units and service providers. He also asked state police force to conduct intensive patrolling to ensure that no crowd gathers at any place, a state government said, quoting the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/anti-covid-fight-is-a-war-against-invisible-enemy-cm-adityanath/story-9s2VpubvhN9eVGHjYexU1J.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Security guard kills another, sets body on fire in Delhi’s C R Park area||A 56-year-old security guard allegedly killed another guard and set the body on fire after quarrelling with him while they were drinking in south Delhi’s C R Park area, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday, they. Police said a local called them around 1.25 pm on Friday, after seeing smoke billowing from the basement of the building where the accused guard lived. When a police team reached the spot, the guard, Imrat Singh, a resident of Madhya Pradesh, said he lit the fire to repel mosquitoes. However, a body was found after the fire was doused, a senior police officer said. “Imrat told police that he killed one Sarnam Singh (56), a resident of Uttar Pradesh around 11 am on Friday after consuming liquor. He also admitted to burning the body of the victim. The victim was also a security guard in G.K-2 area,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. A case of murder was registered at C R Park Police Station and the accused arrested, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/security-guard-kills-another-sets-body-on-fire-in-delhi-s-c-r-park-area/story-jvs8JSkxS6BpYcan4FcmKP.html
13-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s ample water stock eases immediate effect of delayed monsoon||Even as south-west monsoon is at least two days late in Pune, four dams that provide water to the city already have ample stock, according to officials.These four dams – Khadakwasla, Panshet, Temghar and Warasgaon – added 1.5 TMC water in the first week of June, thanks to cyclone Nisarga, which triggered heavy rainfall in Pune district.As on June 11, water stock at Khadakwasla dam was recorded at 54.39 per cent filled while Panset has 28.11 per cent water, Varasagaon 20.54 per cent, and Temghar has zero stock due to repaid work.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) official in Pune, monsoon advanced into nearby districts of Pune while the city was yet to receive rains till Friday. Baramati received its first monsoon rains. Conditions are also becoming favourable for southwest monsoon to advance in Mumbai.Anupam Kashyapi, IMD director, said, “Monsoon has arrived in south Maharashtra, but not in Pune.”“Today monsoon arrived in some more parts of Maharashtra. The onset line passes through, Harnai, Baramati, Beed, Wardha, Raipur, Sambalpur... Conditions are fav for further advancement into some more parts of remaining parts of Mah including Mumbai in next 48 hrs. Heavy RF warnings,” (sic) tweeted KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of meteorology, IMD, Mumbai.“The rainfall was good last year. Last week of rainfall added more stock into the dam storage. We are expecting good rains for this season as well,” said an irrigation official on condition of anonymity, adding even in case rains get delayed, there will not be a water shortage in Pune city.On Friday for most of the day, the climate in Pune was humid with cloudy skies as rain eluded the city. Meanwhile, IMD has predicted moderate to heavy rains in Pune city on Saturday.According to IMD, heavy rains are expected to hit ghat areas while the city will receive moderate to heavy rains. The maximum temperature will be 29 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature will be 23 degrees Celsius.Areas in Pimpri-Chinchwad too received heavy rainfall for half an hour, inundating some roads.“I was about to leave for my home and rain started to pour down heavily. I had wrapped up all my vegetable so it was not spoilt,” said Santosh Patil, a vegetable vendor at Thergaon.Storage in damsKhadakwasla 54.39%Panseth 28.11%Varasgaon: 20.54%Temghar: NilWeather forecast for next three daysJune 13: Moderate to heavy rains in city very likely (heavy rains in ghat areas)June 14: Moderate to heavy rains in city very likely (heavy rains in ghat areas)June 15: Moderate rains in city very likely (heavy rains in ghat areas)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-ample-water-stock-eases-immediate-effect-of-delayed-monsoon/story-9S5NjfrC0gIjYXC3thOdTL.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Man held for stabbing mother-in-law to death||A 44-year-old man was arrested for allegedly stabbing his mother-in-law to death at Virar in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, police said on Saturday.The police on Friday arrested Manvelpada resident Rakesh Kadrekar after he allegedly stabbed his mother-in-law Malini Salve (62) to death during a domestic dispute, an official said.The incident took place on Friday morning, when the accused picked a quarrel with his wife Shraddha and Salve and the couple’s 14-year-old son intervened, the official said.The accused, in a fit of rage, attacked the elderly victim with a knife, following which she sustained serious injuries and died on the spot, he said.The victim’s body was sent for post-mortem, while a case has been registered against Kadrekar under section 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC at Virar police station, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-man-held-for-stabbing-mother-in-law-to-death/story-pm47G79FuLUo9zQn49gtyN.html
13-06-2020||Pune||The walk of faith: physically distanced, with safety top priority||The 335th annual palkhi of Sant Tukaram Maharaj pilgrimage to Pandharpur began on Friday at Dehu sans the usual lakhs of believers, amid the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic.Only 50 people were allowed inside the main temple at Dehu for the ‘Palkhi Prasthanam,’ as per orders by the state government.Madhukar Maharaj More, president, Sant Tukaram Maharaj Dehu Sansthan, performed the puja of ‘paduka’ and palakhi. On this occasion, Shrirang Barne, member of parliament, MLA Sunil Shelke along with his wife Sarika Shelke, Geeta Gaikwad, tehsildar, Dehu and few other officials were present during the occasion.“Safety of devotees is our priority during this Covid-19 pandemic. During the puja all safety precautions were followed,” said More.State deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had held a meeting with members of the Sant Tukaram Maharaj and Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Sansthan, along with Pune district collector and other government officials regarding the traditional event. It was then decided that only the ‘Prasthanam’ will be done and later on the ‘Paduka’s’ of both the saints will be taken in a vehicle to Pandharpur.Heavy police bandobast was deployed in and around Dehu village so that warkaris and the common public do not join the event at Dehu. Taking all the safety precautions as per traditional rituals the Palakhi moved out from the temple at around 2 pm.Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector, said, “Dehu and Alandi both the villages do not come under the containment zones in Pune district, still all the social distancing norms and precautionary measures need to be followed by people.”Meanwhile, lakhs of devotees could watch the event live through news channels and videos released by the temple administration and other online portals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/the-walk-of-faith-physically-distanced-with-safety-top-priority/story-R28eoipV87JiuFoZDicQaN.html
13-06-2020||Pune||Fake currency racket: Counterfeit notes procured from Mumbai, Hyderabad||Pune: After a day’s interrogation, the Pune police crime branch officials have learned that the accused men in the fake currency racket had procured the Rs 1,000 counterfeit notes from markets in Mumbai and Hyderabad. To convince the customers, arrested persons to pretend as descendants of “Royal Family of Nizam” by showing the picture of Nizam put up before their bunglow. On June 10, there were two types of Rs 1,000 notes that were seized from a Sanjay Park bungalow in Viman nagar, Pune. While the ones procured from Mumbai were colourful, the ones procured from Hyderabad had a colour scheme similar to the demonetised Rs 1,000 notes.In total, 3.18 lakh notes of the entire Children’s Bank notes found in the house were of Rs 1,000 denomination, according to the police submission in a local court in Pune.The aim for the stacking of notes was to show availability through videos and photos that were spread within their network of potential customers.“They kept a newspaper on top of the bundles and shot a video to show the number of notes available. The notes were merely for the video from what we have gathered so far,” said police inspector Anjum Bagwan of unit 4 of the crime branch of Pune police.Bagwan said, “the six accused often lied to customers while citing Royal Family leanings. They used to tell customers that they are Nizam’s descendants and had put pictures of Nizam outside their bungalow.” Three among the six accused were instrumental in circulating the videos.“So far they claim to have circulated 20-25 videos of notes with newspaper on it. Once the video was circulated, they would ask for Rs 50,000 cash payment,” said PI Bagwan.However, the method of cheating after the initial cash was delivered by the customers is not yet clear.The arrested men were identified as lance naik Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan, 36, member of the Indian Army bank at Bombay Sappers; Sunil Badrinarayan Sarda, 40, from Kondhwa, Pune; Ritesh Ratnakar, 34, from Kamothe, Navi Mumbai; and Tufail Ahmed Mohammad Ishaq Khan, 28, Abdulgani Rehmtullah Khan, 43, and his son Abdul Rehman Abdulgani Khan, 19, of Meera Road in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fake-currency-racket-counterfeit-notes-procured-from-mumbai-hyderabad/story-pIlFE3zBLh5ewaxPIWdwVP.html
13-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurgaon sees 6-fold increase in deaths, cases rise over 3.5 times: Data||Gurgaon in Haryana, one of the worst-hit districts in the country by the coronavirus pandemic, has recorded a six-fold increase in deaths, while the cases have gone up more than three-and-a-half times between May 31 and June 11, data showed on Friday.Of the nearly 6,000 total cases in Haryana, Gurgaon alone accounts for more than 45 per cent and 19 out of the total 64 Covid-19 related deaths in the state.The two other worst-hit districts are — Faridabad and Sonipat, which, like Gurgaon, fall in the National Capital Region next to Delhi. Together, these three districts account for more than 4,000 cases and 46 of the 64 deaths as on June 11.By May 31, Gurgaon had three deaths and 774 Covid-19 cases (487 active). But by June 11, the numbers rose to 19 fatalities and 2,737 cases (1,760 active).Gurgaon reported six deaths on a single day on June 11, the health department data showed.Between May 31 and June 11, Haryana as a whole recorded a three-fold increase in coronavirus deaths and cases, from 20 to 64 and 2,091 to 5,968 respectively.The COVID-19 positive rate went up from 1.84 per cent to 3.80 per cent during the period and the fatality rate increased from 0.96 per cent to 1.07 per cent. The rate of doubling of cases accelerated from 9 to 7 days, and the recovery rate dropped to 37.87 per cent from 50.12 per cent, according to the data.In Faridabad, the total cases rose from 367 and eight fatalities on May 31 to 929 cases and 22 deaths by June 11.In Sonipat, the total cases rose from 199 and one death on May 31 to 502 and five deaths by June 11.Gurgaon’s Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav said a majority of the 19 patients who died in the district either had co-morbid conditions or were aged above 60 years.“The patients either had co-morbid conditions including cardiac issues, diabetes, other severe ailments or were above 60 years of age,” Dr Yadav told PTI over the phone.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajiv Arora too said most of the patients who died across the state had severe co-morbid conditions.Yadav, who was the CMO of the adjoining Nuh district, joined as CMO Gurgaon replacing Dr J S Punia, who amid rising cases in the “millennium city”, was transferred to Nuh.Yadav, credited with controlling spread of the pandemic to a large extent in Nuh, which has a total over 100 cases with no fatality, said his immediate priority was to have results of samples processed within 36 hours which at present was 4-5 days in Gurgaon.When results are available in a shorter span of time, it helps in quickly tracing the patient’s contact and taking remedial measures, Yadav said.Arora, when asked about the sudden rise in cases, especially in Gurgaon and Faridabad, said on Thursday, “we are alive and alert”.Asked if Gurgaon was heading towards community transmission, he said the district’s population was nearly 2 million and going by the number of active cases, that wasn’t the case.He said more than 75 lakh people live in the four districts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, and there are around 2,600 active cases in these areas, which is why this cannot be called community spread.Increasing sampling, better contact-tracing, tracking those with travel history and house-to-house search by health workers, especially among the vulnerable sections of society, were some of the measures which the health department was taking, Arora said. As cases continued to mount from the NCR districts, Health Minister Anil Vij recently said he was concerned at the rate at which infections were spreading in areas adjoining the national capital.He cited movement of people from Delhi into these districts of Haryana as the reason behind the surge in cases.Vij, who is also the home minister, had imposed stricter restrictions on inter-state borders, especially in the districts that share borders with Delhi, including Gurgaon.For the time being, shopping malls and places of worship have not been reopened for the public in Gurgaon and Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/from-june-1-gurgaon-sees-6-fold-increase-in-deaths-cases-rise-over-3-5-times-data/story-D3mFINwvdmn65uRcKetsdN.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||NDMC municipal health officer tests Covid-19 positive||The municipal health officer of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) on Saturday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and is admitted to a private hospital here.Dr Ashok Rawat said he got to know about the infection on Friday.“Yes, I have tested positive for Covid-19. We are in the frontline of this battle, so chances of such people getting infected is higher. I have got myself admitted to a private hospital,” he said.Many civic officials, doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and other staffers of the municipal corporations in Delhi have tested positive till date.A junior engineer employed with NDMC died of Covid-19 on June 1.In the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, a sanitation worker succumbed to the disease in late May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-municipal-health-officer-tests-covid-19-positive/story-BCILwXn67L7jV9Lwv1PqfO.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two people test positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda, Ferozepur||Two people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Bathinda and Ferozepur on Saturday.Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Sandhu said a 32-year person, who had recently returned from Ahmedabad, and had been quarantine at home since had tested positive.The patient had come into contact with a staffer at the local civil hospital and efforts are on to trace other contacts, Sandhu said. The patient is treated at the isolation facility.In the second case, a 27-year-old pregnant woman tested positive at Ferozepur’s Talwandi Bhai town. A spokesperson of the district administration said health authorities were trying to ascertain her primary contacts. She is being treated at the isolation centre in Ferozepur district.…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bathinda-muktsar/story-fpsxtZp8rEizsIjAg1plNM.html
13-06-2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 spreads tentacles in Madhya Pradesh villages; rural tally at 951||At least 951 persons from 462 villages in Madhya Pradesh have tested positive for novel coronavirus, a latest report from the state government has said.According to the report, the disease has spread its tentacles in 50 districts of the state, infecting 951 people from the rural areas, of which 32 have died.The revelation has come at a time when the state government claims that the impact of the outbreak has weakened in Madhya Pradesh.Earlier this week, state Health Minister Narottam Mishra had said that Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan had directed officials to focus on capital city Bhopal, as the situation in other parts of the state was under control.Among the 951 Covid-19 patients in rural areas, 479 were labourers, including migrants who returned to the state following the lockdown, the latest panchayat and rural department’s report stated.As per the data, 336 people were infected in rural Madhya Pradesh on May 21 and of them, 130 were labourers and 206 were other villagers.Swab samples of 29,881 people have been collected for testing from rural areas of the state so far, it stated.The infection, which was detected in 186 villages on May 21, has spread to 462 villages in just 22 days, the report revealed.Incidentally, none of the villages in Hoshangabad and Niwari districts have reported a single case of Covid-19 so far, the report said.According to the data, villages in Indore district have recorded the highest number of rural Covid-19 cases with 90 persons testing positive for the infection, followed by 51 in the villages of Khargone, 50 in Bhind, 43 in Neemuch, 42 in Gwalior and 41 in Burhanpur.At least 14 people have succumbed to the infection in eight villages of Indore, with six deaths reported from Baank village alone.Meanwhile, additional chief secretary of the Panchayat and Rural Development department Manoj Shrivastava said the state government was working hard to contain the viral spread in rural areas.Over 14.82 lakh migrant labourers had returned to their homes from other states so far, he said.Presently, 12,04,315 migrant labourers and villagers were home quarantined or put in isolation centres, the official said.The state government was also working towards providing jobs, food and healthcare facilities to migrant labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/covid-19-spreads-tentacles-in-madhya-pradesh-villages-rural-tally-at-951/story-MyloVMXoRTiFfHWNagc0TL.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Eleven people test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Mohali district||Five children and three women tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Mubarakpur village of Dera Bassi while three men were found infected in Baltana, Zirakpur, taking the Mohali district’s count to 160 on Saturday. Of these, 40 cases remain active, as 117 people have been cured while three have succumbed to the disease so far.The eight patients from Mubarakpur are neighbours and family members of a 43-year-old man who had tested positive upon returning from Delhi, said civil surgeon Manjit Singh, adding that the area had been sealed and the patients shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur.The patients include three women, aged 25, 32 and 47, four girls, aged 4, 8, 12 and 14, and a seven-year-old boy.“All of them live along a very narrow street in the village and were using the common toilet,” said Kuldeep Bawa, subdivisional magistrate, Dera Bassi. “The health department had taken samples of 46 suspects from the village. Other than the eight persons’ reports, others were negative. Another 20 samples have been taken on Saturday,” said the civil surgeon. “The affected area of ​​the village has been completely cordoned off and people living in the vicinity have also been directed to stay indoors. Teams from health and police departments have been deployed in the village.”The three positive cases in Baltana include two men, aged 43 and 54, who are contacts of a patient from Dera Bassi, and a 23-year-old man, who is a contact of a positive patient from Chandigarh.Meanwhile, a Delhi resident, who was being treated for renal problems at a private hospital in Mohali, has also tested positive. His case will be added to the national capital’s tally. Also, a 68-year-old woman, who had tested positive in Zirakpur on Friday, has been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, from a private hospital. The woman had recently returned from Saharanpur in UP after visiting her daughter. She was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali after she complained of breathlessness and later tested positive.The civil surgeon urged people to visit hospitals in case of any serious problem only. Otherwise, they should contact the health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-mohali-district/story-loOhmgrcYzc89opxEmKSGK.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt slashes charges for Covid-19 tests by private labs||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said that the government has reduced the rates of the Covid-19 tests conducted by private laboratories from Rs 4,500 to Rs 2,200.Talking to PTI, Tope said the lowering of rates for the tests would provide a relief to the people.“Rs 2,200 will be charged for collecting the swabs through viral transport media (VTM) from hospitals, while it would cost Rs 2,800 for collection of swab from home. Earlier, the charges were Rs 4,500 and Rs 5,200 respectively,” he said.The revised rates are the maximum these labs can charge. District collectors can negotiate with private labs to reduce the rates further, Tope said.“If the private labs charge more than the prescribed upper limit, legal action would be taken against them,” he said, claiming that the new rates will be the lowest in the country.The minister said that at present, there are 91 labs in the state for COVID-19 testing and about four to five are in the pipeline. According to him, the government had last week formed a four-member committee to fix the rates of Covid-19 tests conducted by authorised private laboratories in the state.State Health Assurance Society CEO Sudhakar Shinde headed the committee, which had Joint Director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research Ajay Chandanwale and Grant Government Medical College and Hospital professor Amita Joshi as its members and Health Services director as member secretary.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed 44 government and 36 private laboratories in the state to carry out coronavirus tests.While the tests are free at the government-run laboratories, the ICMR had fixed charges at private labs at Rs 4,500. The committee was formed as the ICMR had conveyed to negotiate with private labs and revise the rates. The kits required for conducting the tests were being imported earlier when the charges of tests at private laboratories were fixed by the ICMR.However, as the kits are being manufactured in the country itself, the ICMR had conveyed to hold talks with the private laboratories and fix the test rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-slashes-charges-for-covid-19-tests-by-private-labs/story-zNnMnN7oJ9tq3RRp6wQBgP.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 49%: Data||Out of more than 94,000 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra, 46,330 or 49% have recovered, according to the state government’s health department.Maharashtra has recorded 101,141 infections and 3,717 people have died due to Covid-19 till Saturday morning, according to the state’s health department. The analysis is available for 94,031 cases, it said.Out of these 94,031 Covid-19 patients, 36,035 or 38% are asymptomatic and 6,290 or 7% have symptoms of the disease, data showed. Two per cent or 1,761 of these patients are critical and 4% or 3,615 have succumbed due to the disease.Also read: Slum dwellers allege city hospital charged exorbitant bills for Covid-19 treatment, Bombay HC seeks report from charity commissionerAccording to the analysis of data of 44,086 Covid-19 patients admitted in various hospitals in Maharashtra, 36,035 or 82% of people are asymptomatic and 6,290 or 14% are symptomatic. There are 1,761 or 4% of patients are critical, it said.The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the one-lakh mark on Friday after 3,493 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. According to the state’s health department bulletin released on Friday, 1,718 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of recovered patients in the state to 47,796.While Maharashtra is the worst-affected state in the country, Mumbai leads among cities with over 55,000 cases and 2,044 deaths. Also read: Covid-19 infection rate jumped by 21% in 12 days in Delhi, recovery rate droppedMumbai registered 1,366 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours and also reported 90 deaths in the same period, taking the number of casualties in the metropolis to 2,044.Pune with 9,581 Covid-19 cases and 419 deaths is Maharashtra’s second-worst affected city followed by Aurangabad with 2,351 cases and 123 deaths; Solapur 1,501 cases and 113 deaths; Akola 906 cases and 34 deaths and Nagpur with 903 cases and 12 deaths, as per data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-is-49-data/story-5aqx6xG1WHHou8NYXUKWTP.html
13-06-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: IIT Kharagpur researchers develop AI-based system to track social distancing||A group of researchers at IIT- Kharagpur has developed a cyber-physical system based on artificial intelligence for monitoring social distancing in public places, an official said on Saturday.The team, under the leadership of professor Debashish Chakravarty and professor Aditya Bandopadhyay, has engineered a low-cost device which can detect the gap between individuals, a spokesperson of IIT-KGP said.“The device will play a proximity alert sound through audio output, whenever any violation of the social distancing norms occurs. It captures images of the field view and computes the distance as per criteria set by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,” a member of the research group said.The researchers had focused on the ease of deployment of such a device in remote places and curtailing the cost by using inexpensive and easily accessible hardware materials, he said.Students have come up with the device leveraging readily-available hardware while the lockdown was in place, the spokesperson said.The system has been successfully tested by installing three prototypes of the device within the IIT-Kharagpur campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-iit-kharagpur-researchers-develop-ai-based-system-to-track-social-distancing/story-N2f70JhUZ8gJWPsJzzrmTJ.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three killed as vehicle plunges into gorge in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district||Three people were killed in a road mishap in Himachal’s Mandi district on Friday night. The victims are Bhupinder Sharma, 24, Lovedeep, 18, of Mandi and Nidhi Singh, 32, a resident of Mehva village in Kangra district.The pick-up jeep they were travelling in plunged into a gorge near Kamand, killing one person immediately.The vehicle was spotted by some local residents who immediately informed the police. Police and ambulance reached the spot and rescued the injured and recovered the dead body.The two others were rushed to the zonal hospital in Mandi where one of them succumbed to injuries while the other was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, but died on the way.Mandi superintendent of police (SP) Gurdev Sharma confirmed the report. The victims’ bodies have been handed over to their families after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-killed-as-vehicle-plunges-into-gorge-in-himachal-pradesh-s-mandi-district/story-3HtdZtGcMynSLnya19lFfO.html
13-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan registers 12,186 Covid-19 cases, death toll at 275||Three deaths and 118 fresh cases of coronavirus were reported in Rajasthan on Saturday, taking the total number of fatalities and positive cases to 275 and 12,186, respectively, officials said. Two deaths were reported from Jaipur and one from Bharatpur on Saturday, they said. Meanwhile, 118 patients tested positive for coronavirus, the officials said. Among the fresh cases, 39 were reported from Bharatpur while Pali recorded 34 cases, followed by 19 in Jaipur, five in Ajmer, four in Nagaur, three each in Churu, Dungarpur, and Kota, two each in Alwar, Barmer and Tonk, and one in Jhalawar besides a case from other state, Health Department officials said. A total of 9,175 people have been discharged till date and there are now 2,736 active cases in the state, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-registers-12-186-covid-19-cases-death-toll-at-275/story-FsMtZ5vlt1pMaHubTKDaAN.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Malerkotla man succumbs to Covid-19 at Rajindra hospital||A 65-year-old Malerkotla resident succumbed to Covid-19 at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Saturday. With this, Sangrur district has reported three deaths in four days. All three deaths have been recorded from Malerkotla town of the district, which has reported 17 out of 33 cases.The victim was admitted to Rajindra hospital on June 10 after he tripped at his residence on June 4. On Friday, a 52-year-old woman had succumbed to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at Rajindra hospital, Patiala. The victim, a resident of Malerkotla town, was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension.Sangrur had recorded its first Covid-19 death on Wednesday after a 70-year-old Malerkotla resident succumbed to the disease at a Patiala hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/malerkotla-man-succumbs-to-covid-19-at-rajindra-hospital/story-LLGTrqGQJDTKLG0lZuR8XI.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Maximum Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra in 31-40 age group: Data||The age group of the maximum number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the worst-hit state of Maharashtra is between 31 and 40 years, state government’s data showed on Saturday.An analysis of the 97,407 Covid-19 cases indicates that there are 19,523 or 20.04% people between the ages of 31 to 40 who are among those who have contracted the respiratory disease in the state.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra has recorded 101,141 infections and 3,717 people have died due to Covid-19 till Saturday morning, according to the state’s health department. The analysis is available for 97,407 cases, it said.ALSO WATCH | AIIMS director explains why Covid deaths are more important than casesThe next age group to be infected most by Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease, in Maharashtra is between 41 and 50 years. And, there are 17,573 people or 18.04% in this age group, according to the data.Contrary to the perception that the elderly are the most vulnerable, 9,991 or 10.26% people between the ages of 61 and 70 years are the third most group to have contracted the disease. And, 4,223 or only 4.34% of people are among those between 71 to 80 years to have been infected.There are 3,225 or 3.31% of children up to 10 years and 6,262 or 6.43% among those between 11 to 20 years who have Covid-19.The health department said that an analysis of 97,635 Covid-19 patients in terms of genderwise distribution of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra shows there is more number of men than women who have been infected by the virus.There are 60,596 or 62% male patients of the coronavirus disease against 37,039 or 38% females.The report also shows that the Covid-19 mortality rate of Maharashtra was 3.68%, which is the fifth-highest in the country after Gujarat, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maximum-covid-19-patients-in-maharashtra-in-31-40-age-group-data/story-nwF3NzKS0AH9KJ9Y8cQXvI.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Slum dwellers allege city hospital charged exorbitant bills for Covid-19 treatment, Bombay HC seeks report from charity commissioner||The Bombay high court (HC) has ordered the Charity Commissioner, Maharashtra, to submit a report by June 19 on whether KJ Somaiya Hospital and Research Centre, a charitable institution, provides free treatment for 10% of its beds reserved for underprivileged patients after seven slum-dwellers from Bharat Nagar in Mumbai’s Bandra (West) filed a petition that the medical facility had charged them an exorbitant amount to treat for the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19).A two-member bench of the HC, comprising Justices RD Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar, has ordered an inquiry to be conducted under the supervision of the Charity Commissioner, Maharashtra, to ascertain whether the charitable hospital provides free treatment for 10% of its beds reserved for underprivileged patients, or the poor slum-dwellers’ charges hold good.The plea, filed through advocate Vivek Shukla, said the seven slum-dwellers were admitted to the charitable hospital between April 11 and 28 for the treatment of Covid-19. The hospital authorities allegedly charged Rs 12.50 lakh for the treatment of the Bharat Nagar slum residents.The petitioners alleged that they were charged for services such as anesthesia, even though none of those were required for their treatment.They also alleged that though the hospital is run by a charitable trust and is availing of several facilities provided by the Maharashtra government, it is not providing mandatory free treatment to poor patients.The court took exception to the allegations made in the plea and directed the hospital authorities to file an affidavit by June 19, citing whether similar charges were recovered from other Covid-19 patientsThe court will hear the case next on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/slum-dwellers-allege-city-hospital-charged-exorbitant-bills-for-covid-19-treatment-bombay-hc-seeks-report-from-charity-commissioner/story-jhVkLbWKTq3QuG8JNZoYPJ.html
13-06-2020||Noida||Noida, Greater Noida residents can use helpline for scheduling Covid tests||There are eight sample collection centres for Covid-19 testing in Noida and Greater Noida and residents can use a dedicated helpline for appointment, officials in Gautam Buddh Nagar said on Friday.The helpline number is 18004192211, the officials said.In Noida, the collection centres are at the District Hospital in Sector 30, the new district hospital building in Sector 39, the Community Health Care Centre in Bhangel, District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.In Greater Noida, the centres are at primary health care centres at Bisrakh, Dankaur and Jewar and the CHC in Dadri, besides the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), he added.He said the protocols with regard to the accredited labs and selection of persons who are tested for Covid-19 is decided by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR).“All primary high-risk contacts and such persons exhibiting influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms and other categories of persons (including random sampling) are sampled and tested through the Covid labs,” Dohare said in a statement.“To make the experience seamless, we have dedicated special team of doctors who will ascertain your requirements, and get the testing schedule as per protocol. All people need to do is dial 18004192211 and press option 1 and provide their requirements after which the doctors will call and give time and date for sampling,” he said.District Magistrate Suhas L Y on Thursday said that 900 beds are available in Gautam Buddh Nagar across dedicated government and private facilities for Covid-19 patients.Responding in affirmative to a query on adequate beds for Covid patients, DM Suhas said presently around 250 patients are active in the district and total capacity of beds is 900 – 150 at GIMS, 50 at Child PGI, 400 at Sharda, 100 at Kailash and 200 at NIMS.At present, Covid-19 treatment is available at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), the District Hospital, the Noida Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) and private hospitals Sharda and Kailash.The DM said four new private hospitals -- Fortis, Jaypee, Kailash and Yatharth – will soon start functioning for Covid-19 treatment, but they will self-regulate the treatment cost.Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, in western Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded 830 positive cases of coronavirus, including 12 deaths, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-greater-noida-residents-can-use-helpline-for-scheduling-covid-tests/story-VOlvNiICnG0FJrdaWm9UyJ.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks report on protocol followed for testing high-risk asymptomatic Covid prisoners||A two-member division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday asked the additional director-general (ADG), prisons, Maharashtra, to submit a report on the protocol being followed in the state’s jails to test asymptomatic high-risk inmates, who have come in direct contact with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive prisoners.The division bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde, also sought to know from the ADG, prisons, about Covid-19 related fatality count of the inmates while conducting the hearing via video-conference facility because of the pandemic.The court asked these questions to ADG, prisons, in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Mumbai chapter of the People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL), the largest and the oldest human rights organisation in the country.PUCL has sought the court’s orders to provide information regarding the status of inmates’ health and the extent to which the viral infection might have spread among them, as they are lodged in congested jails across the state while pulling up the state government for a lack of transparency in voluntarily disclosing the details.The human rights body also sought directions to ensure that inmates have ample access to personal protective equipment (PPE) items such as face masks, hand sanitisers, etc; for free of cost.The petitioner also prayed for a report from the state prisons’ authorities regarding the precautionary measures being taken in the jails in their fight against the viral outbreak.The court’s directions came after the petitioner’s counsel, senior advocate Mihir Desai, pointed out that though 80 inmates of Solapur and Aurangabad correctional homes have tested Covid-19 positive, the asymptomatic inmates have not been tested in violation of the guidelines prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical of Research (ICMR).On Desai’s request, the court asked ADG, prisons, to consider allowing prisoners to interact more with their family members.The court also took note of Desai’s contention that 11,527 applications for temporary bail were still pending in lower courts, which tend to frustrate the spirit of the Supreme Court (SC) order directing states to decongest prisons following the viral outbreak over the last three months.The bench has called for a report from all principal district and sessions judges disclosing the exact number of urgent bail applications that are pending and the dates on which these applications were submitted.The court will hear the case next on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-report-on-protocol-followed-for-testing-high-risk-asymptomatic-covid-prisoners/story-McyWANxRsf6mFAZ9XgBRDL.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 infection rate jumped by 21% in 12 days in Delhi, recovery rate dropped||Delhi has seen a rise in the infection rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the number of patients recovering has come down in nearly a week. Data between May 30 to June 11 shows that the infection rate has increased by 21%, while the recovery rate has come down by 8%.A total of 58,732 investigations were conducted in Delhi from June 1 to June 11. Of these 14,743 people were found to be infected, which pushed the infection rate in June to more than 25%.Also read| Covid-19: India-specific clinical score may predict riskThe infection rate exceeded 35% for the first time in a single day on Thursday after report of 5,360 people came. Of these, 1,877 people were found infected or every third person who was investigated for Covid-19 in Delhi had contracted the respiratory disease.Doctors say that these figures are worrying. Dr Naval Kishore Vikram, a professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said the rapidly increasing infection rate can cause further difficulties in the coming years. He added that if the number of investigations in Delhi is increased to 10,000, then the number of infected people will be very high.“It will not be easy for us to have adequate health facilities for so many patients,” Vikram was quoted as saying by HT’s sister publication Hindustan.There has been a rapid decline in the recovery rate in Delhi, according to data.Also read: This 4-month-old spent 18 days on ventilator, beat Covid-19On May 30, 44% of the patients had recovered from Covid-19 but now the rate of recovery has come down even as the number of cases has increased. On June 11, patients recovering from the highly contagious infection remained just 36%. A total of 18,549 cases were reported on May 30 and 8,075 were cured but on June 11, the number of infected almost doubled to 34,678, while only 12,731 people have been cured so far.New Covid-19 infections crossed the 2,000-mark for the first time in Delhi and the death toll rose by 129, according to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin on Friday. Both the numbers were at their highest for a single day.The Capital now has 36,824 cases, up by 2,137 from the day before, and 1,214 deaths, which translates into a case fatality rate of 3.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-infection-rate-jumped-by-21-in-12-days-in-delhi-recovery-rate-dropped/story-m5sxHgcJqlMjBVnoyVbX9N.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||BSP members hold protest against police inaction in Mohali||Members of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) under district president Surinderpal Singh Sahora on Friday held a protest outside the SSP’s office in Sector 76, Mohali, over the molestation of a Dalit girl in Kubbaheri village.BSP state general secretary Rajinder Singh Nanherian raised the issue of atrocities committed against a Dalit family by a former minister in Majri block. He said if the police did not take immediate action, there would be a massive protest in the coming days.BSP district general secretary Sukhdev Singh Chapparchiri said that SP (city) Harwinder Singh Virk assured the victim’s family that due process will be followed. He strongly urged SHOs and investigating officers of the police stations concerned to conduct an impartial inquiry into the cases and bring victims to justice as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bsp-members-hold-protest-against-police-inaction-in-mohali/story-Bo1wWoDM42NmREtgOSykkO.html
13-06-2020||Pune||FIR against college in Pune for conducting exams amid Covid-19 crisis||An FIR has been registered against a college in Talegaon Dabhade of Pune district for holding a class 11 examination by calling students to the college despite restrictions imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The exams were conducted at a school for students studying in class 11th commerce of the school run by Snehavardhan education trust.Police, upon receiving information about the exam, reached the spot and found 27 students appearing for an exam. A case has been registered against 14 members of education trust in this connection.All members of the education board along with teachers present at the spot have been booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Madhusudan Barge, Tehsildar said, “We received information on Friday morning that an exam for 11th standard of Snehavardhak junior science and commerce college was being conducted. The information was received that exams (repeat exam) of students failed in 11th standard was being conducted here.”“We arrived at the spot and found that students were taking the exam in three different classrooms. A total of 27 students were called by the institute by messaging them about their exam timings and date. The government has banned such activities but still, students were called for exam and institute has violated the law and endangered the life of students,” Madhusudan Barge said.A probe is on, Barge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fir-against-college-in-pune-for-conducting-exams-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-ACeJOAuAVwV6gupvTb983H.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: In a rented room of her own||A small room stacked with books, a writing table, two single beds and two pairs of grilled windows. Plus, a terrace where she frequently strolls, gathers ideas and later jots them down in her journal.This is her world in north Delhi’s Roop Nagar. A 20-year-old final year grad student in Delhi University’s Kirori Mal College, she requested for only her first name to be used.Prachi lives alone in this rented apartment (she does have a mostly absent roomie). Here she spent the entire duration of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, though “I have to leave this room soon,” she reveals, her voice tinged with a hint of regret. “My college life will come to an end with the online exams in July.” Then she’ll have no choice but to pack her books, clothes and her ukulele, and return to her parents’ house in neighbouring Faridabad city “where I don’t know until how long I might have to stay... it all depends on the pandemic.”Prachi admits she will certainly miss her current life of being on her own: reading, writing, ordering books on net and patiently waiting for their delivery. And watching “all the sunrises and sunsets,” as well as the shifting daylight as it traverses around the interiors of her room from morning to evening. The young woman will be missing this locality of Roop Nagar, too. “It is true to its name, very beautiful. Quiet. Mostly residential. Lots of trees. Flowers blooming all year long. Many birds.”Standing by her writing table, she shows her journals—one is in English, the other is in Hindi. These days, apart from writing poetry, she is reading a lot of short stories “for I soon plan to write them myself.”Prachi answers a set of questions we have been asking people from diverse backgrounds as a way of getting a sense of day-to-day experiences during this history-making coronavirus pandemic.Things you’ll do after the pandemic is over.When this ends, I will walk in the crowded lanes of Chandni Chowk, looking upwards at the brilliant balconies and arches of seemingly regular houses and shops, drinking glass after glass of mohabbat sherbet. I will stroll along the lanes of Lodhi Art district, and inhale colourfulness to my heart’s delight. I will watch a sunset from the roof of Indian Coffee House. I will make love to this city as I have done for the last few years. And eventually but surely, I will go to the mountains.The view outside your window at the moment.Outside my window is spread out the terrace, at the end of which two chairs sit facing each other. Next to them, just now, two sparrows have landed, and are fighting over their shared meal of a single lizard. From across the road, I can see the giant tree that has changed from blood-red to cotton-white to moss-green in the past few months. Behind it, the colour of the sky has cast a pale languor upon all existence, as it seems, and I am convinced to be one with it and to embrace inactivity this evening.What’s going on in your mind right now?Just now I was remembering how convinced I was as a kid of the greatness coming my way. I was sure that life would be wonderful. Even as I could not map a path to this greatness, whatever that was, one could always depend on chance – some brilliant accident, some coincidence that will bring life to glory. As we grow up, we simply stop expecting miracles and cease to believe in magic, because it does not happen. Or, is it the other way around?Objects in the house that give you solace in self isolation.I do not have a house right now, but in the small room that I’ve rented, there is not much to turn to except books. They’ve laid siege on my bed, my desk and everywhere else. I turn to my journal, that I sewed myself when everything was shut down. Sometimes I dance, poorly but joyfully. In my room there are two windows, and so there is enough light to give one brilliant company all day long. The terrace is right outside my room, and I make several trips to it in a day, the sky has indeed proved a constant companion and a source of comfort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-a-rented-room-of-her-own/story-rYqei8HMA5OdXZU0J2g7TM.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Surprise inspections needed to keep check on child labour: Chandigarh child rights body||The Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) on Friday said that there is a need to conduct surprise checks at various industrial units and shops to keep child labour in check.This was decided in a meeting held under the commission’s chairperson, Yashpal Garg. The meeting was convened to deliberate on issues that have cropped up due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the meeting, the members decided that due to the scarcity of labour caused by migrant labourers going back to their home states, there is a need to keep a check to make sure that child labour is not used to meet the requirement.The commission resolved that surprise inspections need to be carried out in various industrial units and shops, especially in areas like Khuda Lahora, Raipur Kalan, Raipur Khurd and Daria. The commission has decided that inspections should be carried out by labour and social welfare departments and they have been directed to submit their report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/surprise-inspections-needed-to-keep-check-on-child-labour-chandigarh-child-rights-body/story-BEzgGY4qrYBzQ5x5FmtPDO.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking: NCB Chandigarh to organise online competitions||The Chandigarh zonal unit of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in collaboration with State Legal Services Authority is organising online competitions to celebrate International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking under the theme “Say no to drugs, yes to life”.NCB, the nodal drug law enforcement and intelligence agency of India, celebrates the day on June 26 every year, with a fortnightly programme to highlight the steps taken by the government against drug abuse and illicit trafficking.The Chandigarh unit has jurisdiction in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana (except NCR) and targets parents, teachers, policy makers, health workers and prevention workers and highlights how to recognise risky behaviour and prevent drug use.This year, online competitions on subjects including song composition and music video recording, painting and anti-drug slogan writing contests are being organised.Aspirants can download details from NCB Chandigarh’s Facebook page: NCB Chandigarh, and Twitter handle @ncbchandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/international-day-against-drug-abuse-and-illicit-trafficking-ncb-chandigarh-to-organise-online-competitions/story-jtd1fRkHaGWfPjFFykDOzH.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Congress delegation meets Chandigarh adviser||A Congress party delegation on Friday met UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida to raise issues related to odd-even rule for some markets, scrapping of animal carcass burning plant and waiver of school fee, electricity and water bills.The delegation comprised city party president Pardeep Chhabra, former mayors Subhash Chawla and Kamlesh Benarsidas, leader of opposition in the municipal corporation Devinder Singh Babla and councillor Sheela Phool Singh.They requested the UT adviser to shift the location of animal carcass burning plant from its proposed location in Dadumajra besides apprising him of the problems faced by businessmen and shopkeepers due to the odd-even formula of opening shops in some areas, especially motor markets and those in Sectors 48, 15, 19, 22 and other areas.The delegation also talked about providing relief to parents of school students as most of them have lost their source of income due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-delegation-meets-chandigarh-adviser/story-sYiVpbaT0aIMXFQH4ZD0WN.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fall in maize prices upset Haryana farmers, may hamper their crop diversification plans||Prospects of a rich harvest as well as crop diversification of Haryana farmers have been affected by the dip in prices of maize.In the absence of sufficient government procurement agencies, farmers are being forced to sell their produce at Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 per quintal to private traders while the minimum support price (MSP) of this crop was hiked to Rs 1,850 per quintal.Farmers claim that the fall in prices has caused them an estimated loss of Rs 20,000 per acre. They said the government agencies do not procure maize grown in rabi season and the lack of competition forces them to sell their produce to private traders Rs 600-Rs 700 per quintal below the MSP.The government has declared maize as the best alternative of paddy, especially in the rice belts of Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Ambala and Yamunanagar districts, and announced cash incentives of Rs 7,000 for every acre diversified from paddy to maize.Farmers said last year, the market price was Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,600 per quintal. “The fall in prices has not only caused losses to farmers, but also discouraged them to adopt the diversification plan as the sowing of maize (kharif) begins with the harvesting of the crop sown in the rabi season,” said a commission agent.“I had grown maize on five acres and there was a bumper yield. But at this price, I am unable to recover even the input cost. Now, I have decided to sow paddy on all my land,” said a farmer, Darshan Lal, from Kurukshetra’s Ladwa. Another farmer Shahbad, Rajiv Kumar, said, “If the government has fixed the MSP, it should procure the entire produce of both rabi and kharif to provide the benefit of MSP to the farmers.”Haryana state agricultural marketing board chief administrator Sumedha Kataria said, “The government agencies begin procurement of maize from October 1 as rabi maize is not included in the procurement plan.”As per traders, the wholesale price of maize has decreased due to the coronavirus pandemic and its impact on the poultry industry.“Poultry farms are the biggest consumer of maize, but they were shut due to fall in the prices of eggs and chicken. This has directly affected the prices of maize,” said a maize merchant, Krishan Lal of Yamunanagar.“Though we are purchasing maize at Rs 1,100 per quintal, there are no orders from feed producers. This has forced us to limit the amount of maize we buy from the local market,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fall-in-maize-prices-upset-haryana-farmers-may-hamper-their-crop-diversification-plans/story-bIUDpUbGDsBfCKIvj5z9eK.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana takes 89 days to cross 6,000-mark||Haryana recorded six Covid-related deaths on Friday while its case count crossed the 6,000-mark. Among the deceased were four patients from Faridabad and one each from Sonepat and Palwal.Now, the state’s death toll stands at 70. It took the state 89 days to touch the 6,000-mark of cumulative positive cases. As per a health department bulletin, 15 districts of the state reported 366 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, pushing the Haryana’s tally to 6,334.The total number of active cases was 3,789, while 215 persons were declared recovered. There were 46 critically ill Covid-19 patients, 16 of whom required ventilator support.More than 74% of the fresh infections were detected in three national capital region (NCR) districts of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat, which threw up a joint tally of 273 cases. Gurugram saw 185 new cases, followed by Faridabad (57) and Sonepat (31).Among other districts, Ambala and Palwal recorded 28 cases each followed by Kaithal (11), Nuh and Yamunanagar (5 each), Hisar (4), Kurukshetra and Jhajjar (3 each), Panipat and Fatehabad (2 each), Jind and Charkhi Dadri (1 each).Karnal, Rohtak, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Bhiwani, Panchkula and Sirsa did not report any fresh case on Friday, the medical bulletin mentioned.However, local administrations said 12 cases in Bhiwani and 13 in Rohtak were reported since Thursday night. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said five people tested positive for the virus in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-takes-89-days-to-cross-6-000-mark/story-vO0I1lHH7XNjyF8t62QABL.html
13-06-2020||City||Mullana Covid centre to only treat symptomatic patients from other dists||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases in the northern districts of Haryana, the dedicated facility in Ambala’s Mullana will now treat only symptomatic patients from other districts. The Covid care centre at MMU medical college in Mullana caters to the infected patients from Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Panchkula districts. The spurt in cases post-June 1 has left vacant only 20 out of 200 beds reserved for Covid patients at the hospital, health officials said. Hospital’s deputy medical superintendent Dr LN Garg said the decision to treat only symptomatic patients was in line with the government’s instructions. We have to spare some beds for emergency too, he added. “The state and central governments have directed the hospitals to treat only symptomatic patients and following this directive, we have asked the chief medical officers to treat asymptomatic patients in their own districts. We will obviously treat critical patients at our hospital,” Dr Garg said. On patients currently undergoing treatment at the facility, he said, “As per the health ministry’s guidelines, asymptomatic patients get discharged after 10 days of treatment. Now, such patients will be getting treatment at their home districts only and we would focus on giving better medical care to symptomatic patients.” 3 MORE CENTERS TO COME UPAmbala health department has decided to make three more Covid care centres operational in the district. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Owing to the sudden surge in cases and fewer beds in Mullana hospital, the department has decided to activate three more Covid care facilities at Mission hospital in Ambala City and community health centers in Barara and Mullana.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mullana-covid-centre-to-only-treat-symptomatic-patients-from-other-dists/story-fIxSpUf41n0pwDOxHb14bN.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Khap body meets Sonali Phogat||Two days after Haryana’s Binain Khap sought the arrest of TikTok star-turned BJP leader Sonali Phogat for thrashing Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh, a five-member committee of the khap met Phogat at her residence in Hisar and asked her to clear the air on the incident.Jind’s Saccha Khera sarpanch Sanjay Singh said the panel was formed to investigate the case.“Sonali narrated the entire episode and said she believes in khap’s functioning. She assured the committee members that she would accept whatever decision the khap makes,” he added.The khap committee also met Hisar SP Ganga Ram Punia and requested him to conduct a fair probe.“We are investigating this case and will hopefully solve it soon,” the SP said.Angrej Singh, one of the committee members, said, “We have called a meeting on June 15 at Saccha Khera village to take a decision in this case.”A member of khap body, pleading anonymity, said efforts were being made to strike a compromise between Phogat and Sultan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khap-body-meets-sonali-phogat/story-BdBBDFIrPNPrJbQTGpfoHK.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra woman poisons husband, daughter to death||A woman poisoned her 50-year-old husband and 18-year-old daughter to death following an argument in Ghararsi village of Kurukshetra district, police said on Friday. As per the complaint filed by the man’s father, his daughter-in-law had an extra-marital affair with a Kaithal man, who used to frequently visit her. “On June 9, my son saw that man at his house, which led to an argument with his wife. On Thursday, she served my son and granddaughter food laced with poison. She also consumed some toxic substance later,” he added. The three were rushed to a hospital in Kurukshetra, where doctors referred them to PGIMER in Chandigarh. Their family members, however, took them to a local private hospital, where the man and his daughter died, the police said, adding that condition of the 47-year-old woman was critical. Kurukshetra University police station in-charge Suraj Kumar said an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against the woman and the man from Kaithal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kurukshetra-woman-poisons-husband-daughter-to-death/story-HQhxRXa3qHRD0YNWYuV1xH.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jhajjar teen ‘abducted’ in broad daylight, FIR registered||An 18-year-old girl was taken away by a group of men in Jhajjar on Friday morning, police said. Among the abductors was her lover, whom she married in a Rohtak temple later in the day. The police have registered an FIR against the man under Section 365 (abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of the Indian Penal Code.The girl was accompanied by her mother when she was taken away in a car. The incident was recorded in a CCTV camera.Jhajjar DSP Shamsher Singh said, “The girl had planned her abduction with the help of her lover.”He said they have brought the couple back to Jhajjar and will produce them in a local court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jhajjar-teen-abducted-in-broad-daylight-fir-registered/story-DQMQS33niSP5OnpQUZaqJO.html
13-06-2020||City||No restriction on movement of residents from 5am to 9pm within district on weekends: Ludhiana admn||There will be no restriction on the movement of residents from 5am to 9pm within the district on Saturdays and Sundays under the new order on stricter lockdown issued by the state government on Friday.Clarifying the fresh lockdown order, the administration announced that there would, however, be restrictions on the opening of non-essential shops on weekends, Saturdays and Sundays.The administration has, in a press release, clarified that the shops, selling essential commodities, have been allowed to open till 7pm everyday, but non-essential shops would open till 5pm only on Saturdays and gazetted holidays. The non-essential shops, including standalone shops or those in shopping malls, shall remain closed on Sundays. However, restaurants (only for take-home/home delivery) and liquor vends can operate till 8pm on all days. E-PASS FOR INTER-DISTRICT MOVEMENTThe release said residents will have to obtain an e-pass for inter-district movement on weekends and gazetted holidays, which would be issued only for essential work. No pass would be required for inter-district movement in case of a medical emergency. No restrictions have also been imposed on movement of vehicles carrying goods. The residents will also have to obtain an e-pass for organising functions on all the days and the pass would be issued for 50 specific persons. As per the orders issued by the state government, in addition to the Sunday closure, the deputy commissioner (DC) may choose, in consultation with the respective market associations, to order closure of the non-essential shops on any other day of the week also, especially in the high-risk areas where the number of Covis-19 cases is high. Appealing to residents, commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal said, “If the public cooperates with the administration, then we will not have to impose more restrictions. Residents should remain inside their homes till it is necessary to move out. If possible, only a single member of the family should move out to purchase the goods and all the guidelines issued by the administration should be followed”Agrawal also went live on Ludhiana Police’s Facebook page to apprise the residents about the restrictions imposed by the administration. PANIC BUYING AT GROCERY STORESAfter the state government announced stricter lockdown on weekdays in the state, a huge rush of residents was witnessed at grocery stores across the city as residents went for panic-buying, throwing caution to the wind. A grocery store owner in Jawahar Nagar camp, Charanjeet Singh, said, “Residents went for panic buying on Friday after the announcement was made by the state government on Thursday. Long queues were witnessed outside grocery stores.”Rumours are also making rounds on social networks that the government might again announce a complete lockdown or curfew in the state due to a large number of positive coronavirus cases being reported. However, the administration has appealed to residents not to resort to panic buying. There has been no restriction on the industry under the latest lockdown order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-restriction-on-movement-of-residents-from-5am-to-9pm-within-district-on-weekends-ludhiana-admn/story-b0skrFdX6lFOQoypWeBNJJ.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Realty market dives in Mohali as Covid-19 blues hit home||Builders in Mohali were desperately waiting for a miracle earlier this year after a decade-long slowdown, hoping for some improvement in the realty market. But that was before the Covid-19 outbreak.With more than two months under lockdown, medical and economic uncertainty overshadowing every aspect of life, buying a house now is not on people’s priority list.This is why demand has hit a new low with property prices dipping by at least 10% from the beginning of the year, says Tejinder Singh Punia, former president, Mohali Property Consultant Association.Mohali, particularly its peripheral areas of Zirakpur, Kharar, and New Chandigarh (Mullanpur), has been the tricity’s development hub in the recent past. Since last year, with Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) led IT City and Aero City projects, Airport Road too was coming up as a prominent realty destination.PANDEMIC BLUES“People have lost their jobs, the education sector has closed down and the hospitality sector has been hit badly. People don’t have the money to invest in property. Only those who were already in the market before pandemic hit have become active again,” says Punia.“The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the homebuyer’s capacity to buy. With no income inflow, the outbreak has also severely restricted builders’ ability to create new supply. Completion of older projects, for many, will be tough now,” says LC Mittal, director, Motia Group.No action is likely this year, in stark contrast to a slew of projects launched last year. “Builders will focus on delivery as ready-to-move products become more important. In fact, in the next couple of years, we don’t estimate many new project launches,” says Amit Mittal, director, Green Lotus Group.Liquidity crunch, rising costs of construction material and exodus of migrant workers from the state are contracting supply creation. “Builders have lost 50% to 100% of their migrant workers since inter-state transport was allowed. Even though labourers want to come back now, it will take some time before construction schedules normalise,” says Amit.In a district where housing project delays are endemic, buyers don’t expect delivery anytime soon. “Even before the pandemic, it was taking time for possession of plots, now builders can justify the delay because of Covid-19,” says a homebuyer in a New Chandigarh based housing project, requesting anonymity. Also, with restrictions on inter-state movement yet to be completely lifted, people from other states are unable to come in from neighbouring states, especially Himachal Pradesh, which has the largest chunk of buyers in New Chandigarh and Zirakpur areas.CAUTIOUS OPTIMISMBuilders, however, are optimistic of a quick turnaround as home loan interests are at their lowest in nearly two decades. They foresee a move from rentals to house ownership fuelling the demand.The phased lockdown relaxations and Unlock-1 measures have opened up the sector for business. “Buyer queries are coming in. End-users are now looking for only ready-to-move property. There are no investors,” says Bhupinder Singh Sabharwal, president, Mohali Property Consultant Association.In the pre-covid-19 period, banks were offering home loans at more than 8%. “Now the rates have dipped below 7%. Interest rates are expected to fall further, making it cheaper to buy a house. For people living in rented homes in Chandigarh and Panchkula it will make better financial sense to pay home loan EMIs instead of monthly rentals. Builders with ready-to-move properties stand to gain the most,” says Prateek Mittal, executive director, Sushma Group.The uncertainty created because of pandemic will push people, especially with many people working from home now, to opt for house ownership over rented houses, he adds.Tanu Kashyap, chief administrator, GMADA, is also determined to promote activity in the sector. “After the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, we are taking very considerate view of requests from different industry stakeholders. The Punjab government has already announced a slew of concessions and incentives for the industry. Similarly, more regulatory and policy changes are in the works, and will be announced in due time. GMADA will also be offering properties in the near future to promote business activity in the sector.”NOT BUSINESS AS USUALProperty viewing is also changing. For instance, builders are allowing buyer visits to offices and project sites through appointments. “Walk-in buyers are allowed, but they have to wait longer now with social distancing norms allowing only a limited number of people to assemble in office,” says Amit.The need for spacious houses, and self-dependency in the wake of Covid-19, is also pushing demand in new segments. “Significantly, we are receiving increasing queries for land purchase for building farmhouses, which can allow organic farming too. Land prices have already fallen by at least 20%,”says Punia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/realty-market-dives-in-mohali-as-covid-19-blues-hit-home/story-n7Lv6HHlSy4acInwpvSwDM.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||PU exams in July: Student bodies up in arms||Activists of National Students of India (NSUI) protested outside the vice-chancellor’s office on Friday against Panjab University’s plan to conduct semester examinations.PU is planning to hold examinations in July. However, the final decision has not been made yet. Many student organisations have expressed their discontentment with the varsity’s plans amid surging cases of Covid-19.Nikhil Narmeta, president of NSUI, PU, said, “We demand that the university not conduct semester examinations under the current circumstances. They should follow other educational institutes of the country who have decided to evaluate students on other criteria.”The students also submitted a representation to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, which stated that students belonging to different states cannot come to the campus to take their exams. Besides, syllabus had not been completed amid the lockdown, it added. PU’s dean university instructions (DUI) K Singla had earlier said that the university is preparing to conduct examinations but they will be held when the directives of the government are received to open educational institutes in the country. Meanwhile, Students For Society (SFS) also submitted a memorandum to the vice-chancellor on Friday and sought cancellation of examinations. SFS president Varinder said, “The university should not mock the education system by limiting it to examinations without any teaching. Most students lack proper facilities for online education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-organisations-up-in-arms-over-examinations/story-xwDdVNEJytfwU3NXHSYDKM.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor vend auction in Chandigarh starts from June 15||Initiating the process of allotment of liquor vends in Chandigarh under the Excise Policy 2020-2021, the UT administration on Friday announced that e-tendering for the vends will start from 10am on June 15 and bids will open on June 23.The new policy will come into effect from July 1 and continue to be in operation till March 31, 2021.There will be 94 licensing units across the city and e-tenders will be invited individually for all of them.The retail sale vends will be allotted to the highest eligible bidder, quoting equal to or above the reserve price of the licensing unit. In case more than one bid quoting the same highest price is received, the allotment shall be determined by draw of lots among bidders quoting the same highest price.The detailed procedure for e-tenders and submission of participation fee and earnest money, in accordance with the new excise policy, is available on the official website of the department, www.etdut.gov.in/exciseonline as well as in the excise office of the department.Schedule of dates for allotment of liquor vends:Starting date and time for bid submission: June 15, 10amClosing date and time for bid submission: Till June 22, up to 3pmOpening of Technical e-bids: June 22, 3.30pm Opening of Financial e-bids: June 23, 10.30am||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-vend-auction-starts-from-june-15-in-chandigarh/story-9U2PxXyetGbki322JESKJK.html
13-06-2020||City||Mohali MC in a fix over maintenance of parks||With the Punjab local bodies department not allocating fund to the Mohali municipal corporation for maintenance of parks, and the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) already having refused, the civic body is in a fix as it is going through a huge financial crunch.On Thursday, the local bodies department approved Rs 127-crore budget against the proposed Rs 268 crore for 2020-21, but did not allocate any funds for the maintenance of 540 parks in the city.The nationwide lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic has further aggravated the MC’s woes as economic activities, which could generate funds for the civic body, that has now has suffered a loss of Rs 13 crore, have come to a standstill.As per an agreement in 2017, GMADA was to pay Rs 5 crore to the MC every year for the maintenance of parks and the total amount fixed was Rs 50 crore. But, in the last three years, GMADA has only paid Rs 9 crore .A senior officer of MC, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We don’t know how to deal with the situation as we don’t have funds to maintain parks. We will take up the matter with authorities concerned again and hope it will be sorted out. Otherwise, we will be forced to give the parks back to GMADA.” GMADA PUTS ONUS ON MCOn the other hand, a senior GMADA official said, “In 2017, it was decided that besides taking over 540 parks, the MC will take over all parks in Sectors 76 to 80. But, they have not procured the public properties so far. In such a case, why should we pay the money? As far as other maintenance works are concerned, the civic body carries them out independently. Amid the issue, we are reviewing the agreement signed with the MC.”RWAs IN ANGUISHStrong resentment prevails among the members of all 65 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of Mohali against the MC. CL Garg, president of the Confederation of Greater Mohali RWAs, the apex body of 65 RWAs, said, “We have been paying gardeners out of our own pocket for the past three months. Now, the MC has assured they will clear our dues,” he said.The civic body pays the RWAs Rs 2.45 per square metre per month for the maintenance of around 56 acre park land, which comes to around Rs 6 lakh per month. MC makes the payment by seventh of each month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-in-a-fix-over-maintenance-of-parks/story-fRWKioNne8DuS2urN0avtJ.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||No let-up in Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh suspends inter-state bus services||With the Covid-19 cases continuing to rise in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Friday decided to shut down all inter-state bus services among a slew of measures to keep a tab on the outsiders coming to the city.The administration has also intensified screening at the airport, bus stands and railway station, and made it mandatory for outsiders to share their information when travelling to the city, besides recommending 14-day self-quarantine for them.The decision to suspend the inter-state buses comes only two days after the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) resumed its long-route bus services.The UT transport department, on Friday, wrote to the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, stating, “In view of the increase in number of cases of Covid-19, it has been decided by the Chandigarh administration that the inter-state operation of the CTU and other STUs (state transport undertakings) will remain suspended in Chandigarh from June 13 till June 30.”TRICITY BUS SERVICE TO CONTINUEHowever, CTU will continue to operate its buses within the tricity.“Our focus is on people coming from areas of high incidence of positive cases. In the tricity, the problem is not acute as Delhi. Also, it is not possible to stop the entry of people from Panchkula and Mohali, as Chandigarh is a common capital and their offices and businesses are here. So, the CTU tricity service will continue,” said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida.TRACKING OUTSIDER MOVEMENTPeople coming to Chandigarh from outside, except those from Mohali and Panchkula, must carry a self-declaration document, which can be downloaded from the UT administration’s website. It is already mandatory for train and air passengers.This will help the administration keep track of their travel and area of residence, said a senior UT official.“This document is not a permit. It will simply be a travel information document for official record. It will not be applicable for tricity residents,” said Parida.Government/PSU/private employees coming to attend office will be allowed entry on production of identity cards.SCREENING PASSENGERSA meeting of the tricity coordination committee meeting was held here on Friday to streamline coordination among the three towns, particularly with regards to screening of passengers. Along with senior UT officials, Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan and Panchkula DC MK Ahuja attended the meeting.It was decided that both Haryana and Chandigarh authorities will screen passengers at the Chandigarh railway station, while at the Chandigarh International Airport, the existing system of screening by Punjab government will continue. Regarding screening of bus passengers, all three districts agreed that thermal screening will be done at the time of boarding the buses. This is currently being done at multiple points.All three deputy commissioners were advised to maintain regular coordination, so that locals do not suffer during travel and visitors coming from outside, are properly screened and checked, to prevent infection.MAJOR TAKEAWAYSNo long-route inter-state buses to ply from and to ChandigarhCTU to continue service within tricityOutsiders, except those from Mohali and Panchkula, to fill information forms before entering ChandigarhScreening at railway station to be done by both Haryana and ChandigarhBus passengers to be screened at the time of boarding at their respective locationsAll passengers coming by trains, road, and domestic flights advised self-quarantine for 14 days on arrival as before.They need to download the Aarogya Setu application and input self-assessment details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-let-up-in-covid-19-cases-chandigarh-suspends-inter-state-bus-services/story-NDfodQtkSdMVQsOFeEvFQL.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||11 Covid-19 cases from four villages, colonies take Chandigarh count to 345||Eleven new Covid-19 patients, including a two-year-old baby, were confirmed in various villages and colonies of the city, taking the UT tally to 345. Three cases each were reported from Khudda Jassu and Daria village, while four are from Bapu Dham Colony and one from Khudda Lohara, raising concerns over the spread of infection in city’s densely populated areas. The Khudda Lohara resident, a 28-year-old auto driver, is a community contact of an already positive patient from Khudda Jassu. The auto driver had transported the patient to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.Three other cases are the family members of a work contact of the 35-year-old chemist from Sector 16. These include two females, aged 35 and eight, and an 18-month-old child. The family lives in Khudda Jassu. The chemist’s worker was found infected previously.Three family contacts of two Covid-19 positive cases, who were visiting Daria village from New Delhi, have also contracted the infection.They are three females, aged 24 days, and 26 and 48 years. The two positive patients, who are brothers and hail from New Delhi, were visiting the in-laws of one them in Daria village. The man’s wife had also reached her parents’ house at Daria village with her newborn baby on May 21.Also found infected are four persons of a single family from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, including two males, aged 34 and 63 and two females, aged five and 27.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said with more positive cases coming from densely populated areas, residents needed to exercise precautions, such as social distancing. Dr Sonu Goel, community health expert at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research said, “Due to close dwellings, a single infection can have serious implications if precautions were not completely followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-covid-19-cases-from-four-villages-colonies-shoot-chandigarh-count-to-345/story-ltQ7g5H6smR9sPClQ7oc0J.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Protesting in uniform leads to Chandigarh cop’s dismissal||A constable of the Chandigarh Police has been dismissed from service for “misconduct” after he sat on a dharna outside the UT police headquarters at Sector 9 in January this year.Constable Subash Chander was dismissed for violating the Punjab Police Act by sitting on dharna in his uniform.According to police, Chander had filed a complaint of corruption against his seniors. The complaint was dismissed following an inquiry, which was conveyed to him. Not satisfied by the result, he sought permission to sit on dharna, which was turned down. However, he proceeded with it, terming it “satyagrah”, following which an inquiry was marked against him. The probe indicted him, which led to his dismissal from service.“Subash Chander is dismissed for misconduct,” said Manoj Kumar Meena, superintendent of police (headquarters).Talking to HT, Chander said, “I was fighting corruption and have got one month to file an appeal. I will continue to fight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/protesting-in-uniform-leads-to-chandigarh-cop-s-dismissal/story-1BEwBuDI65OXEswRrTjj3N.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gym owner involved in Sector 33 case held for firing outside disco last year||Police have arrested Sewak alias Guri, a Zirakpur resident, for his involvement in a case of firing outside Sector 26 disco Playground last year in November.Sewak, who runs a gym in Zirakpur, was recently also arrested for providing a vehicle to a group of men reportedly with links to gangster Lawrence Bishnoi who opened fire at the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla to target liquor baron Arvind Singla.Sewak was produced in court and sent to four-day police remand for last year’s case. According to police he was one of two men who opened fire outside Playground after being denied entry. Sector 22 resident Inderjit Singh, a bouncer and eyewitness to the incident, had said that at about 12.40 am two men walked up to him asking to be allowed into the disco. He said he told them that entry had closed and while he was closing the main door he heard gunfire and saw both men with weapons fleeing on a motorcycle. Police found five to six bullet marks at the main gates of the disco.Sewak’s remand was sought in this case as police wanted to recover the weapon he had used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gym-owner-involved-in-sector-33-case-held-for-firing-outside-disco-last-year/story-RaGATex0JJFGJ1lDfW5xXN.html
13-06-2020||City||Man found dead in Chandimandir||The local police have launched a murder probe after the body of an unidentified man was found in a pit near Eco City company in Chandimandir on Thursday. Rajpal, 59, who is a watchman at the firm, said he spotted the man lying dead around 1.45pm. He told the police that the deceased was wearing a shirt with white and pink stripes and grey trousers. There was white cloth (parna) around his neck, that may have been used to strangle him to death, he said. On his complaint, a case of murder was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-found-dead-in-chandimandir/story-3GAFdWeqaJWbzJWIkZ4mTK.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Fight against Covid-19: CR’s robot to screen commuters at Pune railway station for fever||The Central Railway (CR) set up an interactive robot system outside Pune railway station on Friday to conduct thermal screenings of passengers. The system – Captain Arjun – is also equipped with sensor-based sanitizers and mask dispensers and the railways is also likely to introduce it at stations in Mumbai.If the system finds the temperature of a passenger high while screening, it is equipped to raise an alarm to inform the railway authorities. Captain Arjun is also equipped with two cameras and artificial intelligence, which is aimed at tracking suspicious activities, amid the fast movement of passengers in the station. A siren would go off whenever any suspicious activity is detected. It can sanitise floors.“The robotic systems will help in minimising human contact during thermal screenings. We are looking to introduce a similar system on railway stations in Mumbai,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officers, CR.The zonal railway also recently introduced Automated Ticket Checking and Managing Access (ATMA) machines for passengers at Nagpur railway station to conduct thermal screenings of passengers and check railway tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fight-against-covid-19-cr-s-robot-to-screen-commuters-at-pune-railway-station-for-fever/story-wQPWJhq1KjOP8audtbJYTI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||2-lakh kg of illicit liquor seized in Rupnagar, five arrested along HP border||The Ropar police on Friday arrested five people and seized what it called the “biggest-ever” quantity of material for illicit liquor in a 10-hour operation in forested terrain in Himachal Pradesh villages. The operation was carried out in collaboration with the Bilaspur police. Seven working stills (apparatus used for the distillation of liquids) and 2-lakh kg of ‘lahan’ (from which illicit liquor is distilled after fermentation) were seized from Majir and Dabt villages on the Punjab-Himachal border in Bilaspur district.Due to dense forest, the area is notorious for smuggling of illegal liquor for the past many decades. The police had to cut through dense and thorny undergrowth to get to the spot, said Ropar senior superintendent of police Swapan Sharma.The teams cordoned off the entire area around the villages, located about two km from the Punjab border, said the SSP, adding the search operation covered a six-km stretch along the inter-state border.Investigations were in progress to trace further links of the accused across Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, Sharma said.The seizure came amid state-wide efforts by Punjab Police, under the directives of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, to check illicit liquor trading, as well as smuggling of liquor from across the state’s borders.The smugglers take advantage of the forest cover and the lack of access in the tough terrain to sneak from Himachal Pradesh into Punjab with their hauls. In the last five years, 26 cases in Punjab and 38 cases in Himachal have been registered against people hailing from these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-lakh-kg-of-illicit-liquor-seized-in-rupnagar-five-arrested-along-hp-border/story-LhtNpGsGv2pxck5EoNLMVM.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana college organises webinar on ‘Ingredients of Success’||The postgraduate department of commerce and management of Kamla Lohtia Sanatan Dharam(SD) College organised a webinar on ‘Ingredients of Success’ on Friday.Students of different streams attended the webinar which centered on the key steps to achieve success.Sandeep Kapoor, professor, School of Business Studies, Punjab Agricultural University, was the resource person.He discussed six key elements and asserted that by imbibing those students can achieve success.Principal Mukesh Kumar Mahajan recognised the significance of these measures and exhorted the students to follow them.The college managing committee, headed by president Dharam Paul Jain, appreciated the initiative taken by the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-college-organises-webinar-on-ingredients-of-success/story-nisoydzcCZ7VsW3U1EHIqK.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Allow burials of Christian Covid patients’ bodies in all cemeteries: Mumbai civic corporation||The civic body on Thursday issued a circular, directing all Christian cemeteries across the city to accept bodies of Covid 19 patients. The development comes around a month after HT first reported that the family of a 61-year-old Christian woman from Mahim, who died of Covid-19, was forced to cremate her body because the cemetery refused to allow her burial.Members of the community contended that according to their religious practices, a body cannot be cremated and needs to be buried and that forced cremations hurt their religious sentiments. They also demanded that there should be ‘respectful burial’ of such bodies according to the religious practices.In the circular, issued by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), signed by executive health office and assistant health officer (birth death), health officers across all the wards have been instructed to allow disposal of bodies as per guidelines of disposal issued by Government of India.“As per the orders passed by Hon High Court, in view of the findings of the World Health Organization coupled with the orders passed by the Hon High Court has observed and clarified that there is no harm of whatsoever nature to the citizen, if Covid-19 deceased person is buried with proper precaution,” reads the circular, a copy of which is with HT.The circular also adds that the burial grounds should be large enough so as to not create a possibility of spread of virus in the neighbouring areas.Despite repeated attempts, BMC’s executive health officer Padmaja Keskar did not respond to HT’s call till the time of going to press.Spokesperson from Archdiocese of Bombay said that if BMC passed an order, they would abide by it and all the cemeteries will follow the guidelines issued by them.“We haven’t received a copy of the order yet. Once we receive it, we will circulate it. If there are all guidelines in place, it will be easy for us to follow, otherwise we will seek clarity from them,” said the spokespersonArchdiocese of Bombay has around five lakh members under its jurisdiction. There are 122 churches of Roman Catholic denomination across Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Mahad, with around 60 cemeteries attached to them.A day after HT’s report, BMC listed four cemeteries where bodies of Christians who die of Covid-19 can be buried. However, the community members demanded that all cemeteries should accept bodies of Covid-19 patients.On May 21, BMC allowed the burial of a Covid-19 patient at a designated cemetery, which was the first burial of a member from the Christian community who died of the virus, as other coronavirus patients were cremated as per protocol.“For the past three weeks, we have been running from pillar to post to ensure that all Christians get respectful burial. I came across 15-16 burials in the past three weeks, for which we had to fight, and around three were forcefully cremated. Despite BMC issuing a list of four cemeteries, two of them were not accepting burials outright. Hopefully, now all cemeteries accept these bodies,” said Cyril Dara, church activist, who fought for burials.The Bombay high court had observed that there was no scientific data to support the claim that Covid-19 can spread through dead bodies and that the BMC had all the authority to demarcate the cemetery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-burials-of-christian-covid-patients-bodies-in-all-cemeteries-bmc/story-c8UD1vJ7p4OzfYraUWpeoO.html
13-06-2020||City||Office goers from Dombivli, Kalyan say they have to wait in bus queues for 2 hours||With the state government re-opening establishments early this week, office goers from Dombivli, Kalyan and Badlapur are struggling to commute to their workplaces. From standing in long bus queues for couple of hours to spending a huge amount on a more secure mode of commute, office goers said they have been witnessing a harrowing experience.Since Monday, as many offices have begun functioning with 10% staff, most of the employees from the suburbs of Kalyan, Dombivli, Ambernath and Badlapur have been travelling to Mumbai to reach to their workplaces. With local trains still not operational, office goers have to depend on state transport and private buses.Sahil Nakhwa, 36, a Badlapur resident, has to travel to Ghatkopar every day for work. “It is very chaotic at the bus stops or depots, as we have to wait in queue for almost two hours. There is no social distancing followed because the stops are very crowded. Although I am worried about my health, I will get paid only if I reach go to work. So I have no option but to take the bus. Even after getting into a bus, we travel for almost four hours one way every day,” said Nakhwa.The Thane traffic police too have said that they have been dealing traffic snarls as commuters only have the option commuting by road.Amit Kale, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Thane, said, “To control the traffic, we have regulated timings of heavy vehicles from 12pm to 4pm, and 11pm to 5am only. Moreover, as people are not allowed to venture out at night, we have a special night patrol team to monitor movement. The traffic during peak hours is more towards Mumbai and Navi Mumbai; however, we are keeping an eye out on the permissible limit of passengers in all vehicles,” Amit Kale said.Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses have been plying state government employees to Mantralaya. “We operate on one route to Mantralaya. Some buses begin from Badlapur, some from Kalyan and Thane. Every day, there are around 400 to 600 trips made on this route,” said an MSRTC official.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced that the state is trying to resume train services for those in essential services. This has raised questions on when the services for the train services would commence for those in non-essential services. The railway passengers association claimed that most offices are calling more than 10-15% employees, which will require crowd control and monitoring.Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passengers Association, said, “There needs to be some control executed over the office attendance. Ten percent staff in every office as per rules is permitted. However, no one ensures if any workplace is calling more employees than the permitted limit. The crowd will be regulated only if establishments follow the 10% guideline or else people will continue to suffer.”However, not all office goers are keen on the resumption of local train services. They instead say that there should be an increase in the frequency of buses. “It is not safe to allow local trains yet, but more buses services will definitely help in reducing the queues at bus stops and depots,” said Dipti Sawant, 29, a Kalyan resident who travels to Ghansoli for work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/office-goers-from-dombivli-kalyan-say-they-have-to-wait-in-bus-queues-for-2-hours/story-0yDWWwMkiLenzyyTGH425I.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Despite lockdown, 85% Class 10 and Class 12 papers of Maharashtra board evaluated||Despite several hurdles that came in their way due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown, the Mumbai divisional board has successfully received 85% of the answer sheets of higher secondary certificate (HSC) and secondary school certificate (SSC) exams after evaluation and moderation. Sandeep Sangave, secretary, Mumbai divisional board, said that the remaining papers are also expected to reach the board in the next couple of days. “Majority of the papers have been submitted to our centres and to the board office, but in some places where travel restrictions were in place, it was becoming tough to transport papers. The board has now received the state government’s permission to operate as an essential service, and we hope that all the remaining work gets completed soon,” he added. The Mumbai division, which also consists of Thane, Raigad and Palghar, has the most number of students appearing for board exams among the nine divisions in the state. This year, 3.39 lakh students registered for the Class 12 HSC exams, while 3.91 lakh students registered for the Class 10 SSC exams from Mumbai division. A total of 42 lakh answer sheets were corrected and moderated from the division this year. With the lockdown in place since March, several answer sheets of the board exams were stuck in exam custodies, schools and homes of evaluators and moderators. On May 5, the state education department granted special permission for teachers and board staff to travel with answer sheets during the lockdown to ensure that the evaluation work is not affected. The divisional board made several changes in its functioning to ensure that evaluation work is not affected, even as Mumbai accounted for maximum number of cases in the state. This academic year, the board did several things to make the evaluation process easy. First, it increased the number of paper submission centres and allowed moderators to submit papers at any nearby centre, instead of their designated centres. It also arranged for transport for its staff to come to work. It also allowed for reimbursements to teachers for their travel expenditure, even if they travelled by taxi or car for collecting or submitting answer sheets, as public transport was not operational at the time. The board also created a single-step paper submission process where teachers can give their evaluated and moderated papers just once without having to go back anywhere. The board also exempted a teacher from moderation responsibility after she had tested positive for Covid-19. “While the overall attendance in the office was thin in the first few weeks, it is now picking up and teachers are coming regularly, making it easy for us to finish work early,” added Sangave.How does the process work?1. Students write their examinations at the respective centres and submit their answersheets in the exam hall. 2. From the exam hall, the papers are taken to designated custodies where papers from a few centres come in. 3. Papers are transported from custodies to respective schools of the examiners who have been assigned evaluation duties. 4. Examiners check papers and send them to the moderator (who is a senior teacher) who then checks if evaluation has happened as per the board policy. 5. Moderators then submit the answersheets to the collection centres assigned to them. 6. Papers from collection centres are sent to the Mumbai Divisional Board’s office in Vashi.7. After all papers come in, the divisional board sends counter slips (from the answersheets) to the State Board office in Pune.8. Data of students’ marks is collated by the divisional board including concessions, grace marks etc. and is sent to the state board. 9. Data is processed, errors are identified and removed and results are declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-lockdown-85-ssc-and-hsc-papers-evaluated/story-qbe2dULliC5sF3nGeU424J.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||56-year-old Mumbai woman with kidney ailment defeats coronavirus||A 56-year-old patient with a chronic kidney disease, recovered from Covid-19 after 26 days and was welcomed home on Thursday. Residents of Omkar Rahiwasi Seva Sangh colony in Kalachowki greeted Nilima Zore with flowers when she returned from BYL Nair Hospital, where she’d been admitted after testing positive for Covid-19.Zore’s husband is a retired employee of Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited and the couple have a son and a daughter. Zore had an angioplasty in 2014 and has needed dialysis since 2018. She contracted Covid-19 in May. “I would regularly take my mother for dialysis to Hinduja Hospital in a family friend’s private vehicle, but due to the lockdown, we took a taxi on May 8. The next day I had fever and the day after, my mother too developed symptoms. We immediately got tested. My mother tested positive for Covid-19 on the third test while I tested positive in the second test,” said Ankita, Zore’s daughter.On May 15, Zore was admitted to Nair Hospital, which also has a dialysis facility. Ankita was quarantined at a civic quarantine centre in the Saat Rasta area and later shifted to a Covid care centre at Nagpada for more treatment.“On the first day in hospital, I thought that now I would never return home. But my family, society members supported me and the doctors too helped me gain confidence,” said Zore. She was discharged on Thursday after she tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday.A 56-year-old patient with a chronic kidney disease, recovered from Covid-19 after 26 days and was warmly welcomed home on Thursday. Residents of Omkar Rahiwasi Seva Sangh colony in Rangari Badak Chawl area, in Kalachowki, greeted Nilima Harishchandra Zore with flowers and chanted “Ganpati Bappa Morya” when she returned from BYL Nair Hospital.Zore’s husband is a retired employee of Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited and the couple have a son and a daughter. Zore had an angioplasty in 2014 and has needed dialysis since 2018. She contracted Covid-19 in May. “I would regularly take my mother for dialysis to Hinduja Hospital in a family friend’s private vehicle, but due to the lockdown, we were forced to take a taxi on May 8. The next day I had fever and the day after, my mother too developed symptoms such as fever, vomiting, cold, cough and sore throat. We immediately got tested at Hinduja Hospital. Initially, the reports were negative, but my mother tested positive for Covid-19 on the third test while I tested positive in the second test,” said Ankita, Zore’s daughter.On May 15, with the help of Omkar Rahiwasi Seva Sangh colony’s society members, Zore was admitted to Nair Hospital, which also has a dialysis facility. Ankita was quarantined at a civic quarantine centre in the Saat Rasta area and later shifted to a Covid care centre at Nagpada for more treatment.Zore and her family worried about her chances of survival since patients with chronic illnesses are more vulnerable to Covid-19. “On the first day in hospital, I thought that now I would never return home. But my family, society members supported me and the doctors too helped me gain confidence,” said Zore. Soon, Ankita said, Zore was the one sending her family reassuring messages, “From hospital, my mother used to tell the family that we need not worry as she would be fine soon and we would soon together go to our village to celebrate Ganeshotsav,” said Ankita.While Zore battled the infection in hospital, her family faced challenges at home. “Forget about helping someone in such a crisis, some neighbours troubled us repeatedly by calling civic personnel and making false complaints about my family not following quarantine rules. But society members helped my family and my entire family is very grateful to them,” said Ankita.Dayanand Ghadigaonkar, society president at the colony, said “No one in past had seen problem of such contagious infection, so no one actually knew how to deal with such situation. But we stood by the family.”Zore was discharged on Thursday after she tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/56-year-old-mumbai-woman-with-kidney-ailment-defeats-coronavirus/story-wgVjgrFQodU1Z7josIB9JI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt launches ‘Ghar Ghar Nigrani’ app for Covid surveillance||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday launched a phone-based app — ‘Ghar Ghar Nigrani’ — for house-to-house surveillance.The app was launched through video conference in the presence of health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. The CM described the initiative a tool for early detection and testing to prevent community spread.Additional chief secretary (health) Anurag Agarwal said all above 30 years of age shall be surveyed as part of the drive, besides those with comorbidity or influenza-like illness/acute respiratory illness.This will be ongoing process till the containment of Covid-19, said Agarwal.The database through survey will help the government plan better and make targeted interventions for the community. Apart from this, the survey shall give better direction to all state health programmes, he said. Special secretary, health-cum-testing in-charge for Covid, Isha Kalia, said the user-friendly app was developed and designed in-house by the health department. The field tests were done in Patiala and Mansa, during which around 20,628 people were surveyed, of whom 9,045 were found to be asymptomatic and 1,583 with symptoms.The survey is currently underway in 518 villages and 47 urban wards. Around 4.9% people have been found to be hypertensive, 2.2% diabetic, 0.14% having kidney disease, 0.64% with heart disease, 0.13% having TB and 0.13% having cancer, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-launches-ghar-ghar-nigrani-app-for-covid-surveillance/story-Z2iID0go6AmMTOO1Q175HJ.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police’s Covid-19 count crosses 2,000 mark||The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai Police crossed the 2,000-mark on Thursday, with the total count now at 2,028. Twenty-two personal have also died of the virus until Thursday. Currently, 516 infected personal are undergoing treatment in Covid care centres across the city, while 224 are admitted to hospitals. Among the infected personnel, 290 are officers, while the remaining ones (1,738) are from the constabulary.2 constables on migrant workers’ duty test positiveTwo constables posted at the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) port zone’s office at Ballard Pier have tested positive for Covid-19. Both are 40 years old and have been shifted to the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Marol. According to the police, they used to collect details from the migrants and prepare lists to send them back to their respective states. On June 8, one of them suffered from fever and found it difficult to breath. He underwent a swab test and was found positive for Covid-19, following which around 15 staffers from the port zone office also took the test, in which another constable was tested positive on Wednesday, said an officer. Both the constables are in a stable condition and the police are trying to find their close contacts.334 recovered, back on dutyA statement released by the police on Friday said that 1,233 of the 2,028 personnel have recovered, of whom 334 are already back on duty. Deputy commissioner of police (operations) Pranay Ashok said that after coronavirus cases started rising in the force, immediate effective measures such as opening a Covid-19 care helpline for police to inquire on bed availability, setting up of four dedicated CCCs, creating awareness about sanitisation, strict adherence to social distancing and provision of financial and moral support to the personnel were undertaken. “These measures are now yielding results and it has expedited the recording pace of infected cops,” Ashok added.38 CCCs for cops in stateThe state police have developed 38 dedicated CCCs for police, with a total capacity of 2,200 beds. These centres are in addition to the ones in four centres at Mumbai, and are set-up at Thane, Pune, Nagpur and Malegaon, where a maximum number of cases have been reported. Assistant inspector general of police (law and order) Vinayak Deshmukh said more centres would be developed if required in the future.Cyber police acts against rumour mongers The state cyber police on Friday said that they have intensified their vigil on social media platforms, as many are from the past two days spreading fake news of the lockdown being extended in the state. The police asked the citizens to not to believe in any information coming from an unofficial source and have warned of strict action against those forwarding such content to others.Lounge owner booked for allowing pizza party Oshiwara police booked the owner, manager and a Waiter of a lounge in Jogeshwari after a late night pizza party was organised at the lounge. Assistant inspector Nitin Gije of Oshiwara police station said, “As the lounge was found violating lockdown norms, we booked its owner and two others under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant sections of the Epidemic Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-s-covid-19-count-crosses-2-000-mark/story-CRZPUKo2U6JmW0gvt6zuuN.html
13-06-2020||City||Maharashtra’s social justice minister Dhananjay Munde tests positive for Covid-19||State social justice minister Dhananjay Munde tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and was admitted to a private hospital within hours of his diagnosis. He is stable and asymptomatic. Munde is the third minister from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to test positive for Covid-19.“We conducted two tests, one came negative but another confirmed he is positive. I had a telephonic conversation with him. He is fine and asymptomatic but has very minor breathing problem, hence we decided to admit him to a city hospital,” health minister Rajesh Tope told reporters. A number of Munde’s staff, including his secretaries, driver and cook, also tested positive for Covid-19.Munde had attended a state cabinet meeting on Tuesday and Tope said other ministers who were at the meeting would also be tested and quarantined if they show any symptoms of Covid-19. “We are strictly following the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines, which clearly state tests can be conducted only if a person develops symptoms. If anyone develops symptoms, they will be quarantined and tested,” he said.Earlier, housing minister Jitendra Awhad and public works department minister Ashok Chavan had tested positive for Covid-19. Both have since recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-s-social-justice-minister-dhananjay-munde-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-0IAL8wAX22TNkHJcAbpF6K.html
13-06-2020||City||Don’t believe rumours, we have not decided to reimpose lockdown: Maharashtra CM||With rumours circulating on social media that the state government was planning to impose lockdown restrictions in the state once again, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray clarified on Friday that no such decision has been taken. While Mission Begin Again has relaxed some restrictions on movement, Thackeray appealed to citizens to follow lockdown norms to help curb the spread of Covid-19.On Friday, messages started making rounds on social media about the state government in Maharashtra re-imposing the lockdown from next week. In response to these rumours, the chief minister’s office issued a statement on Friday morning, dispelling these speculations.“There are rumours being spread on social media and reports on some [news] channels that the state government has taken a decision to impose lockdown by shutting down all shops and commercial establishments. We have not taken any such decision. Such reports create confusion among people. Spreading such false news is a violation of the law and should not be transmitted without confirmation,” read the statement.On Wednesday, Thackeray had said the state may be forced to impose the lockdown again if people did not follow lockdown norms. “The threat of Covid-19 has not passed, it still persists. As we continue to battle pandemic, we cannot put brakes on the wheels of the economy. We were shocked looking at the crowd on the first day. Outdoor physical activities are permitted for your good health and not to spoil it. People will have to keep physical distance. The government is evaluating the situation. If we feel that the lifting of lockdown is life-threatening, then we will be forced to impose the lockdown again,” he had said.In the statement released on Friday, Thackeray said that relaxation of restrictions should not be taken as leave to ignore distancing norms and other preventive measures. “Lifting of the lockdown norms does not mean people are allowed to step out, leading to crowding at public places and which could prove hazardous for health. Maintaining social distancing, masking the face and sanitisation at regular intervals should be adopted now as part of one’s lifestyle. Everybody should self-discipline for their own health and that of their close ones,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-believe-rumours-we-have-not-decided-to-reimpose-lockdown-maharashtra-cm/story-Sz21H6N6XE2hsmTXk7e7XP.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||‘State and Centre trying hard, but didn’t spread awareness about community risk’||As the state hit the one lakh mark for Covid-19 cases on Friday, Dr Satyajit Rath, retired scientist from Delhi-based National Institute of Immunology, and currently adjunct professor at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, spoke on factors behind the rise in Covid-19 cases, state’s handling of the outbreak and public health care system. Excerpts:What are the factors responsible for the large number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and Mumbai?Globally, much of Sars-CoV-2 transmission seems to be ‘direct’, meaning from being in close proximity to an infected person. Since the entry of the infection into India is from overseas, it is quite unsurprising that the high-volume international entry points, Mumbai and Delhi, have had most ‘seeding’ of local outbreaks. When that is coupled with crowded urban conditions, especially in Mumbai, again, the number and size of local outbreaks are unsurprising, as also the outcome that infection has spread to surrounding areas (western Maharashtra, Gurgaon) from these initial seeding points. These are not really ‘huge’ numbers, given the numbers some other countries with early high-volume outbreaks have had and continue to have. The pandemic is going to be with us in fits and starts for a long time.Has the state done enough to contain the epidemic?The state (the Centre and Maharashtra government) is trying hard, and with good intentions, and acknowledges and tries to act on evidence-based directions and approaches needed (unlike the government leaderships in the two countries ahead of India – Brazil and the USA). It also acknowledges some of its own limitations and shortcomings.And the inadequacies?The state has failed to address the core issue, which is to build a community partnership in which there is clarity about the fact that the pandemic is not so much an individually lethal risk as a community risk. The result is stigmatisation, ostracisation, fear and concealment, disruption of non-Covid-related health services and their usage (children’s vaccinations, other non-pandemic illness handling, et cetera), and the like. The state has not built robust and generous public support structures for the underprivileged anywhere near the extent needed. What is your assessment of the public health infrastructure?The state (the Centre and Maharashtra government), most directly, have not yet acknowledged the sad state of public health care systems, especially at community level. It is a contributor to the quantitatively inadequate pandemic response. As a simple example, the general consensus globally is that for efficient community-based Covid-19 case identification and contact tracing, one skilled and trained health worker will be needed per three thousand people. This kind and level of manpower in neighbourhoods, backed up with infrastructure, data handling, and testing-technical capacity, was not available before the pandemic, has not been aimed at so far, and is not being built for the future.Data shows that the state has been carrying out about 14,000 tests everyday as against the testing capacity of 38,000. It’s a similar case with Mumbai too. Should we be testing more? Given these numbers, it is quite likely that larger numbers of testing would help; more tests will still likely identify more cases. However, a major issue has come to be; how easy is it to get tested, and how clear, supportive and unthreatening are the practical decision streams for what is to be done if ‘the test comes positive’ and how it is to be done?What has been the consequence of constant changes in testing criteria by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR)? The major consequence is that it becomes difficult if not impossible to compare data from testing under one set of criteria with data from testing under another set. This makes it hard to say anything much about the trajectory of the epidemic in the country. However, it is also true that ICMR has had to work in practical constraints of test and related resource (swabs, transport) availability, and of changing case numbers.How do you gauge the potential impact following the easing of lockdown restrictions in Maharashtra/Mumbai? It is quite likely that numbers will go up with a delay of a week or two, especially because there is no cultural assimilation in the community of the need for physical distancing (not social distancing; we need social solidarity). Case numbers are most likely to go up, not in some orderly and well-distributed fashion, but as increasing numbers of local, scattered outbreaks.Suggestions to control further spread of the infection and revive the economy range from a ban on gathering of more than two or five people, enforcement of a stringent containment strategy and cyclical lockdown. Your comments. A single strategy won’t work everywhere, all the time. All of these and more are likely to be invoked and used, in reactive fashion, in different local situations at different times. It would be helpful if some systematic analytical thought has been given to identifying which local circumstances would warrant which of these containment approaches; I do not know if governments are doing this kind of planning.What is the takeaway, three months into the pandemic?Unless we persuade ourselves, culturally, as a community, that physical distancing and social solidarity need to become the ‘new normal’, and unless we re-commit ourselves, as a representative government, to the idea of major, long-term, durable investment in comprehensive public health systems as a core responsibility of governance, the outcomes of the pandemic are likely to be bleak for us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-and-centre-trying-hard-but-didn-t-spread-awareness-about-community-risk/story-9MKh0Flaf5C5XafIoQ7PbN.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC asks Punjab to decide on security to Bir Devinder in 10 days||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked Punjab government to decide on security cover to Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) leader Bir Devinder Singh. Singh had filed a contempt petition in the high court stating that he was provided security in 2013 which resulted in court disposing of a plea on security cover issue. However, the security cover was subsequently withdrawn.He had told court that in spite of the threat perception still existing, the security has been withdrawn only because of his criticism of the policies and decisions of the state government. The high court bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur has asked the state to consider this contempt plea as his representation and decide accordingly within 10 days. Two cops get bail in Moose Wala firing case The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted interim bail to two cops accused in an FIR involving singer Sidhu Moose Wala. The high court bench of justice Anil Kshetarpal granted the interim protection, asking constable Gagandeep Singh and constable Harvinder Singh to join probe as and when called by police. The bench also asked for a status report from the Barnala and Sangrur SSPs.Singer Sidhu Moose Wala was booked under Section 188 of the IPC and 51 of the Disaster Management Act on May 4 by Barnala police after he was shown in a video firing from an official assault rifle. A second FIR was registered by Sangrur for a similar incident.--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-asks-punjab-to-decide-on-security-to-bir-devinder-in-10-days/story-NObfivcm0DH8m9ltIXci7O.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Not enough Covid tests in Maha, say experts||If experts are to be believed, the number of positive patients in Maharashtra may be much higher than the one-lakh-mark it crossed on Friday, as the state is testing to only 39% of their daily capacity. The state government, however, says there is no need for random testing.In March, when the state reported its first case of novel coronavirus, only one laboratory— National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune – was conducting the tests. Now, after 94 days of the outbreak of the virus, the number of testing labs in the state has increased to 97, an addition of almost one lab per day. Of these, 57 are government laboratories, while the remaining private. This has increased the total testing capacity to 38,000 samples per day. But an analysis of the data done by HT shows, despite having the testing facilities, the state is conducting a maximum of 15,000 tests per day.In the past 10 days, the testing capacity has increased by 26%. On June 2, 12,440 tests were conducted, which increased to 13,793 the next day. It fell slightly to 12,559 on June 4, but increased to 12,866 on June 5 and surged further to 14,007 the next day. However, on June 8, 12,227 tests were done which gradually increased to 14,004 on June 9 and 15,988 on June 10. The next day, 15,508 tests were done, and a slight increase was recorded on June 12 with 15,731 cases. Currently, 19 of every 100 tests come positive. According to experts, if the state had done daily tests to their maximum capacity, the number of positive cases would have gone above one lakh earlier.“Testing should be the only mantra to identify carriers among the crowd to stop its further spread. Now, with the relaxation of lockdown, the chances of spread of infection are more. Other than the current testing procedure (RT-PCR), we need a more sophisticated strategy for diagnosis,” said Anant Bhan, global health expert.Experts say a large number of people could be asymptomatic or silent spreaders, as they carry Covid-19 pathogens without any symptoms. Even though the chance of the spread of infection through them is low, they are still infectious. On May 18, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) declared that asymptomatic high-risk contact of Covid patients can be tested without prescriptions. Despite this, there is no clarity among coordinators of the helpline of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and private laboratories. Also, high-risk contacts, too, struggle for tests. However, state health officers have claimed that adequate number of tests is being done based on the protocols laid down by the ICMR. “Random testing is not feasible because it increases the chance of false negatives, where a person shows a negative report but is infected. As we are doing high-risk-based testing, our results are better. In private labs, per 100, we are getting 19 positive patients. While in government labs, the infection rate is 19.5%,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, director of Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD). “These guidelines are being made by experts who have years of experience. So, people need to trust them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-enough-covid-tests-in-maha-say-experts/story-RKg1Zy2mDB7x37SW0YuuoK.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra at 1 lakh cases, where does Mumbai stand?||Amid the grim Covid-19 milestones, Mumbai is showing some signs of improvement, with its share in Maharashtra’s cases dropping to 54.82% as of June 12, from the average of 64% in May. The city has seen a dip in cases in Dharavi, Worli, Wadala and Parel, which had emerged as Covid hotspots, according to the state’s and civic body’s data for their wards. Some areas such as Govandi, and Mankhurd, Bandra East, and slums of Kurla and Ghatkopar, too, are registering a drop in cases in June, compared to May. Experts, however, say it is too early to rejoice. Reasons? None of the 24 wards of Mumbai are showing signs of flattening the curve. Experts feel Mumbai is in the middle of its peak right now, with this being its “wait-and-watch period”. And, with the staggered easing of relaxations announced in the city since June 5, as part of Maharashtra’s Mission Begin Again plan, cases are likely to surge again.Moreover, the number of cases on any given day in June for Mumbai has not dropped below 1,000. On an average, any given day in June saw 1,300 covid-19 cases, compared to the average of 1,250 in the last 10 days of May.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal said, “Over 25,000 patients have recovered. The doubling rate is 25 days now. For better management of bed availability, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) now has a decentralised ward-level bed management system and a dashboard for beds in real-time. There is an Uber platform for booking ambulances. BMC will also add 650 more ambulances to its fleet next week. There have been no deaths due to lack of dialysis in the past one month. A figure of 52,000 cases is scary, until you look at these things.”According to a senior civic officer from BMC’s health department, a person infected by Covid-19 will begin to show symptoms or will test positive anywhere between the first or fifth day from being infected. Taking this into consideration, BMC has decided to closely observe the period of two weeks from the time Mumbai began to ease its restrictions. The city has seen more cases on June 11 and June 12, which mark over six days since Mission Begin Again. June 11 recorded 1,418 and June 12 saw 1,366 cases. As of Friday, 45.35% or 25,152 people of cases have recovered. It has 28,248 active cases at present, or 50.94% of the total cases recorded so far. Mumbai contributes to 54.82% of Maharashtra’s total cases. It contributes to 56.9% of Maharashtra’s active cases, and 54.99% of its total deaths.On May 1, Mumbai’s share in Maharashtra’s cases was 67.89% and in the state’s deaths was 60.82%. On May 15, this went down to 60.62% share in cases, but 61.32% in deaths. At the end of last month, on May 31, Mumbai contributed to 58.65% of Maharashtra’s total cases, 59.97% of its active cases, and 55.94% of the deaths.This drop is mainly attributed to a decrease in Mumbai’s growth rate to 2.76% as of Thursday. A week ago, on June 5, it was 3.09%. On May 31, Mumbai’s growth rate was 3.85%, and on May 27, it was 5.17%.The G-North ward, with jurisdiction over Dharavi slum and earlier identified as a Covid-19 hotspot, and the G-South ward, with jurisdiction over Worli Koliwada, the first containment zone of Mumbai, have shown improvement in their curve. Both these wards have more recoveries than active cases.The G-North ward with areas of Dharavi, Dadar, and Mahim has recorded a total of 3,668 cases so far. It has 1,251 active cases (34%) as of Thursday. Over 60% of its patients have recovered and have been discharged. Its growth rate is 1.5%.The G-South ward, covering areas of Worli, Lower Parel, Elphinstone, and Prabhadevi, with a total of 2,593 cases, has shown a recovery rate of 55%. A total of 38% of its cases are active. Its growth rate is 1.8%.The E ward, comprising Byculla, Nagpada, and Mumbai Central, which is among the five wards with most number of cases in Mumbai (3,085) has more patients who have recovered in comparison to its active cases. While 52% of patients in E ward have been discharged, 44% of its total cases are active. The ward has a mortality rate of 3.10%.The M-East ward, comprising slums of Govandi and Mankhurd, also has a high recovery rate in comparison to its active cases. It has a total of 2,444 cases, 52% of them have recovered. It has 44% active cases (1,082).However, wards where the curve is steeply rising even now are K-East, with a total of 3,616 cases, a growth rate of 4.1%, and 53% active cases. P-North of Malad has shown a steep upward curve with a total of 2,569 cases, a growth rate of 4.9%, and 69% of its cases still active.Prashant Sapkale, assistant commissioner of K-East ward, said, “There has been a rise in the number of cases in the past 15 days. It is a very big ward, in terms of population, floating population or bridge population of essential workers, and the area. It has Seven Hills Hospital, Marol Police Line, CISF camp, Trauma Hospital and airport.”Sanjog Kabare, assistant commissioner of the P-North ward was not available for comment. Madhav Sathe, retired professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “Cases are on a downward trend in certain areas, and hence it will impact Mumbai’s curve. While this is good news, the curve needs to further go downward.”According to Sathe, an important aspect for Mumbai to focus on is further reduction of its death rate. He said, “There are two or three treatment modalities which need to be activated soon, independent of government procedure of clearance. Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, and Tocilizumab , an immuno-modulant drug, can be proactively used. There is ICMR permission to use these drugs. However, the rule states the hospital committee has to approve its use in a medical college which can take seven-eight days. That is precious time lost.” Sathe said this drug has shown good results in many countries battling Covid-19, and permission to use these drugs need to be fast-tracked. “We will reduce the death rate to almost 1% with this, and plasma therapy.”Regarding lifting of lockdown, Sathe said, “I think we are in our peak of cases now. Cases are likely to increase due to staggered easing of relaxations, but that can be handled when mortality is reduced, and the phobia around the infection is reduced.”Sanjay Pattiwar, a city-based public health consultant, said, “Now that restrictions have eased, the scenario is going to change. Factors such as population density, use of public transport, compromised social distancing because of it are going to contribute to increase in cases. More contact tracing is required now. But the government may not have the resources required to trace so many contacts. It is not even possible considering Mumbai’s population.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-at-1-lakh-cases-where-does-mumbai-stand/story-5CCDWhBoknYQHRYuiTXZcP.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sharma, Grewal are PSPCL directors, Badal loyalist ignored||After hectic lobbying, the Punjab government appointed new directors of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).Jalandhar chief engineer Gopal Sharma has been appointed as director (commercial), while Ludhiana chief engineer DIS Grewal has been named as director (distribution). Sharma was shortlisted for both the posts.The name of retired engineer-in-chief Hardeep Singh Boparai was also in both the panels, but he didn’t find favour with the chief minister as Congressmen objected to his name citing his close ties with the Badal family.Both Sharma and Grewal assumed the charge of the director at the PSPCL on Friday evening. The term of the directors is two years. Both the officials passed-out from Punjabi University, Patiala, and joined power corporation in 1985.Sharma had served on different important assignments as engineer-in-chief (distribution north) and chief engineer (enforcement). He replaced OP Garg, who had three-year tenure on the post. Grewal served as engineer-in-chief (distribution central zone) and chief engineer (south zone. He replacs NK Sharma, who had a three-year stint on the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sharma-grewal-are-pspcl-directors-badal-loyalist-ignored/story-Ziy9tDABx2HPraaXxpoqmL.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown no deterrence, snatchers had free run in Ludhiana amid restrictions||While the city cops toiled to keep people indoors to curb the spread of Covid-19, snatchers seemed to have a free run in the city. While the overall crime rate in Ludhiana saw a considerable dip in the lockdown period, snatchings continued unabated.As per the data available with the Ludhiana police, as many as 45 snatchings were reported in the 79 days since the restrictions began on March 23.A closer look at the data reveals that the snatchers were the most active during the third phase of the lockdown (May 4 to May 17), when the government had allowed vehicular movement and opening of shops between 7am to 7pm. As many as 13 snatchings were reported in the city during this period.The second phase of the lockdown, when stricter curbs were in place and no vehicular movement was allowed, saw only five snatchings.Once the unlocking process began in June, there was a surge in snatchings, with 10 cases being reported in the first 10 days of the month.MOST SNATCHINGS TOOK PLACE ON INTERIOR ROADSPolice also found that most of the snatchings took place in the interior roads as people were not venturing out on the main roads due to the restrictions.VICTIMS RECOUNT HORRORSarwan Kumar, a gas agency employee, who fell prey to snatchers on April 6, says he never thought miscreants would be active during a curfew. “I was out delivering LPG gas cylinders on April 6 when I was waylaid by two motorycle-borne men near Mukund Singh Nagar. They flashed a gun at me and took my bag containing Rs 10,500. It all happened within a matter of few seconds. I never thought such an incident would take place when there was such a strong police presence throughout the city.” On his complaint, the Division Number 6 police registered a snatching case.Gurmeet Singh of Behlolpur village, a liquor vend employee, fell prey to snatchers on the night of May 30. As per the complaint, two men posing as customers came to the vend and asked him to serve them liquor. As the vend was closed, he refused to serve them. Following this, they flashed a gun at him and robbed him of Rs 9,000 after beating him up.TREADING THE RISKY PATHAll didn’t go as planned for some of the snatchers who found the tables turned on them. On April 15, a snatcher lost his life as his bike plunged into a drain when he was trying to flee after committing the crime. In another incident, a resident of Bajra village beat up a snatcher who was trying to snatch a mobile phone from a labourer on April 7. The miscreant had to be rushed to the hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-no-deterrence-snatchers-had-free-run-in-ludhiana-amid-restrictions/story-DhjFGjdFETLMdJ3xsvZTXP.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||AAP terms Centre’s ordinances on agri marketing ‘anti-Punjab’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab on Friday, termed the three ordinances brought out by the Union government as ‘anti-Punjab’, and claimed that these are aimed at ruining the agriculture sector in state. AAP leaders submitted a memorandum to the governor through DCs in all districts, demanding immediate withdrawal of all three ordinances passed by the Modi government.MLA and party chief spokesperson Prof Baljinder Kaur said, “The ordinances – the Farmer Product Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Support) Ordinance 2020, Price Guarantee and Farmer Services (Empowerment and Security) Ordinance 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 – are aimed at abolishing the MSP for wheat and paddy.”In the memorandum, the party has alleged that the ordinances being imposed on pretext of benefitting the farmers will prove to be a curse for them and benefit corporate houses instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-terms-centre-s-ordinances-on-agri-marketing-anti-punjab/story-8SJuezrnutTurysTPGQSpN.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man running shell firms made ₹70 cr via forged GST bills, held||A team of the state goods and service tax (GST) department on Friday arrested a 52-year-old man along with his two accomplices in the industrial town of Mandi Gobindgarh for running a web of shell companies and making ₹70 crore by producing forged GST bills. The accused have been identified as kingpin Ganga Ram, a resident of the town, and Amit Kumar and Vishesh Kumar, both migrants. Officials claimed that Ganga Ram was operating almost three dozen shell companies to produce GST billings and took cut from input tax credit availed by other businessmen on basis of forged bills. “So far, we have detected fake billing of ₹350 crore which caused a loss of ₹45 crore in tax revenue to the state exchequer. In the last one year, Ganga Ram, who has been operating firms and bank accounts registered on the name of his relatives and some migrants, withdrew ₹70 crore from banks through bogus billing,” said additional excise and taxation commissioner Showkat Ahmad Parray, who is heading the special data cell to crack such cases. Ram was also paying some amount to those on whose name he had registered the firms and would get their signatures on cheque books to withdraw money. Several cheque books have also been recovered from him, officials said. “Amit and Vishesh, who had come to the town in search of labour work, joined Ram as he would use their documents to open shell companies. Also, he was planning to open a factory in Himachal Pradesh with the money earned from bogus billing. Besides, he built a house and purchased some property. Most of his cash withdrawal from banks are below ₹1 crore to avoid TDS (tax deducted on source) on withdrawal,” Parray said. On specific inputs, a team of officials from Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Fatehgarh Sahib launched a joint operation and raided the so-called factories and offices of firms involved in bogus billing, he added. “Several firms are engaged in issuing fake invoices and passing bogus input tax credit to others in Punjab without any supply of goods. We found that 10 firms issued fake invoices worth ₹350 crores involving tax of ₹45 crore,” said Parray.Ram got registered firms namely GK Enterprises, Deepika Steel Industries in his name; King Sales Corporation and Ishika Traders in the name of Amit Kumar; and Vishu Enterprises in the name of Vishesh Kumar among others, it has been found. Also, documents were seized from the residence of the accused.The other beneficiaries of the fake billing will be identified, Parray added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-running-shell-firms-made-70-cr-via-forged-gst-bills-held/story-VbRmCsNN6DUTXh9314jkRI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab FDA, Punjabi varsity formulate immunity booster||The Punjab the food and drug administration (FDA) and the biotechnology department of Punjabi University has formulated immunity booster and water soluble aqua-turmeric (haldi). The formulation is said to be more beneficial for human body in fight against the coronavirus and the processes are on to place orders for its commercial production. “Nanotechnology-based formulation can be consumed raw or mixed with milk or water. It will be beneficial to humans as the turmeric has the potential to improve bio-immunity besides having anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties,” said Dr Mini Singh, associate professor in the department of biotechnology, who led the research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-fda-punjabi-varsity-formulate-immunity-booster/story-l9egLKdAtpgJSBAJGDxJAL.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Burglars steal 250-kg wheat stored for mid-day meal at Ludhiana school||Burglars struck at Government Primary School, Birmi village, and decamped with 250-kg wheat stored for preparing mid-day meals for students.The incident came to light when the head teacher, Sonia, went to the school for some work. She said that the school had remained closed for the past two-and-a-half months due to the lockdown. When she went on June 10, she found the grilles of the storeroom’s window were cut open.Upon inspection, she also found that 250-kg of wheat, kept in the storeroom for mid-day meal, was missing.Based on her complaint, police have registered a case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unidentified persons.Sub-inspector Jagdeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said burglars may have used a pick-up auto or mini-truck for stealing the wheat. “We are scanning closed-circuit television camera (CCTV) footage of the school to gather more clues.In another case, unidentified miscreants stole batteries of inverters installed at automated driving track at Sector-32 on Chandigarh road. The Division number 7 police have lodged an FIR against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burglars-steal-250-kg-wheat-stored-for-mid-day-meal-at-ludhiana-school/story-bDiH4y3iJYRDIMvk38TuaK.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh Covid guidelines in Punjab: Non-essential shops to stay shut on Sunday, close by 5pm on Sat||Only shops dealing with essential commodities and services will be allowed to open in Punjab on Sundays and holidays while those selling non-essential items will have to down their shutters at 5pm on Saturdays, say the state government’s new guidelines to deal with the rise in Covid-19 cases. But an exception has been made for liquor vends and restaurants (takeaway and home delivery) that may stay open till 8pm on all days. Also, inter-district movement in the state on weekends and holidays will be restricted barring e-pass holders. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday approved the detailed weekend and holiday restriction guidelines. The CM on Thursday had cited fear of community spread of Covid-19 in Punjab in a preparedness review.The guidelines issued on Friday are in addition to those notified earlier by the state government for lockdown 5.0/unlock 1.0, and will remain in force on weekends and gazetted holidays till further orders.The new guidelines also state that the district magistrates in consultation with the market associations may choose to order closure of the non-essential shops on any other day of the week also, especially in the high-risk areas. Inter-district movement will be issued only for essential work but no pass shall be required for such travel in case of medical emergency. E-pass will also be required for a wedding function and will be issued only to 50 persons.The CM appealed to the people of Punjab to strictly adhere to the social-distancing norms and wear masks. The situation demanded stringent compliance with all the restrictions, he stressed, adding that though the situation in the state was relatively in control, the government was not ready to take any chances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fresh-covid-guidelines-in-punjab-non-essential-shops-to-stay-shut-on-sunday-close-by-5pm-on-sat/story-pdZwOlZ5HyqDRtpbjdtJjK.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases cross 100,000-mark; Mumbai’s toll goes past 2,000||Ninety-six days since the first Covid-19 case was reported in Maharashtra, the state crossed the 100,000-mark on Friday, with an addition of 3,493 cases. The state’s coronavirus count stands at 101,141 cases. Fatalities in Maharashtra also rose to 3,717 as 127 more deaths were reported. Mumbai, which is the worst-hit city in India, recorded 1,366 new cases, taking its tally to 55,451, while 90 deaths took the city’s toll past the 2,000-mark to 2,044. With the state reporting more than 3,000 cases daily for the past three days, the state government and health experts remained unsure about projections and trajectory of the virus curve. While the rise of infections in Mumbai has been arrested over the past couple of weeks, with hotspots such as Dharavi and Worli Koliwada leading the way, cases across the state have seen a spike. Over the past week, the state has recorded 20,912 cases and 868 deaths – a daily average of 2,987 cases and 124 deaths till Friday.Health officials said Mumbai’s case curve may flatten first, going by the current trend. The city’s daily rise in cases has dropped in comparison to the overall state figures over the past three weeks. Mumbai accounted for 63.73% of the state’s new cases on May 14, 56.47% on May 28, 49.06% on June 4 and 39.10% on Friday.“This clearly indicates that the cases in other parts of the state are on the rise because the number of cases in Mumbai has dropped in the proportion of its percentage with the state level cases,” said a health department official, on condition of anonymity. “The plateau in Mumbai cases is a positive sign. We are more worried about the poor health infrastructure in some of the other districts such as Amravati.”Dr Om Shrivastava, infectious diseases specialist and a member of the taskforce appointed by the state government for the clinical management of critically-ill patients, said the curve in Mumbai will stabilise soon. “The number of cases in Mumbai has come down significantly in the past four weeks. We may expect flattening of the curve soon. But at the same time, in the rest of Maharashtra, the number of cases may rise. In June and July, the number of cases may keep rising and we need to be more cautious and observant. Once we get through these months, we will be in a position to see which direction we are moving,” he said. Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the expert committee appointed by the state to recommend steps to curb the spread of the virus, said rise in the cases should not be a cause of worry to some extent. “There are different trends and phenomena in different areas in the state. While there is a plateau in some parts of the state, a few areas are emerging as hotspots. As long as we are ready with the infrastructure to handle the cases and treat the patients, as per their conditions, this should not be a cause of concern. It is difficult to predict when we can see a downward trend, but the next two weeks are important and by end of June, we will have a clearer picture,” he said.A senior health department official admitted that the state had been hoping to flatten the curve by May-end. “We had been expecting the flattening of the curve by May-end and the chief minister had directed the authorities to set targets accordingly. In the current scenario, it seems to be difficult even by June-end. However, we have been successful in keeping our count much below projections by various agencies, including the Central government, for Mumbai and Maharasthra,” said the official, who did not want to be named. Given the unpredictability of the disease, the government is unlikely to offer any relaxations now and will observe how the existing relaxations have impacted the state’s case tally. “Many commercial and industrial activities have been allowed, except in Red Zones. Opening of shops, private offices and allowing outdoor physical activities from June 3 to 8 may lead to surge in cases in the next few days. We are very closely observing the trend and no more relaxations will be given at this stage,” said a senior bureaucrat, who is part of the core group that finalised the strategy on handling the Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra. Officials from the state government, districts collectors and municipal corporations have been directed to concentrate on “chasing the virus” and at the same time “containing it”. “It is a two-fold strategy. We have directed local authorities to ramp up infrastructure while tracing the high- and low-risk contacts within 24 hours after patients test positive. At the same time, they have been told to strictly implement the lockdown in containment zones. In rural and semi-urban areas, the spread is rapid through the people travelling from big cities like Mumbai and Pune. We have asked local authorities to monitor these travellers strictly,” the bureaucrat said.The health department official pointed out that the rate of the doubling of cases had improved to more than 16 days, and even the case fatality rate (CFR) is in control (3.7% as of Friday). He said although the Centre has raised a red flag over high CFR in Mumbai, Thane, it is much lower than what it was three weeks ago. Scientists believe the lockdown helped reduce the infection rate, or R0 (referring to the number of people infected by one Covid-positive individual).Professor Bhalchandra Pujari of Savitribai Phule Pune University said R0 in most states, including Maharashtra, is estimated to be between 1 and 2 as INDSCI-SIM, the first India specific epidemiological developed by the Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19 (ISRC). ISRC is a voluntary group of more than 500 Indian scientists, engineers, doctors, technologists and public health researchers.“Before the lockdown, RO was estimated to be between 2.5 to 3, which has significantly reduced to 2 owing to the lockdown,” said Pujari, who was member of the team that developed INDISCI-SIM. “The main purpose of the lockdown was to push the peak, flatten the curve and give space to prepare health infrastructure. Our earlier report, stating that peak infections will occur in June-July, still stands.”According to Dr Pradip Awate, state’s surveillance officer, the health department has witnessed possible chances of community transmission in some parts of the state and this could be the reason for the continued increase in cases. “We are seeing signs of community transmission not only in Mumbai, but also across Maharashtra. We are getting cases in clusters without the source of infection. The lockdown, to a great extent, has helped to control the spread of infection,” said Dr Awate. While the number of positive cases in Mumbai is on decline, the state authorities are worried about the lapses in health services emerging over the past few days. The shortage of beds for Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients and reports of hardship faced by citizens is worrying.“It is true that the reports about bodies and patients going missing and deaths reported due to non-availability of beds are not a good sign for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government,” said a senior state minister, who did not want to be named. “The Opposition has been cornering us, pointing at these lapses. The acquisition of the beds from private hospitals has not been done as per expectations and there are complaints of a few hospitals playing spoilsport. Health minister Rajesh Tope has asked municipal commissioner of Mumbai to ensure that 80% beds in private hospitals are acquired at the earliest.”State health minister Rajesh Tope said strict action has been taken against the officials responsible for the negligence over treatment to patients. He said the cases of negligence at Shatabdi Hospital or the one in Jalgaon have been “taken up seriously”.With inputs by Snehal Fernandes and Rupsa Chakraborty||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-cases-cross-100-000-mark-mumbai-s-toll-goes-past-2-000/story-lH7uixXgI0rtufU7DR5b7M.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s coronavirus count crosses 3,000 mark, death toll climbs to 64||Punjab on Friday reported two deaths and 82 fresh infections, taking the state’s tally to 3,018, as per the latest field reports received till 11pm. The state has reported 64 fatalities due to Covid-19 so far. JALANDHAR WOMAN DIES IN LUDHIANAA 67-year-old woman from Grover Colony, Jalandhar, died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana early on Friday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the woman, Shanu Sharma, was admitted on June 5 and tested positive the next day.Medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, who is in-charge of the Covid-19 units of the hospital, said the patient was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. She was suffering from diabetes and hypertension besides flu symptoms. She was on ventilator support ever since she was admitted in the hospital.MALERKOTA WOMAN SUCCUMBS TO VIRUS IN PATIALA A 52-year-old woman succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Friday. The patient, Bimla Devi, was a resident of Malerkotla town, around 35km from Sangrur.Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Ravinder Kaur Kaler said, “Bimla Devi was first rushed to the local hospital where she tested positive for Covid-19. She was referred to the Government Rajindra Hospital at Patiala as she was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension.”She was put on ventilator at the hospital but passed away.Meanwhile, Ludhiana reported 27 new Covid-19 cases, a biggest single-day spike ever since the lockdown was clamped in March. Of the 25 patients, 13 are women, while one is a 22-year-old expectant mother from Tibba Road. Two sisters (2.5 years and 12ears) from Vivek Nagar also tested poitive. Besides, a 42-year-old woman and her 20-year-old daughter living in Islam Gunj contracted the infection. Three more positive cases, two women aged 62, 35 years and a 3-year-old girl have reported from containment zone of Chhawani Mohalla.36 FRESH INFECTIONS IN AMRITSAR Amritsar district on Friday recorded 36 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the district’s total tally to 578, health officials say.“Out of 36 cases, 17 are fresh community transmission cases. These patients were suffering from Covid-19 symptoms when they consulted the flu corners for testing. 18 people are the close contacts of the Covid-19 patents. All the patients have been isolated at government medical college and hospital (GMCH) here.3 NEW CASES IN SANGRURThree people tested positive for coronavirus disease in Sangrur on Friday. According to health department officials, one cop from Sangrur, one Malerkotla resident and a person admitted at DMC, Ludhiana, were reported infected with the disease.Two more people contracted the infection in Hoshiarpur. One of the patients is an armyman who recently came home from Jammu camp. The other infected person had returned from Gurugram. The latter’s wife and child were also tested but their reports came negative. Both the patients belong to Mukerian sub-division.Three persons tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar, confirmed nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr TP Singh Sandhu adding that with this total 325 positive cases reported in the Jalandhar district so far. COP AMONG 6 INFECTED IN PATHANKOTPathankot deputy commissioner GS Khaira said, “Six more people of the district were tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and most of them are contacts of Covid-19 patients. The six infected people include a policeman from Shahpurkandi area of the district. The total active cases in the district are now 63.”Five persons tested positive of novel coronavirus in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district on Friday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said four people returned from Maharashtra while one person belongs to Sahalon village of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-coronavirus-count-crosses-3-000-mark-death-toll-climbs-to-64/story-1Uaa6xsEa5u36eEZqroJbI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man extorts money from sister on the pretext of FIR against her family||A man, along with his wife and four relatives, extorted Rs 1.5 lakh and 30gm gold jewellery from his own sister on the pretext of settling a case lodged against her family, after the son of the latter had eloped with a girl.The accused told her that parents of the girl had lodged a first information report (FIR) against the family and they would give the money to the police for not taking action against them.The accused have been identified as Deepak Tiwari of Gurmel Nagar, his wife Sangeeta Tiwari, his brother-in-law Santosh Kumar alias Dubey of Gagan Nagar, relatives Gian Kant Mishra of Gurmeet Nagar, Mishra’s wife Neetu Mishra and another woman Bimla Devi.Complainant Rekha Pandey, 45, of Gianchand Nagar of Lohara, stated that her son Amandeep Pandey had left the house on March 19.Later, her brother Deepak Tiwari told her that Amandeep had eloped with a girl, Anchal, of Uttar Pradesh.Deepak Tiwari told her that the kin of the girl had lodged a police complaint against her family.“Deepak told me that police will arrest our family members and lodge them in the jail. He said I give some money to police, they would not take action against them. Deepak took Rs 1.5 lakh and 30gm gold jewellery from us,” said Rekha Pandey.“Deepak was in contact with my son Amandeep over phone. We used to talk to Amandeep on Deepak’s phone, but for the past few days, Deepak had asked not to talk to Amandeep and demanded more money,” she added.ASI Gurdial Singh, investigating the case, said that no FIR was registered against Rekha Pandey, her son Amandeep or any other family member. Her brother Deepak Tiwari had extorted money from her on the pretext of police action.The ASI added that Amandeep and Aanchal had solemnised marriage and staying somewhere in Uttar Pradesh. Things would be clear after the arrest of the accused, he added.A case under section 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-extorts-money-from-sister-on-the-pretext-of-fir-against-her-family/story-lgKrnmTGQjzhZWOUKpwdXJ.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC to take over 5 ESIC hospitals to add 1,000 Covid beds||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to take over Central government-run Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospitals in the city for Covid-19 treatment. The civic body plans to add another 1,000 Covid beds in the five ESIC hospitals, of which almost 30% will be reserved for intensive care unit (ICU). With the rising number of cases every day, civic-run hospitals are overwhelmed and most private hospitals are also running out of beds for critically-ill patients. According to BMC data, almost 97% ICU and ventilator beds are occupied by patients with severe breathing difficulties. In an attempt to increase the bed strength, BMC is now going to convert the five ESIC hospitals in Worli, Parel, Kandivli, Andheri and Mulund into full-fledged Covid-19 hospitals. “With the addition of these five hospitals, we will add another 1,000 beds. 70% of the beds will be reserved for isolation and 30% for ICU. We have already started treating patients in the Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Parel,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.At present, the city has five dedicated Covid-19 hospitals — BYL Nair, SevenHills, Kasturba Gandhi, St George and GT hospitals. Of these, barring SevenHills Hospital which is in Marol, all other Covid-19 hospitals are in south Mumbai. So, opening up Covid hospitals in suburbs in Kandivli and Mulund will be helpful to patients.“At the Kandivli hospital, we will start a 300-bed facility for Covid patients,” Kakani said. The Central government had invested ₹180 crore the construction of the hospital which was inaugurated in 2015 but started functioning only in 2019. However, the ESIC hospital at Marol in Andheri (East) has been lying dysfunctional after a fire outbreak in 2018 that killed 11 people including patients. ESIC hospitals come under the Union ministry of labour and employment. Central government employees can avail free treatment at these hospitals all across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-take-over-5-esic-hospitals-to-add-1-000-covid-beds/story-AcdMddwsDV3WcKGapvFCvI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four ‘courier boys’ rob ₹7L from Ludhiana steel firm owner’s office||Four miscreants, posing as courier delivery boys, robbed ₹7 lakh from the office of a steel factory owner after holding his employees hostage at gunpoint on Friday evening. Minutes before the incident, an employee of the factory owner’s business associate had visited the office to make a payment of ₹5.2 lakh.The entire incident was caught on closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the area.As per information, two employees of Happy Gupta, the owner of AH Alloys, were present in the office located in Industrial Area-B, when a person claiming to be a courier delivery boy knocked on the door.₹ When they opened the door, three other miscreants barged in and asked them to hand over all the cash they had in office.One of the employees, identified as Tejwant Singh, said the miscreants were armed with a gun and some sharp-edged weapons. The men took away ₹7 lakh, which included ₹5.28 lakh that had been brought in by their business associate and ₹1.7 lakh that was already lying in office. The accused tied the two employees to their chairs before fleeing. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said four suspects riding two motorcycles have been captured on the CCTVs installed in the area. The accused had covered their faces with helmets. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that according to Tejwant, they used to keep their office locked from inside for safety purposes. NOT THE FIRST CASEIn November last year, a similar incident had been reported wherein four armed men had robbed ₹7 lakh from the employees of a steel mill in Industrial Area B in broad daylight and escaped. The robbers were wearing full-face helmets, and had tied the employees to their chairs using a cellotape.DCP Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said that the modus operandi in both crimes were same, but it is too early to say anything.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-courier-boys-rob-7l-from-ludhiana-steel-firm-owner-s-office/story-PXJCN381MJ17MHDAmpL2cM.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi L-G Anil Baijal appoints panel to aid Delhi’s Covid-19 pandemic response||Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Friday appointed a six-member advisory committee to suggest effective measures to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak in the city and to guide the augmentation of hospital beds.The decision by the L-G, who also heads the DDMA, came a day after Delhi recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day (1,877), which took the total number of Covid-19 cases to nearly 35,000. On the same day, the death toll in the city crossed the 1,000-mark.Members of the advisory committee set up by the L-G on Friday include Krishna Vatsa, member, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA); Kamal Kishore, another member of the NDMA; Professor Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR); Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Science; Dr Ravindran, Additional DDG at the Directorate General of Health Services and Dr Surjit Kumar Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control. Bhargava shall be heading the committee, said a senior officer in the L-G’s office.A statement issued by the office of the L-G on Friday said: “The Lieutenant Governor of Delhi today constituted an advisory committee of eminent experts under section 17 of DDMA Act to advise the DDMA on various aspects of COVID-19 management. The committee comprises eminent experts of varied fields.”“The expert committee will give their opinion on various challenges being faced in Delhi in the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 and measures to ramp up medical infrastructure. The committee would also provide examples from global and national best practices. The L-G stated that the efforts being made by DDMA need to be bolstered by concerted planning, use of latest technology, efficient monitoring and seamless coordination amongst various agencies to overcome the challenge.” Dr Guleria confirmed that he has been made a part of the committee. The Delhi government too had earlier appointed two five-member advisory committees. Both have submitted several reports to the Delhi government and they are both officially functional till date, a senior government official said.The first committee — led by Dr SK Sarin — was formed on March 27 to suggest measures to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak in the city. The second one — led by Dr Mahesh Verma — was formed on June 2 to help the government augment the city’s health care infrastructure.Earlier this week, the L-G scrapped two Delhi government orders — one reserving beds in hospitals run by the city government and private ones, except a few, for residents of Delhi, and the other on keeping asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 patients outside the ambit of the testing policy. On Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Covid-19 cases in Delhi would touch 550,000 by July 31 and the city would need at least 150,000 beds if patients from other states are allowed treatment in the Capital’s hospitals.AUGMENTATION & CONTAINMENTEarlier on Friday, in a review meeting with Kejriwal, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, and senior bureaucrats leading the DDMA, Baijal stressed on stricter surveillance of the 212 active containment zones in the city even as he told the Delhi government that augmentation of the city’s hospital bed capacity should be its “top-most priority” at this stage, in the light of the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases.Most of Delhi’s containment zones are in the north revenue district (35). The northeast district, despite being the one with highest population density, has emerged as the only district currently with no active containment zones, government records showed. Four weeks ago, the city had less than 100 such zones.While north district magistrate Deepak Shinde did not respond to phones and text messages, northeast district magistrate Shashi Kaushal said there are currently no virus clusters in the revenue district, and most cases there are isolated instances, which did not necessitate sealing areas. But he added that the district administration will not hesitate to seal areas if clusters are noticed at any point.Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital said, “At this juncture, it is very important for the government to ensure that district surveillance teams stay active in containment zones and adequate staff from district medical teams are always available to guide them. They can consider using trained volunteers from within communities to monitor the efficiency of the surveillance and testing mechanism. Rapid action teams should continue to be active in data collection, contact tracing and surveillance, their analysis and interpretation, and guide the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-baijal-appoints-panel-to-aid-delhi-s-pandemic-response/story-1NAFo7XKS3DQwkOoEhgH1J.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Habibganj, Sensi Mohalla and Islamganj declared containment zones in Ludhiana||After the densely-populated Chhawani Mohalla, another heavily populated pocket of the city, which includes Habibganj, Sensi Mohalla and Islamganj, has been declared a containment zone.According to civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, the decision was necessitated after 17 Covid-19 cases were detected in the area, which has 700 houses and population of roughly 4,600. The entire area has been sealed and people are allowed to enter or exit only from the designated location.Dr Bagga stated that the entire area has been sealed and only essential and medical services will be provided in the area. The health department will conduct intensive house-to-house checking, surveillance, contact tracing and sampling in the area. If more cases are detected, they will be taken to a health facility as per the protocol.The primary focus will be the high-risk population, including the elderly, children and pregnant women.The house-to-house surveillance and contact tracing will continue for 14 days. If not more than one case is found in a week, then restrictions in the containment zone will be lifted.Senior medical officer (SOM) Dr Mala has been made the in charge of the containment zone. She will supervise 12 surveillance teams that have been constituted for checking and sampling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/habibganj-sensi-mohalla-and-islamganj-declared-containment-zones-in-ludhiana/story-HbPlavfw2OPzSlvCcRbVGP.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University teachers’ body proposes Covid-19 safety guidelines||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Friday submitted a proposal to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar seeking strict adherence to MHA’s Covid-19 safety guidelines before the varsity reopens on June 16.A PUTA committee has prepared a proposal to ensure safe and infection-free environment on campus.PUTA said paramedical staff needs to be deployed on campus so that people coming from red, yellow and green zones can be handled separately and appropriately. “The entrance of each building must be sprayed daily with the NaClO solution using backpack hand pump sprayer,” PUTA suggested.“Strict SOPs or guidelines must be issued with directions for strict adherence at individual and department levels to be monitored by a committee. Special care should be taken to maintain cleanliness and sanitisation of toilets and washrooms,” the teachers’ body said.PUTA also proposed that the offices of faculty and staff members must be sanitised with chemicals with minimal toxicity including Oxivir and Virox 8000.They said external areas and open spaces around various buildings including departments, administrative block, hostels and residential areas must be sanitised with Sodium Hypochlorite (NaClO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-body-proposes-covid-19-safety-guidelines/story-xaW4bZ6oJHvLIZrBXml7YM.html
13-06-2020||City||Feroze Gandhi Colony murder: Weapon supplier arrested||Gurugram  Two weeks after a 38-year-old city-based property dealer, suspected to be a close associate of gangster Binder Gujjar, was shot dead in Feroze Gandhi colony, the police have arrested a 30-year-old man for allegedly supplying weapons used in the shooting.The police said the suspect, identified as Naveen Singh, who is from Rohtak, had supplied two pistols used in the murder of Vikas Dureja. Singh, who has 11 criminal cases including murders, extortion, assault, and illegal arms smuggling registered against him, was arrested by a team of crime branch, Sector 10. One pistol, which he had purchased from Delhi for ₹45,000, and three live cartridges were recovered from his possession, the police said. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “Preliminary probe has revealed that the arrested suspect was not involved in the planning of the murder and his role was mainly to supply the weapons. The other suspects are yet to be identified”According to the preliminary probe by the police, a week before Dureja’s murder, Singh had provided two pistols to one Vikas. The police are now trying to trace Singh’s associates in Delhi and NCR. On May 29 around 2.45 pm, Vikas Dureja alias Vicky was on his way to his office when unidentified suspects had rained bullets at him after blocking his way in Feroze Gandhi colony. The victim had tried to reverse his car when an SUV, in which at least three suspects were seated, had rammed his car from behind. The suspects had fired gunshots at close range at his car and he had succumbed to injuries from multiple gunshots wounds on the spot.The autopsy had revealed that Dureja had received 30 gunshot wounds, the police said. Dureja had allegedly been involved in some of Gujjar’s business dealings since Gujjar was arrested last year by the Mumbai crime branch for an alleged conspiracy to kill his rival Sandeep Gadoli. The police said they are also probing if Sandeep Gadoli’s henchmen had planned Dureja’s murder as an act of possible revenge for Gadoli’s killing. The rivalry between Gujjar and Gadoli had resulted in a turf war lasting several years, resulting in several inter-gang killings.“We are yet to come across evidence about the victim’s involvement in criminal activities. We are looking at all angles including gang rivalry, “ said the ACP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/feroze-gandhi-colony-murder-weapon-supplier-arrested/story-Kp9G5kPZfv1qYlHmhUEERK.html
13-06-2020||City||Two held for attacking policemen during a mining raid||Gurugram: Two men were arrested for attacking the police, after they were caught indulging in alleged illegal mining in a crushing zone in Sohna on Thursday. The police said the suspects pelted stones at the police personnel and even tried to run a dumper truck over one of them, but were nabbed from a village in Mewat after an hour-long chase.According to the police, the incident took place around 1.15 pm when the mining team of the city police received information that some people were working in a stone crushing zone in Raisina, Sohna. The police said a team was sent to the spot. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that when the police team tried to question three men found the spot, they started pelting stones at the police and tried to run a dumper truck over a policeman.“The policeman saved himself by jumping out of the way. Three suspects escaped towards Nuh in the dumper truck. The police team requested for additional force from Sohna City and Mewat police stations and followed the suspects. During the chase, the suspects tried to ram their vehicle into the police’s car and also pelted stones. After a chase that lasted for more than an hour, two suspects were arrested while one managed to escape,” said the police officer.A policeman also sustained minor injuries in the incident. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Bhondsi police station on Thursday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-attacking-policemen-during-a-mining-raid/story-ip9XuZwWSH83B8plEsDmCO.html
13-06-2020||City||District admin makes it mandatory for labs to use RT-PCR mobile app||Gurugram: The district administration on Friday made it mandatory for sample collectors and testing labs to use the RT-PCR mobile application approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to streamline data collection and ensure that the information pertaining to the sampling of Covid-19 patients is collected on a real-time basis.The decision comes after health authorities and the district administration found that testing centres and labs were not able to collate information accurately, leading to discrepancies in ascertaing the exact number of Covid-19 infections.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram issued a direction, stating that it would be mandatory for all registered sample collection centres and testing labs to use the RT-PCR application on an immediate basis. “This application is meant to be used by sample collectors to enter the details of the sample being collected for Covid-19 RT-PCR test.” The RT-PCR or the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction test is used in detecting the presence of SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes coronavirus disease or Covid-19.The district administration has also directed that all sample collectors will have to fill in the information about the patients on the application, which will help in centralised information collection. In another related decision, the testing labs have also been asked to obtain permanent address proof from suspected patients and check the mobile numbers before the collection of samples.This comes after a number of Covid-19 patients shared wrong addresses with authorities, which made it quite difficult for patients to be traced, said officials.The labs will also have to save a copy of the permanent address proof of the patients at the time of sample collection..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-admin-makes-it-mandatory-for-labs-to-use-rt-pcr-mobile-app/story-HU1oMfjcJf9oiV2S8NfQbP.html
13-06-2020||Gurugram||Private hospitals to reserve 25% of bed capacity for Covid-19 cases||The district administration, on Friday, directed the city’s private hospitals with a capacity of 50 beds or more to reserve 25% of their total bed strength for patients suffering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, issued an order on Friday evening, stating that 36 private hospitals in the city, including two government hospitals, namely ESIC Hospital in Sector 9 and the Sector 31 polyclinic, will have to earmark beds for Covid-19 patients as the number of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus is likely to breach the 3,000-mark by Saturday.Gurugram has only two state-run hospitals, the 58-bed ESIC Hospital in Sector 9 and the 12-bed Sector 31 polyclinic, to handle Covid-19 patients. A private facility, the 120-bed Medeor Hospital, has been designated as a Covid-19 hospital for treating critical cases. In the absence of adequate public health infrastructure, Covid-19 positive patients in Gurugram are undergoing treatment in private hospitals or are being home isolated.As per the order, the listed private hospitals that are require to reserve beds for Covid-19 patients include Alfaa, Artemis, Bhanot, Chirag, Columbia Asia, ESIC (Sector 9), Fortis, Geetanjali (Pataudi), K K Healthcare, Max, Mayom, Medanta, Medeor, Metro hospital and heart institute, Narayana, Paras, Park, Polyclinic (sector 31), SGT (Chandu Budhera), Signature, W Pratiksha, Neelkanth, Aryan, Uma Sanjeevani Health Centre, Kalyani, Cloudnine, Kathuria, Kids clinic India Pvt Ltd, VK Healthcare and Medical Institute private limited, Polaris, Save Life, Northeast Healthcare Private Limited, The Asia Clinics and Surgery, Kamla, Shri Gobind and Pushpanjali.Hospitals have also been ordered to ensure adequate availability of human resources and logistics, such as presence of drugs and critical care equipment. The decision has been taken in compliance with the directives issued by the state health department to ensure treatment facility at public and private hospitals for Covid-19 cases.Earlier this month, when the cases were below the 700-mark, Khatri issued an order, making it mandatory for all the private and nursing homes in the city to admit Covid-19 patients, without giving an exact number of beds to be earmarked in hospitals.Vivek Kalia, nodal officer for health facilities, said, “Facilities for Covid-19 patients have to be augmented as cases are climbing up. Out of the 822 Covid-19 beds in 38 hospitals, 465 beds are occupied by confirmed cases and 64 by suspected cases. At least 97 patients are in ICU while 31 patients, who are critical, are put on ventilator.”Data further shows that Gurugram has overall 4,114 general beds, out of which 822 are Covid-19 dedicated. Likewise, there are 630 ICU beds, of which 162 are earmarked for coronavirus positive patients. There are atleast 330 ventilators and 141 dialysis machines across 36 hospitals.The order states that all 36 hospitals will have to upload the details on an online portal called oneMap, wherein information regarding patients and the availability of beds will be daily updated. The data collation would help in establishing systemic surveillance at the district level, according to the order.The administration has also earlier issued the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the hospitals. The rules laid down in the draft SOP as reported by HT on Friday states that a hospital can refer a Covid-19 patient elsewhere only if it lacks enough beds.The SOPs also allows private hospitals to transfer patients with mild or moderate symptoms to Covid care centres, which include self-paid and government-paid isolation facilities. The guidelines state that patients who do not require to be admitted in hospital because of their mild and moderate symptoms, but can’t be home-isolated either due to lack of space, will have to be transferred by the hospital to isolation centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/private-hospitals-to-reserve-25-of-bed-capacity-for-covid-19-cases/story-pXyEBplVsenTTapxwWdWOO.html
13-06-2020||Gurugram||Delhi-NCR witnessed the lowest increase in property prices in last decade: Report||The National Capital Region (NCR), including Delhi, Gurugram, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and adjoining areas, witnessed the lowest decadal increase in the price of residential housing at only 19% even though the average increase in property prices in the top seven real estate markets across the country was around 38%, found a report released by real estate consultancy Anarock.The report also stated that the price growth has gradually stagnated across the country, although Pune witnessed the highest price growth of 67% in the last decade.Real estate experts in Gurugram also said that barring steep spikes in price of properties between the years 2012 and 2014, the city did not witness any sharp rise in prices of residential housing as demand was low and the delay in project delivery also dampened the confidence of home buyers. Also the tendency of speculative buying and selling of houses as a commodity have also stopped due to exit of investors from the trade, thereby stabilizing the prices, they added.Prashant Thakur, director and head of research, Anarock property consultants, said, “While question of affordability still looms large in the minds of the Indian homebuyers, property price growth has gradually stagnated. The value of property, defined by size and location, is now distinctly higher.”As per the data shared by the firm, NCR saw the least increase in property prices and it stood at 19% between 2010-Q1 2020 period. The average price recorded in the region in 2010 was Rs 3,850 per square foot (sq ft)while in Q1 2020, it had increased to Rs 4,580 per sq. ft.The report further stated that in the initial 5-year period between 2010 to 2014, average property prices increased by anywhere between 5 and 7% year on year. Thereafter, growth began to slow down significantly, ranging between 0 and 2%, it added.The report further stated that average price in Pune rose by 67% in the decade, while in Bangalore it saw a 49% rise. Hyderbad witnessed a 45% increase in property prices while Kolkata saw a 44% rise in the prices of properties. The Mumbai metropolitan region saw a 33% increase in the prices of property while Chennai witnessed only 20% hike in the 2010 to 2020 period.Sanjay Sharma, a city-based real consultant, said that Delhi-NCR, including Gurugram, has been under a prolonged slowdown. Further, there is an oversupply in the real estate market in the region, which is leading to a lack in consumer demand and a stagnation in prices. “The pandemic will further complicate the matters,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/delhi-ncr-witnessed-the-lowest-increase-in-property-prices-in-last-decade-finds-report/story-3Sk8nB0dCo49uvV2jujOeO.html
13-06-2020||City||Gurugram to have five CNG-equipped crematoriums by July||Gurugram Following directions by the chief minister of Haryana, Manohar Lal Khattar, and citing an increase in deaths caused by Covid-19, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is making four crematoriums CNG-equipped while also renovating a defunct crematorium, said MCG officials on Friday.There have been 19 deaths due to Covid-19 in the city, of which 15 have been recorded since June 8.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, in an internal office order on Wednesday stated, “due to an increase in Covid deaths” the MCG is making four crematoriums, located at Sukhrali Village near Atul Kataria Chowk, Tigra Village, Palam Vihar and Sector 32, CNG-equipped.In addition, MCG is also working on renovating the defunct CNG crematorium at DLF Phase-3, established in 2012. The work on the crematorium has also started and is expected to be completed within two weeks.On May 2, during a meeting with all seven mayors of Haryana via videoconference, Khattar had directed MCG to explore the possibility of equipping all existing crematoriums to operate with either CNG or LPG.During the meeting, Khattar said that in a CNG- or an LPG-equipped crematorium, there are lower chances of human contact with a Covid-19 body as against the conventional method of burning a body over a pyre, thereby minimising the chances of people contracting the infection.Singh said that all five crematoriums will be operational by July 15, at a total cost of around Rs 3 crore.“We want to limit the spread of Covid-19 and any measure that can help achieve this is being implemented immediately. Orders have been issued to make the five crematoriums CNG-ready by next month. Work has already started at the DLF Phase-3 facility. Work at the other four will also start soon,” said Singh.Besides these five, the MCG has another crematorium at Madan Puri, which is already LPG-equipped.MCG officials said that to further limit the spread of Covid-19, the civic body is also exploring the possibility of reserving two of the six sites, for cremating Covid-19 fatalities exclusively. However, a final decision is yet to be taken on it.“The idea behind keeping exclusive crematoriums for Covid-19 fatalities is to ensure that the virus does not spread. There is a possibility that the crowd at the site for a Covid-19 fatality may come in contact with the infected body. We do not want to mix Covid and non-Covid fatalities,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The official further said that by separating crematoriums for Covid-19 fatalities, and non-Covid 19 fatalities greater focus can be given on the former in regards to disinfection, sanitization, and social distancing protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-to-have-five-cng-equipped-crematoriums-by-july/story-BJ3LuypRp5uhz6qgQ7uHUL.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Two more Delhi teachers succumb to Covid-19, others demand protective gear||A 57-year-old principal of a Delhi government school and a 48-year-old English teacher have succumbed to Covid-19 in less than a week, leading to growing anxiety and demands for protective gear — Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, masks and gloves — among government and municipal teachers, who are the frontline of the city’s battle against Covid-19.Earlier, in May this year municipality teacher and a security guard working at a ration distribution centre had succumbed to the virus. So far, Delhi has witnessed 36,824 cases of the virus with 1,214 deaths.On Thursday, Ompal Singh, principal of a government in Kalyanpuri, died after getting infected with Covid-19. Shyam Lal, vice-principal of the school, said that Singh was supervising the cooked food distribution at his school since April. “He was admitted to GTB hospital on June 5, after he was finding it difficult to breathe. He succumbed to the virus on Thursday. His family members, including his 12-day-old grandson, have also tested positive now. There is a lot of panic among teachers working at the food distribution centres in our school,” he said.On June 8, an English teacher, Shivaji Mishra, who was employed at a government school in Kalyan Niwas had died of Covid-19. Mishra, 48, was also working at a food distribution centre. His son Piyush Mishra said that his father developed symptoms of Covid-19 around June 1. “On June 2 his condition worsened and we took him to a private hospital in Mandoli. He tested positive for Covid last Thursday, following which the hospital asked us to shift him to a Covid designated hospital. We shifted him to Safdurjaung hospital on Friday, where he was shifted to ICU. He succumbed on Sunday,” he said.Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of the government school teachers association, said that more than 400 government school teachers on Covid duty have tested positive for the deadly virus in the last two months. “The government needs to help their families and provide them with jobs since they got infected while on duty. We also demand safety gear for the teachers working at the food and ration distribution centres,” he said.Delhi Education minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, on Friday said that the government was working to release ex-gratia for the families of Singh and Mishra. “My salute to the teachers of Delhi who are writing history through their selfless service in our fight against Covid-19. My heart goes out to the grieving families of Ompal Singh & Shivji Mishra who lost their lives. Delhi Govt. is working to release ex-gratia immediately,” he said in a tweet.A senior official at the Directorate of Education (DoE) said the government is providing masks and PPEs wherever required. “We are still collecting details of teachers who have tested positive and were on Covid relief work. We will also send a proposal to the finance department seeking monetary relief for the families of teachers who have succumbed to the virus,” said the official.The municipal corporation teachers association said that as many as 150 of their teachers have tested positive for Covid-19 till date. Ramnivas Solanki, president of the association, said, “The Delhi government has already announced relief of Rs 1 crore to MCD teachers who die of Covid-19. But there should be safety gear for all the teachers working at ration distribution centres so that we don’t have any other casualties,” he said.Officials at the civic bodies said that their teachers are engaged in Delhi government’s relief work and they should be provided the title of “Covid warriors”. Avatar Singh, mayor of the north civic body, said, “The government should also provide health insurance to these teachers so that they do not feel insecure while working at relief centres.”A senior government official said “Every possible help is provided to the teachers on Covid duty. All government officials are working selflessly amid the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-more-delhi-teachers-succumb-to-virus-others-demand-protective-gear/story-ZBXg0LS4XyUniPISGntkOO.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi markets, residents at odds over govt’s decision to not extend lockdown||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s announcement of not extending the lockdown left resident welfare associations (RWAs) disappointed on Friday, even as traders remained divided over the issue with some even conducting surveys to decide if markets should stay shut. With Covid-19 cases rising, speculation was rife that the government could impose the lockdown again in some form. Talking to reporters on Friday, Jain, however, said, “No, the lockdown will not be extended any further in Delhi.”Jain’s statement came at a time when some markets, especially the wholesale ones, are contemplating shutting down for the time being. The demand grew louder ever since the Delhi government on Tuesday said the Capital had hit the community transmission stage. The ICMR and the Centre, however, have denied it as of now. In June so far, the number of daily positive cases have oscillated between 990 and 1877.The Delhi government had on June 7 allowed malls, restaurants and places of religious worship to resume business after almost two-and-a-half-months. Shops were allowed for the entire day from June 1.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Friday said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s statement about Delhi having around 5.5 lakh cases by July 31 had caused concern. CAIT began an online survey on Friday to take the opinion of various traders’ associations whether to keep markets in Delhi open or not.Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of CAIT, said, “Today, shops are open in Delhi but business is just 5-10%. In wholesale markets, customers from outside Delhi are not coming. In retail markets, local customers are not coming at all. This is due to the fear of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. We have sought people’s opinion and based on the outcome will take up the matter with the home minister and Delhi lieutenant-governor.”RWAs said they were “shocked” by the announcement. “It was for this the chief minister actually should have sought suggestions or a referendum. All RWAs want some form of restrictions back in the city because it is important to break the chain. Each market can be asked to open on one day of the week,” said Atul Goyal, president, URJA (United Residents Joint Action), an umbrella body of 2,500 RWAs.B S Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA front, another umbrella body with around 100 associate RWAs, said no action is being taken against those not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing.“When you do not have enough manpower or resources to penalise those not following the civic norms of self protection and hygiene, which currently attracts heavy fines under the Disaster management Act, then you need a lockdown. Policemen or municipal corporations are not issuing any challans against those not wearing masks or those spitting in public places. There is no presence of any enforcement agencies,” said Vohra. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable disease at ICMR, however, said the situation in Delhi is no longer about lockdown or no lockdown. “You see people still moving in groups without masks. It is more about the behaviour. At this stage the government and all other authorities should simply go all out to ensure four things -- masks are worn by all, there is no public spitting, people wash hands or sanitise and maintain social distance,” said Kant. Kant that not imposing a lockdown again is mostly because of the revenue losses. In April, the Delhi government had a total revenue of about Rs 400 crore only against the projected earnings of Rs 4,000 crore. In May, it was around Rs 600 crore or so. Majority of popular retail markets in Delhi such as Khan Market, Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Karol Bagh have decided to remain open. Wholesale markets such as Chandni Chowk, Khari Baoli, Dariba were partially open on Friday.Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association, said, “We don’t want to close the market as business is gradually picking up. But, there is a need for improving sanitation and address the issue of street vendors. If vendors are allowed, social distancing will be next to impossible. They should be given space outside.”In the wholesale markets, which are mostly located in densely populated Old Delhi areas, traders devised their own mechanisms to regulate the number of people.While the Chandni Chowk Savy Vyapar Mandal has left the decision on individual traders, an association in Chawri Bazaar, which deals in files, has decided to open thrice a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-markets-residents-divided-about-govt-no-to-lockdown-extension/story-fSY77npyoRfB84R4gBO9EN.html
13-06-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Noida records 95 new cases and one more death, case tally now 830||A 45-year-old man from Barola village, who has tested Covid-19 positive by a government laboratory, died Friday morning. The patient reportedly had type-2 diabetes and bronchopneumonia. District health officials, however, claimed that the cause of death of that patient was acute respiratory distress syndrome with type-1 respiratory failure.With his death, the total death toll due to Covid-related causes in the Noida district is now 12, health officials said.On the other hand, the highest surge in Covid-19 cases was seen Friday when the district recorded 95 more positive cases, taking the overall tally of Covid-19 cases 830. District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that till Friday evening, 477 patients have been discharged from different hospitals. “Apart from them, 69 others have been cross-notified to other districts and states. As a result, the district now has 341 active cases,” he said.The CMO further said that out of 95 positive cases on Friday, 59 were tested by private laboratories, while the remaining 36 were tested positive at government laboratories. “Of these 95 positives, while the total ILI patients are 77, the number of SARI patients is one. While the number of contact patients in these figures is 13, four healthcare workers have also got infected,” he said.He further said that adequate arrangements have been made in the district for sample collection of Covid-19 suspected patients. “Our team of doctors are always ready to take calls from the patients. At present, the district has eight sample collection centres, including a district hospital in Sector 30, a new hospital building in Sector 39 and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, besides primary healthcare centres in Bisrakh, Dhankaur and Jewar, and community healthcare centres in Bhangel and Dadri,” he said. Giving details of 69 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said that while 20 of them are from Delhi, one patient each is from Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. “While 10 patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 36 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including 11 from Ghaziabad, eight from Bulandshahr, two each from Hapur and Aligarh and one from Agra,” he said.Ohri also said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Friday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, and sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 671 patients were screened Friday and 17 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-noida-records-95-new-cases-and-one-more-death-case-tally-now-830/story-154OwHe8oNFoxexWXrt4lL.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC refuses to pass orders on plea seeking action against private Covid-19 hospitals||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to pass any directions on a plea that sought it to order the Delhi government to ensure that private hospitals declared Covid-19 facilities do not overcharge patients, or deny treatment due to a lack of funds.While the bench, of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan, said the issue raised in the plea is “good”, it said it could not pass any general directions in the matter, saying these would be “difficult to implement”.“At this stage, we are not inclined to issue any direction,” the bench said while disposing the public interest litigation, filed by advocate Amit Sahni, who sought modifications in a May 24 Delhi government circular.The bench said in cases of overcharging, an aggrieved party may approach the court with a specific prayer against the respective hospital, but general directions cannot be passed in a PIL. It asked Sahni to give a representation to the Delhi government on the matter.According to the May 24 circular, private hospitals shall bill the Covid-19 patients as per their respective schedule of charges.By the virtue of the order, the hospitals were allowed to increase their number of beds for non-Covid patients by 25%, which was earlier not allowed as per norms. However the government had said that the 117 hospitals can ask for only 50% of their lowest charges for these extra non-Covid beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-refuses-to-pass-orders-on-plea-seeking-action-against-pvt-hospitals/story-VZmxMXkyWC3aUAD2zXQgGP.html
13-06-2020||Mumbai||No online classes for students till Class 2, suggests education department||The state education department on Friday recommended that the state government set up rules barring schools from conducting online classes for students up to Class 2. The recommendation is a part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) that the education department has submitted for the new academic year of 2020-21, regulating durations of online classes and will be effective from June 15. The SOP is awaiting the chief minister’s approval.As per the SOP, a specific number of hours have been set for each standard and schools must conduct online classes only for that duration. For students of Class 3 to Class 5, classes can only be held for an hour a day. For Class 6 to Class 8, classes may be held for two hours and for Class 9 to Class 12, classes may be conducted for a maximum of three hours a day. Schools must also ensure students get breaks between classes.“These recommendations have been made after consulting experts and stakeholders including school heads, academicians, social workers etc. Our idea is to bring in some uniformity in the way online education is conducted. We had got several complaints from parents regarding online education,” said state education minister Varsha Gaikwad.In addition, the department has also proposed phased opening of schools in areas where there have not been any reported cases of Covid-19, starting July. Schools can first start Classes 9, 10 and 12 in July; followed by Class 6 to Class 8 from August; and Class 1 to Class 5 from September. The final decision about restarting schools in such areas would rest with the local administration as per the SOP. Until schools are asked to reopen, they should only conduct online classes.Parents said that if implemented, the SOP would be a big relief to children and parents.“Schools have started conducting classes in replication with actual periods in schools without considering the fact that so much screen time is not good for young children,” said Arpita Shinde, a city-based parent.On June 10, Shiv Sena’s student wing Yuva Sena had written to the department urging for a common set of guidelines after several parents complained that schools were conducting several hours of online classes even for lower classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-classes-for-students-till-class-2-suggests-education-department/story-WHLb7eyn7qpd5q1R9oS61H.html
13-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police ASI dies of Covid-19, death toll in the force now five||A 53-year-old Delhi Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who was part of a special investigation team (SIT) probing the north-east Delhi riots cases, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday morning, taking the total count of deaths among city police force due to the virus to five. His 21-year-old son has also tested positive for the virus and is presently in home quarantine, a senior crime branch officer, privy to the development, said. ASI Sanjeev Kumar, was posted in the crime branch’s Rohini office. He died around 5.30pm at the Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital, where he was admitted on June 10, two days after his test report confirmed the virus infection, the officer cited above said.Special commissioner of police (crime) Praveer Ranjan confirmed that ASI Sanjeev Kumar was not part of the crime branch team probing the case related to the religious congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat at its headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area in mid-March.“The ASI was not involved in the Tablighi Jamaat case,” Ranjan said.Soon after the ASI’s death, unconfirmed reports started doing the rounds that he was connected to the case in which Tablighi Jamaat’s chief Maulana Saad and six other office bearers were booked for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital.Charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy were added to the case after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to the virus. The first information report (FIR) was filed on March 31, soon after more than 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters.The headquarters, known as the Markaz, went on to emerge as the biggest Covid-19 cluster in India, leading to a spurt in the rate of infection in the city. A total of 915 foreigners from at least 34 different countries have already been charge-sheeted in the case.A crime branch officer, on condition of anonymity, said ASI Sanjeev Kumar complained of fever and sore throat on June 8, after which his testing was done at the RML hospital.“As his report came positive, he was home quarantined. On June 10, he developed breathing problems and was first admitted to RML hospital. He was later shifted to GTB hospital the same day, where he died on Friday evening,” the officer said, adding that the ASI is survived by his wife and two children who live in north-east Delhi’s Maujpur. This is the second death of a policeman due of the Covid-19 since Tuesday, -- 59-year-old sub-inspector (SI) Karambir Singh had died of the virus during his treatment at the Army Base hospital. SI Singh was the driver of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Seelampur, Saurabh Chandra. Amit Kumar, 31-year-old constable of Bharat Nagar police station, was the first casualty of the virus on May 5. After Kumar, two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs), Shesh Mani Pandey and Vikram, both in their 50s, died on May 30 and May 31, respectively, at the Army Base Hospital. Since April, at least 700 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-asi-dies-of-covid-19-death-toll-in-the-force-now-five/story-LeBqbrH07glCuyxQzSfgPI.html
13-06-2020||Pune||Pune reports 13 deaths and 305 fresh positive Covid-19 cases||The city reported 13 deaths on Friday taking the death toll to 425. Also 305 fresh cases have been reported with 24 hours since Thursday evening which takes the progressive positive count to 9,082. One death was also reported of a Solapur resident from a Pune hospital.Out of the 2,733 active cases currently in the city, 222 are critical patients. Also 5,924 patients have been declared cured and discharged till date out of which 142 were discharged on Friday. In addition, 2,249 new samples were taken for testing of Covid-19 which takes the count of total samples to 68,736.Four deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), that includes that of a 52-year-old male residing at Kondhwa. The patient was admitted May 29 and declared dead on June 11. The person reportedly died due to respiratory failure due to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). He was also suffering from myocarditis, acute kidney injury (AKI), diabetes, pneumonitis, obesity and mood disorder.The second death from SGH is that of a 73-year-old male residing at Dandekar Pool. The patient was admitted on June 5 and declared dead on Friday. The patient suffered from diabetes, acute kidney injury (AKI), hypertension and myocarditis. The cause of death is said to be multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) and acute respiratory failure.The third death from the SGH hospital is that of a 62-year-old female residing at Kondhwa. The patient was admitted on June 9 and declared dead on June 12. The patient reportedly died due to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) and acute respiratory failure due to ARDS. She was suffering from diabetes, acute kidney injury (AKI), hypertension, pneumonitis and anaemia.The fourth death at SGH is of a 55-year-old male residing at Katraj. The patient was admitted on May 25 and declared dead on June 12. The patient reportedly died due to acute respiratory failure due to ARDS and myocarditis. He was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension, pneumonitis and cardiomyopathy.The four deaths reported at Kashibai Navale Hospital (KNH) include 69-year-old male residing at Janata Vasahat, Parvati. The patient was admitted on June 9 and declared dead on the same day. His swabs tested positive for the virus on June 11 and reportedly died due to Covid-19 and alcoholic liver disease.The second death at KNH, is that of a 56-year-old male residing at Kondhwa. The patient was admitted on June 8 declared dead on June 10. The patient reportedly died due to pneumonia with ARDS and was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and Ischemic heart disease (IHD). The third death reported at KNH, is of a 46-year-old female residing at VIT hostel, Bibwewadi. She was admitted on June 2 and declared dead on June 11. The patient reportedly died, due to Covid-19 positive pneumonitis and ARDS. She was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and immune hepatitis.The fourth death at KNH, is that of a 79-year-old male, residing at Dhankawdi. The patient was admitted on June 11 declared dead on June 12. The deceased reportedly, died due to Covid-19 positive pneumonitis and ARDSDeaths include two from Bharati hospital including that of a 74 year old female residing at Kasba Peth. The patient was admitted on June 6 and declared dead on Thursday. The cause of death is said to be bilateral Covid-19 positive pneumonitis with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). The second death from the hospital is that of a 50-year-old female residing at Parvati. The patient was admitted on June 10 and declared dead on Friday. The cause of death is said to be ARDS with Covid-19 positive and she was also undergoing chemotherapy. Another death was reported from Symbiosis hospital that of a 61-year-old male residing at Gultekdi. The patient was admitted on June 5 and declared dead on Thursday. The cause of death is said to be sepsis with Multiple Organ Dysfunction Syndrome.Another death was reported from Rao Nursing Home of a 65-year-old female residing at Camp. The patient was admitted on June 10 and declared dead on Friday. The cause of death is said to be Covid-19 positive pneumonitis with ARDS and septic shock Acute Renal Failure. One death was also recorded of a 70-year-old male who was a resident of Solapur from Pune’s Bharati hospital. The patient was admitted on May 16 and declared dead on Friday. The cause of death is said to be Covid-19 positive pneumonia with ARDS and was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-13-deaths-and-305-fresh-positive-covid-19-cases/story-CH0hBeh8QeaUk8GVE0rhAI.html
13-06-2020||Pune||20-yr-old ends life; tutor held in Pune||A 29-year-old man was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Thursday for the alleged suicide of a 20-year-old in Chinchwad.The accused was identified as Sharad Subhash Bhosale, 29, who allegedly runs an academy to help youngsters join security forces like police and defence, according to the police. “We are checking the credentials of the academy. The case was initially registered as an accidental death,” said senior inspector Ravindra Jadhav of Chinchwad police station.A complaint was lodged by the victim’s father who alleged that the accused had demanded Rs 5 lakh to ensure a job for the victim. The deceased was also assaulted by the accused over suspicion of having an affair with the latter’s wife, according to the complainant.A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chinchwad police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-yr-old-ends-life-tutor-held-in-pune/story-6r0NgMkbHpfXUxuez4FmNJ.html
13-06-2020||Pune||Four prominent educational institutes in Pune come forward to raise challenges in education field||Four prominent educational institutions in the city came together on Friday to raise their demands and share challenges they face due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Deccan Education Society (DES), Maharashtra Education Society (MES), Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Samstha, (MKSSS) and Shikshan Prasaraka Mandalli (SPM) sought financial help from the state government to run schools and colleges. They also sought cancellation of centralised admission procedure for entrance exams and allow them to set timetable for admissions for the academic year.The press conference held at MES’s Abasaheb Garware College on Friday was attended by Sharad Kunte, chairman of DES; Rajiv Sahasrabudhe, chairman of the governing body of MES; advocate SK Jain, president of Shikshan Prasarak Mandali and Promoad Gorhe chairman of MKSSS, along with other officials of all these institutions.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many educational institutions are facing financial issues. As 40 per cent of our students come from rural parts, they too are facing financial crisis whether they would be able to pay fee or not is a big question,” said Kunte.“We are working on online models to resume lectures, but it needs a lot of funds. We are doing a survey to check how to reach students for online studies, but staff crunch, infrastructure and need of new equipment for online classes are issued to be addressed. We have till now spend Rs 1 crore to get licenses of software and other related things to hold online lectures.” he said.“Hence, we appeal to the state government is to make us a way out from this crisis and save the academic year. We request the government to cancel centralised admission for one year. We are ready to conduct exams for third year students according to guidelines given by the government. But need more clear instructions and by keeping social distancing we can take the exams. We have shown our readiness to take exams within the framework of the guidelines,” said advocate Jain.Arun Adsul, former vice-chancellor of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) said, “Due to the virus situation, college-going youth are in a state of fear, insecure, unclear about future, anxious and distressed. The exam issue has also created confusion amongst students. Academic administration will be spoiled if decision on exams is not taken in time. Parents are worried about the future of their children. Fall in students joining colleges will also affect staff strength.”DES’s Fergusson CollegeIt is one of the oldest colleges in Pune city, started in 1895 with campus of 60 acres area. All through its 133 years of a shrinelike existence, the Fergusson College has given to the country, from among its alumni, great patriots, thinkers, philosophers, poets, writers, teachers social workers, scientists, industrialists, entrepreneurs, researchers, administrators and defence officers. College is located in the heart of the city on Fergusson College Road and has several under-graduate and post-graduate courses offered for students.MES’s Abasaheb Garware CollegeLocated on the busy Karve Road, Abasaheb Garware College was started by MES in 1945 and then named as M.E.S. College of Arts and Science. It imparted primary education in languages and social sciences, and a few subjects in science. College has now extended its wings with new courses in management and several other streams.SPM’s Sir Parshuram Bhau CollegeSir Parashurambhau College popularly known as S P College is one of the most prestigious and oldest colleges in Pune. Located on Tilak Road, since the foundation of the college in 1916, it has aspired to provide an all round education to students. College offers undergraduate, graduate and post-graduate programs in Arts, Science and Commerce streams.Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Samstha (MKSSS)It is one of the oldest educational institutions in the state which was founded by Bharat Ratna Maharshi Dhondo Keshav Karve in 1896. It has its branches across Maharashtra in Pune, Satara, Wai, Ratnagiri, Nagpur, Kamshet and Vasai and currently more than 35,000 girl students are learning in these institutions. Its main branch is in Pune on Karve Road and has various colleges in its premsies namely Arts, Commerce and Science College, Engineering College, Management college, vocational institute and several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-prominent-educational-institutes-in-pune-come-forward-to-raise-challenges-in-education-field/story-kG3vlUBSBqcqni0NbWDcZI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala man held for Sector 9 firing has links to gangster Lawrence Bishnoi||An Ambala-based man believed to be a close aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi was arrested on Friday for giving shelter to the men who opened fire at a liquor shop in Sector 9 on June 2.In a major breakthrough, police on Friday arrested 22-year-old Vainkat Garg at Naraingarh in Ambala.Four persons were injured when two persons opened fire at the liquor shop owned by Ram Avtar Batra, a resident of Sector 21, who also runs a petrol filling station at Sector 35, Chandigarh.Worked for Bishnoi for four years“Garg has been working for the last four years for Bishnoi and acting as a coordinator in crimes committed by his gang. He has also participated in a few crimes,” said a senior police officer wishing to remain anonymous. Garg, who has seven cases of attempt to murder and assault registered against him in Haryana was nabbed after police traced a phone call linked to the crime made to him.He had reportedly provided logistical support to the shooters.“Garg had not only provided shelter to the accused but also arranged for weapons used in the crime,” added Nilambari Jagadale, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Chandigarh.While being questioned, Garg pointed out that instructions to provide shelter were passed to him by Bishnoi and another person named Kala Rana. The accused was produced in court and remanded to four-day police custody for recovery of weapons and the vehicle used in the crime, and to trace other co-accused.Shooter from Hisar identifiedPolice have also identified the shooters involved in the crime, including Topi from Hisar who was captured in CCTV camera footage while firing at the shop and is also reportedly working for Bishnoi. Raids are being conducted to arrest him.After committing the crime, the accused had camped near a tubewell in Naraingarh and left the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-man-held-for-sec-9-firing-has-links-to-gangster-bishnoi/story-7RJBHCyGjaLLi3UHsIKlaO.html
13-06-2020||Pune||Covid growth rate in Bhavani peth slows, but green zone of Aundh-Baner ward reports more cases||Pune’s Bhavani Peth ward office that was reporting high number of Covid positive cases till recently has seen signs of improvement with area now reporting lowest growth rate of 8 % among fresh cases. On the other hand, Aundh-Baner ward, which till May was in green zone, has thrown high number of cases, taking it to first spot in growth rate as high as 261%.The Pune Municipal Corporation has a total of 15 regional ward offices. Among its Bhavani peth ward office was worst affected and till date most of the parts falling in this ward office are containment zones. Most of the slums, including Kashewadi, Lohianagar, Mominpura, Raviwar peth, Guruwar peth and Pune station area had reported high number of positive cases. As on June 8, this ward office area had 107 active Covid-19 cases. Aundh Baner ward office was in the green zone, but number of positive cases started going up since first week of June and now has it has 84 active cases as on June 8. Till last week of May, this ward office had only 20 cases.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, deputy health chief in Pune Municipal Corporation and in of contact tracing for the whole city, said, “As most parts of Bhavani peth ward office area are falling in containment zones, preventing any activity, the growth rate of the Covid-19 positive cases have come down. But as the relaxation has been given to the rest of the city, numbers of cases are increasing out of non-containment zones. It’s natural that if the people’s movement would increase, cases would increase in new areas. This process would continue for the next couple of months. Red zones would become green and green areas would turn into red zones.”According to Sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao, who has been given the responsibility of the Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road ward offices, efforts undertaken by civic authorities in Bhavani peth have borne results. “Mainly, we increased contact tracing in the containment zones. We have even started early detection in these areas. Early detection is key as it helps to bring down the mortality rate as well as helps to bring down spread of coronavirus.”Dhole Patil ward officer Dayanand Sonkamble said, “We concentrated on cleaning of community toilets as well as distributed ration kits door to door. Even took effort to sell vegetables at doorstep, which helped to get control over the spread of Covid-19.”Aundh-Baner ward officer Jaydeep Pawar said, “Positive cases are increasing mainly in slum areas falling in Bopodi area. We closed the internal roads in these areas and even closed the vegetable and fish markets in these areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-growth-rate-in-bhavani-peth-slows-but-green-zone-of-aundh-baner-ward-reports-more-cases/story-MS1K6Sphs18OSWISyQ0aYK.html
13-06-2020||Gurugram||City to breach 3k Covid-19 cases today as health department clears backlog of samples||The total count of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus is about to breach the 3,000 mark in the city.And the worst is yet to come, health department officials warned.  With 185 new Covid-19 cases reported on Friday, the tally of people affected with the virus has reached 2,922. Out of this, only 976 have been discharged so far, while 1,927 remain hospitalized or in home isolated. SO far, at least 19 people have succumbed to the virus. Health department officials stated that the rapid surge in number of cases may continue as they clear a backlog samples, which have been collected but not yet sent to government labs for testing. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “As many as 720 samples from the last two days have been sent for testing to labs in Rohtak, Nalhar, Sonepat and Karnal. Clearing backlog of samples collected in the last few days is crucial to get the exact picture of the current Covid-19 situation in the district. The issue of pending samples has to be resolved to reduce the time gap between sample collection and test results.”Currently, the time gap between sample collection and test result is almost 3-5 days, which is leading to the rapid transmission of Covid-19 cases. “Pendency of cases is at two level. One, we collect the sample but it is sent to the labs in two to three days. Second, backlog is created when there is a delay in testing too. The department is trying to clear the backlog of samples collected for now,” said Yadav, who took charge of Gurugram district’s chief medical officer amid the raging Covid-19 crisis on Thursday.Data shows that in the last one month, samples collected on a daily basis has increased from 200 to 400. However, with this, the backlog of cases has fluctuated too. In first week of June alone, 394 samples were pending. Experts, however, said that a backlog impacts the overall positivity rate. Public health expert Dr Preeti Kumar, who is the vice president at Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), said that the key to manage a pandemic is to have real time data. “Backlog of cases will create a mismatch between the total number of people tested positive and the number of actual samples collected in a day. It will lead to an artificially higher number of cases in a day due to delay in samples sent to labs for testing and the declaration of results.”She added, “Since the total positive cases will not match the actual test done on a single day, it will impact the test positivity rate too. In response to that, epidemiologists takes 5-7 days of moving average data.” In May the average test positivity rate of Gurugram was 9%, which increased to almost 44% in June, the highest for any district in the state so far. Experts have pointed out that the higher positivity rate indicates increased testing to rule out wider spread.Currently,Gurugram has 50% Covid-19 burden of the state. Haryana till date has reported 6,334 cases, out of which 3,789 are active while 2,475 patients have been discharged. The death toll across the state stands at 70.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-to-breach-3k-cases-today-as-health-department-clears-backlog-of-samples/story-7elmD6dyh1iYmiI8npnGVI.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Minor girl goes missing, Chandigarh Police lodge kidnapping case||Police have registered a case against an unknown person for allegedly kidnapping a 17-year-old girl at Kishangarh village here. The case was registered at the IT Park police station on June 8 based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s father.In his complaint, the girl’s father stated that his daughter has been missing since June 7. He told the police that he is suspicious of his neighbour who hails from Saharanpur and is also missing.“For the past few days she had been asking me to give her a mobile phone and used to pick up fights with her elder sister who has one,” the girl’s father said, adding that he did not give a separate mobile phone to her as she stayed at home.He said, “A man selling soup and boiled eggs on a roadside stall was friends with my daughter and he had lured her to leave home. I am worried about my daughter’s safety.” “I had received a call from the man’s mother informing me that my daughter has eloped with her son,” he added. The family approached the police after they failed to find her. IT Park station house officer (SHO) Lakhbir Singh said, “We have shared the details of this girl with other police stations. So far, she has not been traced. She does not have a mobile phone, but we will be able to find her soon.” A case under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/minor-girl-goes-missing-police-lodge-kidnapping-case/story-IIF6NWZBg7hVWQ3b4VRp6M.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||School fee issue: Hearing to continue in Punjab and Haryana HC on Monday||The Punjab and Haryana high court will continue hearing the petitions filed by schools and parents from Punjab over collection of fee amid Covid-19 outbreak, on Monday.On Friday, hearing continued for around three hours before the bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur and Punjab government and schools’ counsels concluded their arguments. Lawyers from the parents’ bodies will start their arguments on Monday.On May 22, the HC, acting on schools’ plea, had allowed them to charge 70% fee from students for the academic year 2020-2021. The court had also allowed schools to charge admission fee in two half-yearly instalments. The decision had resulted in widespread protests by parents in Punjab. The state has now sought modification of the order stating that they had put some conditions on fee collection in view of Covid-19 outbreak under the Epidemics Diseases Act, 1897, in view of complaints from parents. Also, it has been argued that state was well within its power to issue such orders with the issue at hand being a policy matter.On the other hand, schools have argued that they are well within their right to collect fee and if they do not charge fee how will they pay salaries to teachers. They further argued that online classes were held.Schools have raised the issue of validity of instructions passed by the state administration from time-to-time since March with regard to not increasing school fee, deferring collection of school fee in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, and not sending reminders to parents to pay the fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-fee-issue-hearing-to-continue-in-punjab-and-haryana-hc-on-monday/story-MYupoaGceKr26tEjpTDGeP.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh debate: It’s time to quarantine Chandigarh against crimes||Root out criminals from societyThe Swachh Bharat project should go beyond cleaning of cities and also eliminate criminals, dishonest and corrupt government representatives and officials from society. Policemen need professional training and skill sets to handle law and order. Give them better pay packages, better, modern and user-friendly equipment, especially bulletproof vests. The attacks on police personnel should be tried under laws applicable to terrorists for undermining the legitimate authority of the state.Policemen need to undertake an image makeover to instil fear in criminals. There should be zero tolerance to corruption and those who indulge in such activities should be subject to censures and suspensions from service for not doing their duty.Politicisation of the police force should end, since this has corroded discipline and made police officials the puppets of parties in power. Policemen should be recalled from VIP duties and assigned duties at local police stations.There should be a beat constable system in place in localities and sectors. Locals can also be appointed as honorary citizen wardens. This has been an effective tool to control petty crimes in Delhi NCR, Mumbai and most cities of Gujarat, especially burglaries, chain snatching and vehicle thefts.Physical fitness of cops is a major area of concern. Regular yoga and meditation camps should be held for them.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurWhat about our moral behaviour?Other than advising that security be beefed up in the city, what else does the administrator have to say? It reminds me of a cartoon published in a daily when terrorism was rife in Punjab, showing an extra drum being placed at a naka to stop the movement of terrorists when orders were issued by the authorities then to strengthen the security system. The police have so far done a commendable job to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, some of them have lost their lives and others have been seriously wounded while ensuring social distancing. One should not forget that police personnel too are human beings. They are overworked. We need to strengthen the force and recruit more personnel so that the men and women are not overworked. It is difficult to get information beforehand about personal rivalries, unless individuals inform the police and seek protection. Maybe one is stealing ornaments from temples because of starvation due to unemployment after the Covid-19 lockdown. We always talk of corrupt police but we never talk about our own moral behaviour and financial corruption. If the business deals are fair, rivalries will not crop up. Gurdev Singh, MohaliBetter coordination required between tricity policeMohali, Chandigarh and Panchkula police should work together with greater coordination and be more vigilant. Patrolling should be increased. The courts must also ensure that habitual offenders are removed from society for extended periods of time. The public must also be educated about steps to be followed should they become the victims of robbers or thieves and report all details to the police. Advanced CCTV cameras should be installed everywhere in the tricity. Regular nakas should be set up at as many points as possible. An operational helpline should be set up for people to complain against crimes. The police should have access to modern weapons. Rewards should be given to those who provide valuable information to the police. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhEquip police with high-tech gadgetsDuring the Covid-19 lockdown anti-social elements were invisible out of fear of contracting the infection. However, after recent relaxations they have become active again. The recent shootouts and temple theft have created fear in the city. Certain steps need to be taken immediately such as ensuring intensive patrolling as the presence of men in khaki instils fear among criminals. Having more police beats and nakas, functional latest CCTV cameras and streetlights, PCR vans at critical points, especially at night, is imperative. The police must be provided latest high-tech gadgets for self-defence. Co-ordination among all the police stations is vital as increased vigil at state and UT borders will prevent the criminals from escaping. The law must not spare culprits who enjoy the patronage of VIPs or have an unholy nexus with the police.Usha Verma, ChandigarhTime to ask some tough questionsWelcome to the new normal after Covid-19, when criminals have suddenly decided they will scare the living daylights out of tax paying citizens and extort money from them, very much like D-Company during the bad old days in Mumbai. It’s a joke. Associates of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who as we all know is now in a jail in Rajasthan, say they have been communicating via cellphones with him to arrange for arms and ammunition and then identify and instil fear in soft targets and extort money from them. First of all, how is Bishnoi making calls from prison? Who is in charge of that prison and why is he not immediately made accountable for letting a dreaded gangster conduct his “business” from behind bars as if it’s his corporate office? Why is this man not being put in a maximum security isolated cell instead of running this dreadful show? Why are the courts not doing anything to stop honest taxpaying public from being held to ransom by such gangs? Is it not enough for people to live with the threat of the pandemic? Should they now be subject to threat and intimidation by criminals who have no fear because they have protection from politicians and the state? Let us start asking questions first and demanding that law enforcement authorities and administrators answer them first.BL SharmaIdentify troublemakers when they are young The government should beef up security and install CCTV cameras to curb crime in and around city. Nakas should be put up at different parts of the city and in the border areas too. The government should maintain a separate database of criminals . Photographs and details of those wanted in criminal cases should be put online on police websites to inform the public about them. Plainclothesmen should be deployed extensively to keep an eye on proclaimed offenders. Proper verification of migrants, paying guests and tenants should be done from time to time. The government also needs to be more strict while issuing arms and ammunition licences. The masses need to learn defence techniques and to be more proactive and alert to protect themselves. The government should also start a project to identify troublemakers at the college level and work to rehabilitate them so that they do not take to a life of crime. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliCity beautiful now playground of gangsTwo shootouts in three days is nothing new as crimes have become routine here. Many criminal acts of murder and rape remain untraced in the city even after decades. It is tragic that a progressive and once-beautiful city like Chandigarh is not a peaceful place anymore and has turned into a hub of criminal activities with easy accessibility and a safe haven for antisocial elements. Criminal gangs are operating from behind the high walls of prisons safely. Picking up their targets, arranging vehicles, weapons and shooters to execute their plans smoothly without fail. They have the audacity and resources to carry out their nefarious activities when the whole country is under lockdown due to Covid-19 and security forces are engaged with many other responsibilities. Until and unless all such criminal gangs are neutralised with better intelligence, sophisticated gadgets and means of communication, the citizens will continue to live in fear. The tricity’s security agencies should ensure better coordination to crush all such elements ruthlessly.Suresh Verma, Chandigarh Keep young people occupiedThe rot has already set in the system. Young men today think are making a style statement by posting pictures on Facebook holding guns, as if it’s the most glamorous thing in the world. Look at their dependency on drugs, their fondness for songs on flashy cars, weapons and alcohol. Today there is no outlet for them to expend their energies and they think that working for a gang is the best way to earn a quick buck, not realising that the consequences of such acts. No police bandobust or CCTV camera is going to stop crimes, especially now with the economy on the downswing and people out of jobs. The immediate focus of state governments and administrations is to exhort industries and businesses that have started work to create more job avenues. Then, when the pandemic is under control and social distancing not required, small village-level sporting competitions with attractive prizes should be set up to keep the youth active. Other measures can also be taken later such as evening gatherings at villages where documentaries on the lives of great people or movies with positive messages are shown to help in their moral development.AK Gupta, Mohali||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/it-s-time-to-quarantine-chandigarh-against-crimes/story-rZi5UkHpLxm8mHrsOxHXyO.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER’s first Covid-19 patient treated with plasma therapy recovers||Doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGMIER) have found encouraging results in battle against Covid-19 as a 60-year-old man from Kurukshetra in Haryana has recovered early after being administered the convalescent plasma therapy.The patient who was admitted at PGIMER on June 1 is the first to get treated with plasma therapy here. He was admitted in a serious condition with pneumonia and required oxygen therapy. The doctors observed that the patient was taken off the oxygen therapy in just three days and gradually his condition improved with the help of plasma therapy and supportive care. PGIMER director Jagat Ram said, “The results have been encouraging as the recovery time decreased than the usual period. The plasma administered on other two patients has shown no side effects. The exact outcome will be known after conclusion of the trial.”Professor Pankaj Malhotra from department of internal medicine said, “PGIMER is one of the centres of ICMR national trial on convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 positive patients who require oxygen therapy. PGI was chosen as one of the ICMR site in the last week of April. The first patient donated plasma on May 9 and the first one who became eligible to get plasma therapy was enrolled on June 1.”Professor GD Puri, dean (academics) and head of department of anasthaesia and intensive care, said, “The successful recovery with plasma therapy is a positive indicator. The trial is a teamwork of the department of internal medicine, anesthesiology and intensive care, transfusion medicine, virology, community medicine and public health and endocrinology. We will need more donors to come forward for plasma therapy clinical trials. We have to counsel the patients who have recovered and their relatives to convince them to donate blood.”Head of department of transfusion medicine professor Rati Ram Sharma, who played a pivotal role in the therapy, said, “This is a great moment for all of us at PGIMER as a critically ill patient recovered with the help of convalescent plasma therapy. We are grateful to those who came forward to donate plasma for this noble cause and hope that many more will follow so that the same therapy can be provided to the needy patients as well.” WHAT IS CONVALESCENT PLASMA THERAPY?Convalescent plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from cured Covid-19 patients and injecting them in the blood of patients suffering from the disease. The transfusion of plasma is carried out through a machine which separates the plasma from the blood which is then retransferred into the donor. The plasma thus obtained is injected into a sick coronavirus patient. A donor supplies 300-500 ml of plasma and the transfusion process takes between 60-90 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-s-first-covid-19-patient-treated-with-plasma-therapy-recovers/story-sObaiYZTlclGBwdzns2MMN.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pay fine for wasting water in Mohali from June 13||The water supply and sanitation department will be issuing challans to Mohali residents who are found wasting water between June 13 and July 31, in order to maintain sufficient supply this summer.The area under the department includes Phases 1 to 11, Sectors 70 and 71, Industrial Area Phases 1 to 5 and 7, Mataur, Madanpur and Shahimajra villages.As per the notice, watering lawns, washing courtyards and vehicles is prohibited between 5.30am and 8.30am. If a resident is found violating the order, a notice will be issued. First time violaters will have to pay ₹1,000 and for the second time a fine of ₹2,000 will be imposed. In case of third time violaters, a fine of ₹5,000 will be imposed and the water supply will be disconnected.Dos and don’tsUse buckets, not hosepipes, to wash cars Don’t wash courtyards or irrigate lawns in the morningCheck wastage of water due to overflow from overhead or underground tanksCheck pipe leakages from tanks, from ferrule to water meter and overflow from coolersDon’t use booster pumps on main water supply linePenalty1st offence: Rs 1000 fine2nd offence: Rs 2,000 fine3rd offence: Rs 5,000 fine and disconnection of water supply Executive engineer Anil Kumar said teams from the water supply department will do random checking during morning hours to keep a check on violators.Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), which has sector 66 to 80 is yet to start issuing challans to violaters.Mohali, on an average, requires 30MGD (million gallon daily) of water, but the supply is limited to 20MGD—10 MGD from the Kajauli waterworks and an equal amount from 75 tubewells. During the peak of summer, the demand reaches 32MGD, causing a shortfall of 12MGD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-fine-for-wasting-water-in-mohali-from-june-13/story-0ocbxUeVngmChsz6WZfl0O.html
13-06-2020||City||MP Tewari visits Kharar SDM office, expresses gratitude to Covid warriors||Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari on Friday visited the SDM office in Kharar to acknowledge the efforts put by officials during the Covid-19 pandemic.Addressing them as corona warriors, Tewari said the disease will soon be brought under control with the coordinated efforts of the administration and people. He credited the less number of positive cases in Kharar to the local authorities who are working everyday to serve the people.He added that the situation is under control due to the decisive steps taken by Capt Amarinder Singh led state government and the health department. Assuring the administration of any assistance in the war against Covid-19, Tewari said the situation in Punjab has been largely brought under control due to timely and effective measures initiated by the state government, as compared to rapid pace with which the cases are increasing in other parts of the country and the world.He said, “Punjab has less number of positive cases and mortality rate in comparison to other states. The recovery rate is also far better than others for which the health department, police and the administration deserve an applause.”He added that people must be on guard as slightest faltering at this stage can lead to dangerous consequences. Tewari also advised people to wear masks when going out or cover their faces with handkerchief, or a cloth and follow social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tewari-visits-kharar-sdm-office-expresses-gratitude-to-covid-warriors/story-A20NXTcF32sKB52KRjQYsM.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula ill-prepared for monsoon||The monsoon season is just round the corner, but Panchkula is not yet ready to deal with problems that arise after rain. Road gullies are clogged and the bumpy ride begins the moment one enters the city. Sector 18 roundabout is damaged and the dividing road of sector 5 and 6 is mostly covered with pits. The worst is sector 1-2 dividing road that leads to the national highway 73. Similar is the condition of roads leading to the deputy commissioner office, Mother Teresa Saket Hospital, sector 4 market and the one opposite the MC office. During monsoons, one often finds the Shahid Uddam Singh Chowk and the road gullies around it clogged with water.Panchkula Citizens Welfare Association president SK Nayar said, “Around 20 days ago, I had written to the municipal commissioner about the issues faced by the residents during monsoons, including the pitiable condition of road gullies. However, there was no response.”Nayar said the situation is so bad that even a day’s rain leads to waterclogging. “Every year during monsoons, the roundabouts and several sectors are choked, causing inconvenience to residents,” he added.A letter written by Nayar to the MC states: “Over 80% road gullies are blocked in the city. The members of the association request the concerned officials to take immediate preventive measures to maintain and clean all road-gullies in the city before the arrival of rainy season.”A senior MC official said, “The tender has been allotted to clean over 10,000 road gullies and manholes by June 30. Sector wise areas, including sector 9, 8, 19, have already been mapped. The work will start in a day or two.”“Besides, repair work related to rain water harvesting has also been assigned and it will be done by June 20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-ill-prepared-for-monsoons/story-IegKdQhRuUg0HKtomSYPoL.html
13-06-2020||Pune||Cured residents join fight against Covid-19 in Pune||In an effort to spread awareness, Sangeeta Bhosale and Shenaj Sheikh, who were tested Covid-19 positive and recovered, are assisting the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and visiting worst-affected areas appealing to residents to follow precautions and not panic.PMC has appointed Covid-19 cured patients as brand ambassadors in the Dhole Patil ward office.Sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao, appointed by the state government as Dhole Patil and Bhavani Peth ward office incharge, has started the concept in the city.Rao said, “Residents showing symptoms related to Covid-19 generally do not come forward when administration and government agencies appealed to them. As there is a lot of fear regarding the virus spread, we decided to appoint cured patients as brand ambassadors and their strong emotional appeal has shown positive results.”“They (brand ambassadors) are voluntarily helping us. Some of them accompany the health teams and speak to citizens in containment zones. We have even prepared videos and circulated it in among citizens living in high-risk areas,” he said.Bhosale and Shaikh’s efforts is getting positive results in Tadiwala slum areas.Shaikh said, “The virus affected our whole family, and we all are cured and completed the isolation period. I am appealing to people to come forward if they show any symptoms and defeat Covid-19 as I did and get information and treatment with the help of doctors, police and the administration.”Bhosale said, “My kids and I recovered from Covid-19. We don’t need to be frightened. If anyone has any problem, they should immediately go to the hospital. Hygiene should be maintained at home like frequent hand washing.”The civic body’s initiative also received praise from the central team which recently visited the city and recommended it to extend it to other parts.According to Dhole Patil ward regional ward officer Dayanand Sonkamble, the appeals made by cured patients have been effective.“The Tadiwala slum has a population of 57,000 and daily 70 to 80 positive cases are being reported from the slum. The appeals made by cured citizens have seen a fall in positive cases. Now, we see single-digit cases and even zero on some days from the slum,” Sonkamble said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cured-residents-join-fight-against-covid-19-in-pune/story-yXM9AcILpJ31obaZDZdxlL.html
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Six test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali||As many as six new Covid-19 cases were confirmed from various parts of Mohali, where the count is now 149. The patients include a 22-year-old man from Togan village in Kharar and a 45-year-old man from Bhabat village, Zirakpur. They are admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh. Both work at a medical store in Chandigarh, where one person has already tested positive.A 68-year-old woman, resident of Swastik Vihar in Zirakpur, who had recently returned from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh after visiting her daughter, was also confirmed infected.The other patients are two residents of Janata Colony in Nayagaon – a 30-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman, and a 53-year-old woman from Adarsh Nagar. They are all admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The 68-year-old woman was admitted to Fortis Hospital in Mohali on June 10 after she complained of breathlessness. “The patient has been shifted to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital,” confirmed Fortis Zonal Director, Abhijit Singh. Of the 149 patients in Mohali, 117 have recovered and three have died. Now, there are 29 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/68-year-old-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-zirakpur-town/story-3p61c0ayUW5XDBgS5GUDiI.html
13-06-2020||Pune||Fake currency racket: Six get 4-day police custody, probe on to track source of notes||A day after fake Indian and foreign currency notes worth Rs 87 crore was seized in a joint operation by the Pune police and Military Intelligence (MI), an investigation has been launched to track the source of the notes, as officials feel there is “bigger racket” at stake.The six men, including an Army personnel, arrested by police were on Thursday, were remanded to four days police custody by judicial magistrate first class RK Khan.The arrested men have been identified as Lance Naik Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan (36), member of the Indian Army bank at the Bombay Sappers; Sunil Badrinarayan Sarda (40)), a resident of Kondhwa; Ritesh Ratnakar (34), a resident of Kamothe in Navi Mumbai; and Tufail Ahmed Mohammad Ishaq Khan(28), Abdulgani Rehmtullah Khan (43), and his son Abdul Rehman Abdulgani Khan (19), all residents of Meera road in Mumbai. The 43-year-old Khan is the father of the teenager.The police suspect the notes have been procured through multiple consignments over the past five to six months from multiple markets in Mumbai.The defence counsel, however, countered the charge saying “These notes have ‘Children’s Bank of India’ written on them. They can be made available through markets and are used in games. How can they be termed as fake notes? This does not amount to cheating,” argued the defence lawyer Rajendra Sonawale.Public prosecutor Nitin Konghe argued, “If it was not meant for cheating, why were bundles of fake notes covered with real notes on top?”“They offered visual proof of USD to people who wanted American currency and proof of Indian currency to people seeking Indian currency. Now, whether it was to convert black to white or the other way round is a part of the investigation. In the visuals, if you see, it looks like they have the money they claim to have, but a close look will immediately reveal that the currency is fake,” said police inspector Anjum Bagwan, unit 4 of Pune police crime branch, who is investigating the case.Earlier, the police asked for custody remand in order to ascertain the number of people who were duped before a police decoy caught them in the act on Wednesday.“In investigation till now, the accused used to send videos of the currency to gullible people having black money and make hawala deals, and cheat them by giving fake/token notes covered with few real notes. They seemed to have cheated quite a few people with their modus,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.The fake notes were used to show visual proof of availability to the customers who showed readiness to pay. There are multiple customer organisations that were duped in this manner by these men. So far, there are no other suspects in the case besides the six, according to officials.However, DCP Singh said, “Since the amount involved is huge, further investigation is going on to find involvement of more people, and the beneficiaries of the crime. We also request people who have been cheated by such methods to come forward and share details.”A case under Sections 489(a)(b)(c), 420 (cheating), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vimantal police station against the six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-currency-racket-six-get-4-day-police-custody-probe-on-to-track-source-of-notes/story-B2IIZxDSdFR9FWp6ZhLf0H.html
13-06-2020||City||Ludhiana textile firms in a fix as largest buyer halts new PPE orders||A section of the textile industry which saw hope in diversifying by making Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is finding itself in a fix. The largest buyer in the country, Hindustan Latex Limited (HLL), a designated nodal procurement agency of Covid-19 emergency supplies for Government of India, has temporarily applied brakes on new orders, owing to issues concerning quality control.There are 121 certified units for manufacturing PPEs in the state, of which 108 are in Ludhiana. At least 12 of these 108 firms in Ludhiana were the sole suppliers to HLL and received orders to manufacture PPE suits in lakhs earlier. The decision will indirectly affect other vendors as well.A recent order by the HLL (email accessed by HT) to its vendors reads, “You are requested to stop all further supplies since we are reviewing the quality of coveralls supplied by the manufacturers.”The orders have come as a jolt to Ludhiana’s textile industry. Ludhiana Knitwear Club president Vinod Thapar said that in these troubled times, making PPEs had come as a ray of hope to manufacturers, who worked with full zeal to meet the demand of the country. “Quality checks were conducted before the licence to manufacture was approved. It is unfortunate that the orders have been halted,” he said.One of the manufacturers, requesting anonymity, said that HLL Lifecare Ltd instructing suppliers to stop all supplies for uncertain / indefinite time had created bottlenecks in the factories, forcing manufacturers into financial and operational difficulties.The PPE manufacturers who are faced with the issue of surplus production and less demand are now looking at the government to open export.“We are in surplus production already. The price of the PPEs has also fallen. We have requested government to allow exports,” said Akhil Malhotra of Shiva Tex Fab in Ludhiana.Punjab industries director Sibin C said the orders may have been halted due to higher specifications imposed by the Union health ministry. “Since there is over production and low domestic demand, we have already requested the GOI to allow exports,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-textile-firms-in-fix-as-largest-buyer-halts-new-ppe-orders/story-QQsw9nbiieXfi7k7j3aP8O.html
