14-06-2020||City||Prem Nagar is Ludhiana’s third containment zone||Prem Nagar was declared the third containment zone of Ludhiana on Sunday. The development takes place two days after the densely-populated localities of Habibganj, Sensi Mohalla and Islamganj were declared the second containment zones of the district.On June 6, Chhawani Mohalla was declared the district’s first containment zone.Prem Nagar located in the Field Ganj area was included in the list of containment zones after 18 cases emerged here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the entire area has been sealed and only essential and medical services will be provided here. The health department will conduct an intensive house-to-house checking, surveillance, contact tracing and sampling in the area. If more cases are found positive, they will be taken to the nearest health facility as per protocol.The primary focus will be saving the high-risk population, including elderly, children and pregnant women. The house-to-house surveillance and contact tracing will continue for 14 days. If not more than one case is found in a week, restrictions will be lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prem-nagar-is-ludhiana-s-third-containment-zone/story-tYqOn8wUMgDNy6YjtBY4DO.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||40 booked for not allowing former Golden Temple hazuri ragi’s cremation||More than two months after the death of former Golden Temple hazuri ragi Padma Shri Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa due to Covid-19, Verka police revealed that a first information report (FIR) was registered against 40 people who did not allow his cremation at the village crematorium.Verka station house officer (SHO) Nishan Singh confirmed that the FIR was registered on April 9 against 40 people on the basis of a complaint sent to Punjab DGP by a Nawanshahr-based social and RTI activist, Parwinder Singh Kitna. They were booked under sections 188, 269, 270 and 186 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Disease Act.INQUIRY TO PROBE CAUSE OF DEATH BEGINSA special investigation team (SIT) was formed to probe the allegations of medical negligence made by the family of Khalsa. The SIT, led by Jalandhar divisional commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhuri, has started the probe, said Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill on Sunday. Some doctors, cops and Verka residents were also summoned by the SIT. The probing team will also look into the role of managements of two main crematoriums of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-booked-for-not-allowing-former-golden-temple-hazuri-ragi-s-cremation/story-BaEnSp6jwUw40qzEgxaPCI.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Valuables worth ₹16K stolen from Santacruz Covid facility||The police is on the lookout for an unidentified person who stole mobile phones, cash, dry fruits and clothes belonging to a couple, who were quarantined at a Covid Care Centre in a hotel in Santacruz.According to Rajesh Malgaonkar, a home guard posted at the entrance gate of the centre, the incident occurred on June 7 around 3am. As the couple could not step out of the centre, the home guard filed a complaint with the police on their behalf. The guard informed the police that the couple was asleep when the theft took place. They woke up on hearing footsteps but by then the accused jumped off the ledge of the first floor and disappeared.“The couple was quarantined in a room on the first floor. As quarantined patients can’t switch on air conditioners, the couple kept the room’s window open while sleeping. The accused entered the centre from the building’s back gate and went to the couple’s room from the window. The thief stole two mobile phones, the couple’s luggage bag, dry fruits and some cash,” said Malgaonkar. An officer from Santacruz police station said, “Before entering the hotel premises, the accused turned the direction of the CCTV camera to the other side so that he was not captured. His face was not visible.”The police registered a first information report (FIR) against an unknown person under section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/valuables-worth-16k-stolen-from-santacruz-covid-facility/story-EoGGNFlcGeBXGK0qoDvl4O.html
14-06-2020||City||Govt schools in Ludhiana register 9% increase in enrolment of new students||The district education department and government school principals have been working hard to achieve the target of 15% increase in the enrolment of students in their schools.Till Saturday, over 10,849 new students had been enrolled in the 533 government middle, high and senior secondary schools of the district, registering an increase of 9%.Last year, the schools had 1,25,118 students and now the strength of these schools has increased to 1,35,967 students.To motivate school heads, district education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur, along with deputy DEOs, is holding meetings regularly to know the update of the increase in the enrolment in schools. The data, shared by schools with the district education office, reveals that the government senior secondary school (multipurpose) tops the list with enrolling 905 new students in Classes 6 to 12.The school had 1,700 students till last year and, with new students admitted to different classes, the strength of the school has reached 2,605. School principal Navdeep Romama said, “We have received an overwhelming response from students and daily we are enrolling 50 new students. The response is more for admission in Classes 11 and 12. We require 15 more teachers to teach students as the strength of the school is increasing and, to provide quality education, more teachers are needed.”The second in the list is government senior secondary school, Basti Jodhewal. The school has enrolled 327 new students in this academic session. Earlier, the school had 1,239 students and now the strength is 1,566. At the government senior secondary school, Sekhewal, 320 new students have registered. School principal, Naresh Kumar, said, “Over 300 students from private schools have enrolled in the new academic session. The online classes on television for students have made a difference and many parents have admitted their wards in government schools. Nine new classrooms have been constructed and we will have enough rooms to accommodate students. We require more teachers and a demand has been sent to the DEO.”District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “Due to efforts of school principals and teachers the enrolment in government schools has increased. We will achieve the target of 15% this month. Many students from private schools have enrolled in our schools and all of them have been asked to attend online classes daily on television.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-schools-in-ludhiana-register-9-increase-in-enrolment-of-new-students/story-PZSUyGESRql3U6cUKCZYVL.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mansa: Six held for illegally transporting workers to UP||Mansa police arrested six persons, including five bus drivers and one owner, for illegally transporting migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh.The accused are Paramjeet Singh of Chahal bus service, Bunty Seth, Balbir Singh and Jasbir Singh of Noor Chahal bus service; Gomy Singh of Jogi Peer bus service and Amrik Singh of Bhai Behlo transport.The police have also booked bus company owners Surinder Kumar, Harminder Singh, Balkaran Singh and Manpreet Singh.Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav said the accused were taking labourers to UP’s Mahoba after charging an exorbitant fare. During checking, a police team recovered fake curfew passes claiming to be issued by additional district magistrate of Bathinda. The buses were packed beyond capacity.The SSP said there were 150 men, 80 women and 115 children in the buses. However, all of them were screened and sent to their respective native places by the administration.An FIR has been registered under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sardulgarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mansa-six-held-for-illegally-transporting-workers-to-up/story-54PCzOdVoq3nm5x1ANdSCN.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Another Covid +ve patient delivers baby; count at Nair Hospital crosses 300 mark||The number of Covid-19 positive mothers who safely delivered healthy babies at Mumbai Central’s BYL Nair Hospital crossed 300 on Saturday night. Two more pregnant women delivered babies on Sunday morning, bringing the count to 302 women and 306 babies delivered, including a set of triplets and a pair of twins.While 11 among the babies born at Nair Hospital had initially tested positive for Covid-19, they all tested negative after discharge. According to doctors attending to the pregnant women, “Babies are not born Covid-19 positive if their mothers are positive at the time of the birth. However, babies can catch the infection from the mother after birth,” said a doctor from Nair Hospital.Mumbai reported 1,395 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday and 69 deaths. The total Covid count in the city was 58,226 and total deaths stood at 2,182. There are 29,050 active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai at present, and 26,986 positive patients recovered and have been discharged so far. The recovery rate for Mumbai is 46% and the overall growth rate is 3%.Dharavi recorded 13 new cases on Sunday and no deaths. The total number of cases in the slum pocket has reached 2,043, and 1,002 people have recovered. This is the second day in a row that Dharavi has recorded no new deaths. Mumbai’s mortality rate is now 3.74%.So far, 2,57,274 tests have been conducted ion the city as of Saturday, with a positivity percentage of 22.05%. Positivity percent determines the number of people who test positive out of the total tests conducted. For per million population of Mumbai, 19,779 tests have been conducted so far. At present, there are 825 active containment zones and 4,708 sealed buildings in the city, and 411 other containment zones have now been released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-covid-ve-patient-delivers-baby-count-at-nair-hospital-crosses-300-mark/story-lvn4xVVii4zSMb5jaTfzpN.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||4 IPS officers shifted, Arpit Shukla to replace Prabodh Kumar as BoI head||The Punjab government on Friday transferred four IPS officers, including special director general of police (DGP) Prabodh Kumar as head of the Bureau of Investigation (BoI). ADGP Arpit Shukla, a 1993-batch IPS officer, will now head BoI, a wing of the state police that deals with serious crime-related probes. But it was not clear whether Kumar, a 1988-batch IPS officer, will continue to head the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Bargari sacrilege cases. He has been posted as special DGP (provisioning). As SIT head, Kumar and other three members had objected to IG Kunwar Vijay Partap’s style of functioning as how he filed a challan without taking them into confidence. Kumar’s transfer as BOI head was termed as routine.Also, Gursharan Kaur Sandhu was posted as as IGP (provisioning) as IGP (personnel) whereas Babu Lal Meena will now be DIG-cum-joint director, Punjab Police Academy, Philllaur. Gulneet Khurana was posted as AIG (counter intelligence).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-ips-officers-shifted-arpit-shukla-to-replace-prabodh-kumar-as-boi-head/story-z2tvlonnURcAwXu5aFvfMM.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Another IPS officer tests positive in Mumbai||Another Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from Mumbai Police tested positive for Covid-19. The deputy commissioner of police (DCP) rank officer is suspected to have been infected by the virus through his office staff. Since the senior officer has mild symptoms, he has been asked to home quarantine.Joint commissioner of police (administration) Naval Bajaj confirmed the development and said that it is not yet clear how the officer contracted the virus.The DCP-rank officer had slum pockets and also one of the biggest Covid care centres of the city in his jurisdiction. He used to regularly visit these places to ensure better coordination and law enforcement. Police staff who were in close contact with him have also been asked to home quarantine.DCP Shahaji Umap has been asked to take over for the infected officer.Earlier a DCP from central region, three assistant commissioners of police, and two police station heads were among the senior police officers who tested positive for the coronavirus.So far 26 police personnel have succumbed to the virus in Mumbai. Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operation), said, “Till Saturday 2,180 cops have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Mumbai Police force. Among the infected policemen, 314 are officers and the remaining 1,866 are from the constabulary.”Ashok added that 1,339 policemen of the total infected, have recovered. At present, 541 infected police personnel are receiving treatment at different Covid care centres across the city while 233 are admitted to Covid hospitals. Between Friday and Saturday, four policemen died of Covid-19 within 24 hours. This was the maximum number of Covid deaths within the police force in 24 hours.Groom, 9 others held for arranging wedding without permitMalwani police have arrested 10 people for arranging a wedding function and inviting relatives and violating social distancing norms during the lockdown. “The accused groom, his father, and other family members and relatives carried out a wedding procession in Malwani gate number 8 area on June 12. They did not take prior permission and violated various laws imposed during the lockdown. We booked all of them on Friday and after the marriage, arrested them on Saturday. We also seized the SUV used in the procession and are looking for other absconding people who attended the wedding,” said Jagdeo Kalapad, senior inspector of Malvani police station.(With inputs from Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-ips-officer-tests-positive-in-mumbai/story-hktN0uQPOGXJ85Nu4QKxvL.html
14-06-2020||City||Guard kills self a day after his samples collected for testing||Gurugram A 45-year-old security guard allegedly shot himself and succumbed to injuries in the early hours of Sunday morning in Sushant Lok area. Police said on Saturday, the man’s sample for testing of Covid-19 had been collected after four members of his employer’s family had tested positive for the virus last week.According to the police, the deceased — a native of Etah in Uttar Pradesh — had been working as a security guard in Sushant Lok for more than a decade. Police said on June 10, his employer’s family was placed under quarantine and as per protocols, the samples of people, who had been in their contact, were collected.A police official privy to the investigation said, “Preliminary probe has found that on Saturday, his sample was collected. He suspected that he may have contracted the virus. His test result report is awaited.”Police said no suicide note had been recovered so far. The incident was reported on Sunday morning. Police said the man shot himself with his gun.Inquest proceedings under section 174 of code of criminal procedure has been initiated. The victim’s body will be handed over to his family after the Covid test report comes out, said police.Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/guard-kills-self-a-day-after-his-samples-collected-for-testing/story-UUQybCEcTH29Nd5zQcdz2K.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda cotton farmers adopting bed plantation technique to reap benefits||Progressive cotton farmers in Bathinda district have taken to unconventional narrow raised bed technique. According to information, about 3,500 hectares in the district is under this system of cotton cultivation that is considered useful in weed control, saving water and reducing crop lodging.The state agriculture department has recognised the novel initiative taken by the farmers. Officials are following it minutely with a plan to promote the cost-efficient technique from the next year in the cotton-sowing area the already semi-arid districts of south Malwa.Farmers say the water-efficient technology of bed plantation supports the cash crop as power supply remains erratic to run tubewells to irrigate cotton fields when the period coincides with the paddy cultivation. Ramgarh Bhunder village, about 25km from district headquarters, is considered as a leader in adopting bed cropping technique.Gurpreet Singh, 39, said he has been sowing cotton on raised beds since 2015 and the almost entire village has switched over to this technique. This year, he has sown cotton on five acres with bed plantation.“Against the average use of three packets of seeds per acre, I sowed only two. Most of us find hand sowing as preferred practice. Groundwater in the area is brackish and with limited access to canal water, but the average per acre production of cotton is 14 quintal that is higher than the conventional level cropping fields,” he said.Another cotton grower Harjoginder from the adjoining Kot Fatta village has enhanced bed plantation from 4 acres in 2016 to 17 acres this year.“Water requirement for raised cotton fields is just one-fourth of the traditional irrigation practice. The cropping pattern does not allow the growth of weeds in the fields as the water stays only in raised beds,” he said.For Jagtar Singh of Mehma Sarja village, bed plantation shows negligible plant mortality. “In the last four years, I have not experienced serious lodging as excess rainwater drains out easily. The pattern can be instrumental in the conservation of groundwater that is depleting at the alarming levels,” he said.According to the state agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu, after DSR (direct seeding of rice), bed plantation adoption by farmers can be a game-changer for the cotton-growing belt.“Inspite of pandemic outbreak, we managed to expedite crop diversification drive and this year, cotton has been sown on 4.9 lakh hectares, an increase of one lakh hectares than last year. The department is working to promote such efficient technologies in other districts as well,” said Pannu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bathinda-cotton-farmers-adopting-bed-plantation-technique-to-reap-benefits/story-YioHxMDyS5dL2zBdtl6a0L.html
14-06-2020||City||Faridabad: RWAs directed to ensure entry, exit from one gate only||Gurugram: The deputy commissioner of Faridabad has issued an order asking the resident welfare association (RWA) members to keep only one entry and exit open for the movement of people as well as vehicles in residential areas.According to the DC’s order, the decision has been in light of the rise in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the district. On Sunday, at least 191 new cases were reported in the district in the past 24 hours, taking Faridabad’s tally to 1,277. Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, stated in his order: “In exercise of powers granted to me by the virtue of ‘The Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 regulations 2020 notified under Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and Disasters Management Act 2005 do herby empower elected RWAs to take the necessary steps. “The RWAs have to ensure single entry and exit for persons and vehicles in a cohesive geographic unit to monitor the movement of people. Temperature screening of the residents is mandatory and imposition of night curfew from 9pm to 5am,” he said.Yadav said concerned station house officers will assist the RWAs in this exercise.Anyone found violating orders will be booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, relevant sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Epidemic Disease Act, the order said.Yadav said these orders are being issued ex-part because of an emergent situation created due to the prevalence of the coronavirus pandemic.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, Faridabad, asked the city residents to strictly follow lockdown guidelines, particularly the night curfew, as it is mandated to make sure people observe social distancing to prevent the coronavirus disease from spreading. “We are requesting residents to follow guidelines for coronavirus and not to move without face masks else we will take strict action,” he said.Police said people who are venturing out without taking precautions are putting others at risk and they will be booked on the spot. Faridabad police on Sunday booked 284 people for not wearing facemasks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridabad-rwas-directed-to-ensure-entry-exit-from-one-gate-only/story-ude8k6pUYmuyBSsQEtiIqJ.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||5% of Punjab’s active cases: Low population density, multi-pronged strategy help southern Malwa dists curb virus spread||Even as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Punjab, seven districts of southern Malwa — Faridkot, Bathinda, Moga, Fazilka, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Mansa — are less affected by the pandemic as only 39 (5.6%) of a total of 717 active cases in the state are from the belt.Officials claim that more than 70% of patients in these districts were those who returned from other states and the rest were their immediate contacts such as family members.A relatively less population density, a multi-pronged strategy adopted by the authorities and strict compliance of norms by people helped curb the virus spread, say officials. As per the state health department’s bulletin, only 419 (13.3%) of a total of 3,140 positive cases reported in the state have been reported from the seven districts.Moreover, 90% (380) of those found positive in these districts have recovered. Only one death was reported in the belt from Ferozepur. State Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said apart from the efforts put by district administrations and the health department, another major reason behind the low spread of virus is less population density as the belt is predominantly rural.“The number of international travellers visiting these districts was relatively quite low. Amritsar, Jalandhar and Mohali are big cities and a lot of people came back there from high-risk areas, including abroad,” he added. “Most of the infected patients were with travel history. We put more than 2,000 Nanded-returnees and labourers from other districts in institutional quarantine. Faridkot is among the top districts when it comes to collecting samples per million population,” Faridkot deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said. Fazilka deputy commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu claimed that a lot of effort and planning went into ensuring that local transmission does not start in the district, which also borders Rajasthan. “More than 90% positive patients came from other states,” he added. Fazilka senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harjeet Singh said only pass holders and good carriers are allowed to enter the district from Rajasthan. “As cases are increasing in Rajasthan, we are maintaining strict surveillance on the state border by covering 25 small entry points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-of-punjab-s-active-cases-low-population-density-multi-pronged-strategy-help-southern-malwa-dists-curb-virus-spread/story-junAf6AbowWNF7TAVbxrUP.html
14-06-2020||Gurugram||Teachers to focus on individualised education plans, student enrolment||The directorate of education has asked schools to ensure that they reach out to all students and get them to join online classes. With many migrants returning to their hometowns, the department has asked schools to focus on improving the dropout ratio and ensuring that they give new students attention and make efforts to connect with old students who might return.In a directive shared with school heads and teachers earlier this week, the department outlined a roadmap for various activities that need to be carried out during remote learning. Besides focusing on improving enrolment rates, the department has asked school teachers to create individualised education plans (IEP) keeping in view the minimum level of learning.Since the nationwide lockdown implemented on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), schools across the country have been suspended. The central government is scheduled to review the situation only next month. The Haryana government started the ‘Ghar se Padhao’ campaign on April 14 to ensure that teachers remain in regular contact with parents and students through WhatsApp during the lockdown. While teachers share academic videos and worksheets, students maintain a dedicated notebook to record their work.Suman Sharma, the principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, Urban Estate, said that more students had enrolled at school in the lockdown’s aftermath.“More students have enrolled during the lockdown. Many of these children used to study at private schools, but with physical classes getting suspended due to the pandemic and parents struggling to pay the fee, they moved them to government schools. Parents don’t see the point in paying the fee for online classes,” Sharma said.Some students have returned to their hometowns due to the pandemic. While some collected their school-leaving certificates before they left, schools have attempted to stay in touch with others who are expected to return.“Some students are going back to states like Bihar and Bengal. We have asked such parents to stay in touch with the teachers and ensure that their children take part in online classes. They can renew their admission when they return to the city,” Sharma said.Another government school principal, who didn’t wish to be named, said that while the government has asked schools to prepare teaching material in line with students’ learning levels and create individualised education plans, implementing them would be difficult with online classes taking place through WhatsApp. “In comparison to physical classes, online classes are restrictive. Most students are studying through WhatsApp, which is not the best platform for assessing students’ capabilities. We have, however, directed all teachers to take feedback and connect with students on phone calls to bridge the gap,” the school head said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teachers-to-focus-on-individualised-education-plans-student-enrolment/story-waSDol09bTWTmRK4ANt29H.html
14-06-2020||Gurugram||17,000 BJP supporters log on to watch CM Khattar address virtual rally||A virtual rally organised by the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday saw the participation of more than 17,000 people from the Gurugram district.The web rally was addressed by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and other senior party functionaries from Panchkula and Delhi, said the district BJP unit. Arrangements to watch the rally were made at the offices of the party councillors and 20 other places across the district, said Pravin Chandra Vashisht, BJP. In his address to the participants who joined the rally via the weblinks shared by the party, Manohar Lal Khattar said that the welfare schemes launched by the state government were benefiting the common people during this “challenging time”. Both the party and his government will stand up to the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, said Khattar, adding that the package of ₹20 lakh announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi would greatly help farmers, shopkeepers, small industries, traders, labourers and the underprivileged sections of the society.Khattar also said that the BJP government did not indulge in politics but instead focused on development and growth and promised that the people of Haryana will beat Covid-19.On this occasion, state party president Subash Barala, Union minister Narender Singh Tomar and party in-charge of Haryana Anil Jain also addressed the virtual rally.Referring to the virtual rally, Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla said that approximately 5,000 people from the Gurgaon assembly constituency had listened to their leaders. Around 1,500 party workers worked in the city to make the rally successful while following social distancing norms, said party officials.Arun Yadav, in-charge, state IT cell, said that a large number of participants were connected through Zoom and other web-based applications. “Social media links were created and distributed through different means to people. Twenty LED screens were also installed at a rally site in Panchkula,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/17-000-bjp-supporters-log-on-to-watch-cm-khattar-address-virtual-rally/story-eZ6dsR3Zi0MSG8Iguu6FuL.html
14-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Covid-19 count crosses 3,200 with 169 new cases||As many as 169 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported in Gurugram while six people succumbed to the infection on Sunday. The district now has 3,264 cases and its death toll has reached 31.According to an analysis of district health department data, over the past two weeks, the daily growth rate of cases in Gurugram has come down from 10.8% to 7.7%. Gurugram, however, continues to feature among the top 20 most affected districts in the country (in terms of case load), with the district having the eighth highest number of positive cases in India. It’s doubling rate also remains the highest among these districts, even as the doubling rate on June 13 improved to nine days as opposed to eight days on June 11. “A meeting of officials has been called on Monday to discuss measures for or preventing the spread of coronavirus in the district. We are increasing our testing capacities. Now we will focus on spreading awareness among people in containment zones to observe isolation and social distancing measures,” said Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. A total of 104 new recoveries were recorded on Sunday, according to the daily epidemic bulletin. A total of 1,264 patients have recovered in the district, where the cumulative recovery rate stands at 37.2 percentGurugram currently has 1,999 active cases of Covid-19, of which 167 are under care at dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH), while 230 are admitted at decided Covid healthcare centres (DCHC).Of the district’s total cases of Covid-19, ten patients continue to remain in critical condition, with four patients on ventilator support at Medanta Hospital, and three each on ventilator support at Medeor and Fortis hospitals. This is more than two-thirds of the state’s total 14 patients who are currently on ventilator support.The district’s test-positivity rate (TPR) on Sunday stood at 69%, while the cumulative TPR stands at 17 percent, four times as much as the state’s cumulative TPR, which stands at 4.01 percent. Haryana, meanwhile, recorded its single-largest daily spike in cases on Sunday, with 459 new cases (up from 416 new cases on Saturday). Faridabad contributed the highest number of positive cases to this increase, with 191 new cases. The state’s doubling-rate stood at 8 days, with a recovery rate of 41.66 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-covid-19-count-crosses-3-200-with-169-new-cases/story-gQfCOgZJDDj8qg7BmukfJK.html
14-06-2020||City||Gurugram: Urban villages, residential colonies emerge as Covid hot spots||Gurugram: Some of the city’s urban villages and residential colonies on both sides of the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway are emerging as Covid-19 hot spots, shows the data collected by the contact tracing team of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). According to the data, in the last one week, urban villages such as Nathupur, Wazirabad, Tigra, Sukhrali, Mollahera, Dundahera, Naharpur Rupa, Chakkarpur and Manesar have witnessed a sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases. Among the urban colonies in the city, many new positive cases were reported from Chanderlok, Laxman Vihar, Om Nagar, Feroze Gandhi colony and Patel Nagar.The total Covid-19 cases in Gurugram till Saturday evening were 3,125, and the number has been rising for the past 10 days. The 25-member HSVP team started collecting data related to Covid patients since last Saturday after a reshuffle of officials was carried out by the district administration to manage the Covid-19 situation. Officials said that high density of population and resumption commercial activities in these urban clusters was the reason behind the rise in Covid-19 cases. On Friday The Gurugram health department had said that seven clusters that include Firoz Gandhi colony, Wazirabad, Lakshman Vihar, Chandelrok, Dundahera, Chakkarpur, and Gandhi Nagar have almost half of the Covid-19 positive cases in the city. The seven areas identified by the health department reported 1,600 cases till Saturday evening, said health officials. The HSVP team said that they were actively working with 36 primary health centres (PHCs) and rapid response teams in urban areas and sharing the information with the health department and the district administration. “We are gathering details of the Covid-19 patients and the data is updated on a mobile application, which ensures that information is shared on real-time basis and there is no duplication,” said Bharat Bhushan Gogia, HSVP’s estate officer one, who is the coordinating official for the data collecting work.A team member involved in the data collection said that they also check whether the patient has Covid-19 symptoms like fever, difficulty in breathing, and dry cough. “We collect these details from the PHCs in a single format and upload it online so that it is accessible to departments concerned,” he said.When asked what measures are being taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 cases in the high risk areas, Gogia said that all of these had been turned into containment zones by the district administration. “The containment zones, which are under our supervision, are being monitored strictly. We are actively coordinating with the police officials deployed in these zones and a log book for entry of people is also being maintained,” he said.Meanwhile, the health department officials said that priority is being given to the high risk clusters and they plan to ramp up testing in these areas so that Covid affected persons are identified at the earliest. Virender Yadav, civil surgeon, Gurugram, said that the entire focus will be on the identified clusters in the coming weeks to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “Awareness campaign will be carried out on a large scale to send home the message of safety and prevention. Also, focus would be on ensuring strict home isolation and quarantine. A meeting of officials has been called on Monday in this regard. We will also increase Covid testing in these areas,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-urban-villages-residential-colonies-emerge-as-covid-hot-spots/story-yJPy6HDT7JjGoMVZIsXOiJ.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, Akal Takht jathedar calls for forming Maharaja Ranjit-like polity||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has given a call for launching a democratic movement in Punjab to form a polity on the lines of the one formed by Maharaja Ranjit Singh who founded a Sikh kingdom which was annexed by the British in 1849. This comes nearly a week after the head priest of the Sikhism’s highest temporal seat made a statement in support of Khalistan as a separate Sikh nation if the government offered it, triggering a political storm in the state. In a statement issued from the Takht Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sahib, late Saturday evening, he said, “As contemporary central governments discriminated against the Sikhs and betrayed them on the promises made before Independence, the sincere community leaders felt alienated and preferred to fight for concept of welfare state as enshrined in the Guru Granth Sahib. This was not a demonstration of spontaneous struggle or violent inclination, but a reaction to the government’s excesses.” “If Punjab has suffered from prolonged agony, genocide of Sikhs carried out by the government on the pretext of eliminating terrorism is mainly responsible for that. No parent wants their children to be killed in fake encounters and termed as terrorists,” he said.“Some political leaders are raking an unnecessary controversy over my earlier statement. The army’s attack on the holiest Sikh shrine ordered by the then Congress government and the brutal massacre of the community members encouraged the concept of true welfare state,” the jathedar added. “The Indian Constitution allows every Sikhs to exercise the right to lead a struggle to propagate the idea of justice in a peaceful and democratic manner,” the jathedar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-akal-takht-jathedar-calls-for-forming-maharaja-ranjit-like-polity/story-V7JmeDrvBpdAwLCndwxZ7I.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 76 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Sunday reported two deaths and 76 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the state’s tally to 3,156‬. As per the latest field reports received till 10pm. The state has reported 71 fatalities due to Covid-19 so far.Two men aged 66 and 85 died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, health officials said.“The patient, resident of Pandori Mehma Amritsar, was a known case of diabetes. On June 12, he was admitted in an isolation ward. He died around 12:30am on Sunday and his samples tested positive after his death,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“The 85-year old resident of Anngarh, who was tested Covid-19 positive few days ago, died on Sunday. He also had co-morbidities.” The district also reported 15 fresh cases on Sunday, out of which five are fresh community transmission cases and seven are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. 3 INFECTED IN GURDASPUR, 2 IN PATHANKOTPathankot deputy commissioner GS Khaira said: “Two more people of the district tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and were the contacts of Covid-19 patients. The total active cases in the district are now 65.”Besides this, 3 more people were tested Covid-19 positive in Gurdaspur.MOHALI SEES HIGHEST SINGLE-DAY SPIKESixteen people, including two women and two children, tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Sunday, in the biggest single-day spike witnessed in the district, which took its total count of confirmed cases to 176. Among the fresh cases, while nine are from Dera Bassi subdivision, the remaining seven are from Kharar subdivision.FOUR TEST POSITIVE IN PATIALA Four persons tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala on Sunday. Among those tested positive include a nurse posted at Government Rajindra Hospital, a contact of earlier found positive nurse and four-year-old girl from Shambhu, who returned from Jhansi last week. Meanwhile, two other cases are reported from Samana and DMW residential colony in Patiala.13 FRESH CASES IN JALANDHARSixteen 16 people tested positive of novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Sunday. Health officials said three of the 6 persons tested positive will not be counted in Jalandhar tally because they belongs to other districts and states. Meanwhile, a 22-yr-old migrant who had returned from Bihar tested positive for coronavirus at village Mohnowal in Garhshankar sub-division.17 MORE CASES IN SANGRURSangrur district recorded its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 17 new cases being reported from Malerkotla area. The age group of all patients is from 14 to 80 year-old. As per health department officials total active cases count has reached 51 in the district. A man, who returned to Moga from Kolkata on June 4 and was home quarantine, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday.Four persons tested positive of Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Sunday. Four persons, including a 25-year-old man from Amritsar, who is suffering from acute pancreatitis and the 60-year-old man form Sangrur, are currently on oxygen support at the DMCH. (Inputs from Sangrur, Ludhiana and Moga)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-deaths-76-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-6h7FJeDvOvOt18iGil75eN.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Passenger dies onboard Air India’s Lagos-Mumbai flight||A passenger onboard Air India’s AI 906 from Lagos (a city in Nigeria) to Mumbai died on Sunday morning. Airline officials said that despite trying hard to revive him, the 42-year-old passenger could not be saved. The passenger was declared dead by an onboard doctor. However, on landing, doctors of airport operator- Mumbai International Airport Ltd. (MIAL) attended him after the flight landed Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), at 3.45am. After completing all the standard operating procedures, the passenger’s body was sent to Vile Parle-based Cooper Hospital.Air India spokesperson, confirming this, said, “A 42-year-old male passenger, aboard AI1906 of June 13, 2020, Lagos to Mumbai flight passed away due to natural causes today.”He further said, “A doctor on board along with our crew, who are trained to handle such medical emergencies, made an all-out attempt to revive the man through resuscitation, but all their efforts went in vain. He was declared dead on board by the attending doctor.”However, a top source said, “The passenger had consumed a pill so that his fever is not detected at the airport. However, when the effect of the pill subsided, his body temperature shot up when the aircraft took off for Mumbai. He developed high fever and started shivering. He also suffered from internal bleeding and passed away. The cause of death in the post-mortem report is stated to be due to malaria.” Air India officials said that they have informed about the incident to the relatives of the deceased. “The aircraft was taken for fumigation as per norms,” added the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/passenger-dies-onboard-air-india-s-lagos-mumbai-flight/story-TtLWjskG7EdVMcZo1xsGSM.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt urges Modi to extend PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for another six months in view of the Covid-19 crisis to facilitate free wheat and pulses to the beneficiaries of National Food Security Act (NFSA).In a letter to the PM, Amarinder said the extension would go a long way in ensuring that the poor and the needy do not sleep hungry, and also enable them to make both ends meet.Noting that the early announcement of the PMGKAY had provided major relief to the poor NFSA beneficiaries during the difficult times of Covid-19, the CM said that the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the virus had not only slowed down the country’s economy but also led to a major reduction in the incomes and savings of the people.Underlining the need to further extent the benefit, the CM pointed out that with the lockdown now touching almost three months, the economic situation of the people, especially the poor, had not improved much even after resumption of industrial activities in Punjab. Of the 2.6 lakh industrial units in the state, more than 2.32 lakh units had resumed operations, but the loss of wages over the past few months had severely crippled the purchasing power of the people, especially the poor NFSA beneficiaries, he said.Further, the number of Covid-19 cases was also seeing a steep upward trend daily after relaxations, and further lockdown and restrictions could not be ruled out, said Amarinder, adding that extension of PMGKAY for six months would be of immense help to the needy NFSA beneficiaries in these trying times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-urges-modi-to-extend-pm-garib-kalyan-anna-yojana/story-Q6eF47aUZjL4sKwLkIJSOL.html
14-06-2020||City||3 including a minor arrested for 6 bike thefts during lockdown||The Navi Mumbai crime branch arrested three persons including a minor involved in at least six bike thefts. The police also recovered seven bikes worth ₹4.58 lakh from them.The police said most of the bikes were stolen during the lockdown period. The central unit of crime branch was investigating the multiple bike thefts reported in Kharghar, Nerul and NRI police stations.“We arrested Noorul Haq Labbai and Aafaq Shaikh, both aged 19, and residents of Nerul. The third accused is a minor and has been sent to children’s remand home,” said NB Kolhatkar, senior inspector at the crime branch unit.Officers said they were investigating the theft from Ulwe node where a 30-year-old man’s bike worth ₹70,000 was stolen in the intervening night of June 1 and 2.Following the probe, police received a tip-off about the suspects arriving in Ulwe area. The police then laid a trap and arrested them on Tuesday.During the investigation, police claimed that the three accused stole three bikes from Kharghar, one from NRI and another from Nerul areas, while one bike was stolen from Santacruz in Mumbai. The police have also recovered a seventh bike and are investigating to find out from where did they steal it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-including-a-minor-arrested-for-6-bike-thefts-during-lockdown/story-hyEfTjoGnKXayPvSoKMNbI.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Weekend restrictions: Shops shut, roads wore deserted look in Punjab||All the shops, except those selling essential goods, remained closed across the state on Sunday with the state government imposing stricter lockdown restrictions on weekends. Roads in most parts of the state too wore a deserted look. The Punjab government on Thursday ordered stricter lockdown on the weekends and public holidays. The decision to tighten the curbs on weekends and holidays was taken amid apprehensions of Covid-19 reaching the community spread stage in Punjab and projections indicating that the peak in the state was still two months away.Cops were deployed in adequate numbers across the state for implementing the lockdown strictly, officials said. Inter-district movement was barred except for people with e-passes, they said, adding that no pass was required for such travel in case of a medical emergency.There was no rush of people in Ludhiana’s main markets of Jawahar Nagar, Kesar Ganj, Field Ganj, Sarabha Nagar and Chaura Bazaar. Reeling under losses, shopkeepers rued that business was slowly moving back on track, but the decision to impose a lockdown on weekends has hit the market badly. Seeking review of the orders, the market associations in old city areas are also contemplating an agitation against the state government. Though liquor vends and restaurants remained open, there were hardly any customers. There was a drastic decline in the footfall of devotees at the Golden Temple in the morning on the occasion of ‘Sangrand’ (beginning of new month). Amritsar is the worst Covid-19-hit district in Punjab with 600-plus positive cases.Though the district administration had allowed the opening of shops dealing with essential commodities till 7pm, a few establishments operated on Sunday. Heavy police force was deployed at every nook and corner of the city, especially at outside the markets leading to the Golden Temple. Petrol pumps also witnessed negligible customers. Similarly, the markets in Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot remained closed, barring liquor shops and those dealing with essential commodities.In Mohali, policemen were checking vehicles coming from Chandigarh and other parts.In Jalandhar, all markets, including Rainik Bazaar and Phagwara Gate, except shops dealing in essential goods remained closed in Jalandhar. The district remained Covid-19 hotspot with total 329 positive cases, second highest after Amritsar. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Punjab’s first coronavirus hotspot, too remained shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/weekend-restrictions-shops-shut-roads-wore-deserted-look-in-punjab/story-wEleI0pWUGL8yMZGPtp98O.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||3 tigers found dead in Tadoba in 5 days, forest department suspect poisoning||Two sub-adult tigers were found dead in the buffer area of the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur, on Sunday afternoon by the forest department.Three carcasses have been recovered within five days after the decayed remains of a tigress was found last Wednesday morning (June 10). The two carcasses identified on Sunday were found 300 metres away from the one on Wednesday near Kondegaon talao, Moharli range in Tadoba buffer. “The tigers found on Sunday are most likely the sub-adult cubs of the tigress from last Wednesday,” said G Guruprasad, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), TATR buffer.At the same location where the tiger carcasses were recovered on Sunday, the carcasses of two langurs were also found, forest officials said. “We think one female and one male, but the bodies were highly decomposed. An enquiry is already underway and will be further escalated in nearby villages. The source of the suspected poisoning is unclear,” said NR Praveen, field director, TATR.Other forest officials said the carcasses were about five to six days old. Viscera samples of the tigress were collected on Wednesday itself and sent for forensic analysis to Nagpur.“The number of animals found dead indicate that they all may have died due to the same reason. Prima facie it appears that this may be a case of poisoning as no body parts were missing, which means poaching is ruled out. The carcasses do not have any injury marks; hence this is not the case of infighting,” said Guruprasad adding, “Their carcasses are even more putrefied than the mother. Based on the condition of the carcasses, we can say that the cubs are around eight months old.” Guruprasad added that the post-mortem results of the tigress earlier in the week showed that she had eaten a wild boar. “There is a possibility that the boar may have been poisoned or this could be a case of water poisoning. However, our enquiry is underway across three nearby villages,” he said.Surprisingly, no cattle kills have been recorded in this region for the past one year, the DCF said. “The area is non-forest land in the buffer of TATR but proximity to the adjoining core zone. The forensic analysis of all three tigers will reveal the final cause of death,” he said.Cases reported on Sunday take the tally of tiger deaths in Maharashtra this year to seven, of which six have been reported from Chandrapur, in and around TATR.Activists said the forest department and the chief wildlife warden (CWLW) needed to show the same alacrity in identifying culprits responsible for the death of the three tigers. “While the CWLW proposes to capture and sterilise tigers in Chandrapur, tigers are being killed under his watch by locals. Rather than issuing regular capture orders for sub-adult tigers, there needs to be proper evidence collection to ensure that the guilty don’t get bail and are punished,” said Sarita Subramaniam from Earth Brigade Foundation.A senior forest official said, “Poisoning of tigers was also a form of conflict, and all pros and cons need to be weighed before coming to conclusions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-tigers-found-dead-in-tadoba-in-5-days-forest-department-suspect-poisoning/story-vffhAarHWnbIV4gQ7Nl8yH.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM assures to look into Sangrur women college admission issue||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has assured leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema that he would look into the admission issue of Akal Degree College for Women. The college had recently decided to stop admissions to its BA courses for the academic session 2020-21. The college’s decision triggered uproar among the student unions and Dalit outfits in the district.“I received a letter from CM Amarinder Singh today, who assured me that he is looking into the matter. However, the AAP will not allow college management to stop admission to BA course. If the management will try to shut the college, we will intensify our agitation,” Cheema said on Sunday.Akal Degree College for Women management committee chairperson Karanvir Singh Sibia had said that college was suffering from losses and could not afford more economic burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-assures-to-look-into-sangrur-women-college-admission-issue/story-lehpIoKnmJja33fPfohMdL.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||After state, monsoon arrives in city||Although the city witnessed partly cloudy conditions through the day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday declared the onset of the southwest monsoon over Mumbai and remaining parts of Maharashtra. The monsoon arrived three days late in Mumbai from its normal onset date of June 11. Last year, the southwest monsoon arrived on June 25 – the most delayed onset in the past 45 years. In 2018, the monsoon arrived on June 9 and on June 12 in 2017. IMD said the northern limit of the monsoon passes from Surat Gujarat, Nandurbar in north Maharashtra, Betul and Seoni in Madhya Pradesh, and further covering parts of Bihar. “The onset has been declared over Mumbai and remaining parts of Maharashtra on Sunday. Since the onset was within the range of three days of June 11, it will be classified as normal onset for Mumbai and entire Maharashtra,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Monsoon entered the state on June 11 covering parts of south Konkan, south central Maharashtra and parts of Marathwada. On June 12 and 13, it further progressed covering more areas of central Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha, and by Sunday, it enveloped the entire state. The onset was declared based on the progression of the monsoon system and factors such as rainfall criteria and monsoon (westerly) winds at middle-troposphere level, said Mohaptra. “While the criteria is not as stringent as it is for Kerala, basic conditions were met for north Konkan district on Sunday. However, we must realise that onset is declared based on monsoon progression. For example, if Gujarat is witnessing more rain than Maharashtra, we cannot declare monsoon onset for Gujarat before Maharashtra,” he said.Independent meteorologists had conflicting views on whether conditions were favourable. “The wind pattern and the rainfall criteria have been met, which allowed IMD to declare onset. This time, it was a very soft onset. Usually, people think that onset should be declared only after heavy rain. That’s not the case. Onset criteria could very well be met with light to moderate rains as well,” said Sridhar Balasubramanian, associate professor, IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology - Bombay.Between 8.30am on Saturday and 8.30am on Sunday, the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 19.7mm and 11.2mm rain, respectively. IMD classifies moderate rain in the range of 7.6mm to 35.5mm. However, moderate to heavy showers were recorded in parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region such as Thane, Bhiwandi, Dombivli, Badlapur and Panvel over 24 hours.Independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK, Akshay Deoras said current conditions were not favourable for declaring the monsoon’s arrival in Mumbai, north Konkan and most of Maharashtra. “These areas continue to witness pre-monsoon thunderstorms. For the state, there needs to be near-surface monsoon winds from the west for declaring monsoon’s arrival. Such wind patterns are currently being observed over south Konkan districts only. Monsoon arrival in north Konkan, including Mumbai, is expected during June 15-16, when all factors are expected to be in place,” Deoras said.Private weather forecasting agency Skymet had earlier this month set June 13 as the onset date, but later revised it to June 14. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet, said, “All conditions for onset were met on Sunday. Now, moderate to heavy rain is expected to pick up from Tuesday onwards till the next weekend.”IMD had issued a yellow alert for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Sunday, but these regions witnessed negligible rain till 8.30pm. An orange alert for heavy to very heavy rain has been predicted for Monday and Tuesday by the weather bureau for Mumbai and surrounding areas.The first two weeks of June saw the city cover 42% of the monthly rain comprising pre monsoon showers. From June 1 to June 14, Mumbai recorded 208.5mm rain. The average rainfall for the month of June is 493.1 mm.FIRST HEAVY MONSOON SPELL EXPECTED FROM JUNE 16-18: EXPERTSridhar Balasubramanian from Indian Institute of Technology - Bombay said conditions were favourable for heavy rain in the Mumbai region between June 16 and 18. “With the progression of monsoon over whole of Maharashtra, conditions in Arabian Sea are becoming favorable for heavy rain for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar. An existing upper air circulation in the Arabian Sea will strengthen in the coming week between June 16 and June 19. Aided by strong westerlies, we are likely to witness some heavy rain during this period,” he said.The rain will gradually start increasing from June 15 evening or late night, with heavy rain slated to occur between June 16 evening and June 18 with some spillover rain on June 19. “Overall, we could expect around 200-220 mm of rain in a span of 2-3 days. Heavy rain is likely to occur between June 16 evening to June 18 morning, where an offshore vortex is likely to form near Mumbai. There could be some water logging in low-lying areas during this period,” said Balasubramanian.MONSOON ONSET DATES FOR MUMBAI OVER THE PAST DECADEAccording to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), monsoon usually arrives in the city by June 10 · 2020 - June 14· 2019 - June 25· 2018 – June 9· 2017 – June 12· 2016 – June 20· 2015 – June 12· 2014 – June 15· 2013 – June 9· 2012 – June 17· 2011 – June 5· 2010 – June 11· 2009 - June 27(Source: India Meteorological Department)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-state-monsoon-arrives-in-city/story-J72rM2zXqeEMel5wsRWKiJ.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab SC panel wants panchayats’ ‘anti-labour’ resolutions quashed||Taking serious note of ‘anti-labour’ resolutions recently passed by some Punjab panchayats, the state commission for Scheduled Castes has sought a report from the department of rural development and panchayats. Terming the resolutions illegal, the commission has also asked the department to scrap all such directions and submit an action-taken report by June 19. It may be mentioned that amid shortage of labour due to mass exodus of migrant labourers, the panchayats in several districts of Punjab had passed resolutions fixing wages for local labourers.As per these resolutions, farm labourers were to be paid ₹2,500 to ₹3,200 for sowing paddy on one acre, while the farmhands were demanding ₹4,000-₹4,500 per acre. “Not only constitutionally, it’s illegal socially and morally as well. The panchayats have no right to single out labourers, most of whom are from Dalit communities, and issue such diktats,” said commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur. The chairperson said the commission came to know that few panchayats have even refused to feed labourers and directed them to bring them their own utensils and food. “Who gave them (panchayats) the right to pass such resolutions, that too by making announcements on loud speakers? Further action will be taken once the department submits its report in this matter,” she added. The commission has specifically asked Sangrur deputy commissioner to conduct an inquiry into such resolution passed by Ghanauri Khurd panchayat, which threatened the labourers of social boycott if they demanded more rates than stipulated. “The Sangrur administration has been asked to submit a detailed report before the commission by June 19 through the sub divisional officer (civil) concerned,” the chairperson said.Punjab Khet Majdoor Union general secretary Lachhman Singh Sewewala said though it was a welcome step, the commission must ensure that strict action was taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-sc-panel-wants-panchayats-anti-labour-resolutions-quashed/story-ts63KwmMUA92tC0uVrtjeO.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: ₹200 crore worth property damaged in 13 tehsils, says Raigad collector||The district administration has carried out the final assessment of damages due to Cyclone Nisarga that left a trail of destruction on June 3, across Raigad district. Approximately, ₹200 crore worth government properties such as schools, hospitals, offices, anganwadis, electricity infrastructure etc. have been damaged, the district collector said.“We calculated a tally of 1.4 lakh houses were damaged. Additionally, 1.6 lakh tree-fall incidents were recorded, and damage to agricultural land and perennial crops across more than 20,000 hectares has been recorded, as per submissions by the district agriculture officers,” said Nidhi Choudhari, collector and district magistrate, Raigad.Nisarga, classified as severe cyclonic storm, made landfall at Diveagar, located between Shrivardhan and Murud between 12.15pm and 12.30pm on June 3 as it passed over Raigad district followed by heavy to very heavy rain over the next 10 days including the onset of the southwest monsoon. The wind speed during and after landfall had touched a maximum of 120 kmph, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said, leading to rooftops of several structures blown away, tree fall and power line damages, and a communication blackout across 80% of Raigad. Partial damages to structures were calculated to be approximately 5.2 lakh, including government and private property, officials said.Destruction of electricity infrastructure has been immense, said Choudhari. “We have calculated approximate losses of ₹40 crore. Over 16,000 electric poles, high voltage lines, sub-stations, feeders, transformers etc. have been damaged,” she said.The cyclone affected 13 of 15 tehsils (Alibag, Murud, Tala, Srivardhan, Mangaon, Mhasala, Pen, Karjat, Mahad, Uran, Panvel, Khalapur, and Roha) with a total of 1,967 villages did not have power from June 3 to June 12, the collector said.“So far we have restored power for 950 of the 1,967 villages. As far as electricity consumers are concerned, power has been restored for over 50% across 13 of the 15 affected tehsils. Electricity has been restored for all tehsil headquarters and communication lines have been reinstated. However, work is still underway at two of the worst affected tehsils Murud and Shrivardhan. While it will take time to restore electricity for villages, we expect city areas will hopefully have power again by the end of this week,” said Choudhari. HT had reported on June 8 how residents of semi-urban and rural areas in affected talukas were facing a drinking water crisis due to damages to pipelines and power outage (failure in pumping water from bore wells). “We have managed to restore the supply of water across the majority of affected areas by providing generators even across remote villages under the regional water supply schemes. Remaining areas are being provided tankers to fill the village wells,” said Choudhari.Apart from ₹100 crore immediate relief sanctioned for the district, the state government on June 10 had announced damages to homes of cyclone-hit families would be given ₹1.5 lakh, ₹15,000 for partial damages to homes, ₹50,000 per hectare of damaged agricultural land, and ₹10,000 for damages to household materials. Research group to assess how mangroves protected Raigad during cycloneThe Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) will commence a study to assess how mangroves were affected during the severe cyclone Nisarga, and how much area the salt-tolerant trees managed to protect during the cyclone using satellite images. “We will independently carry out a study to understand the comparison of areas where mangroves were present and how they impacted property damage versus areas where they weren’t. Also, the scale of damages to the trees due to high wind speed. The study will be verified with on-site field visits subsequently,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-200-crore-worth-property-damaged-in-13-tehsils-says-raigad-collector/story-d8soVwxrz4VaO8M41gszCK.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Youth who killed 7-year-old arrested from Uttar Pradesh||The Dongri police have arrested a 22-year-old man from his native place in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday evening for allegedly killed a seven-year-old girl two weeks ago and dumped her body on the railway track in Wadi Bunder area. Police said the girl’s body was recovered after the accused was arrested and he showed the spot.“The girl’s body was decomposed and as per the preliminary post-mortem report and inquiry, the accused was arrested under the charges of murder, rape and relevant section of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso),” said senior inspector Sandeep Bhagdikar of the Dongri police station.According to the police, the accused worked as a cook in a catering outlet and was a neighbour of the victim. The victim went missing on May 30 after she went to play outside her residence in Dongri. Her parents then approached the Dongri police and a kidnapping case was registered against unknown persons.The police started an inquiry and learnt that the victim’s neighbour (the cook) was not seen in the locality soon after the victim went missing. When the police learnt that the cook had left for UP, a team was dispatched to the accused’s native place in Bahraich district in Uttar Pradesh said Bhagdikar.“He was brought to Mumbai on Saturday. After an inquiry, the accused informed us that he killed her and dumped her body on the railway track in Wadi Bunder area,” added Bhagdikar. The accused was then taken to the spot and the girl’s decomposed body was found near the railway track. The body was sent for post-mortem.“The accused is changing his statements. He has not yet told us why he killed the victim, added the officer. He has been remanded in police custody till June 20,” said Bhagdikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/youth-who-killed-7-year-old-arrested-from-uttar-pradesh/story-xY7NgXq2iO2IXpjF7743RK.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt juggles improvement trust funds, Oppn cries foul||The Punjab local bodies department has decided to shift Rs 15 crore from Amritsar Improvement Trust to its cash-strapped Patiala counterpart, which is catering to development of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra’s constituencies.Captain wife’s Preneet Kaur is an MP from Patiala Lok Sabha seat. The move has raised the hackles of the opposition.The Patiala Improvement Trust is reeling under a debt of nearly Rs 70 crores. To make matters worse, most of its properties are attached in cases related to non-payments, making it difficult for banks to grant it loan.“The proposal has been approved by the director, local bodies department, and we have started process to shift the money, which we have generated by selling properties,” said AIT chairman Dinesh Bassi. He, however, added that it was a soft loan. “As per conditions, the PIT has to pay it back in next one and a half years with an interest rate of 9 %,”said Bassi.Notably, Mohindra had locked horns with Patiala mayor Sanjiv Bittu, a protégé of Preneet, and taken the development works of the Patiala rural constituency out of the MC’s purview in January. He had handed over the responsibility of these works to the PIT headed by his loyalist Sant Banga.The fund-starved PIT, however, could not float even a single tender since January. To bail out the trust, the department decided to give it some fund boost.Former local bodies minister and Amritsar BJP leader Anil Joshi termed the entire exercise as wrong. “How can they shift the money meant for development of the holy city to CM’s bastion. Funds are required to complete pending development works in Amritsar. We will oppose this move tooth and nail,” added Joshi. Mohindra, on his part, said: “It is not something new. The improvement trusts have been helping each other by giving loans. The proposal was mooted to bail out the PIT from financial crunch. Due to mismanagement of the SAD-BJP regime, most PIT properties are attached with banks, court and the tax department.” “Now, we will use this money to free such properties. The idea is to generate more funds by selling these properties as many of them have a high market value. I’m finding a way to revive the PIT, which will pay the amount back to the AIT with interest. It’s beneficial for both the trusts”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-juggles-improvement-trust-funds-oppn-cries-foul/story-VEGEQ7SQmgFXDXhl2vTVVK.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||State to sign 12 MoUs worth ₹16000 crore to push industrial activities||Maharashtra government is set to sign a dozen memorandum of understanding (MoUs) with major companies across the globe as a part of the Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 - the second instalment of the global investors summit, held in February 2018. The MoUs will be inked with companies from the US, China, South Korea, Singapore and India on Monday is expected to bring in an investment of ₹16,000 crore to the state.Industries department officials said that the state government will unveil its plan for Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 roadmap. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, industries minister Subhash Desai and global business leaders, Country missions and Bilateral investment agencies will participate via video conferencing.The investments represent a diversity of sectors including - Engineering, Automobiles, Food Processing, Electronics System & Design Manufacturing (ESDM) sector, IT/ITeS and many others, industries department officials said.An official said that the state’s push to revive economic activities aims to convey its readiness for a post-pandemic world. “Some of the features of the roadmap include the plug and play infrastructure, an earmarked landbank of more than 40,000 acres, flexible rental and pricing structures, automatic permissions in 48 hours, specialized labour protection guidance and an Industry employment bureau for local skill and capacity matching for industries,” a statement from the chief minister’s office said.Maharashtra has so far reopened over 60,000 industries after the relaxations from lockdown were granted and have employed close to 15 lakh people in these units across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-to-sign-12-mous-worth-16000-crore-to-push-industrial-activities/story-JeGg8G1XiysGbu9NwYKhUO.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Clinical trial of CAR-T technology to treat blood cancer to begin soon||A team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) and doctors from the Tata Memorial Centre (TMC), Mumbai, will soon start the first clinical trial of indigenously developed CAR-T technology in the country for the treatment of blood cancer.The central government’s National Biopharma Mission (NBM) -Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) has now approved ₹18.96 crore to the team for conducting a first-in-human phase-1/2 clinical trial of the CAR-T cells. The novel CAR-T cells will act are drugs that were indigenously developed at IIT Bombay by Rahul Purwar, a professor from the Bioscience and Bioengineering (BSBE) department. The design, development, and extensive pre-clinical testing was carried out in a laboratory with clinical inputs from Dr Gaurav Narula, professor of Pediatric Oncology and Health Sciences, and his team from TMC. The team has filed for national and international patents for the product.While the CAR-T cell technology is currently in use in developed nations with an intent to cure certain types of blood cancers, the technology is still unavailable in India. “One of the major reasons for its unavailability in India is that the drug is exorbitantly expensive. Pharmaceutical companies don’t see a market for such expensive treatments in India,” said Purwar. Two CAR-T products approved by the United States of America are Kymriah and Yescarta. However, the drugs could cost Rs5 crore per patient and could go up to ₹8 crore including hospital expenses.The IIT Bombay and TMC team are working on reducing this cost. “A large part of the manufacturing cost goes towards skilled labour. While we are at the initial stage, we will try to bring the costs significantly down,” said Purwar. The drug is aimed at treating leukaemia and lymphoma. The BIRAC, in its statement, said that with the success of the trial, the drug will benefit cancer patients, who currently are forced to opt for palliative care.With the grant in place, clinical trials of the novel CAR-T cells will commence at TMC. “Current treatment strategies, such as chemotherapy, are aimed at promoting life by a few months or years. They are not intended to cure cancer. The CAR-T cells have been fairly successful in this matter in some developed nations,” said Purwar. Unlike chemotherapy, this drug is administered only once to the patient.Dr Narula said that the clinical trial of the drug will be started in a trial set up where all variables are under control. “We have received the grant to start the trial. This is one step in a long process. We will start the trial as soon as the regulators give us a go-ahead,” he said. The team is now waiting for approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/clinical-trial-of-car-t-technology-to-treat-blood-cancer-to-begin-soon/story-1IeZ1E07a0MaIKxzVFghrI.html
14-06-2020||City||Three held for hatching conspiracy to commit robbery in Ludhiana||Three persons were arrested late Saturday evening for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to commit a robbery, while two of their accomplices managed to escape.The Shimlapuri police recovered two sharp-edged weapons and an air pistol from their possession.The accused have been identified as Arvinder Singh alias Aman Tattoo of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Arun Kumar alias Gaggi of Preet Nagar of Shimlapuri and Raman Kumar alias Happy of Kwality Chowk of Shimlapuri.The accused, who managed to escape, are Gurpreet Singh alias Prince of Manakwal village and Lovepreet Singh alias Love of Harkrishan Nagar.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO at the Shimlapuri police station, said the police arrested the accused from an isolated place near a canal on the Star Road on a tip-off.The accused were hatching a conspiracy to commit a robbery, when the police nabbed them. Two of the accused managed to escape taking advantage of darkness.A case under sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the IPC has been registered against the accused at the Shimlapuri police station.The SHO added the police have been investigating the past criminal record of the accused. A hunt was on for the arrest of rest of the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-hatching-conspiracy-to-commit-robbery-in-ludhiana/story-L9HtoDWUuTBhbycgt3Z8bI.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hotspot tag difficult to shake off as Dera Bassi accounts for 50% Covid-19 cases in Mohali||Mohali : The tag of Covid-19 hotspot seems to have stuck to Dera Bassi as 90 of the 176 cases reported in the past three months are from this subdivision of Mohali. The first case was reported on April 4 in Jawaharpur village and the count went up to 46 till the last case was detected on April 30. The village was declared containment free on May 25 after being sealed for 51 days. The source of infection could not be traced.Now the focus is on Mubarakpur. After five children and three women from one family tested positive on June 13, the total number of cases in the village has gone up to 10 Dera Bassi subdivision comprises Dera Bassi town, Zirakpur and Lalru and has a population of around four lakh. All the towns are located on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway.As of now, 23 cases are from Dera Bassi town, eight from Zirakpur and 12 from Lalru.“Dera Bassi has borders with other states and more workers come to work here in the factories in the area. Zirakpur too has a migrant population,” said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali.There’s a big migrant population in Zirakpur too. “We are trying our level best to take maximum samples from the area,” he said.Dr Vikrant Nagra, nodal officer, Dera Bassi, said, “As far as Mubarakpur is concerned, we know that one person from Delhi who had come to the village tested positive on June 8, following which sampling was done and 10 more persons from the same family were infected.”Nagra said around 50 samples were taken and a lane with a 100-metre area around it had been sealed. All families living there had been home quarantined. If 10 more cases were reported then the village would be declared a containment zone.Kharar subdivision, which comprises Nayagaon, Mullanpur, Kurali and some villages, has 38 cases.Sounding a note of caution for local residents, Dr.Harmandeep Kaur Brar, nodal officer for Kharar, said though the lockdown in the state had been lifted, “if we adopt a careless attitude and do not use precautions, the disease can strike us again in no time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hotspot-tag-difficult-to-shake-off-as-dera-bassi-accounts-for-more-than-50-covid-19-cases-in-mohali/story-OJEoqdi3kBF1EjHsWIn58M.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||DRI seizes 13 metric tonnes of red sanders||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Mumbai zone, have seized 13 metric tonnes (13,000 kgs) of red sanders which were being smuggled to Sharjah, UAE from the Nhava Sheva port in Navi Mumbai. The blocks of red sanders were concealed in the cover cargo of onions. The central law enforcement agency has also arrested two members of the syndicate.According to the DRI officials, recently they received specific intelligence about the smuggling of red sanders by an international syndicate which would attempt to smuggle them in the guise of export of some other goods in a container, from Nhava Sheva Port to Sharjah, UAE.DRI team on Saturday intercepted a container at Nhava Sheva Port. “The exporter has declared the cargo as 29 metric tonnes of fresh Indian onion. But, on examination of the container 13 metric tonnes of red sanders logs worth around ₹5.2 crore were found,” stated a senior DRI officer.Following the seizure, two people have been arrested by DRI officers, on Sunday. They were actively involved in the smuggling of red sanders. Their names were not disclosed as more accused are on DRI’s radar.The accused Nityanand Suresh Pujari, 39 and Kumar Narayan Swami, 46, have been booked under relevant sections of Customs Act and have been remanded to DRI custody by a Magistrate court in Uran.Investigators suspect that the smuggling racket had plans to first smuggle the woods to UAE and from there they might have taken it to China, where it is in high demand, said a DRI source.According to the DRI, the export of red sanders, also commonly-known as red sandalwood or Rakt Chandan, is prohibited as per the Export Policy in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dri-seizes-13-metric-tonnes-of-red-sanders/story-VYoK117Fk7DsFDinT6OGTN.html
14-06-2020||Lucknow||2 held for threatening to blow up UP CM’s residence, other buildings in Lucknow||Two brothers were arrested here on Sunday for allegedly threatening to blow up 50 buildings in state capital Lucknow including the official residence of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, police said.The brothers were arrested from Chhapia area of Gonda district, they said.“Yesterday, DIAL 112 Headquarters got a message, in which the sender threatened to blow up 50 buildings in the state capital. Based on information provided by Lucknow Police Commissioner, the accused Swadesh Gaur and Manish were arrested from Chhapia police station area,” SP Raj Karan Nayyar told reporters.Swadesh admitted that he had sent the message from his phone. His brother, Manish, was arrested for removing the evidence, Nayyar said.Police have recovered the mobile phone used in sending the message.A case was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and IT Act at Lucknow’s Gautampalli Police Station. Investigation is going on in the case, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/2-held-for-threatening-to-blow-up-up-cm-s-residence-other-buildings-in-lucknow/story-FEMbz9fBJVSa4pfGGQ50KP.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Contradictory Covid reports deprive Tarn Taran ASI’s kin of performing his last rites properly||Contradictory coronavirus reports of a 55-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) posted in the police’s special branch in Tarn Taran not only came as a shocker to his family but also deprived them of performing his funeral rites with traditional rituals. Sukhdial Singh was declared negative for the virus during his treatment at Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, hours before his death on Friday. But he was declared positive for the disease after his post-mortem the next day. As if this was not enough, he was declared negative again after his cremation which was held while following the Covid-19 protocol. Only 3-4 family members, including the deceased’s son and daughter, were allowed to attend the ritual and that too with special operating procedure. The reports were tested at the GMC’s viral research diagnostic laboratory (VRDL). “This has left the whole family shattered. The health authorities were also responsible for not providing proper care during his treatment,” said Sukhwinder Singh, 60, a retired assistant engineer of the irrigation department and father-in-law of the Sukhdial’s son.He said, “I along with my son-in-law took Sukhdial to the Tarn Taran civil hospital on Thursday after he complained of some problem in his chest. He was referred to GMC after his samples were taken for Covid-19. His sample was collected there again and the report came negative.”“He was put on ventilator when his condition deteriorated. At around 9:30pm, we took him to a private hospital but he was declared brought dead. When we were preparing to bring his body back to Tarn Taran we got a call informing us that he tested positive for Covid-19. The health staff took the body directly to his native village Mugalwala in the Patti sub-division. Even our relatives were not allowed to see him for the last time,” he added. Atinderpal Singh (29), the deceased’s son, said, “How the same laboratory could give three different results in two days? We want a thorough probe into the matter.”His mother Palwinder Kaur said, “The health officials asked us to go for 14-day self-quarantine. Why should we quarantine ourselves if my husband’s report was negative?” Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said, “It was a mistake on the part of the laboratory.” GMC principal Dr Sujata Sharma said, “It was a clerical mistake by a data entry operator but it which was rectified later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/contradictory-covid-reports-deprive-tarn-taran-asi-s-kin-of-performing-his-last-rites-properly/story-tdoOraXVElt5tezrn4Bu2H.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Decision to shift Chandigarh vegetable market in limbo||Even as the vegetable market continues to operate from the Sector-17 ISBT, the UT administration has yet to take a call on whether to move it to Sector 39 or back to Sector 26.The market was shifted from Sector 26 to the ISBT in the wake of high number of Covid-19 cases being reported from the adjacent Bapu Dham Colony.MC commissioner KK Yadav on Sunday said, “Both the options are still on table. A final decision will be taken after taking all factors into consideration.”Significantly, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida and other senior officials visited the sites in Sectors 26 and 39 on Wednesday. After the visit, Parida had sought suggestions from the registered licencees. A meeting between the licencees and the UT officials is slated for Monday.Currently, there are around 163 licencees in the mandi, of which 30 deal in grains and the rest in fruits and vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/decision-to-shift-chandigarh-vegetable-market-in-limbo/story-fWoGTuBFnHG22Q71MaINeK.html
14-06-2020||Lucknow||499 fresh cases take Covid-19 tally in UP to 13,615; death toll rises to 399||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh rose to 399 on Sunday with 14 fresh fatalities, while the total number of cases reported in the state so far climbed to 13,615 with 499 new instances of the infection. Among the fatalities reported on Sunday, six were from Meerut, two each from Agra and Sambhal and one each from Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Raebareli and Hardoi, said Joint Director and State Surveillance Officer of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme Dr Vikasendu Agrawal. Of the fresh Covid-19 cases, 83 were registered in Gautam Buddh Nagar, 30 in Ghaziabad, 29 in Lucknow, 27 each in Meerut and Jaunpur, 23 in Bulandshahr, 18 in Kanpur Nagar, 17 in Aligarh and 15 each in Agra and Barabanki.Fourteen cases were reported in Gorakhpur, 13 in Hathras, 11 in Etawah and 10 each in Farrukhabad, Mathura and Firozabad.So far, 8,268 patients have been discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases stood at 4,948.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/499-fresh-cases-take-covid-19-tally-in-up-to-13-615-death-toll-rises-to-399/story-ftMk1knjKw2w8dw73hUCiO.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Unidentified man found hanging near 3BRD station in Chandigarh||An unidentified man was found hanging in the forest area between 3BRD Air Force Station gate and Ram Darbar on Sunday evening. Police said they received information about the body around 4pm, but the man, who appeared to be around 40 years old, seemed to have died in the morning. No identification card or suicide note was found. There were no injury marks on the body. Police have ruled out foul play and initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unidentified-man-found-hanging-near-3brd-station-in-chandigarh/story-j2jYDJsap7VTEe1uLYHXNP.html
14-06-2020||City||Operation Red Rose: Over 2 lakh litres of illicit liquor destroyed, 150 FIRs lodged in 20 days in Ludhiana||Cracking a whip on illicit liquor trading and smuggling under Operation Red Rose, the district police have seized and destroyed more than 2 lakh litres of lahan (illicit countrymade liquor) on the banks of the Sutlej on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar border. Some wine contractors, who were indulging in liquor smuggling in one another’s areas, were also on the police radar.The police launched the special drive about 20 days ago to take strict action against all kinds of liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor in Ludhiana as part of the statewide directive from the Punjab director general of police (DGP). For this purpose, a 30-member anti-smuggling cell has been constituted. A close co-ordination is also being kept with the excise department to stop smuggling of liquor.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “During this period, as many as 150 FIRs have been registered under the Excise Act and 171 smugglers have been sent behind bars with the recovery of 3,266 litres of illicit liquor, 650 litres of English wine. Besides this, two working liquor stills, where illicit liquor was being distilled after fermentation, were also seized.”“Most of the known liquor smugglers have either been caught or have shifted from Ludhiana to other districts temporarily,” said the police chief.“The police have also made lists of the known liquor smuggles, who are repeatedly engaging in the illicit trade of liquor smuggling and bootlegging and have started to keep a strict watch on their activities. Activities of these smugglers are also being monitored through the safe city cameras installed in the district. Special inter-district nakas have been put in the commissionerate,” he added.The police chief also added that strict action would be taken if any policeman is found negligent or supporting any illegal activity in any manner relating to smuggling of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/operation-red-rose-over-2-lakh-litres-of-illicit-liquor-destroyed-150-firs-lodged-in-20-days-in-ludhiana/story-rHYd9c60gRmnpYNGdweHgO.html
14-06-2020||City||15-year-old girl ends life in Mohali’s Sector 69||A 15-year-old girl committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Sector 69 on Sunday.Police said the girl was a student of Class 7 at a private school in Mohali.Her parents told the police that they went out around 9am and on returning at 11am found their daughter hanging in a room. Police have recovered a suicide note wherein the girl just wrote “Sorry mummy papa”.Her parents said she was not under any mental stress.“We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy,” said ASI Beant Singh, the investigation officer at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-year-old-girl-ends-life-in-mohali-s-sector-69/story-1fLUrJ1kBcQCyh4lc3b6FK.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to the rescue of 70-yr-old woman, wants her rent, medical bills paid||Ludhiana: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh came to the rescue of a 70-year-old woman in the New Shimlapuri area of the city on Sunday, directing the Ludhiana district administration to ensure that she does not get evicted from her house as she does not have the money to pay the rent. He has also asked the administration to bear the costs of her medical treatment.The CM was made aware of the plight of the woman , Nirmal Kaur, during an #AskCaptain Facebook Live session on Saturday, when another Ludhiana resident Kulwant Singh told him that she was living in a rented house with her 11-year-old grandson after the death of her son. Her income from running a small stall had dried up because of the lockdown. Capt Amarinder Singh immediately directed the deputy commissioner to ensure that the pending rent was cleared for a year and her tuberculosis treatment costs paid.According to the additional deputy commissioner (development) Amarjit Singh Bains, under Mission Fateh of the Punjab government and following the CM’s orders, the district administration had got the matter verified through the revenue department officials, and a case was being prepared for being forwarded to the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-to-the-rescue-of-70-yr-old-woman-wants-rent-medical-bills-paid/story-F0WcLhQFzMJNuHsiaytUbL.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Awareness campaign under Mission Fateh launched in Ludhiana||A public awareness campaign under ‘Mission Fateh’ of the Punjab government to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state, was launched by ADC (general) Amarjit Singh Bains from the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here on Sunday by flagging off awareness vehicles.An array of activities under the campaign would be organised in the district from June 15 to 21.Bains said, “The objective of Mission Fateh is to make the people aware of precautionary measures taken by the government and the health department to prevent the spread of corona virus. The campaign will be carried out in all rural and urban areas of the district. A total of 60 vans have been deployed under the campaign.”He said. “Ground activities would be held in the district from June 15 to 21. The administration will present Mission Fateh badges to corona warriors on June 15. They would then click selfies with masks and badges and would upload them on the Cova app. These corona warriors will include officials from the administration, police, doctors, medical staff, ASHA workers, Aanganwari workers, safai workers, governors of governance (GOGs), sarpanches, NGOs, etc.”He said all this would be followed on June 16 by the Anganwari workers wearing badges and visiting homes of Aanganwari children in their respective villages and motivating them to take precautionary measures against the virus. He added, “Sarpanchs of villages will meet the people of their respective villages by putting up badges to make them aware of the important precautionary measures to be taken for the prevention of Covid-19 on June 17. A special awareness campaign in the district will also be held on June 18. Awareness activities by district NGOs will be carried out on June 19 in their respective areas by affixing badges.”The district police have fixed June 20 as the day to warn the people against Covid-19 by affixing badges, while city councils would conduct awareness campaigns on June 21 through resident welfare committees, etc.The Punjab Government would select the persons/organisations by uploading their photos on the Cova app at the state level and the lists would be sent to the district administration so that they could be encouraged through badges and T-shirts, he said.He appealed to the residents to follow the government guidelines and make Mission Fateh successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-awareness-campaign-under-mission-fateh-launched-in-ludhiana/story-hB1C5LZpO3wseU5aU7GhIP.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown casts its shadow on World Blood Donor Day in Ludhiana||Lockdown cast its shadow on World Blood Donor Day as the blood transfusion authorities in the city had to cancel a blood donation camp scheduled to be held at a marriage place on the Rahon Road, while only 15 donors arrived at another camp held at the civil hospital here on Sunday.Blood transfusion officer at the civil hospital Dr Gurinderdeep Singh Grewal said the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown had adversely affected the blood donation programmes.“However, after the lifting of the complete lockdown, we organised several camps to meet the shortage of blood in hospitals. We were expecting an encouraging response today, but people could not reach the venue for blood donation due to lockdown,” said Dr Grewal.He said the department has also cancelled the blood donation camp scheduled for June 21 at Raikot.“We will now hold camps during weekdays. We are holding one medical camp in Samrala on June 17 and another on June 19 at the ancestral house of Shaheed Sukhdev at Naughara,” said Dr Grewal.He admitted the blood transfusion unit at the civil hospital was operating under tremendous stress due to shortfall in blood.“We received a demand of 196 units on Saturday while a demand of 155 units on Sunday. So, more blood donation camps are the only solution to solve the problem,” said Dr Grewal.As many as 70 people, including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, donated blood at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH).The theme for this year’s World Blood Donor Day was “Safe blood saves lives” with the slogan “Give blood and make the world a healthier place”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-casts-its-shadow-on-wold-blood-donor-day-in-ludhiana/story-5d3vzm8uniDtKu57Fjlr4J.html
14-06-2020||Noida||With 70 news Covid-19 cases, Gautam Buddh Nagar’s tally crosses 900-mark||With 70 new Covid-19 cases reported in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Sunday, the tally in the district has now reached 935, officials said.Sunday’s cases are twice the numbers that were reported a day earlier. On Saturday, 35 people had tested positive for Covid-19. Of the 935 cases in the district neighbouring Delhi, there are 413 active patients and 510 patients who have been cured including 16 who were discharged on Sunday. The district has recorded 12 deaths from the coronavirus disease so far.Among the new patients, 15 were tested by private laboratories while 56 were tested in government facilities, according to an official release.  70 more #COVID19 cases reported in Gautam Buddha Nagar today. Total number of cases in the district is now at 935, including 510 cured, 413 active cases & 12 deaths: District Health Department pic.twitter.com/nJ1fYmLln2District authorities have started a dedicated helpline for those wanting to get tested for Covid-19. Residents of Noida and Greater Noida can call on the helpline number 18004192211 to make an appointment for testing.The Gautam Buddh Nagar district has five laboratories for testing Covid-19 including three government facilities while there are eight sample collection centre across Noida and Greater Noida.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-70-news-covid-19-cases-gautam-buddh-nagar-s-tally-crosses-900-mark/story-jNvilL9wbVDpTZd1xSwvUI.html
14-06-2020||City||One dies, 16 test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal||One died and sixteen persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Sunday, taking the total cases to 518 and state’s fatalities to 7.The 19-year-old truck driver, who had returned from Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital here on Sunday morning. He was hospitalised last night after he sustained serious injuries when a cement slab fell over him while unloading construction martial from his truck at Indian Institute of Advanced Studies (IIAS), Shimla.. However, his condition deteriorated and he died.The doctors and nurses who treated him have been quarantined, besides sealing the radiography room where his X-rays were conducted. His helper has also tested positive. He is said to have come in contact with 73 persons.FIVE OF FAMILY INFECTED IN BILASPURFive of a family tested positive in Bilaspur while four cases were reported from Kangra, two from Shimla and one each from Solan and Chamba on Sunday.Bilaspur Deputy Commissioner Rajeshwar Goel said the family of five was found infected in Ghumarwin sub-division of the district. They all had returned from Delhi on May 31 and were institutionally quarantined. “Their samples tested five days ago were negative. However, they tested positive today,” said Goel.Earlier, one member of the same family had tested positive a few days ago.FOUR CASES IN KANGRAThe four Covid-19 cases reported in Kangra include a 62-year-old man and his wife aged 60. They had come back from Delhi on June 6, said deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. The remaining two are a 27-year-old Delhi-returned woman from Passu village near Dharamshala town and a woman aged 25 who had returned from Gurugram recently.One case each was reported from Chamba and Solan. Earlier, three cases were reported from Una. They have travel history to Delhi and Gurugram.SURVEY RULES OUT COMMUNITY SPREAD IN KULLUA random survey conducted in Kullu has ruled out community transmission in the district. Blood samples of 405 persons were taken around three weeks ago across 10 locations here and tested at NITRD, Chennai. The results were received on Sunday and all samples were found negative. This indicates that there is no evidence of community transmission and containment efforts have been successful by and large.174 ACTIVE CASES, 326 RECOVERIESSo far, Himachal has recorded 518 cases, of which 326 have recovered while six, including three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.Active cases in the state are 174 as 17 patients recovered on Sunday, said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal. The recovery rate in the state is 62%.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 142 cases. Hamirpur has 131 cases.Sixty-four cases have been reported in Una, 40 in Solan, 36 in Chamba, 29 in Bilaspur 27 in Sirmaur, 22 in Mandi, 21 in Shimla, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-dies-16-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal/story-nU52k1Hp2noV4hts7XDn2H.html
14-06-2020||City||Two Mohali cops suspended for throwing Phase 3B1 trader’s goods||Two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) were suspended on Sunday for throwing the goods of a shopkeeper in Phase 3B1 while enforcing Punjab government’s weekend curfew order.The incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras installed in the market.The suspended cops are both named Jasbir Singh and are posted in the PCR team.“Both cops have been suspended and departmental inquiry has been initiated against them. We will not tolerate nuisance of any kind,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.Ratan Singh, president of the Phase 3B1 Market Association, said the two cops came to the marked around 5.30pm on Saturday and started throwing and damaging goods placed outside a departmental store.He alleged that the cops also took away a milk crate in their car.“They showed us the copy of the administration order and said we had to shut down the shops after 5pm. However, it was clearly mentioned in the order that only shops of non-essential items have to be closed after 5pm, and not grocery and chemist shops. When we informed them, they threatened us,” Ratan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-mohali-cops-suspended-for-throwing-phase-3b1-trader-s-goods/story-LUm7VdFZ7pTB2tkLTm3FWN.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Mercury hovers near 40 degree Celsius in Delhi||Hot and humid weather prevailed in the national capital on Sunday with most parts recording the mercury around 40 degrees Celsius.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 40.8 degrees Celsius, which was a notch above normal.The weather stations at Palam and Pusa recorded their maximum temperature at 41.4 and 42.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.  Humidity levels oscillated between 40 and 82 per cent.  Cloudy sky is likely on Monday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 41 and 28 degrees Celsius, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mercury-hovers-near-40-degree-celsius-in-delhi/story-EGXZsKEt6Amfr38FJIqgUN.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Body of 20-yr-old man with stab injuries found at park in Rohini’s Vijay Vihar||The body of a 20-year-old man with multiple stab injuries was found lying at Chhath Pooja Park in Delhi’s Vijay Vihar area, police said on Sunday.The deceased, identified as Suraj, was an e-rickshaw driver and stayed in Rithala village, they said.The body was spotted by the guard of the park who then informed police around 11.15 pm on Saturday, police said.Police suspected involvement of at least two-three people in the killing and said according to preliminary investigation, it seemed that the accused fled after stabbing the man to death. The victim sustained severe stab injuries on his neck, stomach and chest. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead, Pramod K Mishra, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini), said.A case was registered at the Vijay Vihar police station in this regard and an investigation is underway to identify the culprits and ascertain the motive being the killing, he said.The family of the deceased, however, has not made any allegations so far, Mishra added.The body will be handed over to the family after post-mortem, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/body-of-20-yr-old-man-with-stab-injuries-found-at-park-in-rohini-s-vijay-vihar/story-3Hl1bvsvHj7yTzxVsF0HHO.html
14-06-2020||City||With 163 fresh Covid-19 cases, J&K crosses 5,000-mark in 98 days||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 163 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 5,041, officials said.The UT has crossed the 5,000 mark in 98 days.Of the new cases, 28 are from Jammu division and 135 from Kashmir. Among these 32 patients have a travel history. The active cases stand at 2,593 and 2,389 people have recovered from the disease.Four more fatalities were also reported in the UT—one in Jammu and three in Kashmir—since Saturday with which the death toll has risen to 59, officials said.Two patients, including a 60-year-old man from Srinagar and a 75-year-old resident of Baramulla died on Saturday at the two branches of Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences.A 69-year-old businessman has also died due to the virus at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Jammu. Dr Dara Singh, medical superintendent, said, “He had returned from Delhi and was admitted on May 29 at the Chest Diseases Hospital and subsequently shifted to GMCH on May 31. He was suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), severe sepsis, asthma and acute respiratory distress syndrome.” The fourth patient who succumbed to the virus was 85-year-old man from Kupwara. He died at the Chest Diseases Hospital in Srinagar. A doctor said he was suffering from chronic kidney disease.The highest jump in cases from Kashmir division was in Shopian where 45 more people tested positive for the disease followed by 33 in Pulwama, 16 in Kulgam, 11 in Budgam and 10 in Srinagar. The other districts saw single digit increase in cases.In Jammu division, fresh cases were recorded in six of the 10 districts taking the division tally to 1163. All the districts with positive cases in the Jammu division reported single digit increase.Also, 120 more patients were discharged on Sunday. “23 patients were discharged in Jammu division and 135 in Kashmir,” a government spokesperson said.Till date, 2.35 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 40,634 in home quarantine, 31 in hospital quarantine and 52,682 under home surveillance. Besides these, 139,201 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-163-fresh-covid-19-cases-j-k-crosses-5-000-mark-in-98-days/story-5forZcUiQSvd3rIFZjp2pK.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||67 containment zones de-contained in Delhi so far||The total number of containment zones in the national capital to control the spread of Covid-19 now stands at 242, the Delhi government said Sunday, according to ANI.Out of a total 309 containment zones, the government has de-contained 67 zones. West Delhi and South West Delhi had the highest number of containment zones with 39 each. West Delhi now has 24 containment zones while South West Delhi has 34.It has also scaled down measures in 22 other containment zones.Delhi has seen a surge of Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks that have taken its tally close to 40,000 including more than 1,200 casualties.On Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah announced a slew of measures to contain the pandemic after a meeting with Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and officials of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA).Shah announced a slew of measures to tackle the pandemic including conducting a comprehensive door-to-door health survey in all containment zones, doubling the tests in next two days followed by three-fold increase within a weeks’ time, earmarking 500 railway coaches with 8,000 beds and asking private hospitals to earmark 60% of beds for Covid-19 affected patients at lesser rates as well as formation of two committees to look into hospitals related issues.Earlier in the week, the Delhi government had estimated that by the end of July, the city would need 5.5 lakh beds to treat Covid-19 patients. Delhi is the third-worst Covid-19 affected state after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/67-containment-zones-de-contained-in-delhi-so-far/story-CJ7IXoz29kWAtdhFl5zedP.html
14-06-2020||City||Jobless due to lockdown, auto driver ends life in Ludhiana||Depressed over loss of earnings due to the lockdown, a 35-year-old three-wheeler driver ended his life by consuming poison in Narotam Nagar of Khanna on Saturday.The deceased’s wife told the police that her husband had not earned anything for the past 80 days, which had pushed him into depression.On Saturday, she found her husband lying unconscious on the floor in another room. She rushed him to a local hospital, but he was declared brought dead. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jobless-due-to-lockdown-auto-driver-ends-life-in-ludhiana/story-t71Rx4dOHRJoKlyApPLxeP.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||World Blood Donor Day celebrated by PGIMER||Department of transfusion medicine, PGIMER, Chandigarh, celebrated World Blood Donor Day by organising a blood donation campaign on Sunday in which around 200 volunteers took part.World Blood Donor Day is celebrated on June 14 every year as per World Health Assembly Resolution of 2005 to commemorate the birthday of Karl Landsteiner, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for his discovery of the ABO blood group system.The event serves to thank voluntary, unpaid blood donors for their contribution and raise awareness on the need for regular blood donations.The theme of “Safe blood saves lives” and the slogan “Give blood and make the world a healthier place” has been released by the WHO this year.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram inaugurated the second voluntary blood donation camp of the association of resident doctors (ARD), PGIMER and the Thalassaemic Children Welfare Association (TCWA), Chandigarh.One of the blood donors, Randeep Datta, who was honored by PGIMER for his services said: “I have donated blood over 100 times and today is a great day as it’s my daughter’s 25th birthday, who is also an active blood donor.”The second voluntary blood donation camp was organized in the “blood mobile vehicle” at the Sector 23 market by the Shree Shiv Kanwar Mahasangh Charitable Trust, Panchkula.Dr Ram also expressed his gratitude towards the first four “convalescent plasma” donors, the donations of whom have been transfused to three Covid-19 patients, the first one of who was successfully discharged from PGIMER on June 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/world-blood-donor-day-celebrated-by-pgimer/story-7yTQn00Q21D4m7VMjlFZvM.html
14-06-2020||City||Not supporting TikTok star Sonali’s actions, Phogat khap clarifies||The Phogat khap on Sunday clarified that it was not supporting the actions of TikTok star-turned Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sonali Phogat, who had recently thrashed Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh with a slipper after accusing him of verbally abusing her. The incident had taken place during her visit to Balsamand mandi.Phogat khap president Shamsher Singh said that Sonali Phogat had neither met them nor had they announced to back her in the controversial issue.“Sonali’s claims before the media that the Phogat khap had extended support to her after the incident is false and we condemn her statement. We have called a meeting of the khap in Dadri to clarify our stand. We want a fair probe into the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-supporting-tiktok-star-sonali-s-actions-phogat-khap-clarifies/story-HzNSMxIhu00IcgPXlpT88N.html
14-06-2020||City||Hospital staff booked for skipping work in Solapur||A case was registered against 133 staff members of Ashwini hospital in Solapur for not showing up to work even after notices were served to them, according to the health officer of the Solapur Municipal Corporation (SMC).“When the cases started rising in the city, we had asked the hospitals to step in and admit patients. In the case of Ashwini Hospital, they told us that a number of staff members were not showing up. First, the hospital served them notice and then the collector’s office had also served them notices to show up, text messages were also sent. Some responded to the notices and showed up. The 133 staff members, who did not show up, were booked. These include doctors, nurses, ward boys, and housemen,” said Dr Dnayneshwar Vitthal Sodal, health officer of SMC.Some staff members tested Covid-19 positive in the month of April. Whether the staff members who have failed to show up include these members or not is not yet clear.“Ashwini Hospital is in our jurisdiction. We have registered a case against 133 of their staff members. They will all be called to the police station for inquiry. We will see how many of the 133 are in our jurisdiction. This work will be done at a fast pace and a charge sheet will be issued at the earliest,” said senior police inspector BP Salunkhe of Sadar Bazar police station.A case under Sections 56, 57, 51 of the National Disaster Management Act along with Sections 188, 269, 336 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sadar Bazar police station in Solapur.Dr Rajendra Ghuli, medical superintendent of Ashwini Hospital, has been on a sick leave for the past week.“I have not tested positive for Covid-19. I was advised to rest for some days and therefore, I have been resting for the past six days. I will join the hospital soon and take stock of the situation,” said Dr Ghuli when contacted on his home landline number.Ashwini hospital is a cooperative hospital, the case was registered after an order was issued by the health officer. “The 133 people who were on the list include 39 housemen doctors, 2 office staff, 57 nurses, and 35 Class 4 workers. None of these people had tested positive for Covid19,” said a spokesperson of the hospital who spoke in lieu of Dr Ghuli.A notice was served by the SMC to four other hospitals in the area. A case was also registered against 13 doctors from another hospital.“A case for not showing up was registered against 13 staff members of a hospital in our jurisdiction in the past. We are yet to receive the new notice. When we get it, we shall consider if a new case needs to be registered,” said senior police inspector Japhar Mogal of Jail road police station. Two other hospitals named in the notice are in the jurisdiction of Jail road police station.Dr Sodal has claimed that the staff members who have not responded to the notices in the past two weeks will also face police action in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hospital-staff-booked-for-skipping-work-in-solapur/story-0atH7XROiEAHpIlljGQAdP.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two test positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh’s Khuda Alisher village||Amid sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh’s peripheral areas, two people from Khuda Alisher village tested positive on Sunday. With this, the UT’s total count of confirmed cases has reached 352. Fifty-two of these still active.The patients — a 27-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man — are the from the same household and have travel history. “They had visited Uttar Pradesh for a wedding and stayed there for four days. They returned on June 9 and developed symptoms on June 11,” said an official release.While 295 people have been cured of the disease in the city so far, five have succumbed to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-s-khuda-alisher-village/story-vOevaP9TlHcec0i9rTHhUO.html
14-06-2020||Kolkata||With 12 fatalities, Covid-19 death toll rises to 475 in West Bengal; no of cases 11,087||Twelve more persons died of Covid-19 in West Bengal on Sunday, taking the death toll due to the disease to 475 in the state, a health department bulletin said.Eleven of the 12 deaths were because of “comorbidities, where Covid-19 was incidental”, it added.West Bengal registered 389 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of such cases to 11,087 in the state, the bulletin said.The number of active cases is 5,552.Of the 12 deaths, six were from Kolkata and one each was from South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Nadia, Paschim Medinipur and Darjeeling, the bulletin said.A total of 518 people have recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recovered people in the state to 5,060.Since Saturday, 9,026 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in West Bengal, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/with-12-fatalities-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-475-in-west-bengal-no-of-cases-11-087/story-IKWgGtaORAQpTCAL4pNe3K.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||40 hotels, 80 banquet halls to be converted to Covid-19 facilities with 20K more beds||The Delhi government has directed district magistrates and other officials concerned to set up nearly 20,000 more beds within a week in the wake of a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, an official said.According to the official, around 40 hotels and 80 banquet halls will be converted into health facilities to provide medical care to coronavirus-infected people.The Covid-19 tally has reached nearly 39,000 in Delhi and the virus has claimed more than 1,200 lives so far in the capital.Earlier this week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that Delhi would need 1.5 lakh beds by July 31 if people from other states start coming to the national capital for treatment.Following the government’s order, the northwest district administration has issued an order to convert 22 banquet halls into health facilities where around 3,300 beds will be set up by the authorities.“As per the plan, banquet halls will be attached to nursing homes while in hotels, extended services of hospitals will be provided,” the official said.According to the Delhi Corona app, out of 9,850 beds available in the city, 5,448 were occupied at 7 pm on Sunday while 4,402 beds were vacant.“Hotels will have 4,000 beds while banquets halls will have 11,000 beds. Nursing homes will have 5,000 beds,” the official said.With Covid-19 cases increasing alarmingly, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday announced that testing will be doubled in Delhi in the next two days and subsequently increased by three times.In view of shortage of beds for coronavirus-infected patients in Delhi, the central government has decided to immediately provide 500 railway coaches which will be equipped with all facilities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/40-hotels-80-banquet-halls-to-be-converted-to-covid-19-facilities-with-20k-more-beds/story-17rjsYrJoEoHQia3eLEwaM.html
14-06-2020||City||Man shot dead in Jind for ‘refusing to sell liquor’||A 34-year-old man was shot dead when he was sleeping outside his factory in Jind’s Nidana village in the wee hours of Sunday, police said.The deceased has been identified as Sandeep Kumar. As per information, five assailants came in a Toyota Fortuner around 3am and pumped three bullets into Sandeep’s body when he was asleep.The victim’s brother Amandeep told the police that his brother had been killed as he had refused to sell liquor illegally after the panchayat passed a resolution to shut down liquor vends in the village. “Five men, Sudhir, Naveen, Ajay, Sumit and Devender of Shamlo Kalan village, had been pressuring my brother to sell liquor in the village but he refused due to which they shot him dead.”Gatauli Chowki in-charge Kulbir Singh, who is the investigating officer, said, a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the five persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-dead-in-jind-for-refusing-to-sell-liquor/story-pUVeEWFeqanJP5F0ZIhCSO.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||26 booked in Ludhiana for vandalising sewerage, water supply pipelines, creating ruckus||The Jamalpur police have booked at least 26 people for allegedly vandalising water supply and sewerage pipelines in the under-construction colony in Mundian and creating ruckus. The accused had also damaged foundations of several under- construction houses on June 9.The accused have been identified as Naveen Ghai, Seth Kumar, Pardeep Kumar, Pardeep Bhalla, Kumar, Sahil Gupta and 20 others, who are yet to be identified. The accused are residents of Vardhman Park.The FIR has been lodged following a statement of Rohit Sood of Sukhdev Nagar, who is director of Vardhman Amrante, a construction company.Sood said the accused damaged water supply pipes and sewerage lines of the colony on June 9. They had also vandalised foundations of various under-construction houses. The accused threatened the security guards and parked their vehicles in front of the house of the owner of the company, in the same colony, to harass him.Sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh, investigating the case, said that a case over some issue between the company and residents, pending in a court, is stated to be the reason behind the incident.A case under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. The police will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/26-booked-in-ludhiana-for-vandalising-sewerage-water-supply-pipelines-creating-ruckus/story-lzNiLmYNIXUGXZDk6g9nfM.html
14-06-2020||City||Srinagar hospital to conduct seroprevalence study of health workers treating Covid-19 patients||Following the surge in Covid-19 cases in J&K, especially Kashmir, the Government Medical College (GMC) here will be conducting seroprevalence study of healthcare providers for SARS CoV-2 infection and test their IgG levels.In the first phase, around 3,000 health workers will be tested for IgG levels.Presently, J&K has over 4,878 Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths so far, most of these being from the ten districts of Kashmir.Officials said from Monday onwards, they will be conducting seroprevalence study among healthcare providers of Srinagar district regarding SARS CoV-2 (Covid-19) infection while testing immunoglobulin-G (IgG) levels in their blood.Dr Salim Khan, head of GMC social and community medicine department, said this is a vital survey which will give us an idea about the disease and its spread in Srinagar and other districts of Kashmir. “The survey could take three weeks to complete. First health workers will be covered and then it could be expanded to test the general population other districts as well.”Khan said this is happening for the first time in the country and that samples will be taken from two big health institutions of Srinagar from Monday.“This is a collaborative research project by various departments and around 3,000 healthcare providers attending patients in Srinagar hospitals and health centres would be tested for IgG levels, which would show whether they have been infected in the recent past with SARS CoV-2 and the degree of protection they have achieved.”Khan said the study has been permitted and approved by Institutional ethics committee of GMC Srinagar and permitted by the district magistrate.Officials associated with the survey termed the exercise part of a bigger study which includes seroprevalence of SARS CoV-2 infection among general population of Srinagar district.“With the collection of blood samples from many persons, who were discharged from Chest Disease Hospital, Srinagar, a few weeks back after recovering from Covid-19, the survey is already underway,” said an official from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-hospital-to-conduct-seroprevalence-study-of-health-workers-treating-covid-19-patients/story-E0mT3qv9Kd2Qtovn1UvdyL.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP chief discusses civic issues with residents’ associations welfare federation||President of Chandigarh’s BJP unit, Arun Sood, addressed civic issues of various sectors in a meeting with Chandigarh Residents’ Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) members at BJP office in Sector 33 on Sunday. Representatives of around 50 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) were present and seated at a six feet distance to maintain social distancing.CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri addressed the gathering spoke on revising collector rate and reduction of lease hold to freehold conversion charges. He said a ratio of 60 :40 should be maintained while deputing officials from other states and should only be exercised if officials from the UT Cadre are not available, as being practiced in other UTs. Puri also demanded that no election should be conducted in the city till March 31 2021 amid the Covid-19 pandemic.A memorandum related to problems of various RWAs was also handed to Sood. The issues included recarpeting of roads, supply of clean drinking water with proper pressure and cleaning of road gullies. Other problems included harassment of house owners over the PG issue, inadequate staff and doctors in Sector 48 government hospital, shifting of the Dadu Majra garbage plant and privatisation of electricity in Chandigarh.Sood reassured CRAWFED that he will look into the issues. He said that Chandigarh that must get its own cadre officials on major government posts to ensure timely decisions of major problems faced by residents. He also briefed CRAWFED officials that an advisory body under home ministry will be constituted soon for immediate redressal of issues of the city with ten members from the city including most senior government officials .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-chief-discusses-civic-issues-with-residents-associations-welfare-federation/story-fyWMwhidlTjpzEmi4JXWtO.html
14-06-2020||City||Kishtwar’s Galhar-Sansari road connects J&K with Himachal’s Pangi Valley||With an aim to ensure round the year movement of all type of vehicles on the most important road connecting Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir with Himachal Pradesh and substantially ensuring that the lifeline for the various villages in the remote Paddar region remains connected with other parts of the country, Beacon has completed the re-alignment work of Galhar-Sansari road from 55.100 km to 58.775 km.This bypass road will help in evading the earlier world’s dangerous rock-cut stretch on which only light vehicles could ply.People of the region have hailed the efforts of the district administration led by deputy commissioner, Rajinder Singh Tara who has facilitated all the works even in the lockdown period. Kishtwar DC said that the work on the re-alignment has ensured the employment of locals along with the development of the Kishtwar region. “It will also increase the tourism potential of the Padder subdivision and Pangi valley of Himachal Pradesh thus boosting the socio-economic development of the entire region,” he added.It is pertinent to mention here that the road passes through rough mountain terrain with overhanging half tunneling stretches, mostly in hard rock strata. The sector also experiences heavy snowfall, flash floods, and sub-zero temperatures during winter making tough working conditions for the GREF employees and the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kishtwar-s-galhar-sansari-road-connects-j-k-with-himachal-s-pangi-valley/story-R9rWGnPiYpLzI0WMN1pUGL.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s water storage capacity set to double in six months||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has set six-month deadline for doubling the city’s water storage capacity. Tenders are to floated within a week, said officials privy to the development.“The allotment of work will be done soon,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav, adding that a six-month target has been set to ensure that by the next summer, the additional water storage capacity becomes operational at the Sector-39 waterworks reservoir.The move is important for ensuring continuous water supply to the city. At present, the Sector-39 waterworks, which receives supply from the Kajauli waterworks and takes care of the city’s demand, has underground water storage capacity of only half a day. While water stored in the morning is supplied to the city in the evening, the evening storage is supplied in the morning.With the peak water demand in summers touching 120-125 million gallons per day (MGD), the current availability of 90-95 MGD was found inadequate, as it led to low water pressure. The supply is also hit if there is any disruption in supply from the Kajauli waterworks due to pipe leakages or maintenance works.The long-pending work got the go ahead after Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) on June 10 agreed to give Rs 11 crore to the MC for the purpose. The MC had approved Rs 38 crore for the project, but with only Rs 27 crore available for it, the project hadn’t taken off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-water-storage-capacity-set-to-double-in-six-months/story-RNrA3UhW1jZrStQMsiUaKK.html
14-06-2020||City||Akal Takht chief says his ‘Khalistan’ remarks misinterpreted to incite Sikhs through social media||Days after making remarks that every “Sikh wants Khalistan”, acting Jathedar of the Akhal Takht has said that the comments he made were misinterpreted.In a fresh statement issued yesterday from Talwani Sabo in Punjab’s Bathinda, Giani Harpreet Singh said, “Many adverse agencies are making attempts to mislead the youth by misinterpreting his meaningful statement. Such adverse forces are doing this for their political benefit by pushing Sikh on the path of terrorism and inciting Sikhs through social media.”The Jathedar, or leader, of Sikh’s highest temporal seat Akal Takht, added that those who are spewing venom against Sikhs are followers of same hate politics and terrorism.Banned radical groups, which are operating from overseas, played up the statement made by Jathedar as a propaganda tool to stir up the sentiments on social media creating a flutter in various circuits.However, clarifying his stand, the Jathedar cautioned Sikh and urged them to be cautious and aware of such elements, who want to push Sikhs on the path of violence.“In fact, my statement has hurt those who want to define Sikh with false and hateful idea forcibly attached to the political ideology of Khalistan, people want to satisfy their bosses by inciting them on social media. Beware of such people and create a political movement within the democratic structure so that people from all walks of life in the Punjab region can enjoy a state like Sher e Punjab,” Giani Harpreet Singh emphasised.“Sikhism could not be defined by the idea of Khalistan alone, Sikhism is the global idea and this idea should bring peace to the world,” he added.At a press conference on June 06, to mark the 36th anniversary of Army operation to flush out terrorists from the Golden Temple premises, Giani Harpreet Singh had allegedly made separatist remarks.However, a week later, he cited scriptures in Sikhism to support democratic set-up.“According to the concept given by Gurbani, Begumpura or Halemi Raj is the birthright of Sikh community and at a different time Sikh leaders living in democratic structures have made many statements about its achievements and framework and many seminars and there have been talked about,” he said in a statement.According to Gurmat ideology, the concept of Halemi Raj or Begumpura fully expresses the Sikh sentiments and the Indian constitution also gives every Sikh the right to carry out this struggle peacefully at the political level within a democratic structure.“Sikhs always wanted to be treated equally and justify as they also want to treat others the same way Sikhs have shown this during the regime of Maharaja Ranjit Singh,” Giani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akal-takht-chief-says-his-khalistan-remarks-misinterpreted-to-incite-sikhs-through-social-media/story-JQp1C3MgiUwkcQqyh9e6XN.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali admn to undertake array of activities under Mission Fateh; field publicity campaign launched||Kickstarting the Mission Fateh campaign in Mohali district, Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner said, “Awareness generation is the most potent tool in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, the Mohali administration will undertake an array of activities to encourage people to be more careful in the coming days.”Interacting with the media on Sunday after rolling out the field publicity campaign by sending off public address system equipped publicity vehicles to rural and urban areas of the district, Dayalan said these vehicles would traverse through maximum pockets of the district and covey the message of observing all precautions to curb the spread of the virus. He added that this activity and will continue for three weeks and hoardings have been installed at prominent places in the district to convey the message to the people.The DC said door-to-door awareness generation at grass root level will also be carried out by Corona Warriors such as ASHA workers, anganwadi workers and guardians of governance in rural areas. Dayalan said these workers are being presented Mission Fateh badges to recognise their contribution over the last three months and encourage them to carry on playing a crucial role in fighting the pandemic. The education department is also being roped in to apprise students about inherent motive of Mission Fateh through their online classes, he added. He said that a committee has been constituted at the district level comprising officials of the police and civil administration, under the chairmanship of additional deputy commissioner. The committee comprises civil surgeon, deputy director of local government, municipal commissioner, DEOs, deputy coordinator, NYK, and the district public relations officer. “They brainstorm the activities required for awareness generation and implement the same; they will also identify the corona and mission warriors and honour them,” the DC said.Earlier in the day, the municipal commissioner Kamal Garg and SDM Jagdeep Saigal flagged off the 25 publicity vehicles from the district administrative complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-admn-to-undertake-array-of-activities-under-mission-fateh-field-publicity-campaign-launched/story-z6Dr6iVhZTuLlQ18PgaTtK.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana wears deserted look, even shops selling essential commodities remain closed||With the state government ordering a complete lockdown on Sundays, except for shops selling essential commodities, the city wore a deserted look on Sunday with even essential shops shut in most main markets of the city. Reeling under losses, shopkeepers rued that business was slowly moving back on track, but the decision to impose a lockdown on weekends has hit the businesses badly. The main markets of the city, including Chaura Bazar, Akalgarh Market, Sarabha Nagar market, Jawahar Nagar Camp among others, which usually remain jam-packed on Sundays, wore a deserted look. With markets closed and a fear gripping minds of residents amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city, very few vehicles were seen on city roads, even when the movement of residents has been allowed between 5am to 9pm.President of the Ludhiana Consumer Product Distributors Association Harkesh Mittal said, “After the government announced lockdown on weekends, most of the store owners, including those of essential commodities, chose to keep their shops shut as there is no customer in the market. The business has been badly affected due to perpetual lockdown and fear has gripped minds of residents as Covid-19 cases are rising.” Seeking a review of the orders, market associations in old city areas are also contemplating an agitation against the state government. President, Akalgarh Market Garment Association, Manpreet Singh Bunty, said, “The business is already going through a slump and we expect a good response during weekends as customers from other districts also visit markets. The government has further added to the woes of traders by announcing the lockdown on weekends. Our association and the shopkeepers near the Clock Tower are contemplating to launch an agitation if the decision is not reviewed in the coming days.” Meanwhile, a section of the shopkeepers felt that lockdown was necessary, but the government can provide some relief to the shopkeepers during weekdays. President of the Model Town Market Association Amarjit Singh said, “We understand the government had to announce the lockdown due to rising cases of Covid-19. But, the government should at least extend shops timings till 9pm. The shopkeepers have been directed to close the shops at 7pm. But, most of the customers move out of their houses only after 7pm due to scorching heat during the day.”RESTAURANTS GET LOW RESPONSELiquor vends and restaurants were open, but the establishments received a low response till afternoon.President of the Hotel and Restaurant Association Amarvir Singh said, “The hotels and restaurants were open on Sunday for home delivery and takeaways. But, low response was witnessed till afternoon. As most of the residents order food in the evening, it is expected that restaurant owners would receive a positive response during evening hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-wears-deserted-look-even-shops-selling-essential-commodities-remain-closed/story-FTB8RQvlQGaJr16Nom5D0M.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Two security guards beaten to death with sticks in Delhi’s Narela: Police||Two private security guards, in their 20s, died allegedly after being beaten up with sticks by a group of men in outer Delhi’s Narela, police said on Sunday. It was not immediately known what led to the assault of Amit (22) and Sunil (24), both residents of Gautam Colony in Narela. According to the police, the two guards were on night duty on Saturday when they were beaten up with sticks inside a building on the premises of a private company. On hearing their cries, other guards reached the spot, but the assailants managed to flee towards the adjoining forest area. Amit and Sunil were rushed to MV Hospital and subsequently referred to BSA Hospital where they died, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer-North) Gaurav Sharma said. The duo suffered fractures in limbs and did not have any visible injury in head and other vital parts of the body, the police said, adding that it indicated the assailants might not have intended to kill them. A case has been registered and an investigation is underway to ascertain the motive behind the killing. The police are probing if other workers deployed on the premises were behind the killing or outsiders were involved. The police said suspects were being rounded up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-security-guards-beaten-to-death-with-sticks-in-delhi-s-narela-police/story-ZGOGnxTb6K0secmYMAfzHI.html
14-06-2020||Pune||180 passengers return from Dubai, quarantined for 14 days||A total of 180 passengers from Dubai returned to India and landed at the Pune airport on Sunday afternoon. All passengers underwent thermal screening conducted by the Pune district health officials at the airport and were later sent to a private hotel to be institutionally quarantined for 14 days. Since no passengers showed any Covid-19 related symptoms, nobody was taken to the hospital from the airport, according to officials.Dubai-based businessman and vice president of the Maharashtrian Business Forum, Rahul Tulpule, made the arrangements for the flight. Tulpule’s efforts were realised after subsequent talks with the Indian consulate and the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).Nitin Bhosale, one of the passengers on the flight, said, “In Dubai, the lockdown period is during the night, so we all were brought to the Dubai airport on Saturday night by bus at around 10pm. We spent the night at the airport and were very excited to go back to our country. On Sunday morning, we boarded the flight and it took off at 8:45 am. The flight landed Pune airport at 1:30 pm.”Bhosale had gone to Dubai for an IT project for his company. “When we reached the Pune airport, social distancing was maintained and all the coordination by the airport staff and health officials were excellent. After our medical checks, they had arranged a bus for all of us and brought us to a private hotel for institutional quarantine and later, we will be home quarantine ourselves,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/180-passengers-return-from-dubai-quarantined-for-14-days/story-PWe9gZT5qUuDNuiX3YycnI.html
14-06-2020||Education||Anamika Shukla Case: CM Yogi directs officials to form team for verifying documents used to get govt teachers’ job||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed officials to set up a dedicated team to verify the document using which teachers were appointed in government schools across the state.Chairing a meeting of senior officials at his residence here, Adityanath asked them to constitute a dedicated team to verify the documents of teachers appointed in schools under the departments of Secondary Education, Higher Education, Basic Education, Social Welfare and Kasturba Gandhi Vidyalayas, a statement issued by the state government said. The development comes in the wake of withdrawal of salaries from several government schools in the state based on forged documents in the name of one Anamika Shukla.“Stringent action should be initiated against the defaulters,” the statement quoted the chief minister as having said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/anamika-shukla-case-cm-yogi-directs-officials-to-form-team-for-verifying-documents-used-to-get-govt-teachers-job/story-KLQpeEirs3jN2FcDUyZXeP.html
14-06-2020||Pune||Social policy expert crunches 2011 census data to re-focus Pune district strategy to protect vulnerable||Pune-based Samir Ghosh, a London School of Economics (LSE) alumnus who has the World Bank, the United National Development programme, and Unicef on his resume, believes that data available from the 2011 census for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad can help the administration fine-tune its Covid-19 containment strategy to ensure the most vulnerable are best safeguarded and treated.Ghosh, who is a consultant with the Maharashtra government has also been appointed by the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) to prepare and implement a comprehensive social development plan for the most vulnerable groups in Pune district.Ghosh said, “A detailed community health plan can be rolled out more scientifically and better targeted to the population of the most vulnerable sections mentioned in the 2011 census report. The budget allocation for each of these health parameters can also be defined better and bring out the desired results in curtailing the spread of the Covid disease.”Ghosh has crunched the numbers from the 2011 census and points out that as per the data, in Pune district, 15.86 lakh residents are above the age of 50 and 8.56 lakh are 60-years-old and above.“This is the high-risk category for contracting Covid-19, due to age,” Ghosh says, adding, “census data can effectively help the state focus on other vulnerable groups as well; like the disabled, elderly persons with physical and intellectual disabilities and transgenders.”The data analysed further shows that 9.08 per cent of the elderly population in the district is aged 60 and above, while 16.82 per cent of the population is aged 50 and above. Census data enumerated by Ghosh further states that 25.24 of the disabled population in the district is 50- years-old and above, and 15.21 per cent are 60-years –old and above. Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “Our basic target is to reach the old people who are vulnerable and have comorbid conditions. Our mission is to reduce the death rate and this data is becoming a part of our strategy to tackle the crisis. This data and the mathematical model of the census figure will help us fight Covid-19.”BJ Kerkar (86), general secretary, Insurance Pensional Association (Life and General), said, “Majority of the Covid-19 deaths which are being reported happen to be among the elderly. The population percentage which is available as per the 2011 census must be checked by the state and effective implementation of strategy can significantly reduce the spread of the contagion. The most vulnerable sections like senior citizens, physically challenged and the poor, must be the focus of the government. ” Number crunching PCMC data into an effective strategySpecifically in the PCMC, Ghosh works as a consultant to help the civic body understand the prevalence of diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as high risk factors for the Covid-19 mortality rate.Sample data is collected from the records of PCMC dispensaries and hospitals.“This research, as well as data sourced from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the National Family Health Service (NFHS), the World Health Organisation (WHO) and papers presented by expert committees at the international epidemiological conference at the United Nations, is extrapolated onto the PCMC population as per the 2011 Census, with the decadal growth factor taken into consideration,” Ghosh says.Ghosh states that there are 1,191 persons with multiple disabilities aged 50-years and above in PCMC. Similarly, 547 persons aged 50 and above in PCMC have intellectual disabilities, which accounts for 8.73 per cent of the area’s elderly.The total population in PCMC aged 50 years and above in PCMC is 2.90 lakh.Regarding the PCMC data, Ghosh said, “We see that the Covid response plan should be prepared in a targeted manner for a minimum of 76,392 and a maximum of 5,65,500 of population in the PCMC area. Further, it may be noted that the additional most vulnerable sections are persons with severe disability who come with co-morbid conditions such as reduced lung function or heart conditions, or both. Similarly, the transgender population, who are approximately 650 in number in the PCMC area, also have a reduced immunity level since a large number of them are HIV positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/social-policy-expert-crunches-2011-census-data-to-re-focus-pune-district-strategy-to-protect-vulnerable/story-fPp8gv2KzxvwNCcpHytMGN.html
14-06-2020||City||Kamothe woman loses ₹1.05 lakh to an online fraud||The Kamothe police on Wednesday booked an unknown person for duping a woman of ₹1.05 lakh in an online fraud. The woman was trying to courier a power bank to her village in Satara, affected by frequent power cuts. The man posing as courier agency employee asked her to transfer ₹5 to his account, after which, she lost ₹5,000 and then eventually another ₹1 lakh in five transactions.According to police, the complainant, Priyanka Khatal,28, works as a technical associate with a dairy firm in Sanpada. Khatal, who is originally from Satara, wanted to send a mobile phone charging power bank to her family in Satara. However, when lockdown was imposed due to coronavirus outbreak, Khatal could not send the power bank. She recently resorted to a courier delivery.“On June 2, Khatal searched for a courier service online and found a number which was listed as a courier service. An executive told her that it would 36 hours for her parcel to reach Satara, but prior she needs to make a registration. The man then sent her a link which led her to an online form where she filled in her details including payment methods,” said an officer from Kamothe police station.Khatal was also instructed by the ‘courier agency’ to pay ₹5 as a token amount. Post that, ₹5,000 were debited from her account. She told the ‘employee’ about the deduction, who promised her the money would be refunded.However, a day later, on June 3, she received multiple messages that ₹1 lakh was withdrawn from her bank account in five different transactions. Police suspect the accused managed to procure her UPI pin to steal money from her account.When Khatal called the same number, the man denied any involvement and later ignored her calls, she told the police in her complaint. The Kamothe police have booked an unknown person under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kamothe-woman-loses-1-05-lakh-to-an-online-fraud/story-9k2JMX5nUcxXDVBzvaXlAN.html
14-06-2020||City||Himachal sent 6.82 lakh quintal veggies to neighbouring states during lockdown||The Himachal government sent nearly 6.82 lakh quintal peas, cauliflower and other off-season vegetables to neighbouring states during the lockdown period.The state agriculture department played a vital role in maintaining communications with the neighbouring states, sending and marketing of vegetables due to which Himachal farmers were able to get a good cost for their produce.At least 35,164 quintal seeds of rice, maize, sorghum, millets and other such seeds were made available at subsidised rates through the agriculture distribution centres as per the requirement of farmers. Besides this, 11,315 quintal vegetables seeds were also made available in different districts.To facilitate the farmers, the state government provided them plant protection products and agricultural tools at subsidised rates for smooth conduct of farming. Apart from this, a dedicated room for farmers has been established by the agriculture department.Around 60 market yards and 41 collection centres established by the state government in the state for import and export of agricultural products of farmers were regularly functional, so that farmers could sell their produce easily. There was no dearth of fruits and vegetables in the state, as the agriculture market yards and collection centres were regularly functional during the lockdown, saving the farmers from economic losses.Agriculture director Dr R K Kaundal said the harvesting of wheat crop was almost over in lower parts of the state. The department also procured wheat seeds and around 14,030 quintals of wheat seeds were stored.To ensure smooth transportation of farm produce during the pandemic, Kisan Rath mobile app was also launched. Information of five lakh trucks and 20 thousand tankers was made available on the app to facilitate farmers and traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-sent-6-82-lakh-quintal-veggies-to-neighbouring-states-during-lockdown/story-0UKD5R6ktYyMi41lpjee9L.html
14-06-2020||City||Kashmiri Pandits take out protest rally against killing of sarpanch Ajay Pandita||The internally displaced Kashmiri Pandits on Sunday staged a protest march here against the killing of Sarpanch Ajay Pandita alias Bharti in Anantnag’s Dooru.Led by ‘We the Kashmiri Pandit Volunteers’—a socio-religious group representing Kashmiri Pandits, the protest march was held at Toph Sherkhania near the residence of Pandita.Sheen Bharti, daughter of Pandita, also joined the protestors and demanded an impartial probe into the killing of her father by the “Islamic terrorists”.Protesters wore black batches and held placards to show their demonstration against barbaric “Islamic Terrorism” promoted and propagated by Pakistan.The protesters later presented a memorandum to the lieutenant governor GC Murmu and put forth their charter of demands that included constitution of a genocide commission for delivery of justice to all the martyred Kashmiri Pandits and other minorities since 1989, a concrete policy for Kashmiri Pandits, policy formation for revival and protection of Hindu temples, shrines and religious places in Kashmir, foolproof security cover for all minorities residing and serving in Kashmir, especially to PM package employees, sarpanches, panchs, corporators and other employees belonging to the minority community. Memorandum also demanded an ex-gratia of ₹1 crore in favour of family members of Ajay Pandita and government service to one family member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-pandits-take-out-protest-rally-against-killing-of-sarpanch-ajay-pandita/story-5tZIpo5wYCy3JvcSB1k9gI.html
14-06-2020||Education||IIT Kharagpur asks faculty not to write on topics critical of government||IIT Kharagpur has asked its faculty members not to participate in radio broadcast or write on subjects critical of the state and central governments.However, they can write on literary or scientific topics, the premier institute said in a recent circular.Registrar B N Singh told PTI on Sunday, it was not a fresh notice and the authorities have been quoting excerpts from an old central government circular from time to time for the new recruits who “may not have an idea about certain service conduct rules for central government employees.” “It is not a gag order,” he said.The IIT Kharagpur notification, signed by the registrar on June 5, read “It has been observed that many a times institute employees are offering their views/publishing information etc in the print/social media. It is true that media is a part of our daily lives....“However, a few cases are reported in the media which have the effect of adverse criticism of the policies or action of the institute and the Central govt/any state govt/ any other institute or organisation or members of the public.” The notification, quoting the conduct rules framed many years back, specified that no employee shall in any radio broadcast or in any document published anonymously or in any communication to the press in his own name make statement “which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current policy or action of the institute or which is capable of embarrassing the relations between the institute and the Central government.” It said that the staff of IIT Kharagpur is governed by conduct rules as laid down in the acts and statutes of the institute.“No employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the competent authority or any other authority empowered by it in this behalf, or in the bonafide discharge of his duties, participate in a radio broadcast or contribute any article or write any letter, in his own name or anonymously, to any newspaper or periodical..,” the notification said.No such sanction shall be required if such broadcast or contribution is “of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character”, the notification said.However, “members of the staff are at liberty, without any sanction, to publish their original scientific works in journals of repute in India and abroad...Such articles must be strictly confined to purely scientific subjects and should not touch administrative matters. They shall be free from all political tinge...,” the circular said.Claiming that no recent development has prompted the institute to come up with the circular, Singh said, “It has been issued to apprise the new recruits about the service rules.” An IIT Kharagpur source said, a circular like this is issued from time to time.“However, with the proliferation of social media in recent years, it is important to make those having joined later to know about their responsibilities. “If they refer to their association with the organisation in their Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts, their comments and posts may be considered to be part of their official identity by followers on net, including media.“There is no monitoring as such but the authorities expect them to use their own discretion while posting in social media,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-kharagpur-asks-faculty-not-to-write-on-topics-critical-of-government/story-G9CxcmHSLSyhr31BSlly6J.html
14-06-2020||City||J&K school dept to hold online assessment of Class 8 students, parents resent||The Jammu and Kashmir school education department’s new order to assess Class 8 students of government schools online amid the Covid-19 lockdown has triggered anger among parents. Educational experts say that many students belong to underprivileged sections and are struggling to attend online classes due to the lack of devices and high-speed Internet and will be unable to appear for their exams as well.“Not every parent has a smartphone. Besides, students, teachers in Kashmir struggle with 2G connectivity. This online assessment is an all conceived idea and is a totally futile exercise. The officials just want to claim the success that they conducted the exams,” said Abdul Qayoom, a vegetable farmer and parent of a Class 8 student. J&K’s State Institute of Education (SIE) issued a notification on June 12 stating that it has decided to conduct an online assessment of Class 8 students from June 15 after it opted for various remote learning options online teaching, access to e-learning materials, distribution of assignment-cum-tutorials and teaching through radio and TV.“In order to assess the initiatives taken by the department and to improve the teaching-learning process, the department has decided to conduct an online assessment to test the effectiveness of these initiatives,” said the notification by Joint Director, SIE, Kashmir.The tests will be of 45-minute with two subjects (15 points for each subject) combined on each day.Many parents were aghast over the department’s decision. “Not only government schools but even there are many parents of students studying in private schools who are not tech-savvy. How does the administration expect the students to appear in the exams without any prior knowledge of the process,” said Jan Mohammad, parent of two school-going children. There are over 10,800 government schools across the Kashmir valley.Advisor to the lieutenant governor, K.K Sharma who holds the school education charge said that he was not aware of the order and directed his staff to look into the issue. Director school education Younis Malik said that the students need not panic as the test was for assessment purpose only.“We just wanted to see the feedback. There are around 42,000 students studying in Class 8, of which 33,000 have contacted us for the assessment which sort of encouraged us. We are mulling to use this for assessment only, not for any grading purposes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-school-dept-to-hold-online-assessment-of-class-8-students-parents-resent/story-RF3AdNd9CQC2DttFwzHUnJ.html
14-06-2020||City||Himachal exempts traders, industrialists, NGO workers from home quarantine||The state executive committee (SEC), headed by Himachal Pradesh chief secretary Anil Khachi, on Sunday made changes in the quarantine norms and directed all departments and district authorities to implement the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority and the National Executive Committee (NEC) in letter and spirit.A spokesperson of the department of revenue and disaster management said as per the amended guidelines, under the Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) for inter-state movement, industrial workers, industrialists, factory owners, traders, raw material suppliers, service provider, inspecting authorities will be exempted from the purview of home quarantine.The persons visiting the state for bonafide purpose of trade, business, job, project, service, commission agents and arhtiyas having supporting documents, a valid permit/e-pass and not coming from high COVID-19 caseload cities and other containment zones will also be exempted from quarantine, he said.The spokesperson said the management, in charge or head of any NGO or any charitable organisation, which has branches in the state, travels to Himachal Pradesh in connection with its affairs or for an official meeting, for a short duration not exceeding 48 hours will also be exempted from quarantine.However, the person should not come in contact with public, follow social distancing and other COVID-19 prevention protocols/norms, should not organise any social/cultural or other gathering of any sort.Besides, the use of Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory in all cases, including the above-exempted categories.The spokesperson said all persons coming from high caseload COVID-19 infected cities will be institutionally quarantined.“Only for exceptional and compelling reasons such as cases of human distress, pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness, persons above 65 years of age with co-morbidities and parent(s) accompanied by children below 10 years may be permitted to be home quarantined for 14 days, subject to satisfaction of the concerned district magistrate regarding arrangements for quarantine,” he said.The migrant labourers coming to the state can be sent directly to the worksite of the orchardist, agriculturist, contractor, project proponents.“The labour can start working at these sites immediately subject to observing all the due precautions including social distancing/isolation and the constant monitoring for symptoms, as is being done for quarantined persons,” he said.The period of active surveillance shall, however, continue to be the same as per the period prescribed by the guidelines issued by the department of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-exempts-traders-industrialists-ngo-workers-from-home-quarantine/story-9bHqMQJLAZb7Uu1qDf6NfM.html
14-06-2020||City||HP CM approves district-level review meetings for assessment of Covid-19 arrangements||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has approved review meetings to be held in each district of the state to make an assessment of the arrangements made in the districts for containing the spread of Covid-19 as well as district plans towards re-starting the economic activities including development works. These review meetings will be chaired by the speaker, ministers, deputy speaker, deputy chairman and chief whip.The agenda for these meetings at the district level also includes a review of the implementation of all flagship programmes started by the central and state governments, utilisation of unspent amount, the status of CM’s announcements, the progress of schemes on which foundation stones were laid by the CM.Govt doing talent mapping to provide employment to returnee youths: HP CM The state government has come up with a register for talent mapping of the people who returned from other states during Covid-19 induced lockdown so as to provide them employment and self-employment opportunities, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday.He was addressing the virtual rallies of Bilaspur, Chintpurni and Banjar block Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), through video conferencing.The chief minister said that Covid-19 has adversely hit Himachal and the government was striving hard to revive the economy of the state.“The state government has constituted a cabinet sub-committee and a task force for the revival of the economy,” he said.Thakur slammed the opposition Congress for making baseless and false allegations against the state government, which he was, was an attempt to gain political mileage.“There is no place of corruption in the state and the government would not hesitate to take action against those who were found guilty,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cm-approves-district-level-review-meetings-for-assessment-of-covid-19-arrangements/story-LqVLm2ZgsDHtmyjN0fEfmO.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Phone calls, chit-chat: How a Covid facility in Delhi is helping patients fight corona, isolation||For a person infected with Covid-19, the debilitating disease also brings with it an unbearable feeling of isolation. A Delhi hospital is helping its coronavirus patients in not only fighting the disease but also the accompanying loneliness with phone calls and a bit of chit-chat.At the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) here, doctors and nurses regularly interact with patients, making sure “they don’t lost touch with life” in the time of social distancing and quarantined existence.“We call this project ‘reaching out to the unreached’ and it started about one-and-a-half months ago. The idea was to help the patients deal with isolation while under treatment and also get feedback from them to improve our patient care system,” Director, RGSSH, Dr B L Sherwal told PTI on Sunday.RGSSH in east Delhi, with 500 beds, has been treating pandemic-affected patients since the outbreak in Delhi in March and has been a Covid-19 dedicated facility from the very beginning. The facility only admits serious coronavirus patients.“As part of this initiative, a team of doctors and nurses regularly calls patients in isolation wards to check on them and enquire about their general well-being. I also talk to many of them, by going in the wards or ICU, or on phone, and they also share their stories with us,” Sherwal said.The senior doctor says a phone call may appear to be very innocuous, but in many cases patients lose hope not because of the disease that has weakened their bodies but the terrible sense of loneliness that comes with staying in isolation.“Once I spoke to an old man and he told us he had no one to go to in Delhi, and requested that we allow him to stay a bit longer after treatment. We managed an arrangement for him in the non-Covid area for some time to help him. Loneliness also kills, you see,” Sherwal said, recalling his interaction with patients.The doctor in charge of the hospital’s grievance redressal system calls patients to ask about their well-being and to hear out their complains.“She gives me a list of the people she has called in a day and the complaints received, maybe on medicine not given on time, or about food or anything else, and that helps us improve our patient care system at RGSSH,” the director said.Asked what motivated them to come up with the system, Sherwal said the genesis of this was the social media posts being made during the Tablighi Jamaat episode, when a large number of its members were brought to the facility from the Nizamuddin area where a religious congregation had taken place.“A normal person behaves in a different manner during isolation, and that’s what we understood. Many social media videos had been put up during that time showing the wards. We took it up in two ways, as an impulse to go for course correction if any gaps are found in our system, and also to counter the allegations made in the videos,” he said.So the improvement of patient care system began and soon the facility will discharge its 1000th patient after successful recovery from Covid-19, Sherwal added.A 65-year-old American woman who was diagnosed with Covid-19 was discharged from RGSSH three days ago after successfully recovering from coronavirus infection.“Thank you everyone from the bottom of my heart and everyone at Rajiv Gandhi hospital for the amazing service. Your expertise and techniques saved my life. Thank you all of you for your generosity,” she said.Sherwal said while many foreign nationals were brought to RGSSH after the Tablighi congregation, this woman was the first American national to be treated at the hospital.Delhi recorded 2,134 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, the second highest single-day spike here taking the Covid-19 tally in the city to cross the 38,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,271, authorities said.As many as 14,945 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 22,742 active cases, according to the Delhi health department.Sherwal said besides face-to-face and telephonic conversations with patients, the hospital has also formed a ‘May I Help You’ team.“The uniforms of doctors and nurses who are part of this team carry the logo of ‘May I Help You’ on both sides, so patients can recognise them from a distance and tell them their problems,” he said.“A patient-doctor relationship is very different. Though in the initial days doctors and nurses were scared to go near patients, now they are all helping them recover,” Sherwal said.Perhaps because unprecedented times call for unprecedented measures, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/phone-calls-chit-chat-how-a-covid-facility-in-delhi-is-helping-patients-fight-corona-isolation/story-RfO9NzBNhb4PMmjbkSYCnM.html
14-06-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata restaurants’ businesses hit due to liquor sale ban in eateries||The continuing ban on sales of liquor in restaurants in the wake of the lockdown has hit revenues of many plush eateries in the city, restaurateurs said on Sunday.Besides, the night curfew starting from 9 pm has impacted their turnover adversely, they said.The Hotels and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) secretary Sudesh Poddar said, “Most of the eateries are running at a loss due to the ban on liquor sales at the moment.” It will be difficult for restaurateurs to pay salary to their staff and meet air conditioning expenses, while hygiene costs have increased manifold due to the coronavirus outbreak.Nitin Kothari, who owns the famous Peter Cat and Mocambo restaurants in Park Street area, also said the businesses of most eateries here are being “affected due to the restriction on liquor sales”.According to him, liquor sales account for 70-75 per cent of revenue for most restaurants in the eastern metropolis.“Our business has been hit, but not to the extent which others have witnessed. People come to our restaurants to enjoy good food which constitutes roughly 80 per cent of the revenue,” he said.However, the West Bengal government has already allowed sales of liquor from standalone shops.Diners are not keen to visit eateries in the evening due to the nigh curfew starting from 9 pm, Kothari said, adding that sales have mostly been hit as only 50 per cent of the tables are allowed for seating as per the government order.“Hopefully, the government will relax these restrictions. Else, many restaurants may have to down their shutters,” he said.The association has already written to the state government, seeking relaxations in these aspects, Poddar said.Footfalls have not been satisfactory due to the ban on liquor sales, according to a manager of Red Kitchen and Lounge, a restaurant-cum-bar in Dum Dum area.The timing of the night curfew is also causing inconvenience to the diners, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-restaurants-businesses-hit-due-to-liquor-sale-ban-in-eateries/story-R59kAjJtu8bLfnOAHpNHFK.html
14-06-2020||Pune||Landslide threat: PMC slaps notice to Padmaja Park 2 to vacate in 24 hrs; residents plan to move court||Close to 300 residents of Padmaja Park 2, an upscale housing society in Bibvewadi’s Lake Town area, woke up on Friday to a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) notice asking them to vacate the premises within 24 hours. PMC said the building – constructed in 2010 next to a small hill – is under threat due to possible landslides during the monsoon.The society, on the other hand, has alleged that it was PMC’s “faulty and irresponsible” work while constructing a sports complex and a swimming pool on the hill that disturbed the soil position, leading to possible landslides (there was one on June 3 this year), and thus threatening the building’s fencing wall and putting residents’ lives in danger. The PMC sports complex came up in 2017.The notice, issued by PMC’s building development department, states: “The land portion of the PMC-run sports complex has dislocated, wherein it has emerged as a threat to the society fencing wall and the society at large. In view of the monsoon, and to avoid impending danger, all residents are directed to vacate the premises within 24 hours.” The notice adds that in the case of non-compliance, under powers granted by the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act 268(7)(B), the department will be forced to vacate the residents with police assistance. “Any loss to human life and property vests with the society completely,” the notice says.Deepak Firodiya, secretary, Padmaja Park 2, said the construction of the sports complex in 2017 and the subsequent use of heavy machinery, resulted in the loosening of the hillock’s soil structure. “In the past, boulders came hurtling down, and have posed a danger to our lives,” Firodiya said. “The PMC must take quick steps to address its irresponsibility and should not put the onus on us. They must withdraw the notice.”HT reached out to PMC Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Saturday for his comments on this story. However, phone calls and text messages went unanswered.According to the society chairperson Dilip Naukudkar, residents have refused to vacate the premises and will legally challenge PMC notice. “The notice is in violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act,” he said. “The PMC has acted illegally and we will sue them. There is a restriction on people’s movement during the Covid crisis. Where are we supposed to go in this situation? PMC will have to withdraw the notice as it against the law.”Lawyer Rohan Nahar said, “The society can go to court and obtain a stay on the notice. Why should people vacate; it is their place of residence. The society must take technical advice and seek fair compensation from the PMC for its act. They must immediately move the court against the notice. What is the need for a 24-hour notice? Under what law? This is against human rights, and on the face of it, the notice is illegal.”Pournima Borade, a resident, said, “How can PMC send a vacation notice when there are dialysis patients and other senior citizens living here. This notice is aimed at endangering our lives in the Covid crisis.” Another resident Tanuja Joshi said, “There is no basis in law for the notice. Where will we go during the Covid crisis? PMC has made no arrangement for alternative accommodation. There is no application of mind behind this notice.”Virendra Kelkar, deputy engineer, building permissions department, had visited the society for inspection. He said, “We have called a meeting with the residents and other stakeholders on Monday. We expect a solution after that.”Area corporator Vasant More blamed the PMC, saying the swimming pool construction may have disturbed the soil. “The society says that when they constructed the fencing wall, there was no sports complex on the hillock. PMC constructed the swimming pool later, and this disturbed the soil position, leading to landslides. Both the society and the PMC have their viewpoints. I will ensure that a concrete solution is arrived at in the larger interest of the society residents,” said More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/landslide-threat-pmc-slaps-notice-to-padmaja-park-2-to-vacate-in-24-hrs-residents-plan-to-move-court/story-xRr3VarsU1Cnwmyd1B7l7J.html
14-06-2020||Pune||City’s small eateries, cafes stare at uncertain future||At least 90 food establishments have shut down in the city over the last one month due to financial crisis and labour shortage during the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association. Ganesh Shetty, president of the Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association says that 40 per cent of the 200 small eateries across the city have been badly affected due to the lockdown. “The major reason is the high rent which adds to their already pressed pockets and with no clarity on when restaurants and pubs can open, the employees, who are currently in their hometowns, do not want to return,” said Shetty.According to the owners of the small eateries in the city, with 100 per cent dependency on labour and no financial support from the government during these testing times, they are facing losses and are struggling to survive. “We started business in December 2019, but over the past few months, we have been struggling to operate,” said Saili Jahagirdar Mirikar, owner of Zillionth Bistro. The small eatery in Kothrud has been offering only home delivery since March, but Mirikar, is now not sure how long the business will survive. “It is not just restaurants and delivery agencies, but small and big businesses like raw material supplies, social media agencies, advertising agencies, restaurant software providers, among others who have also massively suffered. No one is even talking about these markets and it is estimated that by the time the food industry is functional again, it is likely to wipe out at least 40 per cent of its own kin. There are at least 500 food establishments in the city currently,” said Shetty.Dinesh Maheshwari had a flourishing business at a small cafe on the Baner Pashan link road for five years, but since March, Dinesh has been at home as even he has no staff to prepare food even for home delivery.“I owned a restaurant called Chutney Sauce Murraba and then, ventured into home delivery for a year. But now, I am unsure of how things will work out. In April, everybody was under the impression that things will become normal and following the government’s rules, the landlords did not charge rent. However, now the landlord has asked us to pay in instalments,” said Dinesh. Dinesh’s employees went home when the lockdown was first announced in March. “My kitchen has been closed since March 21. We did not get enough home delivery orders to cover the cost, the input cost of meats, vegetables are going up, and members of the staff who are still here, want to return home,” added the former chartered accountant who joined the food business because of his passion for cooking.The next two months are crucial for the restaurants, feel most of the owners. “If the restaurants and cafes open, their business will depend on the number of people visiting them and the staff who can return to work. I think only those restaurants/cafes with strong financial backing can survive as even the aggregators have stopped putting their money in the market,” Shetty added.Shetty says that the only scope for the standalone eateries currently is home delivery and the hope that customers will walk into the restaurant after they are open. “Most of the owners are unsure about getting their business on track after the situation normalises. If landlords can look at profit-sharing when the eateries open, then, it can help sustain the business, but otherwise, there is nothing optimistic about this business,” said Shetty, though he added that home delivery should help sustain the restaurant and keep it afloat.Harsh Wagh, a food consultant, had helped start nine restaurants in the city and now, three have shut their business. “Currently, a lot of eateries/ cafes are on sale or shutting down as they have not been able to sustain the financial crisis and the future doesn’t look too promising. But that doesn’t mean that the restaurant business will stop completely. No one can live without food and chain restaurants with solid backing will continue to stay afloat,” said Wagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-s-small-eateries-cafes-stare-at-uncertain-future/story-XE3LyLlr9ujgMAqWv4u9uO.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali records biggest spike in a day with 16 new Covid-19 cases||Mohali: In the highest ever spike in Mohali in a day, 16 persons, including 14 males, two below 20, and two females, one aged 11 years, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking e district’s count to 176.The previous spike was registered on April 30, when 13 cases were reported in one day from the district. The male patients include one from ATS Society, aged 21 years;one from Mubarakpur, aged 57 years; and a 30-year-old – all in Dera Bassi; two from Janata Colony, Nayagaon, aged 23 years and 37 years; and one from Dappar; aged 48 years . Four persons, including a 32-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman from Lalru and two men aged 52 and 28 years from Chaundhed village there, also tested positive.Details of other patients released late on Sunday included two males aged 19 and 49 years, from Shivalik City, Kharar; and Dhakoli, Zirakpur; respectively. Three males, aged 40, 38 and 16, and a 11- year-old female, were from Kurali.All the patients have been moved to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali.The Nayagaon patients were contacts of an infected patient, while the man from Mubarakpur had connections with a family in which eight members were infected, he added.The Kharar, Zirakpur and Kurali patients had travel history and had come from other cities of India to the district, Dr Singh added.All the patients are responding well to the treatment and are stable. Of the 176 cases in the district 56 are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-new-covid-19-cases-take-mohali-s-count-to-167/story-7Sb2uvdbrB7nWYcvZa9KvL.html
14-06-2020||Pune||519 Covid-19 positive cases identified via PMC’s house-to-house survey||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) which has resurveyed 50 per cent of the city’s population through house-to-house survey has detected 519 Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases till June 13.The survey which was initiated on March 16 has also helped the civic body detect as many as 4,119 people who had flu-like symptoms. Unlike the previous house-to-house survey, in addition to thermal scanning residents are also checked for oxygen saturation in the second round.Dr Ramchandra Hankare, PMC health chief, said, “We have started using pulse oxymeters in the second round along with thermal scanning. We will also start random testing of blood pressure and sugar levels soon as our paramedical staff is being trained for the same.”“This survey is a continuous process and will go on for some time now,” he added.A ward medical officer said, “We are checking for oxygen saturation and temperature of everyone in containment zones, of high-risk contacts and of those who have comorbidity. In non-containment zones, only those who have any flu-like symptoms are checked for oxygen saturation while others are asked various general questions.”As many as 656 survey teams are present on the ground who have been given pulse oxymeters and thermal guns. Based on their body temperature and oxygen saturation, they are referred for further swab collection.PMC teachers oppose assignment related to Covid-19 survey As the Anganwadi sevikas are yet to undergo training to test sugar levels and blood pressure, the PMC is trying to get its civic teachers to do the basic survey of thermal scanning and pulse oxymeters which can be performed after basic training. However, teachers are resisting to do so fearing infection and only a few teachers are on the ground who are willing to do the job. Dr Hankare said, “We do have some resistance from civic teachers, but the survey is safe as the thermal scanning can be done at a distance and we do provide safety equipment like masks and gloves to check pulse oximeter too.”“Currently, this is being done by the nurses hired by us on a contract basis. We have brought up this issue with the PMC commissioner, who assured that once the Anganwadi sevikas returned from their training, the teachers would be relieved from the job,” said Dr Hankare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/519-covid-19-positive-cases-identified-via-pmc-s-house-to-house-survey/story-fcF58rQxhoWiutL0RRFdjN.html
14-06-2020||Kolkata||Long-distance bus operators to run vehicles on Kolkata routes||With several Kolkata-based private bus operators demanding an increase in fares to resume services, the West Bengal transport department has roped in long-distance private bus operators to run their fleets in the city to meet the demand in the eastern metropolis, officials said on Sunday.Though some local private bus operators have recommenced services in Kolkata since last week, the number of vehicles on the roads is less than normal, causing trouble to commuters, they said.The long-distance bus operators, on the other hand, have been sitting idle since the imposition of the lockdown and have not yet restarted their services on intra-state routes due to less demand despite the easing of restrictions.They have agreed to ply air-conditioned buses on several routes in Kolkata from Monday onwards and charge fares fixed by the state transport authority, the officials said.The long-distance bus operators have hailed it as a ‘win-win’ situation for both the state transport department and them.“Most of our buses were sitting idle as employees in IT hub Sector V are working from home but on the other hand, office-goers and common people in other places are facing a harrowing time in getting buses to reach their destinations,” Souvik Biswas of Hexa Ride, a mobile application-based bus service between Kolkata and its neighbouring districts, said.His firm will run 30 buses on the Garia-Barasat and Garia-Howrah station routes.Dhananjay Singh of Kaushik Global Logistics said the company has got permission from the transport department to run 20 buses between Barasat and Dalhousie. He said the firm will decide on running more buses depending on the demand.“We run these buses on Kolkata-Siliguri, Kolkata- Asansol and other long-distance routes. But since there is very little demand despite easing of the lockdown, we have not recommenced our services,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/long-distance-bus-operators-to-run-vehicles-on-kolkata-routes/story-13vqSijTwpB7yuCMKxBP8H.html
14-06-2020||Pune||PMC projects 40,906 Covid-19 positive cases by July-end, shortage of 282 ICU beds and 172 ventilators||A new official projection indicates that Pune will record at least 40,906 progressive Covid-19 cases and 18,408 active cases by July 31. The estimate, published by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Smart City Covid-19 war room, is calculated based on the current positive and active cases, and the city’s doubling rate of 19 days. The projection also highlights that PMC will likely witness a shortage of 282 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 172 ventilators by July 31 for critically-ill Covid-19 patients. The projection also includes 80 per cent regulated bed capacity, but it says there will be no shortage of beds with or without oxygen facility.At present, the civic body has 30 Covid care centres, 11 dedicated Covid health centres and 25 dedicated Covid hospitals. These 66 medical facilities have a total of 15,500 beds, of which 2,500 have artificial oxygen supply equipment, in addition to 580 ICU beds and 288 ventilators.Pune’s average daily growth rate for Covid-19 cases is 3.16% as per PMC’s Smart City war room data analysis for the period from May 28 to June 8. According to local health officials, the availability of ICU beds and ventilators is essential in providing critical care to severely infected patients. On June 12, Pune had 9,082 progressive total cases with 2,733 active cases. According to PMC data, there are 49 critical patients on ventilators, while 173 are being treated in the ICU.Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter, said, “The current situation is a manifestation of years of ignoring health infrastructure. When I graduated in 1982, there was one government hospital (Sassoon General Hospital) in the city. This is still the same. If this continues, we fear that the government will force us to buy ventilators and critical-care infrastructure. The government either needs to buy it themselves or request from other countries or states.” ​A senior civic officer who attended a review meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday, said, “Deputy CM Ajit Pawar has said that the central government will soon dispatch some ventilators, and most of it would be reserved for Pune’s Sassoon hospital. This will be of great help.”​ The officer spoke to HT on condition of anonymity. “We will also try and increase our testing capacity, so that the results are available in 24 hours and a positive patient can be isolated immediately,” he added.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner, said, “We will issue orders to every private hospital from Monday to ensure that regulated prices are being strictly implemented and that there is no shortage of hospital beds.”​He added, “Our current focus is on detecting patients with comorbidities, pregnant women and senior citizens to help us in early detection and isolation. Early treatment means early recovery. Our aim is to ensure that patients does not reach a stage where they require ventilators or ICU beds.”In addition, until June 13, 29 private hospitals have implemented the state government resolution dated May 21 to cap the price on 80 per cent of their beds ranging from Rs 4,000 to Rs 9,000 per day. These hospitals have a bed capacity of 6,695, of which 4,599 are operational for Covid-19 patients. Of these 3,674 come under the capped price regulations. There are 2,385 beds without wall oxygen supply while 1,981 beds come equipped with wall oxygen supply. There are 848 beds with oxygen cylinder, along with 279 ventilators and 536 ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-projects-40-906-covid-19-positive-cases-by-july-end-shortage-of-282-icu-beds-and-172-ventilators/story-VTpcKYOxi0IDKberRJGtJK.html
14-06-2020||Pune||Pune moves closer to 10k mark, but city’s doubling rate and R naught improves||The doubling rate of Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases in the city has improved to 19 days, as compared to five days on April 11 and 14 days on May 21, according to Pune Municipal Corporation data. With the slowing of the doubling rate, Pune’s R-naught (RO), which in April was above four, has also come down to 0.9, according to the civic body data. RO indicates how contagious the infectious disease is. The RO at 0.9 now means that one person is likely to infect one person and for every new case of Covid-19 reported, one person is declared cured and is discharged.The relative fall in the spread of the virus in the city comes when Pune is inching closer to the 10,000 mark of Covid-19 positive cases.According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) as of Saturday, the city’s progressive positive cases of Covid-19 stood at 9,336 with 254 cases reported within 24 hours on Saturday.A senior health official from the district health office, said, “If the R- naught is around four or five it means that there is a serious issue which needs to be taken care of while the doubling rate has to be more than before. R-naught and doubling rate are inversely proportional. There are many factors which help make policy decisions includes these two numbers.”Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner, said, “Doubling rate is broad-based since it is about the progressive number of cases which will keep on increasing, however, the R-naught is more important since it denotes that the current status has come below one, which is a good sign for the city.”“We are preparing for the worst and so the number of cases we estimated earlier is not the same now. We will work on extending the doubling rate further and decreasing the R-naught,” said Gaikwad.R-naught, which is calculated by the state health department, helps make policy decisions like the number of minimum contacts to be traced for each case, easing restrictions in any area and emphases on social distancing. R-naught figure can also be calculated at a local level to determine the lockdown restrictions and strict implementation of lockdown.The doubling rate helps project the number of cases to be expected in the future if the reported cases continue to remain steady and also the health infrastructure readiness of the civic body and other government authorities. The doubling rate of the city has been improving consistently. The number of cases on May 7 May was 2,146 which doubled to 4,107 cases as of May 21, while from May 22 May to June 9 the number of cases rose from 4,107 to 8,205 taking the doubling rate to 19 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-moves-closer-to-10k-mark-but-city-s-doubling-rate-and-r-naught-improves/story-b6FZ814zFuK4VHJCFOuSRL.html
14-06-2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Over 100 hospital employees booked for being absent amid Covid-19 outbreak||Over 100 employees of a hospital in Solapur in Maharashtra, including doctors, have been booked for remaining absent from work during the coronavirus pandemic in violation of orders from the district administration, officials said on Sunday.The 133 employees, which comprised doctors, nurses, ward boys and office staff, of charitable trust-run Ashwini Hospital were given multiple show-cause notices which they chose to ignore, they said.“Ashwini Hospital was asked to admit Covid-19 patients as the government has regulated beds in private facilities in view of the outbreak. However, a majority of the staff there chose to remain absent from work,” said Dr Dnyaneshwar Sodal, health officer, Solapur civic administration.“A police complaint was made against 133 who chose not rejoin even after reminders.,” he added.A Solapur police official said they have been booked under section 51B (refusing to comply with government orders) and 57 (contravention of any order) of Disaster Management Act, and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of Indian Penal Code.Solapur Municipal Commissioner P Shivshankar said, “I have warned staff of other private hospitals as well as I have received complaints from people. If staff do not resume duty, they will face action.” As on Saturday, Solapur city has 956 active cases, while 128 people have succumbed, and 654 have recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-over-100-hospital-employees-booked-for-being-absent-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-TplCUrvAsyftKOb9cGJLfM.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Two teenagers killed in hit-and-run incident in Maharashtra’s Thane||Two teenagers were killed in Thane’s Kapurbawdi area when a vehicle allegedly hit their bike on Sunday. The deceased were residents of Manpada and worked as milk distributors.According to Kapurbawdi police officials, the deceased were identified as Shubham Jagdale and Aditya Sharma, both 17-years of age. Police officials said, the deceased were students and also distributed milk around the Manpada and Kapurbavdi area since lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.Crime Police Inspector of Kapurbavdi, Sanjay Patil said, “The accident happened around 7 am near Vijay sales shop of Kapurbavdi. Their bike was rammed by an unknown vehicle and as there was less traffic on the road, no-one saw the accident. We were informed by some passersby. Jagdale was died on the spot and Sharma was taken to the Kalwa hospital where he succumbed during treatment.”Kapurbavdi police has started checking CCTV footage of the junction to trace the vehicle which caused the accident. An FIR has also ben registered against the driver of the unknown vehicle under IPC 304 (a) which is Causing death by negligence and 279 which is rash driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-teenagers-killed-in-hit-and-run-incident-in-maharashtra-s-thane/story-Ek0ybxm6BUhXyhYRB90iyI.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Door-to-door health survey, guidelines on last rites in Centre’s plan to help Delhi battle Covid-19||A comprehensive door-to-door health survey will be conducted to facilitate contact mapping in Delhi’s Covid-19 containment zones, Union Minister Amit Shah said in a tweet on Sunday. The report of these surveys will be available within a week. The home minister said that a new set of guidelines will be issued for last rites. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The new guidelines for the last rites will reduce the waiting period,” Shah tweeted.  दिल्ली के कन्टेनमेंट जोन में Contact mapping अच्छे से हो पाए इसके लिए घर-घर जाकर हर एक व्यक्ति का व्यापक स्वास्थ्य सर्वे किया जायेगा, जिसकी रिपोर्ट 1 सप्ताह में आ जाएगी। साथ ही अच्छे से मोनिटरिंग हो इसके लिए वहां हर व्यक्ति के मोबाइल में आरोग्य सेतु एप डाउनलोड करवाई जाएगी।This comes soon after Shah held an important meeting on the Covid-19 situation in Delhi with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, among other senior officials.Also read | 50,000 cases, over 2,000 deaths: How Covid-19 devastated India in the past week“The Modi government is determined to prevent the Corona infection in the country’s capital, Delhi,” Shah said. Shah also said the Centre has decided to send 500 railway coaches to the Delhi government to tackle the shortage of beds to treat Covid-19 patients. “These coaches will not only provide 8,000 extra beds but will also be equipped with everything to fight the Covid-19 infection,” Shah tweeted.He also said the Central government has promises Delhi government to meet the necessary resources like oxygen cylinders, ventilators, pulse oximeters and all other requirements to fight the Covid-19 epidemic. दिल्ली के छोटे अस्पतालों तक कोरोना के लिए सही जानकारी व दिशा निर्देश देने के लिए मोदी सरकार ने AIIMS में Telephonic guidance के लिए वरिष्ठ डॉक्टर्स की एक कमेटी बनाने का निर्णय लिया है। जिससे नीचे तक सर्वश्रेष्ठ प्रणालियों का संचार किया जा सके। इसका हेल्पलाइन नं. कल जारी हो जाएगा।Delhi has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, the national capital’s coronavirus tally jumped to 38,958. So far, 14,945 patients have recovered from the virus while over 1,200 people succumbed to death. Delhi stands third on the national Covid-19 tally after states like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/door-to-door-health-survey-guidelines-on-last-rites-in-centre-s-plan-to-help-delhi-battle-covid-19/story-PH73LSxj1L8V8bNsDujPmO.html
14-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan boy beaten, stripped naked on charges of stealing a goat||A 16-year-old boy was brutally beaten, stripped naked and had his face blackened in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar district by three men, who accused him of stealing a goat, police said on Sunday.Lakshman Singh, the station house officer (SHO) of Kotwali police station, said the incident was reported from Balgarh village where the three men accused the boy of stealing a goat and demanded Rs 1 lakh from him at around 10.30pm on Friday.“When the victim denied that he had not stolen the goat, he was beaten by the accused. Later, he was stripped and his hairs were chopped off. When the victim reached home and his family members came to know about the incident he was taken to a local hospital for treatment,” said Singh.Singh said that his family members informed the police on Saturday morning after which the victim’s statement was recorded.The accused were arrested under section 342 (wrongful confinement), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 327 (hurting to extort money from sufferer) and 34 (illegal act done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“Their allegation has not been found to be true so far. However, an investigation is on,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-boy-beaten-stripped-naked-on-charges-of-stealing-a-goat/story-pMbZLETThwhWqWl1pHK8CO.html
14-06-2020||Patna||Bihar: With 193 fresh cases, Covid-19 tally rises to 6,289||The total number of coronavirus cases in Bihar rose to 6,289 on Saturday with 193 new cases, while the death toll stood at 35, health department officials said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSince Friday night, Patna district reported 24 Covid-19 cases with the youngest among them being a three-year-old girl from the capital city. The district has so far reported two casualties, they said.The officials, however, pointed out that till date 198 people in the district have been cured of the disease and the number of active cases stood at 122.Patna and Bhagalpur districts comprised 10 per cent of the state’s total caseload with 322 and 319 instances of the infection respectively.In Bhagalpur, which has reported one death, 182 patients have been discharged and the district is left with 136 active cases.All 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases and 31 of these have tallies in excess of 100. Of the total 35 deaths so far, Khagaria and Begusarai accounted for the highest three fatalities each.The number of swab samples tested so far is 1.20 lakh. The state has a population of more than 120 million and opposition parties allege that testing rate in Bihar is one of the lowest in the country.More than 5,000 cases have been reported in the last one and a half months, mainly on account of the massive influx of migrants which began with the running of Shramik Special trains.According to data provided by the state government, 2.12 lakh people have come to Bihar from outside on board till date. The number of people who came to the state from outside and tested Covid-19 positive since June 3 is 4,250.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-with-193-fresh-cases-covid-19-tally-rises-to-6-289/story-9osBHza28wlgTTae5FlzYL.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||IMD declares monsoon onset over Mumbai, covers Maharashtra||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday declared the onset of the southwest monsoon over Mumbai and the remaining parts of Maharashtra. The monsoon arrived three days late from its normal onset date of June 11.Last year, Mumbai witnessed its most delayed onset in the last 45 years after the southwest monsoon was declared over the city on June 25. In 2018, it was June 9 and June 12 in 2017. “Monsoon onset has been declared over Mumbai and remaining parts of Maharashtra on Sunday afternoon. Since the onset is within the range of three days of June 11, it will be classified as the normal onset for Mumbai,” Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, IMD’s director-general, said.The weather bureau said that the northern limit of the monsoon passes from Surat covering portions of south Gujarat.An orange alert for heavy to very heavy rain has been predicted for Monday and Tuesday by the weather bureau for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and remaining districts of the west coast, parts of central Maharashtra, isolated areas of Vidarbha and Marathwada.Between 8.30am on Saturday and 8.30am on Sunday, the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 19.7mm and 11.2mm rain. IMD classifies heavy rain between 64.5mm to 124.4mm, while moderate rainfalls in the range of 7.6mm to 35.5mm. Moderate showers were recorded in parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region such as Thane, Bhiwandi, Dombivli, Badlapur and Panvel over the past 24 hours.The first two weeks of June saw the city cover 42% of the monthly rain comprising pre-monsoon showers. From June 1 to June 14, Mumbai recorded 208.5mm rain. The average rainfall for the month of June is 493.1 mm.Monsoon onset dates for Mumbai over the past decade:• 2020 - June 14• 2019 - June 25• 2018 – June 9• 2017 – June 12• 2016 – June 20• 2015 – June 12• 2014 – June 15• 2013 – June 9• 2012 – June 17• 2011 – June 5• 2010 – June 11• 2009 - June 27(Source: India Meteorological Department)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-declares-monsoon-onset-over-mumbai-covers-maharashtra/story-rCrC9qzfmQTQdQR2O41c8H.html
14-06-2020||Patna||Brace for possible flood challenge amid Covid-19, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar tells officials||Amid forecasts of the monsoon reaching Bihar in a couple of days, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday stressed on the need for dealing with floods, which may follow the downpour, without neglecting the measures in place for containing the spread of Covid-19.Click here for Covid-19 coverageAt a high-level meeting that he chaired here, Kumar directed officials to make arrangements so that those displaced by floods are relocated at camps without compromising on social distancing norms.“I wish that floods do not ravage north Bihar this year. But, we must need to be prepared,” he told the officials, referring to the natural calamity which is known to strike almost every year, often resulting in loss of life and property on a large scale.“I am glad to learn that many of the tents that were put to use in flood-affected districts last year are still in a usable condition and that these were utilised during the lockdown period.“We would, however, need to keep in mind that this year if the floods strike, people will have to be relocated while ensuring social distancing. We must rise up to the challenge,” the chief minister said.Nearly a dozen districts in north Bihar were devastated by flash floods last year, which followed torrential rain in the catchment areas of Nepal.Kumar reminded officials of the water-logging in many parts of the state capital in October last year, after a three-day spell of heavy rainfall, which had reduced many localities of the city to marooned islands, and called for efforts to ensure that citizens were not inconvenienced this time.He also took note of the rise in Covid-19 cases in Bihar, where on an average, more than 100 new infections have been cropping up every day for quite some time, and told the officials to focus on setting up more isolation centres for accommodating those testing positive until they were declared fit for home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/brace-for-possible-flood-challenge-amid-covid-19-nitish-tells-officials/story-P7XW8DP0vBlvSfMXBzdt0N.html
14-06-2020||Patna||Covid-19: School fee, electricity bill of traders during lockdown should be waived off: Pappu Yadav||Jan Adhikar Party (L) Chief Pappu Yadav lead a torch march here against the policies of the state government and demanded that school fee and electricity bill of traders during coronavirus lockdown should be waived off.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Govt sent electricity bills to traders for lockdown period when their shops were shut. It should be waived off. School fee shouldn’t be levied for lockdown period”, Pappu Yadav told media while taking out a torch procession.He said, “The middle-class people and small businessmen are affected. We are asking this question to the government. This torch march is against the 15 years of maladministration of the state government.”“We are not going to any public place and we will only lead this march in our locality,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-school-fee-electricity-bill-of-traders-during-lockdown-should-be-waived-off-pappu-yadav/story-hywJdxPMGupQF9Wq6b4LhL.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||In plan to ramp up Covid-19 beds, Lt Guv Baijal gets 10,000 more beds for Delhi||Lt Governor Anil Baijal travelled to south Delhi’s Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus on Sunday to inspect a makeshift facility being set for 10,000 Covid-19 patients in the national capital. “This will be the city’s biggest facility of its kind,” a government official said.Baijal had stepped in to reach out to the spiritual organisation to join the effort earlier this week as the city struggles to rapidly raise the number of beds available for patients when Delhi’s Covid-19 peaks next month.“This is a unique joint venture between the government and a community group and will be a great help to meet the projected requirement of beds,” Anil Baijal said as he took a quick tour of the facility at Chattarpur Bhati.Delhi’s health department has projected that Covid-19 cases in Delhi could rise to 1 lakh by this month-end, and breach the 5 lakh-mark by the end of July. The government has estimated that it would need 80,000 beds for patients by the time the disease count reaches 5 lakh.The Health Department will provide facilities such as oxygen cylinders/concentrators, as well as other medical and paramedical staff for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Radha Swami Satsang will take care of food and doctors.“This is a fight where all of us have to join hands to defeat this pandemic,” Lt Governor Baijal said, who had headed to the facility straight from Home Minister Amit Shah’s review meeting on Covid-19.Amit Shah had asked the city government to raise testing, get hospitals to reduce the charges for 60 per cent of their beds for Covid-19 patients and give Delhi 500 railway coaches modified to treat patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-plan-to-ramp-up-covid-19-beds-lt-guv-baijal-gets-10-000-more-beds-for-delhi/story-RcltExYABHjqTS6vPvNT3H.html
14-06-2020||Lucknow||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon’s health better, says hospital||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon is doing better and he is currently in the ICU of the Medanta Hospital here, an official said on Sunday. Tandon, 85, was admitted to the hospital on Saturday after he had fever and complications related to urology. “He is better. In the night, he had to be operated upon. At present, he is in ICU, but he is improving,” Medanta Hospital Director Dr Rakesh Kapoor told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandon-s-health-better-says-hospital/story-AEJk7TjejlwXZ7BsbPfeeK.html
14-06-2020||Ranchi||Coronavirus cases rise to 1,711 in Jharkhand||The number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand rose to 1,711 with 54 more people testing positive for the pathogen on Saturday, a government bulletin said. Of the total 1,711 Covid-19 cases, 887 are active cases and 816 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease, it said. Eight persons -- Ranchi (three), Bokaro (two), Giridih (one), Koderma (one) and Simdega (one) -- have died of Covid-19 so far. Among the total Covid-19 cases in the state are 1,396 migrants who have returned to Jharkhand from other states. Simdega has a maximum of 197 active cases, followed by East Singhbhum (179) and Ramgarh (91), the bulletin said. Till date, a total of 1,06,171 swab samples were collected in the state with 1,03,905 tests being completed, it said. The recovery rate of the state is 47.69 per cent compared to the country’s 49.92 per cent, according to the bulletin. Jharkhand’s mortality rate is 0.46 per cent as compared to the country’s 2.87 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/coronavirus-cases-rise-to-1-711-in-jharkhand/story-nF6StTwmaHXBA6oqNiNXPL.html
14-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 308 more Covid-19 cases, tally at 6,824||As many as 308 more Covid-19 cases were reported in Karnataka in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of people infected with the virus in the state to 6,824, said the health department. As per the bulletin, with 3 deaths reported on Saturday, the death toll stood at 84, including 3 fatalities due to non-Covid causes.“A total of 308 more Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases in the state now stands at 6,824, including 3,092 active cases, 3,648 discharged and 84 deaths (3 due to non-Covid causes),” said department.A total of 3,684 have been discharged from the hospitals after being treated for the disease. So far 4,36,518 samples have been tested for Covid-19, including 10,177 samples tested on Saturday.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of coronavirus cases in the country now stands at 3,08,993, including 1,54,330 cured/discharged/migrated and 1,45,779 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-reports-308-more-covid-19-cases-tally-at-6-824/story-1Ew9sNQOaE4metknvQQ5vM.html
14-06-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Developers in Bengal get more time to complete housing projects||Developers in the state were given additional nine months for completing projects by the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulatory Authority (WBHIRA), in a major relief for the sector reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 crisis, officials said on Sunday.Following the decision, developers would not have to pay any penalty or face action if a project is delayed by up to nine months from the scheduled time, they said.It will give a boost to the sector that has been severely hit by the Covid-19 crisis and the lockdown that has led to the stoppage of construction work for over two months, officials said.The industry assured that construction activities would begin soon and said that with the support of the government, there is room to absorb 5 lakh more workers into the sector with the huge number of migrant labourers returning to the state.Recognising the pandemic as a ‘force majeure’ condition, the WBHIRA allowed the additional time under Section 6 of the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulatory Act, 2017. The law allows extension of up to one year for such situations that are beyond control, officials said.CREDAI West Bengal, the apex real estate body in the state, said they had sought an extension for one year as the lockdown brought all construction work to a standstill.Housing Minister Chandrima Bhattacharya told PTI that the West Bengal government is putting in efforts to support all in the trying times and thus the extension was considered.The industry appreciates the positive approach of the West Bengal government, particularly WBHIRA for such pro- active steps. There are about 35 lakh workers in the construction sector in the state. Another estimated 5 lakh people are engaged in back office, sales and technical support and consultancy, CREDAI West Bengal president Sushil Mohta said.The industry has also written to municipal bodies, the Urban Development Department and other authorities for similar extension of approval period because of the delays happening due to the pandemic. But, so far positive response has come only from WBHIRA, he said.With the support of the state government the industry will be able to absorb additional 5 lakh workers, Mohta said.The real estate sector is about 10 per cent of West Bengal’s GDP, the body said, adding that it is one of the highest contributors to the state’s revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-developers-in-bengal-get-more-time-to-complete-housing-projects/story-YKasgCxTLKrnHQ8b5Z5P7N.html
14-06-2020||Bangalore||Shankar to get MLC ticket, leadership to decide about others: Karnataka Deputy CM||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has said the BJP will field former Minister R Shankar in the upcoming Legislative Council elections while the top leadership will take a call on other claimants.As the Election Commission set in motion the process to elect seven MLCs on June 29, Narayan, who holds the portfolio of Higher Education and IT-BT, told reporters in Mandya on Friday that the former Rane Bennur MLA Shankar would definitely be given a ticket while the party leadership will decide about other aspirants.M T B Nagaraj and A H Vishwanath are aspiring to become MLCs.They were among the rebel Congress and the JD(S) MLAs who had resigned from the Assembly last year to bring down the coalition government and install the BJP government in the state.Besides the three, C P Yogeeshwara, who lost the elections from Channapatna, is also an aspirant.They had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly bypolls in December last year and now they want the BJP to oblige them with a membership to the Karnataka legislative council.Narayan said Shankar, Nagaraj, Vishwanath and Yogeeshwara have put forth their demands before the top BJP leaders including Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who will shortly decide on it.“Shortly it will be finalised by all the seniors, party president and the chief minister. They will be informed if there is scope,” he added. To a question on Vishwanath and Nagaraj, Narayan said, “To tell you the truth, it is not a matter of assurance.Promise has been made only to Shankar whereas the others have requested that they be ‘rehabilitated somewhere’ since they have lost the election and opportunity be given to them.” Shankar was not offered a ticket to contest the bypoll with an assurance by Yediyurappa that he would be made an MLC.Meanwhile, Vishwanath responded by reminding the Deputy Chief Minister that the BJP came to power because of the sacrifice of rebel MLAs of Congress and the JD(S). “Because of our sacrifice he became DCM. He should have explained with whose sacrifice he came to power,” Vishwanath told P T I.The election is scheduled to take place on June 29 for which the notification has been issued and the last date of filing nomination is June 18.Of the seven seats, BJP is set to win four, Congress two seats and the JD(S) one seat given the number of MLAs in the assembly, who elect the MLCs.The ruling BJP has 116 members excluding Speaker, Congress has 68 and the JD(S) has 34 members in the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/shankar-to-get-mlc-ticket-leadership-to-decide-about-others-karnataka-deputy-cm/story-9QwdTU0xrN9UcfE4gJ6hoN.html
14-06-2020||Bangalore||Domestic returnees continue to form bulk of Karnataka’s Covid caseload||Amid rising Covid-19 infections in contacts of earlier cases, domestic returnees continued to form the bulk of cases in Karnataka, as 308 new cases raised the state’s tally to 6,824, an official said on Saturday.“New cases reported from Friday 5 pm to Saturday 5 pm 308,” said a health official.As many as 208, or 68 per cent of the cases, had domestic travel history.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageReturnees from Maharashtra constituted 200 or 96 per cent of the returnees, a daily feature where most of the domestic returnees are from the state’s northwestern neighbour.Incidentally, 25 patients had international travel history to the United Arab Emirates.For the past few days, the number of infections with contact history are rising, recording 56 such cases on Saturday.Cases spiked in Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bidar, Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Udupi, Hassan, Ballari, Vijayapura, Raichur and Uttara Kannada.Among the new cases, Kalaburagi reported 67, followed by Yadgir (52), Bidar (42), Bengaluru Urban (31), Dakshina Kannada (30), Dharwad (20), Udupi (14), Hassan and Ballari (11 each), Vijayapura (6), Raichur and Uttara Kannada (5 each), Kolar (4), Davangere (3), Mandya and Haveri (2 each), Mysuru, Bagalkote and Ramanagara (1 each).Fourteen patients are suffering from influenza like illness (ILI) and three from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI).Meanwhile, three people succumbed to the virus, a 70-year-old man from Dharwad and a 23-year-old youth and 62-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban.Among the new cases, 175 are males and 133 females, including 48 children below the age of 10 years.Of the total cases, 3,092 patients have been discharged, 81 have died while 15 are admitted to ICUs.In the past 24 hours, 209 patients got discharged.So far, 4.36 lakh samples have been tested, of which 4.2 lakh have returned negative.Currently, Yadgir is leading the state’s Covid-19 burden with 549 active cases, followed by Kalaburagi (496), Udupi (420) and Bengaluru Urban (319), among others.Bengaluru Urban has accounted for 29 deaths, followed by Kalaburagi (10), Bidar, Vijayapura, Davangere and Dakshina Kannada (6 each), among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/domestic-returnees-continue-to-form-bulk-of-karnataka-s-covid-caseload/story-toecB5z8yz3y1lBqZ5SIpL.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Amit Shah holds crucial meeting on Delhi’s Covid-19 situation with Arvind Kejriwal||A crucial meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation in Delhi begun on Sunday morning. The meeting has been called by Home Minister Amit Shah, and is being attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.Officials of State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) are also present in the meeting.On Saturday, Delhi added 2,134 new coronavirus disease cases, the second highest number of cases it has added in a 24-hour period (the highest was on Friday, 2,137).The meeting comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting in which he discussed the situation in Delhi. Shah and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was present in the meeting.PM Modi will meet chief ministers of different states on June 16 and 17 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in their respective states. The meeting with Kejriwal will take place on June 17 along with chief ministers of those states that are seeing a sharp rise in the number of cases.With the fresh spike in cases, Delhi’s tally crossed the 36,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,214, authorities said.It was the second consecutive day when the number of reported cases breached the 2,000-mark. On Friday, Delhi had witnessed 2,137 cases,the highest single-day spike in the national capital.As many as 57 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours (between Friday and Saturday).So far as many as 14,945 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated to another country, while there are 22,742 active cases, a health bulletin from Delhi health department said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amit-shah-holds-crucial-meeting-on-delhi-s-covid-19-situation-with-arvind-kejriwal/story-1heNVeP14TmPzbBunYPbvL.html
14-06-2020||Noida||Authorities launch helpline for disposing biomedical waste in Noida, Greater Noida||Cautioning residents against unsafe disposal of gloves and masks, authorities have launched helplines to help with proper disposal of biomedical wastes in Noida and Greater Noida amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The numbers for biomedical waste disposal in Noida are 18001807995 and 7428999189, while Greater Noida residents can dial 9899979135 and 9899955266, officials said on Saturday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageResidents have been advised to not dispose of used masks and gloves directly into dustbins. They have been asked to preferably cut used masks and gloves and keep them in a paper bag for 72 hours (3 days) before putting them in normal garbage, the Noida and the Greater Noida authorities said.Additionally, the residents have been asked to not put any biomedical waste such as disposable syringes, faeces or urine diapers, among others, in the trash generated during the treatment of any Covid-19 patient, according to statements issued separately.“However, it is advised to keep it (biomedical waste) in a yellow bag and inform the vendor M/s A G Enviro Infra Project authorised by Noida Authority on 18001807995 or 7428999189 and hand it over to them for safe disposal,” Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari said.Greater Noida Authority Additional CEO Deep Chandra said issued a similar appeal and said residents can use numbers 9899979135 and 9899955266 for disposal of biomedical wastes.The Noida Authority also started a dedicated number using which residents can register their complaints related to the Public Health Department like fogging or sanitisation, improper disposal of waste, burning of garbage, cleanliness of roads.According to a statement, residents can lodge complaints on 13 issues linked to the Public Health Department using the 9717080605 helpline.The issues are fogging/ sanitisation, urination or defecation in open, burning of garbage in open space, disposal of construction or demolition waste, improper disposal of sewage waste or septage, it said.The helpline could also be used to inform officials about the non-arrival of garbage collection vans, garbage being dumped in the open, dead animals lying on roads, complaints related to stray animals or cattle besides street and pet dogs, it added.People can also use the number to register complaints related to cleanliness of public or community toilets and urinals, sewer overflow, non-supply of water or electricity in their area and cleanliness of roads, drains and grass cutting of pavements, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/authorities-launch-helpline-for-disposing-biomedical-waste-in-noida-greater-noida/story-zJTPFhT29aHVwJEPmfJsjL.html
14-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 75%, higher than national average||The rate of recovery of patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Rajasthan has gone up to 75% as three out of four people have been cured in the state, the health department has said.Rajasthan’s recovery rate is higher than the national average of 50.59% with 162,378 Covid-19 patients discharged from hospitals across the country, according to data.Officials said the number of active cases continues to be below 3,000 for the 15th consecutive day on Saturday evening as 333 new Covid-19 patients were reported in the state.Also read| Nearly half of Covid-19 patients have recovered across the world: ReportOut of the 12,401 infections, there are 2,782 active cases, 9,337 people have recovered and 282 have died in Rajasthan so far.Pali and Bharatpur have been seen a rising number of Covid-19 cases and on Saturday there were 62 and 39 infections in these cities, according to data.The state capital of Jaipur and Jodhpur also reported a high number of Covid-19 cases at 27 and 75 respectively.Also read: India records 11,929 Covid-19 cases, 311 deaths in 24 hours; tally over 3.2 lakhIndia’s Covid-19 tally reached beyond 3.2 lakh on Sunday after nearly 12,000 new cases and 311 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active Covid-19 cases now stands at 149,348 and the death toll is at 9,195 so far, taking India’s tally to 320,922, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-is-75-higher-than-national-average/story-MaHHZmIASZCF6qndIm83mK.html
14-06-2020||Ranchi||Hemant Soren writes to Centre for 6-9 months moratorium of coal auction||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Saturday wrote to Union Coal and Mines Minister Prahlad Joshi, demanding a moratorium of the auction process in the coal sector by six to nine months to ensure equitable sustainable mineral-based development in the state.He said that Jharkhand wants to work alongside the Centre for the successful operation of the auction of minerals.Soren’s letter said several national and international companies would not be able to take part in the auction amid Covid-19 pandemic and foreign travel restrictions.A release from the CMO quoting excerpts from Sorens letter said, “Even domestic enterprises are facing financial crisis due to the tardy pace of the economic system, and it will have an impact on the process of auction.” Writing about the necessity of keeping social interest, protection of the environment and economic development, Soren said that deliberations with different stakeholders are required for a balanced policy-based mechanism.Also taking to Twitter, Soren said, “Although we welcome @CoalMinistry decision to open up Indias coal sector to commercial mining, we strongly demand (a) moratorium period of 6-9 months on the auction process to ensure a (sic) equitable sustainable mineral based development in Jharkhand. Although we welcome @CoalMinistry decision to open up India's coal sector to commercial mining, we strongly demand moratorium period of 6-9 months on the auction process to ensure a equitable sustainable mineral based development in Jharkhand. Enclo my letter to @JoshiPralhad'ji pic.twitter.com/kyuttdWXX4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/hemant-soren-writes-to-centre-for-6-9-months-moratorium-of-coal-auction/story-vHVKqvOM2MBVqGOrHGHEYP.html
14-06-2020||Pune||Pune Crime Branch arrests man for stealing cash, jewellery worth Rs 1.74 crore||Pune Crime Branch arrested a man for allegedly stealing cash and valuables worth Rs 1.74 crore. The Crime Branch has arrested Aniket Surendra Bubane (31) on Saturday who allegedly committed multiple house break-ins and thefts.“A total of Rs 98.10 lakh cash has been recovered from the Rs 1 crore which he had stolen. Also, a Duster vehicle he bought with the stolen money worth 9 lakh has also been seized. Efforts are going on to recover the remaining stolen money,” the Crime Branch said in a statement.“During interrogation, it also came to light that the main accused Aniket Bubane has cheated many girls by befriending them through multiple dating websites, alluring them with a promise of marriage, and extorting them of cash or jewellery,” it added.Further investigation is underway to find other people involved in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-crime-branch-arrests-man-for-stealing-cash-jewellery-worth-rs-1-74-crore/story-katxryCjmhac8unf4sMe6K.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||How Mumbai’s Dharavi chased Covid-19 has lessons for other developing nations||Mumbai’s Dharavi, Asia’s most crowded slum, has gone from coronavirus hotspot to potential success story, offering a model for developing nations struggling to contain the pandemic.Authorities have knocked on 47,500 doors since April to measure temperatures and oxygen levels, screened almost 700,000 people in the slum cluster and set up fever clinics. Those showing symptoms were shifted to nearby schools and sports clubs converted into quarantine centers. Fresh daily infections are now down to a third compared with early May, more than half the sick are recovering, and the number of deaths plummeted this month in the tenement where as many as eighty residents share a toilet.The numbers are in stark contrast to the rest of India, whose daily tally of new infected cases has quadrupled since early May. Located near Mumbai’s financial district, Dharavi’s dogged approach to “chase the virus” could be a template for emerging markets across the world, from the favelas of Brazil to shanty towns in South Africa.“It was next to impossible to follow social distancing,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner at Mumbai’s municipality, who is in charge of leading the fight in Dharavi. “The only option then was to chase the virus rather than wait for the cases to come. To work proactively, rather than reactively.”Officials were initially worried as positive diagnoses rose, but it meant people didn’t have to wait to get sick. Dighavkar and his team made it clear that screenings and testing would continue even as the count increased -- their objective was to keep deaths limited.“We were able to isolate people at early stages,” Dighavkar said. “Unlike in the rest of Mumbai, where most patients are reaching hospitals at a very late stage.”The strategy has helped reduce mortality and improve recovery. About 51% of Dharavi residents who test positive eventually recovered, better than Mumbai’s 41% rate. Fresh infections are down to an average 20 a day from 60 in early May. India, meanwhile, added more than 11,000 cases on June 13.A strict lockdown and accessible testing was part of Dharavi’s strategy. If someone was not feeling well and wanted to get tested, just get institutionally quarantined and on-site doctors will take care of it.However, Dighavkar knew none of this would be possible without gaining the community’s trust. Home to nearly a million people where a family of seven may be living in a 100-square feet hutment, word travels fast in Dharavi and small gestures help.For instance, Ramadan -- the Muslim holy month -- was crucial. Those in isolation centers were concerned about how they’d keep up with rituals, such as breaking their religious fasts at sunset. Authorities ensured they got fruits and dates and distributed proper meals at appropriate times while all others received three meals a day.Free ServicesEveryone in the isolation centers also received round-the-clock medical supervision free of cost, even as millions around the country lost their jobs due to the nationwide lockdown and reports trickled in of people dying before they were allotted hospital beds.Once word got around, people would volunteer themselves to be quarantined as soon as symptoms appeared, according to Dighavkar.There should never be any pressure on keeping the number of cases low, he said, adding that the focus instead needed to be on screening and timely treatment because the ultimate aim was to save lives.Yet, Dharavi’s war against the virus is far from over. Once shelter-at-home restrictions are fully lifted in Mumbai and the bustling city goes back to work, there’s a risk of a second wave of infections.“The battle can’t be over until the virus has gone from the entire city, state and country,” said Dighavkar. “People are quite aware now of how to be safe and I think by the time the lockdown ends, most of us may have got herd immunity. Or so we hope.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-mumbai-s-dharavi-chased-covid-19-has-lessons-for-other-developing-nations/story-HaSFaGRzFNcnXCOboFT3cK.html
14-06-2020||Bhopal||Six killed in limestone quarry collapse in Madhya Pradesh||Six persons, including two women and a boy, were killed and four others injured on Saturday when the limestone quarry collapsed on them at Pasgari area near here in Madhya Pradesh, police said.At least 20 people were extracting limestone from the mine at Papredi village, about 100 kms away from the district headquarters, when the incident occurred in afternoon.“While five of them died on the spot, another person succumbed to his injuries on way to hospital. Ten people escaped unhurt,” said Beohari police station inspector Anil Kumar Patel.The injured persons were admitted in the district hospital, he said.The police officer said local people dig limestones from such quarries and use them either for colouring their houses or for selling.The mine area has been closed after the accident, Patel said. District Collector Satendra Singh said the quarry was not illegal. “People had dug it for extracting limestones,” he added.He said an aid of Rs 5,000 has been provided to kin of the deceased to meet funeral and other expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/six-killed-in-limestone-quarry-collapse-in-madhya-pradesh/story-9mvbtUWc6T9VxC7vY5clKO.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Security guard kills another in Delhi’s GK||A security guard allegedly bludgeoned another guard to death with a blunt object and burnt his body after pouring liquor on it in the basement of a vacant building in Greater Kailash Part 2 on Friday, the Delhi police said.Police officers privy to the preliminary probe in the case said Imrat Singh, 54, allegedly killed Sarnam Singh, 56, following an argument after eating and drinking together. The two were friends and would often drink together. On Friday, they began drinking at 7 am and were drunk when they fought.Deputy police commissioner (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said Imrat Singh was found at the crime scene when police reached there after being informed about smoke billowing from the basement. He said Imrat Singh initially tried to mislead them saying that he had burnt papers and cardboards to kill mosquitoes. “But he broke down when the charred body of the other guard...was found in the basement.” He said the two drank together, had chicken and partied before the murder.Around 1.25 pm, a neighbour saw smoke coming out of the basement and called the police.Imrat Singh has been arrested and booked for murder and destruction of evidence. It was unclear yet why the two fought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/security-guard-kills-another-in-delhi-s-gk/story-57EEYjGSu6s18OtxoS6vgP.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases spike in Delhi, Amit Shah to meet Arvind Kejriwal today||Union home minister Amit Shah will meet Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday over the Covid-19 situation Delhi.The meeting will take place at 11 am, a statement from the Home Minister’s office said.Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and officials of State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) are going to be present in the meeting. Director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Dr Randeep Guleria, and other senior officers will also attend.On Saturday, Delhi added 2,134 new coronavirus disease cases, the second highest number of cases it has added in a 24-hour period (the highest was on Friday, 2,137).The situation in Delhi came up during a review meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi held on Saturday. Shah and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was present in the meeting. Also read: Delhi govt orders nursing homes to treat Covid-19 patientsPM Modi will meet chief ministers of different states on June 16 and 17 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in their respective states. The meeting with Kejriwal will take place on June 17 along with chief ministers of those states that are seeing a sharp rise in the number of cases.With the fresh spike in cases, Delhi’s tally crossed the 36,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,214, authorities said.It was the second consecutive day when the number of reported cases breached the 2,000-mark. On Friday, Delhi had witnessed 2,137 cases,the highest single-day spike in the national capital.Also read: Almost 1 in 3 tested people Covid-19 positive in Delhi this weekAs many as 57 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours (between Friday and Saturday).So far as many as 14,945 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated to another country, while there are 22,742 active cases, a health bulletin from Delhi health department said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-covid-19-cases-spike-in-delhi-amit-shah-to-meet-arvind-kejriwal-on-sunday/story-LIkxbPPVxeUhbx7wpjS3cN.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Almost 1 in 3 tested people Covid-19 positive in Delhi this week||Almost one in three persons tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi this week had the infection, according to government data. The average positivity rate – the percentage of people who test positive – in Delhi during the week was 30.5% , a number that is perhaps as indicative of the inherent bias in testing (which has only become more marked, especially in Delhi) as it is of the spread of the pandemic in the capital.The national average positivity rate is around 7%, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Delhi’s positivity rate has been rising rapidly, from an average of 23% in the week ending on June 7, and, before that, an average of 14% the previous week. .According to government data, 4,900 samples were tested each day on average during this week, down from 5,590 tests a day on average during the week ending June 7, and 6,129 tests a day on average in the week before that.On Saturday, Delhi recorded 2,134 cases and 57 deaths, the daily bulletin released by the Delhi government showed.“This just means that currently the numbers are on a rising trend and there is transmission happening in the community. There is no other way the city could record so many cases a day. However, the increasing positivity rate could also be a result of labs testing only those with symptoms. If you test only the people who are likely to have the infection, the positivity rate will of course be high,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at AIIMS, New Delhi.The Delhi government on June 2 put in place a restrictive testing strategy that excluded asymptomatic contacts of positive cases if they weren’t old or did not have comorbid conditions such as diabetes or hypertension.Dr Broor recommends lowering the bar for testing to include high-risk asymptomatic people.“One, we need to do community-level antibody testing in Delhi to understand the burden of the disease. But, when it comes to resource-intensive RT-PCR test, we cannot test every asymptomatic person. However, those at a higher risk such as health care workers, front line workers like paramedical staff and the police, someone who has come in contact with another positive case, or anyone with comorbidities should be allowed to get tested,” said Dr Broor.Testing norms should be eased, agreed Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine in Delhi’sSafdarjung Hospital. “ Now that the infection is in the community, the government should relax the testing norms and allow people easy access to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/almost-1-in-3-tested-people-covid-19-positive-in-delhi-this-week/story-3YxZVqud10x44qUD2F41CM.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kaithal: Thieves take away ATM loaded with Rs 14 lakh||Thieves took away an unguarded automated teller machine (ATM) of State bank of India (SBI) loaded with Rs 14 lakh from Keorak village of Kaithal district, police said on Saturday. The theft took place on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, bank officials told the police.An FIR has been registered against unidentified thieves under sections 380 and 457 of the IPC. The police said though they have started a thorough probe, the preliminary investigation suggested that it was a result of negligence of the bank as the ATM was unguarded. ROBBERY BID FOILEDIn another incident, police thwarted the plan of armed robbers to loot an ATM of Punjab National Bank in Siwan village of the district. Anoop Singh, in-charge of Kaithal police’s CIA-1, said a police team cracked down on the robbers trying to steal money around 1.30am. However, they opened fire at the cops and managed to flee.He said they have registered a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kaithal-thieves-take-away-atm-loaded-with-rs-14-lakh/story-xCGMm1Mo4TDMjRhE8LJvhO.html
14-06-2020||City||Illegal liquor trade in Punjab: Main accused surrenders, one more arrested||Two days after the enforcement directorate (ED) initiated a probe into probe into the illegal distillery case in Ghanaur, the main accused, Amrik Singh, sarpanch of Khanpur Khurd village, surrendered at the Shambu police station on Saturday.Meanwhile, the Patiala police have arrested another accused, Hardeep Singh, alias Bacchi, from the Banur-Shambu road near Tepla village.Senior superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the accused will be presented in the court for their police custody. “We are minutely investigating the case. Both the accused were at large since May 14 when the district police and excise department busted Illegal distillery-cum-liquor-bottling plant at Ghanaur in Patiala district,” SSP Sidhu said.Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh is an aide of a ruling party MLA, while his wife is a zila parishad member, affiliated with the Congress.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 188 (disobeying public official’s order) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections of the Excise Act, and section 5 of the Disaster Management Act was registered against accused.The distillery was using ethyl alcohol (ENA), which is used to manufacture sanitisers. The accused were diluting the chemical to make liquor and were selling around 1,000 cases of liquor a day.ENA has around 70% liquor content, and becomes fit for consumption if it is diluted to 43%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-liquor-trade-in-punjab-main-accused-surrenders-one-more-arrested/story-PrhJ5B46olCiSlE4aiQRDI.html
14-06-2020||City||PSEB simplifies admission process for students of other states||Strap: Students from other states can now get themselves enrolled in Punjab government schools by either submitting their school-leaving certificate or report card Simplifying the admission process for students coming from other states, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has announced that those seeking admission into Classes 9 to 12 in government schools will only be required to submit their school-leaving certificate or report card.If a student is unable to produce either of the two documents, he or she will be admitted on a provisional basis and given time until the commencement of annual exams to submit at least one of the documents, a letter issued by PSEB’s examination controller Janak Raj Mehrok stated. Earlier, students had to get a verification letter from the education department or their previous school to apply here. Now, principals will be verifying the student’s details from the website of the previous board. School education secretary Krishan Kumar, in a video conference with school principals, said the move will simplify the admission process and also increase the number of enrolments in schools.Ujjalvir Singh, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Dhandari Khurd, said, “We have enrolled 227 new students in classes 6 to 12, out of which many are from other states. Now, the school has a strength of 1,184 students. As per directions, we have enrolled the students from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on a provisional basis and will verify their details from boards concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pseb-simplifies-admission-process-for-students-of-other-states/story-F9u8LQpZiUu2xPxRi7knlM.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||8 succumb to Covid-19 in Haryana, 415 fresh infections surface in last 24 hours||Eight coronavirus positive patients in Haryana succumbed to the contagion on Saturday, pushing the death toll to 78. Six of them were from Gurugram and two from Faridabad. Haryana’s 18 districts reported total 415 fresh infections, taking the state’s tally to 6,749. Jind, Yamunanagar, Kaithal and Fatehabad did not report any fresh case on Saturday, the health department’s bulletin said. The total number of active cases on Saturday was 3,868, while 328 persons were declared recovered. There were 48 critically ill Covid-19 patients, including 15 on ventilator support, in the state on Saturday. 203 cases were detected in Gurugram, while Faridabad count jumped by 100 infections. These two NCR districts jointly accounted for 68% of the total active cases on Saturday. Among other 16 districts, Rohtak saw 30 new cases followed by Ambala (16), Bhiwani (14), Mahendergarh, Hisar and Jhajjar (7 each), Sirsa (6), Palwal (5), Panipat (4), Kurukshetra, Sonepat, Rewari and Karnal (3 each), Nuh (2), and Panchkula and Charkhi Dadri (1 each). Though the bulletin didn’t mention it, Sonepat administration said a 62-year-old man from Delhi died during treatment at Khanpur Kalan medical college on Friday. Meanwhile, a Covid-19 bed availability website was made operational by the Haryana government on Saturday. The web portal — www.coronaharyana.in — gives real-time information about the beds available in various medical facilities for coronavirus patients across all 22 districts. These include Covid-19 hospitals, isolation and quarantine centres. The portal also provides information about the coronavirus testing laboratories and collection centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8-succumb-to-virus-in-haryana-415-fresh-infections-surface/story-D13uO4wQcrY36HsFvfTZuO.html
14-06-2020||City||Rs 7lakh burglary in Ludhiana: Number plate of robbers’ motorcycle found fake||A day after the robbery of Rs 7lakh from the business office of AH Alloys, a steel company here, the police have found that robbers had installed a fake number plate on one of their two motorcycles and the number was that of a jeep.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the number plate of one of the motorcycles, used by the accused in the crime, was captured in the CCTVs installed in the area, but when the police checked it with Regional Transport Office (RTO) it was found fake.He said the incident took place around 1.45pm when AH Alloys manager Jagwant Singh and a servant, Durga Parsad, were present in the office.The ADCP added one of the accused, who entered the office as a courier boy, had no parcel in his hands, but a backpack. After entering the office, he put the bag on the floor and posed as he is taking out something from the bag.Meanwhile, his three accomplices barged into the office and flashed weapons and threatened the employees and tied them to chairs.The four miscreants have been captured in the CCTVs installed in the area.On November 8, 2019, the robbers had also robbed Rs 7 lakh from the office of a steel and rolling mill on the Gill Road.The robbers had also attempted a robbery at the office of AH Alloys on the same day, but the employees had not opened the door following which the robbers had fled.The ADCP added it could be the handiwork of the same gang, but the police want to investigate the case thoroughly before jumping to any conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-7lakh-burglary-in-ludhiana-number-plate-of-robbers-motorcycle-found-fake/story-pkdYBu7vmOtnQFssnsSBFK.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rohtak cousins among 39 Haryana cadets commissioned as officers||Two cousins — Aakash Rana, 26, and Abhijeet, 25 — from Rohtak’s Pakasma village are among 39 Haryana cadets who passed out from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun on Saturday. Aakash’s father Narender Rana, an employee of Haryana tourism department, said his son had pursued post-graduation in civil engineering from Rohtak, while his nephew did his BTech from Faridabad. Aakash had joined the IMA through technical graduate course (TGC), while Abhijeet took the combined defence services (CDS) exam. “We have a joint family and the boys studied together till Class 12. They again got back together at the IMA, but will now have to part their ways. Aakash will be sent to the engineering unit in Amritsar and Abhijeet will move to Uttar Pradesh’s Babina in the armoured regiment,” he added. Expressing his disappointment over not being able to witness the Passing Out Parade, Aakash’s father said, “The academy won’t even send them back home this time. My family will have to wait to see them as officers.” A retired armyman and grandfather of the lieutenants, Randhir Rana, said he had instilled in them the dream of donning the olive green one day. “My grandsons proved that nothing is impossible if you are determined and have a fixed goal,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rohtak-cousins-among-39-haryana-cadets-commissioned-as-officers/story-hE5RnEXoEAq5U3noHVV9GK.html
14-06-2020||City||26-year-old man held for raping minor niece in Ludhiana||Raikot police arrested a 26-year-old driver on Friday for allegedly raping his 10-year-old niece in Burj Hari Singh village. The victim’s mother stated in her complaint, that on March 19, she and her husband had gone to Ludhiana to see a doctor, leaving the daughter at home. When they returned home, she saw her crying.On being asked, the victim said her uncle had raped her and told her to keep mum.The complainant added that when she talked to the accused, he threatened her as well.She said that on June 11, her daughter complained about severe pain in the stomach following which she lodged a complaint.Sub-inspector Kamaldeep Kaur, who is investigating the case, said a case was registered under Section 376 (rape on woman under twelve years of age) of Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Raikot police station following which the accused was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-man-held-for-raping-minor-niece-in-ludhiana/story-bPiyt17dE2rVGakuYkUxFJ.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Misery brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic unimaginable, says Bombay HC in landmark ruling||In a landmark order, a division bench of Bombay high court (HC) on Friday said, “We need to remind ourselves that despite nearing 75 years of our independence, despite the guarantees that Part III of the Constitution envisions, and despite the goals engrafted in Part IV of the Constitution which the State ought to strive to achieve, a society which can provide equal opportunities to all is yet a distant reality.” The division bench comprised Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and justice Amjad Sayyad was hearing a clutch of petitions regarding the handling of the Covid-19 outbreak in Maharashtra.While listing failures on part of the state in its handling of the pandemic and the challenges faced by the poor and migrant workers during lockdown, the bench said, “That misery of this degree could be brought about by the pandemic was indeed unimaginable. The pandemic and the resultant lockdown have destabilised the Indian economy, while wrecking the ‘haves’ and the ‘have nots’ alike. It has shown how pitiable the conditions of migrant workers in India are. India, as things stand now, can hardly think of a fair and just society any time in the near future.”The bench pointed out “factors which have been responsible for the spread of the pandemic in India” including lack of preparedness to tackle a problem of such magnitude, insufficient testing kits as well as protective gear and generally inadequate healthcare infrastructure. It also noted that not sharing data led to limited awareness regarding Covid-19 among large sections of the population and criticised the coordination between the Centre and state.Further, the bench noted that it fell upon the judiciary to address citizens’ concerns when the legislative fails to do so. “A judiciary, zealous and vigilant in safeguarding the rights of the people, is what the framers of the Constitution dreamt of and it needs no reiteration that by and large, the people of this nation have reposed faith and trust in the judicial institutions to rescue them in even the worst of situations,” said the bench, going on to add that “judicial propriety demands that we tread the path of caution and circumspection” while criticising the role of the executive in the handling of the pandemic. “Instead of adoption of a critical approach of the unintended failures of the executive, the exercise of the extraordinary power available under Article 226 of the Constitution has to be tempered by judicial restraint,” it said.The bench then went on to quote parts of the famous “tryst with destiny” speech, delivered on the eve of India independence to the constituent assembly in 1947 by the first prime minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru. “The service of India means the service of the millions who suffer. It means the ending of poverty and ignorance and disease and inequality of opportunity. The ambition of the greatest man of our generation has been to wipe every tear from every eye. That may be beyond us, but as long there are tears and suffering, so long our work will not be over,” Nehru had said.The bench went on to state, “If indeed tears and suffering are to be wiped from those who are ailing of Covid-19 and related matters, the nation expects service, ie ‘seva’, from each one of its citizens. It does not take much to serve.”Failure to provide testing facilities for frontline workers at hospitalsThe division bench extended a Nagpur bench’s order of June 1 and said that “if any frontline/ healthcare worker at non-Covid hospitals/wards expresses willingness for being tested on RT-PCR method, the respondents shall proceed in that direction in accordance with the guidelines and protocol prescribed therefor by the ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research].” The order came after senior advocate Mihir Desai, appearing for the non-governmental organisation Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, had contended that the state should extend the benefit of testing to asymptomatic workers. Desai said nearly 41,000 people, including doctor, nurses and other frontline workers, had contracted the virus and many policemen had also succumbed to Covid-19. He also pointed out a June 1 order of the Nagpur bench of the HC had said that even though the extant guidelines do not envisage testing of all frontline/healthcare workers, the state owes this to frontline workers to ensure minimisation of any risk to them.Appearing for the state, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni sasid testing of asymptomatic frontline workers working in hospitals and containment zones, as declared by the relevant authorities, has been left to the discretion of such frontline workers. There is no mandatory direction for testing of all asymptomatic frontline workers. Kumbhakoni contended that the aim should be to test those who actually need tests, but had urged the court to issue directions to fine-tune the system so that testing kits are not wasted but there is maximum utilization of the available kits through pragmatic decision making.Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, appearing for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said a rational approach has to be adopted since there’s a scarcity of materials. He said 3,500 to 4,000 tests are being conducted daily and said the court ought to leave the matter of deciding which frontline workers should be tested — symptomatic or asymptomatic — to BMC.Distribution of PPEResponding to a petition filed by Dayanand Stalin, the bench held that the neither the state nor BMC are under any obligation to “distribute PPE to all and sundry”. It found the plea that each healthcare worker treating non-Covid patients to be provided with PPEs justified to the extent of face masks and shields, gloves, goggles and sanitisation materials including soap, but not the full equipment which includes a body suit, covered shoes etc. “Use of a full body-suit could create significant hazards such as physical and psychological stress, impaired vision, mobility and communication. Literature on ,PPEs which we have had the occasion to look into, sounds a caution that greater the level of PPE protection, greater would be the associated risk,” the bench said.The bench said that distribution of PPEs must be need-based. “We hope and trust that the state and BMC shall be rational in distribution of PPEs, and leave no room for complaint in regard to its distribution and the other kits in keeping with the demands of the situation,” the bench noted.Price cap on pathological testsThe bench held that it would leave it to the state “to spread the net of free testing high and wide to cover maximum number of people in distress”. The order came after the state brought to the notice of the bench a circular dated May 21, by which charges for treatment at private or charitable hospitals and health service care centres were capped. The petition was filed by Kurla resident Sarika Singh, who learnt from a police constable that he was asked to deposit Rs 2 lakh by a private hospital when he sought treatment for Covid-19. Advocate Varsha Jagdale informed the court that the exorbitant demand of the hospital was brought down to Rs 20,000 after the police threatened to charge the hospital for denying treatment to a patient.Beds in private hospitals for economically weaker sectionsResponding to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by non-governmental organisation Jan Swasthya Abhiyan and Mumbai resident Mehrwan Fashed, the bench gave full liberty to Maharashtra state to take punitive action against hospitals that fail to comply with the state’s directive of reserving 80% of available beds in private or charitable hospitals for the Covid-19 patients. The PIL asked the court to direct that beds in private hospitals be reserved for patients from economically weaker sections of society and that the cost of treatment at these hospitals should be borne by the state. “Although 20% of the beds in the private/charitable hospitals are required to be reserved for the poorest and the poor, the situation arising out of the pandemic has compelled the State to take a proactive stand keeping in mind the need to reach out to all,” said the bench. Covid-19 helplinesTwo PILs filed by activist Dayanand Stalin through advocate Aniket Kulkarni and lawyer Mutahhar Khan through advocate Sharan Jagtiani alleged the BMC-run Covid-19 helpline (1916) was ineffective because callers had long waits and those responding to the calls were not able to offer much help. The bench noted there was “a divergence of opinion” as some have got assistance from the helpline. “Those who have been critical must realize the prevailing situation of the pandemic and that assistance of the level that could be expected or available in normal times may not now be on offer. That the MCGM [Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai] has to respond to more than 4,000 calls per day is an indicator of the load taken by the informers receiving the calls,” said the bench. While noting that there was scope for improvement, the bench directed the state to see to it that other municipal corporations set up helplines similar to 1916.War room dashboardMultiple petitions raised complaints that it was difficult to get accurate information for available Covid-19 facilities, like beds and ventilators. Following the suggestions of petitioners, MCGM has devised a ‘war room’ dashboard that uploads relevant information online. “We record our satisfaction at such dashboard providing relevant information regarding the current status of the effects of the pandemic in the state as well as the data forming part of it. The only direction that we wish to make in this behalf is to direct the MCGM to upload on its website the entirety of the contents of the dashboard placed before us so that such data could benefit those in search of the available facilities,” said the bench.Absence of grievance redressal cellA PIL by Sarika Singh and Mehrwan Farshed had pointed out there was no platform for grievances of those who could not get admitted or treated or were being charged excessively. “We are of the considered view that the MCGM should, without any delay, explore ways and means to set up a grievance redressal cell before which complaints could be lodged online/offline. The IAS officer who has been deputed to monitor and oversee the activities related to COVID-19, or any other officer, shall be appointed as the head of the cell with instructions to act promptly as and when complaints deserving immediate intervention are received,” said the bench.The Uber alternativePetitioners raised complaints regarding MCGM-run ambulances, which are insufficient now that the majority are transporting Covid-19 patients, and suggested roping in taxi aggregator apps like Uber to transport non-Covid patients to hospitals. MCGM has been using ambulances offered by NGOs as well as converting buses run by the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking into ambulances. “The State and MCGM may consider requiring private ambulances to be made operational, provided of course requisite human resources are available to operate it. If indeed the platform of Uber can be utilized … that could take care of a part of the problem,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/misery-brought-about-by-the-covid-19-pandemic-unimaginable-says-bombay-hc-in-landmark-ruling/story-T4ObFyyffGW5bC0xTPbpAM.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||IMA PASSING OUT PARADE: Kapurthala Sainik School alumnus bags coveted Sword of Honour||Gentlemen cadet Akashdeep Singh Dhillon of Kairon village in Tarn Taran district in Punjab was awarded the coveted Sword of Honour at the Passing out Parade for the Spring Term-2020 of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, held on Saturday.The ‘Sword of Honour’ is an honorary sword awarded to that “gentleman cadet” or “lady cadet” who achieves an overall best performance during his or her entire training period at the IMA at Dehradun.Akashdeep passed-out from the Sainik School, Kapurthala, in 2016. His father Gurpreet Singh is a farmer, mother Birinder Kaur a government teacher and his elder brother Preet Dhillon is model-actor in the Punjabi music industry. Sainik School, Kapurthala, principal Lt Col Vikas Mohan said it was a matter of pride for the school. Akashdeep was an all-round sportsman in the school as he played volleyball at the national level and was also good at boxing, said JKP Singh, public relations officer of Sainik School, Kapurthala, adding that Akash was also sports captain in the school. His mother Birinder Kaur said: “It is a proud and emotional moment for us as Akash did lot of hard work to achieve it. The only regret is that we couldn’t attend the passing-out parade due to coronavirus pandemic, but we saw the live telecast of the event on television.” IMA STAFFERS, WIVES PLAY ROLE OF PARENTS A batch of 333 young officers graduated from the IMA in Dehradun on Saturday, but parents were not allowed for their passing-out parade for the first time in the institute’s history due to restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Wearing a face mask, Army chief General MM Naravane reviewed the passing out parade of 423 officers, including 90 gentleman cadets from nine friendly foreign countries.Instead, the academy’s officers and their wives placed stars on the uniform of the gentlemen cadets after their oath ceremony as a mark of them being commissioned in the army, an honour generally reserved for friends and family. The newly commissioned officers did not get leaves to visit their homes before joining their units due to the pandemic situation. They will join their units straight out of the academy. “Obviously, it felt bad that my parents couldn’t see me wearing the officer’s uniform despite living in the same city. But then, it is for the safety of all. We are thankful to our instructors at the academy who played the role of our parents and made us realise once again that we all are one big family,” said Abhishek Negi, 22, a newly commissioned officer from Dehradun. Samrat Thapa, 22, a Bhopal resident, said his father, a Colonel in the Indian Army, wanted to see him passing out of the academy. “Unfortunately, due to obvious reasons, he couldn’t come… he cried over the phone when I called him after the ceremony,” Thapa said. Sumati Gakhar, the wife of an Indian Army officer who put stars on the uniform of Gentlemen Cadets, said: “I felt extremely proud while putting the stars on the shoulders of these young officers along with my husband.” Lt Col Amit Dagar, the public relations officer of the IMA said earlier there was the ‘antim pag’, or the last step after the parade, which symbolised the conclusion of the training. He added that this season authorities introduced the ‘pahla adam’, or the first step, after the antim pag to symbolise the beginning of the new journey of the officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ima-passing-out-parade-kapurthala-sainik-school-alumnus-bags-coveted-sword-of-honour/story-JuOexxpvRO3VdLNa4XJwtK.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||No compromise on paddy, wheat MSP, says Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal said on Saturday that his party would never compromise on the assured procurement of paddy and wheat by the government agencies at the minimum support price (MSP) as it was a question of life and death for farmers.“This was a question of life and death for our peasantry. The SAD is in the government at the Centre to ensure that the interests of Punjabis in general and the farmers and the other poor segments are fully safeguarded,” said Sukhbir in a statement, adding that he saw no threat to the present MSP regime at this stage.“But if at any stage, the MSP and assured procurement are tinkered with, the SAD will not remain a mute witness to such injustice and will fight till the injustice is vacated. The SAD is fully conscious of the party’s historic role as the voice and the conscience of the people in every sphere --- from the farmers interests to the federal structure in the country. We will live up to those traditions and those expectations in every sphere,” said the SAD chief.He said the party will never be a party to any decision that seeks to change or dilute this arrangement. “I and my party was ready for everything in case the farmers’ interests come under threat from any adverse change in the present arrangement of official purchase. The SAD will go to any length, including launching mass action, in order to protect the rights and the interests of every Punjabi, including and especially the farmers who are the backbone of Punjab’s identity, ” he said.The SAD chief said that the procurement system in the country needs to be further strengthened and refined and its scope widened. It is necessary to diversify the range of the MSP regime in order to diversify agriculture, a key requirement for providing a boost to India’s rural economy, he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-compromise-on-paddy-wheat-msp-says-sukhbir/story-pqSR37Am3sBwZziuaQnsdO.html
14-06-2020||City||Elderly farmer shot dead in Raikot village over land dispute||A 65-year-old farmer was allegedly shot dead by another farmer over a land dispute at Jhorran village of Raikot here on Saturday morning.The deceased has been identified as Jarnail Singh, 65, of Jhorran village. As per the police, Jarnail had bought a 6-acre land from the accused, Gurwinder Singh, 45, of the same village.Though the land had been transferred in his name, Jarnail Singh still owed ₹4.5 lakh to Gurwinder. Whenever Gurwinder used to ask for the remaining amount, the victim allegedly used to accuse him of not giving him the entire possession of the land.  Gurwinder reportedly wanted to sell another chunk of his land, but Jarnail was allegedly not letting any deal materialise by instigating the other villagers. “Jarnail was allegedly threatening the villagers that if anyone buys the land from Gurwinder, he will stop the water supply to the person from the common tubewell in the village,” inspector Harjinder Singh, SHO at the Hathur police station, said. The SHO added that on Saturday, Gurwinder called Jarnail to the field at 6.15am to settle the matter.“Both of them decided to meet in the fields. Gurwinder carried his .12 bore rifle along. Both of them indulged in a verbal spat and, in a fit of rage, Gurwinder took out his rifle and shot Jarnail from point blank range. The bullet hit Jarnail in his chest and he died on the spot,” said the SHO.“A case of murder has been registered against Gurwinder at the Hathur police station following a statement of Kamaljit Kaur, daughter-in-law of Jarnail,” he added. The victim’s two sons are settled in Manila of Philippines and in the US. Jarnail had also returned from Manila a few months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-farmer-shot-dead-in-raikot-village-over-land-dispute/story-P1S9stv6fIRBrPPTyu6P3I.html
14-06-2020||City||Denied admission by 5 hospitals, 51-year-old Covid-19 patient dies in Thane||A 51-year-old resident of Lokmanya Nagar, Thane, died on Thursday after she was allegedly denied treatment by four private hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment as well as the civic-run Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa.Last week, TMC commissioner Vijay Singhal had said private hospitals cannot reject patients. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has now said it will inquire into the incident.“We are not aware of this situation yet, but we shall appoint an official to inquire about the incident. Despite repeated warnings, hospitals have been flouting norms and refusing patients, and this is a punishable act. We shall take necessary action to ensure that such practices are not repeated,” said Vishwanath Kelkar, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.The woman’s 22-year-old son said she fell ill on Tuesday. “We approached our physician, who recommended some tests and gave medicines. However, the next day, my mother started experiencing breathlessness, following which we rushed her to a private hospital near our house. But they said they did not have enough ventilators and denied her admission. I then took her to three other private hospitals on my two-wheeler, as we could not arrange for any other vehicle. But the other three hospitals also refused to admit her on various grounds. We then took her to the Kalwa hospital, where she was given oxygen for an hour and discharged,” the son said.According to the woman’s son, the civic-run hospital had informed that ventilators have to be reserved only for emergencies. “She continued to find it difficult to breathe, so the next day, early in the morning, we rushed her to Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital. There was a lot of rush and for about an hour, we had to shuffle between departments to seek an admission. During the course of this period, my mother had not been given any medical aid, and her situation worsened. Finally, a doctor suggested a Covid-19 test. She passed away moments after she was admitted. If my mother would have received proper treatment on visiting the Kalwa hospital the first time, her life could have been saved,” the son said.The woman’s Covid-19 test result came positive the same evening she died, following which her husband and three children have also been tested for the virus and are awaiting their results. They have been quarantined at their home in Indira Nagar. The woman and her husband ran a shop near their home. While their 22-year-old works with a private firm, the other two children are studying. In similar incidents, a pregnant woman as well as a 13-year-old also lost their lives after they were not admitted to hospitals in Mumbra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/denied-admission-by-5-hospitals-51-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-thane/story-gMvlprhKsuplP5m3LoXLaN.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown has made my life miserable, says expelled Kerala nun||Catholic nun sister Lucy Kalapura, who was expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation last year, said on Saturday that lockdown has made her life miserable and she was denied even basic needs, including food at the convent, and she even fears for her life. Kalapura, 55, was expelled from the congregation last year citing “serious indiscipline” but the nun said she was victimised for supporting the agitation for the arrest of the deposed bishop of Jalandhar, Franco Mulakkal, an accused in a rape case. Last year, Kalapura’s autobiography, ‘Karthavinte Namathil’ (In the name of Christ), had ruffled many feathers in the church. “The convent kitchen was closed to smoke me out. Since hotels are closed at times, I go without food these days. Sometimes people who know me bring food. It is strange the church is doing a lot of charity outside, but keeps one of its own tribe starving at the convent. It is inhuman and blatant violation of rights,” she told the Hindustan Times over phone from Mananthawady in Wayanad district.“I fear for my life. I have given a couple of complaints to the police, but no action was taken. Recently, I noticed some strangers near the convent. A section in the church wants to silence me somehow. But I will continue my fight till my last breath,” she said adding she will continue to stay at the convent at Karakkamala. Earlier, the Pope had turned down her plea to revoke her suspension.But the congregation denied these allegations saying she was flouting discipline of the convent quite often and it is finding difficult to go ahead like this. “She continues to flout discipline and raises wild allegations quite often. She was expelled from the congregation but she continues to stay there as an intruder. With her presence, we find it very difficult to maintain discipline and decorum of the convent,” said Jyoti Maria, provincial of the convent. She said last week, parishioners have prepared a mass memorandum urging authorities to vacate her from the convent. But Kalapura said she worked for the congregation for 35 years and she will remain at the convent. She also said a local court had stayed the move to evict her from the convent. But the provincial said they moved a higher court to vacate this stay.Kalapura said her harassment increased after her controversial autobiography was released in December last year. She alleged in her autobiography that sexual abuse and assaults take place in convents and seminaries and called for institutional reforms to cleanse the system. She was among many nuns who staged a sit-in protest in Kochi two years ago after police failed to arrest Mulakkal who was accused of raping a nun who later filed a complaint. The trial in the case began in a court in Kottayam in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-has-made-my-life-miserable-says-expelled-kerala-nun/story-39WwL7yZq41dfPIOmOW0sK.html
14-06-2020||City||Ex-BJP minister from Kalyan tested positive for Covid-19||A former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister from Dombivli has been tested positive for Covid-19.“The ex-minister developed symptoms on Friday, following which he underwent a test. His report came positive on Saturday and he was admitted to a private hospital in Mulund, where doctors said his condition is stable,” said Pratibha Patil, Epidemic officer of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC). On Saturday, Kalyan and Dombivli reported 160 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number to 2,063. Two new deaths were also reported, which took the death toll in the twin cities to 55.As per KDMC’s health department, the two victims include a 65-year-old man from Kalyan (East) who died at Holy Cross Covid Hospital and a 52-year-old woman from Kalyan (West) who died at Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli. Meanwhile, the total number of cases in Thane city crossed the 5,000-mark on Saturday, after 176 new cases were reported. The death toll stands at 153, while the total cases are 5,005.(inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-bjp-minister-from-kalyan-tested-positive-for-covid-19/story-6BrlVotlainQQOvlnQK1bI.html
14-06-2020||City||Thane resident says nine-month pregnant wife made to shift between hospitals, Covid-19 reports mixed up||A 34-year-old nine-month pregnant woman from Balkaum, Thane, had to go through a harrowing experience after she had to shift between three hospitals owing to confusion pertaining to her Covid-19 test results, her husband has claimed. The woman has tested positive in her latest report and has been admitted to a Covid facility near Thane railway station. The woman was informed that she tested positive for Covid-19 by the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Kalwa, on Thursday, after which she was admitted to the Covid ward of Thane Civil Hospital at Tembhi Naka the same evening. However, on Friday, Thane Civil Hospital authorities asked her family to shift her to BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai as they did not have anaesthetic or Caesarean facilities. “We didn’t have her reports when they shifted her to Nair Hospital in an ambulance. Later, Thane Civil Hospital sent her report to Mumbai. But when the reports arrived, Nair Hospital informed us that the name and address on the report was of a different woman and my wife may not be Covid-positive,” her husband, 40, said. The family then got her to the Kalwa hospital where she underwent a test again and was found positive. Her husband has alleged that his wife was made to stay in the Covid ward despite not being positive, due to which she contracted the virus. “For four months, my wife had not stepped out of the house. So we were also surprised when she tested positive the first time. We have already suffered a lot. I want my wife and unborn child to get proper medical care now,” her husband, who works as an autorickshaw driver, said. As she is asymptomatic, she has now been sent to a Covid facility near Thane station. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said that there has been no mix up and the woman had been Covid-positive since the beginning. “Our lab [at Kalwa] has given the right report in which the name and address of the patient was correct,” said Thane civic commissioner Vijay Singhal said. Thane Civil Hospital said that though they may have sent Nair Hospital the wrong report, the woman had never tested negative. Kailash Pawar, civil surgeon of Thane Civil Hospital, said, “It is true that we had to ask her to shift to Nair Hospital as we are not equipped for her delivery. Our doctor only checked the last name and gave the report to Nair Hospital without verifying if it’s the same person. However, she should have asked for her reports at the Kalwa hospital where she was tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-resident-says-nine-month-pregnant-wife-made-to-shift-between-hospitals-covid-19-reports-mixed-up/story-caN4TGXAJ4zBNs4biQHkZP.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhna Lake, not malls, new crowd favourite in Chandigarh||The first weekend since the malls reopened on June 8 saw lackluster response, with the malls getting only a fraction of the footfall they used to before the Covid-19 lockdown. On the contrary, Sukhna Lake was a hotspot for residents, evident by its chock-a-block parking lots. Swadesh Talwar, a regular here, said the number of people at the lake on Saturday appeared to be even more than the usual days. “The lake’s main parking lot, as well as the area in front of the Lake Club, was full of vehicles, which doesn’t happen on an average day. Over 200 cycles were chained on the railing from the lake all the way to club,” he said.Police officials posted at the lake said the footfall on Saturday was around 5,000, while the number was between 1,000 and 2,000 on regular days. Despite their repeated appeals, the officials complained, people did not follow social distancing, while several joggers also kept their face masks lowered.“Seeing the pictures of large crowds at Sukhna, I have moved to Rose Garden, Sector 16, which is less crowded and safer,” said advocate Ajay Jagga, who used to be a regular at the lake.LOW FOOTFALL AT MALLSDeserted halls and corridors were the scene at Elante Mall, with little to no visitors. Shah Nawaz, manager of the Westside store here, said they had witnessed a considerably dwindled footfall since they reopened on June 8, and the number of customers had only fallen since. “Usually sales on Saturday are much higher than those on Monday, but that was surely not the case this weekend,” he said. Shoppers Stop also confirmed poor response through the week, while Friday and Saturday also saw barely 10% customers walking in, compared to pre-lockdown days.Pedestrian-favourite Sector 17 also saw barely any activity, which the traders attributed to Punjab government’s recent decision to restrict people’s movement on weekends. “Many people from Punjab come to Sector 17 over the weekend, but Saturday brought hardly any business,” said Neeraj Bajaj, proprietor of Sindhi Sweets. ELANTE RESTAURANTS STILL CLOSEDMeanwhile, restaurants at the mall remained closed on Saturday with the impasse regarding rent still not resolved. Tanushree Raina, who works as an image consultant in the city, said she wanted to go to Elante to shop and eat, but cancelled the trip as no eatery was open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhna-lake-not-malls-new-crowd-favourite-in-chandigarh/story-tTvI1oS0HULcgGECokDLKM.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Indo-Canadian Sikh bizman stripped off top award for admission fraud||Indo-Canadian businessman and former national football player David Siddo has been stripped off the “Order of British Columbia” for his links to the US college admissions scandal of 2019. In the scandal, over 50 people have been charged with paying millions in bribes to get their children admitted into top US institutions.The 60-year-old Sikh businessman and investment banker pleaded guilty in Boston federal court in March for using bribes to get his two sons admitted into American colleges.According to the FBI, Sidoo paid $100,000 (Rs 75 lakh) to the scandal mastermind William Rick Singer to use an imposter to take the standardized test (called SAT) on behalf of his elder son. It facilitated his son’s admission into Chapman University.He paid another $100,000 for the admission of his younger son. He also paid imposters to write local British Columbian school exams for his sons.Sidoo, who is yet to be sentenced for the fraud, has reportedly reached a plea bargain with the US attorney to face 90 days in jail and a fine of $250,000 (Rs 1.8 crore).His sentencing hearing comes up on July 15.The “Order of British Columbia” is the highest award given by British Columbia province in Canada for top achievers in different fields.With this order, Sidoo has become the first person to be stripped off this award. He has been ordered to return the award insignia immediately.A celebrated soccer player, Sidoo was the first Indo-Canadian to enter the Canadian Football League. Later, he was inducted into the British Columbia Football Hall of Fame.To celebrate his achievements, his alma mater - the University of British Columbia in Vancouver - had renamed a stadium David Sidoo Field. But his name was removed from the stadium in March after he pleaded guilty to the fraud.Sidoo’s father was one of the early immigrants from India. He was born in New Westminster which is part of the Vancouver area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/indo-canadian-sikh-bizman-stripped-off-top-award-for-admission-fraud/story-ZqWjoraW4V7OfQ1V4tBU0I.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||17 asymptomatic cops in Punjab found positive in random sampling||Seventeen Punjab Police personnel had tested positive for coronavirus in a random sampling of 7,165 cops doing frontline jobs as part of a special coronavirus testing drive, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said on Saturday.This translates into around 0.9% positive cases of the total samples for the police force, as compared with the average of 2% positive cases for the entire state, the DGP said.The special RT-PCR Covid testing drive started on June 1 amid apprehensions of a spike in cases in the wake of relaxation of the curfew in the state, and almost three months of multifarious frontline duties by around 48,000 cops working day and night during the state-wide curfew/lockdown.The DGP disclosed that of the 17 positive cases, 14 belonged to district police, two (including a cook) were from State Armed Police/Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) and one from Punjab Home Guards (PHG). Sangrur has reported the maximum number of positive cases, said the DGP.While 1,868 of the 7,165 samples collected till June 12 had tested negative, results for 5,280 were pending, said Gupta, adding that the sampling process started on June 1, and efforts were being made to test a maximum number of police personnel posted in police stations and other high risk areas on a daily basis depending upon the spare sampling and the testing capacity available with the Health department. He revealed that all the 17 infected cops were in isolation, either in civil hospitals or in the Covid Care Centres established by the Punjab health department.The DGP had, through a video conference, directed all SSPs /CPs and IGs Ranges to conduct RT-PCR test for all police personnel with high risk exposure, with focus on personnel engaged in frontline roles in over 400 police stations of the 27 revenue/police districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-asymptomatic-cops-in-punjab-found-positive-in-random-sampling/story-DtnE4wv7xpelrifv3rsDrK.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||State govt caps price of Covid-19 tests at ₹2,200||The state government on Saturday capped the price for Covid-19 tests (RT-PCR) in private laboratories at ₹2,200, down from the existing maximum price of ₹4,500. The charge can go up to ₹2,800 in case of home swab collection and delivering reports home.State health minister Rajesh Tope announced the decision after a committee of senior health department officials submitted a report. Tope said the price of the test in Maharashtra, the worst-hit state , is now the lowest in the country. The minister said that against the backdrop of testing being done in large numbers and the drop in prices of kits , the decision to reduce the prices of the tests was justified. He said that the four-member committee had given its recommendation for the revision in prices after analysing every aspect related to the cost incurred for the test.“Maharashtra has conducted the highest number of tests and the count is more than 6.25 lakh tests from 95 laboratories, including 42 private laboratories, across the state. The ICMR protocol for RT-PCR tests remains the same and there would be no compromise on quality. This has been another decision in the interest of the public and in the direction of curbing profiteering,” Tope said. He said that the home test charges, too, have been brought down to ₹2,800 from ₹5,200. The committee appointed under Dr Sudhakar Shinde, the state health assurance society’s CEO, submitted its report in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-govt-caps-price-of-covid-19-tests-at-2-200/story-Z2kvEL8oc4rfKj373CX6TK.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon likely to arrive in Mumbai today, says IMD||The weather bureau on Saturday said the southwest monsoon’s onset over Mumbai is expected on Sunday, while changing its ‘heavy to very heavy rain’ warning for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for the coming days. The normal monsoon onset date for Mumbai is June 11.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued an orange alert (be prepared) for heavy to very heavy rain on Monday and Tuesday and a yellow alert (be updated) for heavy rain across isolated areas for Sunday. Earlier on Tuesday, IMD had issued a yellow alert for the entire week and an orange alert for Sunday. However, so far, Mumbai and the surrounding areas have only witnessed traces of rain.Meanwhile, the northern limit of the southwest monsoon further etched into more areas of the state, covering entire south-central Maharashtra, parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada. The onset line passed through Harnai in Ratnagiri district, Ahmednagar district, almost entire Marathwada as well as Nagpur and Gondia in Vidarbha subdivision.“Conditions are favourable for the southwest monsoon covering Mumbai and the rest of the state by Sunday,” said Shubhangi Bhute, director, IMD Mumbai. “Heavy rain warnings have been issued for south Konkan, central Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha for the weekend. As monsoon advances over rest of the state, active monsoon conditions with heavy rain are expected for north Konkan districts, including Mumbai from Sunday onwards.”An independent meteorologist questioned the criteria being followed by IMD for onset declaration. “While monsoon has reached Nagpur as per IMD, it has not been declared for Mumbai yet. Both areas have nearly the same unfavourable wind pattern, but Nagpur got pre-monsoon thunder showers, which IMD used for declaring the arrival,” said Akshay Deoras, meteorologist and PhD researcher at the department of meteorology, University of Reading, the United Kingdom. Between Friday 8.30am and Saturday 8.30am, the city and suburbs received 1.5mm and 2.1 mm rain. However, heavy to very heavy rain with isolated areas receiving extremely heavy rain was recorded across south Konkan districts of Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and Raigad. Vaibhavwadi, Sawantwadi, Malvan and Devgad in Sindhudurg recorded 230mm, 210mm, 190mm and 170mm. Several areas in Ratnagiri and Raigad also recorded 100-150mm rain over the past 24 hours. In central Maharashtra, maximum rain was recorded in Kolhapur district with 170mm rain in Gaganbawada. Rain in Marathwada and Vidarbha ranged between 10mm- 50mm between Friday and Saturday.The city and suburbs witnessed drizzling on Saturday evening with both Santacruz and Colaba recording traces of rainfall. Light showers reported from Borivli, Kandivli, Dahisar, Goregaon, and other parts of the northwestern suburbs. Several areas in the MMR, such as Dombivli, Badalpur, Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Thane and Panvel recorded light to moderate showers. Heavy rain was recorded from the evening onwards at Nashik, said IMD officials. Between Saturday night and through the day on Sunday, the city and suburbs can expect light to moderate showers with the possibility of heavy rain and thundershowers at isolated places, the weather bureau said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-likely-to-arrive-in-mumbai-today-says-imd/story-7J3GD54y7EKzrWA0o8KkKJ.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||5 deaths, 62 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Saturday reported five deaths and 62 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the state’s tally to 3,080, as per the latest field reports received till 10pm. The state has reported 69 fatalities due to Covid-19 so far.Four patients succumbed to Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar on Saturday.“The 75-year old woman, a resident of Gali Jattan Vali inside Lahori Gate, was admitted to the GMCH in a critical state through the flu corner on June 4 and was tested positive for the disease on the same day. She was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and hypothyroidism. She passed away on Saturday,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“A 67-year-old man of Sri Guru Ram Dass Avenue of Majitha Road, who was tested positive for Covid-19 and was also suffering from hypertension, passed away. A 70-year old man of Katra Safed Lahori Gate, who was diabetic, hypertensive and detected Covid positive from an authorised private lab, suffered a cardiac arrest on Saturday evening,” he said.“Also, a 72 year old woman of Ranjit Avenue E block, died due to Covid-19,” said Dr Kishore.The district also reported 20 fresh cases on Saturday, out of which 15 are fresh community transmission cases and five are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. Pathankot deputy commissioner (DC) GS Khaira said, “Four more people of the district were tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and most of them are contacts of Covid-19 patients. The four infected people include two policemen, who were tested randomly as per state govt’s order. Besides, a five-year-old girl also tested positive.”A 65-year-old Malerkotla resident succumbed to Covid-19 at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Saturday. Meanwhile, four people tested positive for coronavirus in Sangrur district today. Of these, two are contacts of deceased Bimla Devi and two are another man admitted at Ludhiana hospital.Two people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Bathinda and Ferozepur on Saturday. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Sandhu said a 32-year person, who had recently returned from Ahmedabad, and had been quarantine at home since had tested positive.In the second case, a 27-year-old pregnant woman tested positive at Ferozepur’s Talwandi Bhai town. A spokesperson of the district administration said health authorities were trying to ascertain her primary contacts. She is being treated at the isolation centre in Ferozepur district.Six people, including a staff nurse posted at an isolation facility at Rajindra hospital, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police posted in Tarn Taran’s special branch was tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday, a day after he died at Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev hospital during his treatment. DSP-special branch Parbesh Chopra said the cop was deployed in Amritsar on the occasion of the Operation Bluestar anniversary. Besides, two more cases of Covid-19 were reported in Tarn Taran on Saturday. One of the cases is of a 45-year-old woman of Jhamke Khurad village while the other is of a 40-year-old man of Deenewal village, who had recently come back from Maharashtra. Six people, including a staff nurse posted at an isolation facility at Rajindra hospital, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, taking the district tally to 158. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the 29-year-old nurse contracted the virus from a Covid-19 patient at the isolation centre. Six new cases have been reported from Jalandhar district on Saturday. Health officials said that all patients were infected from old contacts and there is no travel history of any patient. In Kapurthala, 34-year-old old man tested positive for coronavirus here. He recently returned from UP.Mohali reported 11 cases, eight from Mubarakpur village in Dera Bassi and three from Baltana in Zirakpur.Meanwhile, two woman of Bhadaur town in Barnala tested positive and one in Muktsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-deaths-62-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-fp2et5gJQ3IGBK8eosZhPO.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Case spike in rural areas catches Maha’s eye; tally rises to 104,568||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 3,427 more infections to take the tally to 1,04,568, as the government looks at strengthening its focus on rural areas after a spike in numbers.The state, which had breached the 1 lakh-cases mark on Friday, has recorded over 3,000 fresh infections for four consecutive days.With 113 more deaths, the state toll reached 3,830, although 73 of them were from the past two days, while the remaining casualties were between May 27 and June 10. Mumbai, the worst-affected Indian city, saw 1,380 new infections and 69 more deaths, taking the tally and toll to 56,831 and 2,113 respectively. Over the past week, the state has recorded 21,600 cases and 861 deaths – an average of 3,086 cases and 123 deaths per day — till Saturday. Saturday saw the third highest single-day jump in cases.Meanwhile, even as Mumbai could restrict the virus spread to some extent, the spike in caseload in rural parts and districts like Solapur, Aurangabad, Yavatmal and Jalgaon remained a cause of concern for the state administration. The district administrations have been directed to ramp up health infrastructure, so as to contain the spread. While Mumbai’s daily rise in cases dropped in comparison to the overall state figures over the past three weeks, a few districts like Solapur, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Akola and Dhule have registered a sharp growth in the past three weeks. Solapur’s case count rose to 1,620 on Friday from 522 on May 21, a day before the lockdown was relaxed substantially by reducing areas under red zones. Aurangabad’s tally rose to 1,126 from 457 on May 21, while Jalgaon’s count went up to 1,540 from 331. In Akola and Dhule, the numbers rose to 979 and 353 from 344 and 95 respectively. Mumbai accounted for 63.73% of the state’s new cases on May 14, 56.47% on May 28, 49.06% on June 4 and 39.10% on Friday. “We are implementing the Dharavi pattern in districts like Aurangabad to bring mortality rate down and effective tracing of patients. Thermal scanners and oximeters are being aggressively used in these districts that have witnessed a rising number of cases. Asha workers and other health workers are being roped in to form surveillance squads for tracing and testing. By doing this, the vulnerable and patients with comorbidities are traced, helping us in checking the mortality rate,” said Dr Sadhana Tayade, director, health services.The Central government on Thursday had expressed concerns over the high mortality rate and pointed at the possibility of a shortage of ICU beds in a few districts and cities of Maharashtra. The state authorities have directed the Mumbai corporation for the strict acquisition of beds in private hospitals, while district collectors in other districts are asked to chalk out plans for the addition of beds, anticipating the potential growth of cases in the near future. “Barring Mumbai, we have been able to cope with the demand for ICU beds. While acquiring additional stock of ventilators, we have also asked district authorities to trace vulnerable patients early so that they would not need to put on ventilators,” said an official from the state government. The recovery rate improved to 47.2% from 26.25% on May 20, as the number of recovered patients reached 49,346 on Saturday. The national recovery rate on Saturday was 49.95%. The mortality rate was 3.7% against the national rate of 2.88%. Of the 113 deaths reported on Saturday, 87 are from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including 69 from Mumbai, eight from Navi Mumbai. Ten deaths were in Pune and eight in Solapur. 65 of the people who died were above 60 years of age and 83 of them had comorbidities.A total of 16,464 samples have been tested in the past 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 15.74%. Currently, 5,83,303 people are under home quarantine.Out of Mumbai’s 69 deaths, 47 patients had co-morbidities, whereas, seven deaths were below 40 years of age, 37 deaths were above 60 years of age, and 25 were between 40 to 60 years.As per BMC data, 795 patients recovered and were discharged on Saturday as the total discharges have gone up to 25, 947. The total number of active patients in the city stands at 28, 682.There were signs of improvement in one of the most vulnerable areas of the city, Dharavi, which recorded no deaths and only 17 cases on Saturday. Dharavi’s case count has reached 2,030.Meanwhile, BMC said that ICMR has approved its technique of plasma therapy to check for the “right quality plasma” with adequate levels of antibodies to treat Covid-19 patients as per the protocols. BMC-run Kasturba, Nair and KEM have got an approval for trial by the ICMR. The technique called Chemiluminescent Immunoassay (CLIA) can be used to test the plasma from a recovered patient for the quantum of IgG antibodies. In a statement issued on Saturday, BMC said, “Only a donor with adequate antibodies is selected, which allows quality plasma to be given to the patient. This will help to treat patients more effectively.”As part of its monsoon preparedness, the BMC’s insecticide department has destroyed over 1.08 lakh breeding sites of the aedes aegypti mosquito, known to spread dengue, and 333 breeding sites of the anopheles mosquito, which is the malaria vector. This drive took place between January this year till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/case-spike-in-rural-areas-catches-maha-s-eye-tally-rises-to-104-568/story-7Bnm2lOAIL2wVSb0NLpskL.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cases spike, Punjab’s patient ratio on a slide||Even as there has been a sharp increase in the number of positive cases in Punjab lately, but state’s patient ratio (proportion of positive cases against samples tested) has decreased with nearly five-fold increase in testing in a fortnight.Analysis of the figures available with the health department reveals that state’s patient ratio decreased from 1.76% on May 25 to 1.09% on June 11. Sampling in Punjab has touched 10,000 per day from 1,500-2,500 in the last week of May, and the dip in the patient ratio is a good sign for Punjab.Notably, as per reports, some worst-hit states have decreased testing after spurt in positive cases in the past over two weeks.“Our testing has doubled since June 1 but the patient ratio of the state has revolved around 1% which is a matter of satisfaction for us. One out of 100 testing positive shows that the situation is under control,” Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said.As per the June 12 figures, Punjab recorded 2,986 Covid-19 patients out of 1,65,548 samples tested, which comes out to be 1.8%. With maximum cases, Amritsar district has the highest patient ratio at 6%.Since June 1, Punjab has tested 85,420 samples till June 13 at an average of 6,570 tests a day.PATIENTS DOUBLING QUICKLY NOWThe spurt in positive cases has brought down the doubling time of patients from 55 days on June 4 to 25 days on June 12. On May 18, patients in the state had doubled after 91 days. Punjab has detected over 700 Covid-19 cases since June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cases-spike-punjab-s-patient-ratio-on-a-slide/story-W7PgbiMsCyjcg7HSC26YTL.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Housing society in Kandivli first to get Mumbai civic body’s nod to set up isolation centre within premises||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to permit housing societies and housing complexes to set up isolation facilities in gymnasiums and club houses inside the society premises to quarantine Covid-19 residents who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. BMC has stated that this move will help authorities and give a “homely feeling” to residents who have to be quarantined. In one such move, BMC officials said they have given permission to Vishwa Deep Heights housing society at Kandivli’s Mahavir Nagar to set up isolation facilities inside its gymnasium provided they follow the 11 conditions put forth by the civic body pertaining to the safety of other residents. Some of these conditions include sharing patient details with the BMC, having separate entry and exit points to the facility, not using the facility for commercial purposes, not using the facility as refuge area, arranging medical professionals, ensuring disposal of medical waste as per norms, using safety gears and following all protocols issued by the authorities. Sanjay Kurhade, assistant municipal commissioner of R South ward (which comprises of Kandivli), said, “We have given permission to the society located at Mahavir Nagar. It in a way, this move will help the BMC in ensuring that all citizens get the required treatment. If any society wishes to obtain permission to set up isolation facilities to quarantine its residents, they can apply at their local ward office. However, they have to follow all the conditions laid down by the BMC.”Though Vishwa Deep Heights does not have any Covid-19 case among its residents, the society is setting up the facility as a precautionary measure, said society committee member Nilesh Vyas. “Though we received the permission, we hope we don’t have to ever use it. We are only doing this as a precaution. We are ready with two beds as of now but we can increase three more beds, if required in the future,” Vyas said.There are 67 residential flats and nine commercial establishments within the society premises, Vyas added. “Three of our residents are doctors involved in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, and they have agreed to help us in case any case is reported from our society. Based on their guidance, we have set up some basic infrastructure, including beds with disposable covers, PPE [personal protective equipment] kits, pulse oximeter, hand sanitiser dispenser etc. There’s also an oxygen facility which can be useful during emergencies until a patient reaches hospital,” Vyas said.Earlier, there was a lack of clarity on whether the BMC will permit isolation facilities within housing societies. However, it gave its nod to set up the facilities in society premises after several elected representatives approached the BMC.Gopal Shetty, Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarian from Kandivli, said, “I had requested BMC to issue permissions to set up isolation facilities in housing societies. This will help in fighting the shortage of beds, ambulances etc.”Earlier, HT had reported on Friday about how a housing complex, comprising four high-rise buildings, in Parel also plans to set up an intensive care unit (ICU) and isolation facility in their clubhouse and utilise their empty flats too for the same. There are around 20 medical professionals residing in the complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/housing-society-in-kandivli-first-to-get-mumbai-civic-body-s-nod-to-set-up-isolation-centre-within-premises/story-MMGE8nnvLfgQa41ov9iUUO.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Anmol Narang is first Sikh woman to graduate from US Military Academy||Second Lieutenant Anmol Narang will create history by becoming the first observant Sikh to graduate from the prestigious United States Military Academy at West Point on Saturday.US President Donald Trump will deliver remarks at the 2020 US Military Academy at West Point graduation ceremony.“I am excited and honoured to be fulfilling my dream of graduating from West Point on Saturday,” 2LT Narang said in a statement on the eve of the historic occasion.“The confidence and support of my community back home in Georgia has been deeply meaningful to me, and I am humbled that in reaching this goal, I am showing other Sikh-Americans that any career path is possible for anyone willing to rise to the challenge,” she said.Narang will complete her basic officer leadership course at Fort Sill in Lawton, Oklahoma. Following the successful completion of BOLC, she will then head to her first posting in Okinawa, Japan, in January of 2021, according to the non-profit organisation Sikh Coalition.A second-generation immigrant born and raised in Roswell, Georgia, Narang had an early appreciation for military service due to her maternal grandfather’s career in the Indian Army.After she developed an interest in military service during high school, she began the process to apply for the West Point after her family visited Pearl Harbor National Memorial in Honolulu, Hawaii.She attended one year of undergraduate study at the Georgia Institute of Technology before transferring to West Point, where she proceeded to study nuclear engineering and pursue a career path in air defence systems, the media release said.In 1987, the US Congress passed a law that prohibited Sikhs and several other religious communities from maintaining their articles of faith while in the military, despite a history of diverse service and simple accommodations.The Sikh Coalition said that for 30 years, the visible Sikh articles of faith, including unshorn facial hair and turbans, were banned, despite being core tenets of the faith.In response, for more than 10 years, the Sikh Coalition has led a campaign, in partnership with other Sikh and civil rights organisations, litigation partners, and like-minded advocates, to ensure equality of opportunity for Sikhs Americans in the US Armed Forces.“While 2LT Narang required no accommodation for her articles of faith, her exemplary service to date underscores how diversity and pluralism remain core strengths of the US military and the country as a whole,” Sikh Coalition said.“I am immensely proud of 2LT Narang for seeing her goal through and, in doing so, breaking a barrier for any Sikh-American who wishes to serve,” said US Army Captain (CPT) Simratpal Singh, a family friend of 2LT Narang.There are an estimated 500,000 Sikh-Americans in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anmol-narang-is-first-sikh-woman-to-graduate-from-us-military-academy/story-75bKmXINLWnRlNqbhXv0cM.html
14-06-2020||City||IMA passing out parade: Proud parents virtually watch officers get commissioned||With the Covid-19 pandemic bringing changes across various spheres, the passing out parade of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun was also no different.Normally right there to experience the proud moment and congratulate their sons, parents of the newly commissioned army officers this year had to be content with watching the parade virtually.Lt Simranjit Singh, Lt Karan Singh Cheema, Lt Gurlal Singh and Lt Sahgurbaz Singh, four cadets of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali, besides Lt Animesh from Chandigarh, were among the cadets commissioned as Lieutenants in the Indian Army in an impressive Passing out Parade and Pipping Ceremony held at IMA, Dehradun, on Saturday.Due to the Covid 19 threat, parents of all newly commissioned Lieutenants witnessed the parade live on TV. The pipping ceremony, which is done by parents or family members, was also done by the IMA officers.“The four cadets are from the 4th batch of the academy,” said AFPI director Major General BS Grewal.A resident of Phase 3, Lt Sahgurbaaz Singh is a 2014-batch alumnus of St John’s High School, Chandigarh, and Shemrock School, Mohali. He will be joining the 101 Medium Regiment. His parents are Balvinder Singh, a deputy general manager with a telecom firm and Harjot Kaur, a joint general manager at Housing and Urban Development Corporation Ltd (HUDCO). His sister Jappji Mehar is a scientist with the department of space, ISRO.Lt Simranjit Singh, hailing from Hoshiarpur, will join the First Horse Regiment, which his father had also served as a Junior Commissioned Officer. A native of Faridkot, Lt Gurlal Singh has been picked for the 12 Field Regiment.Lt Karan Singh Cheema, a resident of Mohali, is going to the Assam Regiment, which his father Lt Col S Cheema had also served. A resident of Sector 44, Lt Animesh is the son of Major ML Sharma (retd). He has been commissioned in 20 Rajputana Rifles, the oldest rifle regiment. His first posting is at on the China border in Arunachal Pradesh.The AFPI was set up by the Punjab government in 2011 for training cadets aiming to join the armed forces as commissioned officers.Director Major General BS Grewal said, “Punjab was once known as the Sword Arm of India, but over the years, its contribution to the armed forces has decreased. This year, the cadets from AFPI have increased. We have sent 137 cadets from seven courses to NDA, of which 63 have been commissioned as officers, while rest are still training. ”Meanwhile, Chandigarh resident Ramanjot Singh, who also passed out from the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala, Kerala, also did not have his parents by his side at the ceremony. His parents Manminder Singh and Jai Preet Kaur , residents of Sector 46, said even though the ceremony was postponed from May 28 to June 13, they unfortunately still could not attend the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ima-passing-out-parade-proud-parents-virtually-watch-officers-get-commissioned/story-RlPob1KhWhJ74k41DsS2FJ.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Anomalies in construction : Contractor directed to reconstruct road in Ludhiana||Finding anomalies in the construction of Circular road, the municipal corporation (MC) has directed the contractor to recarpet the road, failing which the civic body will not release the payment for the project. The contractor has started digging the ready mix concrete (RMC) road.As per officials, the road was constructed in January at a cost of ₹55 lakh. They had received a complaint following which testing was done and anomalies were found.It was observed that average thickness of the RMC laid was around four inches. But, the contractor was supposed to ensure 6 inch thickness of laid RMC, as per the conditions and estimated cost of the project, MC officials said.MC superintending engineer, Tirath Bansal said,” The contractor has been told that the payment for the project will not be released until the road is constructed as per the conditions laid in the agreement. Even after the reconstruction, the MC will check the quality before releasing the payment.” An RTI activist had also observed a one-day hunger strike outside the MC Zone D office on June 10 against the alleged corruption in bridges and roads branch of MC. He had sought a vigilance inquiry into the matter wherein poor quality roads were constructed in different parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anomalies-in-road-contractor-directed-to-reconstruct-road-in-ludhiana/story-tgI5gheTSq5Ysm2owGMOfM.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Markets in Ludhiana wear deserted look amid weekend lockdown restrictions||With the Punjab government imposing stricter lockdown restrictions on weekends, markets in the city wore a deserted look on Saturday. Many shopkeepers kept their shops closed while others kept waiting for customers.Shopkeepers rued that there was confusion among them and residents regarding opening of shops due to which many shops remained closed. Also, fewer vehicles were seen on roads. Paramjit Singh, president of the Malhar Road Shopkeepers’ Welfare Association, said ,”Until late on Friday evening, it was being said that shops will remain closed on weekends. But, the administration made an announcement that shops can open till 5pm on Saturday. Due to this, confusion prevailed and many kept their shops closed. Also, the timing is not suitable for business as residents do not leave their houses in the scorching heat”Inderpal Singh, a shopkeeper in the Chaura Bazar area, said, “There were no customers in the market on Saturday. Business is at an all time low and the government has made it worse by announcing a lockdown on weekdays.”Malls also wore a deserted look with shopkeepers ruing that business would be hit badly due to weekend lockdown restrictions, as most residents visit malls during evening on weekends.Manpreet Singh Bunty, president of Akalgarh market garment association, said,” It is another blow to traders who are already reeling under losses. There was no customer in the market and many shopkeepers had to close their shops without selling a single piece. The market association is contemplating agitation against the government in the coming days.”The bus stand also saw no footfall with the state government imposing restrictions on inter-district movement. Officials said services would resume from Monday onwards.Kuljit Singh Sodhi, station supervisor of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT), said, “We had received directions from the head office and no bus departed from bus stand for any district on Saturday. The residents cannot commute to other districts without e-pass.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/markets-in-ludhiana-wear-deserted-look-amid-weekend-lockdown-restrictions/story-nSUOVTraBFaAPWaDKZLxuO.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister lays foundation stone of 30-bed Mother-Child Hospital laid in Ludhiana||In a relief to residents of Jagraon, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone of a 30-bed Mother-Child Hospital in Jagraon on Saturday.The hospital will be established within the Jagraon civil hospital premises at a cost of around Rs 8.5 crore. The project is expected to complete in a year. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Jagraon Sarvjit Kaur Manuke was also present on the occasion. Sidhu said, “The facilities, including ultrasound, ECG, laboratory, pharmacy, a feeding room, a newborn stabilisation unit (NBSU), a recovery room, a septic operation theatre, a pre-natal room, a labour room, a septic labour room, a paediatric ward with a nurse station, private rooms, wards, besides others, would be provided in the hospital. The new hospital would be equipped with a lift that would be connected to all three storeys.”He said the Punjab government was committed to provide best healthcare facilities to its citizens and soon, more such hospitals as well as trauma centres would be set up in different rural and urban areas of the state.He said the Punjab government has also decided to recruit 7,055 staff members, including 500 medical officers, 500 specialist doctors, paramedical staff, ANMs, multipurpose health workers, nurses, technical staff, besides others.He said under the “Mission Fateh” of the Punjab government, the health staff would be making people aware of ways to keep themselves safe from Covid-19. It is due to the efforts of the staff and officials of the health department that Covid-19 cases in the state are less compared to those in other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-lays-foundation-stone-of-30-bed-mother-child-hospital-laid-in-ludhiana/story-ZdPNuqUdvax0mZRJZobslJ.html
14-06-2020||City||Police personnel injured during raid in Nayagaon||A police personnel sustained injuries after his team was attacked in Nayagaon here on Saturday.The injured has been identified as Labh Singh, who is posted as Munshi in Nayagaon.The incident took place when the police team had gone to arrest an immigration agent accused in a fraud case. As per information, the agent, Daljit Singh resident of Shivalik Vihar, attacked the police team led by Nayagaon SHO inspector Ashok Kumar with sharp weapons.Labh sustained minor injuries in the attack and was admitted to Kharar civil hospital.The police have registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) at the Nayagaon police station against Daljit and started investigation.Daljit had been on the run ever since he was booked for duping people on pretext of sending them abroad last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-personnel-injured-during-raid-in-nayagaon/story-d4G84GcfXKniy9XeU66TBI.html
14-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram breaches 3k Covid-19 cases, 203 more infected in a day||Gurugram breached the 3,000 cases mark on Saturday with the state health department’s morning bulletin recording 203 new people as having contracted Covid-19 in the district in a day. On Saturday, the total number of Covid-positive cases in the district stood at 3125 cases, up from 2,922 cases the previous day.Over the past two days, Gurugram’s doubling rate has improved to 8 days (as recorded on June 12 evening), while the daily average growth rate in cases has also recorded a decline. On June 10, for example, the number of new cases was 9.8%. It dropped to 7.8% percent on June 12. However, experts said these minute, day-to-day improvements are irrelevant when the data is viewed over a longer period, such as the past one month (in which time Gurugram recorded more than half of its total number of cases as of Saturday). An analysis of district bulletin numbers since May 18 (when lockdown restrictions began to be eased) shows that Gurugram’s test-positivity rates are at an all time high (45.6% on June 12), while testing numbers have not significantly improved.From recording an average of 41 new cases per day in the last two weeks of May, the district is now is recording an average of 178 new cases per day, an increase of 338%, district health bulletin data shows. “This number is going to increase in coming weeks. High test-positivity rates, and shrinking of doubling rate, is a clear indicator that transmission of the virus has not been adequately controlled,” said Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMS Chandigarh.In Gurugram, 10 patients are currently in critical care at Medanta Hospital, Medeor and Fortis hospitals. This is two-thirds of the 15 patients on life-support across the state.Meanwhile, Faridabad recorded 100 new cases on Saturday morning, followed by 14 cases in Bhiwani, 30 in Rohtak, and 16 in Ambala. Haryana’s total tally of Covid cases stands at 6,749 cases, of which 2803 patients have recovered, 78 have succumbed to the disease, and 3,868 are classified as ‘active cases’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-breaches-3k-covid-cases-203-more-infected-in-a-day/story-2BaEVAA0zDPzTv1kmA1zfO.html
14-06-2020||City||Punjab transfers 29 IAS officers; DPR, excise commissioner replaced||Chandigarh Punjab government on Saturday transferred 29 IAS officers and four PCS officers, including excise and taxation commissioner Vivek Partap Singh amid the ongoing illegal liquor trade controversy. Ravi Bhagat will now be director, information and public relations, replacing Anandita Mitra.Enforement directorate is already probing the alleged illegal liquor trade in the state amid the Covid-induced lockdown.Vivek Partap has been transferred as secretary, personnel, with additional charge of managing director, State Warehousing Corporation Limited; and MD, Conware, replacing Nilkanth S Avhad.Vijay Namdeorao Zade will now be secretary expenditure, and Rajat Aggarwal chief executive officer, Punjab Bureau of Investment, will join as excise commissioner.Government has also transferred Jalandhar Municipal Corporation commissioner Diprava Lakhra, who on Saturday had a tiff with Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku. She has been appointed as director, social security, women and child development.Tanu Kashyap will now be managing director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, whereas Gurpreet Kaur Sapra has been transferred as special secretary, finance.Malwinder Singh Jaggi will be special secretary, school education, whereas Kanwal Preet Brar has been posted as director, Tourism and Cultural Affairs.DPS Kharbanda, director, Rural Development, will now be director, Sports; and Vipur Ujjwal will replace him. Punneet Goyal will join as Ferozepur deputy commissioner, and Karunesh Sharma as Ludhiana Municipal Corporation commissioner.Kumar Sourbah will take charge as director, Technical Education, whereas Shena Aggarwal will replace Vinay Bublani as SBS Nagar deputy commissioner.Ramvir will join as Sangrur deputy commissioner, replacing Ghanshyam Thori, while Kulwant Singh has been posted as Tarn Taran DC, replacing Pardeep Kumar.Jalandhar deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma will join as Ludhiana deputy commissioner and Vimal Kumar Setia will be Faridkot deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-transfers-29-ias-officers-dpr-excise-commissioner-replaced/story-omUYKORgHuC1ABlEaL9NQM.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Amit Shah, Arvind Kejriwal and Anil Baijal to hold discussions on Delhi’s Covid-19 crisis||Union home minister Amit Shah and health minister Harsh Vardhan will meet Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal twice on Sunday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, which added 2,134 new cases and recorded 57 deaths on Saturday. The state government’s own expert panel will meet on Monday to discuss ways to augment the health care infrastructure, especially hospitals, and on Tuesday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority will discuss the issue. The spate of meetings comes against the backdrop of a spike in the number of cases in the state -- Delhi has added 10,022 cases between Monday and Saturday, for a daily average of 1,670 — which ended Saturday with a total of 38,958 cases and 1,271 deaths. They also come as the state government is looking to aggressively increase the number of beds available for Covid-19 treatment, by attaching star hotels to hospitals and setting up facilities in large banquet halls. On Sunday, the home minister and the health minister will hold two meetings with Baijal and Kejriwal. Shah and Harsh Vardhan will meet the Delhi L-G and the CM along with members of the DDMA at 11am on Sunday, a statement from the home minister’s office said. The director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Dr Randeep Guleria and other senior government officers will also be present at the meeting to be helmed by the home minister.Shah and Vardhan will hold a second meeting at 5pm on Sunday to get a sense of what the municipal corporations are doing to fight the pandemic and help the government. This meeting will have the three mayors and commissioners of the East, North and South Delhi municipal corporations in attendance, apart from the CM, the L-G, Guleria and senior officials of the Union health and home ministries. Shah’s call for the back-to-back meetings came three days after Kejriwal met him to discuss theCovid-19 situation in the capital. After the meeting, the CM tweeted: “He [Amit Shah] assured of all cooperation.On Monday, the government’s expert panel will hold a meeting to review Delhi’s bed augmentation plan. This will be followed by a high-level meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chaired by the L-G, on Tuesday, to discuss issues such as capping Covid treatment cost in private hospitals, reducing the current testing price of Rs 4,500, creating temporary mortuaries and crematoriums, and increasing the number of beds in the city. According to the meeting notice, seen by HT, the June 16 meeting will also discuss the possibility of “using large blocks of vacant flats” for setting up makeshift Covid facilities. It also talks of preparing large scale makeshift hospitals with contactless treatment based on the Mumbai model. On June 12, Hindustan Times, was the first to report that the Delhi government planned to convert its stadiums on the pattern of the NSCI Dome, in Mumbai’s Worli area. Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is monitoring Mumbai’s Covid-19 bed augmentation plan, said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has so far operationalised about 15,000 beds at various field modular hospitals, mostly stadiums.“Most of these field hospitals have contactless clinics, CCTV camera monitoring, remote sensing for patient parameters, and do-it-yourself processes for patients. These innovative measures have helped us operate these facilities with a thinly spread staff,” Thackeray added. The creation of more drive-through Covid testing labs and provision of a 24x7 telemedicine facility by a panel of government and private doctors will also be discussed in Tuesday’s meeting.Minutes after the agenda for the meeting was issued, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal released a video on social media urging doctors to chip in for the service. “I appeal to all doctors to volunteer for Delhi government’s Corona Telemedicine Helpline. Give a missed call now to 08047192219 to register. The people of Delhi need your support in this difficult hour.” Tuesday’s meeting will also discuss how many medical personnel will have to be recruited to operationalise the augmented bed capacity of the city. “Fixing price ceiling for treatment by private hospitals as some of them are charging exorbitant price and seeking huge advances. Fixing ceiling for charges of private ambulance services as some of them are charging huge price. Reducing prices being charged by private labs for Covid tests to make it affordable to general public… Send IEC [Information, Education, Communication] material on WhatsApp/SMS to all Covid positive persons/suspects immediately and periodically,” read the meeting notice issued on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shah-kejriwal-and-baijal-to-hold-discussions-on-delhi-s-covid-crisis/story-xrWEKfw9na8ErUIrtvdoML.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Police personnel given ‘immunity shots’ in Ludhiana||A homeopath and certified Raw Food Lifestyle coach has come forward to give ‘immunity shots’ to cops free of cost||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-personnel-given-immunity-shots-in-ludhiana/story-jOhjYbECbt5U92g544oGrN.html
14-06-2020||City||Covid-19 patient discharged from Assam hospital due to confusion over names||What’s in a name? It turned out to be a lot in Assam’s Darrang district as a Covid-19 patient was discharged from hospital instead of a recovered person due to confusion over their similar-sounding names.Officials on Saturday said the incident occurred two days ago when authorities of the Mangaldoi Civil Hospital were calling out the names of 14 recovered people for their release.The Covid-19 patient responded to a name sounding similar to his, which was in fact of a recovered person from his Dalgaon Sialmari village. He was then discharged instead, they said.But the hospital authorities quickly realised their mistake and sent an ambulance to bring the Covid-19 patient back to the medical establishment the same night, the officials said.The patient fortunately tested negative for Covid-19 in a test conducted on Friday and was discharged along with the person in whose place he was released earlier, they said.Hospital authorities said that the mistake was caused due to similar-sounding names of the two persons and also because their faces were concealed by masks.Darrang Deputy Commissioner Dilip Kumar Bora has ordered an inquiry into the incident and declared the mistakenly discharged person’s house a containment zone.Swab samples of his family members have been collected and sent for tests.Assam has reported over 3,600 Covid-19 cases so far, of which over 2,000 are active, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. Eight persons have died of Covid-19 in the state so far. Of them, four succumbed to the disease this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patient-discharged-from-assam-hospital-due-to-confusion-over-names/story-nS84OY8xii2ghIW6MtCxcI.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||HC seeks report from charity commissioner after Bandra locals claim hospital charged them ₹12.5L||The Bombay high court (HC) has called for a report from the office of the charity commissioner regarding a charitable hospital, after seven slum dwellers from Bharat Nagar in Bandra (West) alleged that the hospital had collectively charged them an exorbitant amount of 12.5 lakh for their Covid-19 treatment.The bench of justice RD Chanukah and justice Madhav Jamdar has called for an inquiry under the supervision of the charity commissioner to ascertain whether the hospital, located in the eastern suburbs, reserves 10℅ beds for indignant patients and provides them treatment free of cost.In the petition filed through advocate Vivek Shukla, the residents said they had been admitted to the charitable hospital between April 11 and April 28 for Covid-19 treatment. They alleged that they were charged the amount for anaesthetic services, when no such services were required for their treatment.They added that after they had been discharged from the hospital, they found that though the hospital is run by a charitable trust, which has availed several facilities from the state government, it did not provide mandatory free treatment to the patients belonging to the lower strata of the society.The bench, after hearing their petition, said that there are serious allegations made in the petition regarding the alleged exorbitant charges collected by the hospital, and directed the hospital to file an affidavit indicating if similar charges at the same rates were recovered from other Covid-19 patients admitted at the hospital.The court has directed that the affidavits be filed by June 19 and posted the petition for further hearing on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-seeks-report-from-charity-commissioner-after-bandra-locals-claim-hospital-charged-them-12-5l/story-GVKZRQCIe6Uwa4lyQ5D7XL.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Shops shut for nearly 3 months, traders in ‘red zone’ Jahangirpuri seek nod to reopen||After being forced to remain shut for nearly three months, at least 8,000 traders in north Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, a containment zone, are demanding that they be allowed to reopen shops as they are now struggling to survive without a means of livelihood. Shops in Jahangirpuri had been shut since March 21, four days before the nationwide lockdown to combat Covid-19 kicked in. On April 8, Block B in this neighbourhood became the first of 12 containment zones to crop up across the locality. According to district administration officials, nearly 300 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the entire Jahangirpuri area, where around seven lakh people live, making this one of the most prolific hot spots in north Delhi. Of the 34 containment zones in North district, 12 are in Jahangirpuri. Officials said even though Covid cases rose sharply in the locality in the initial two months, only isolated cases are being reported now, but the authorities are still wary of lifting the curbs.They said it may take another week before they even start thinking of allowing markets to open.Traders along with local area councillor met the district magistrate (north) Deepak Shinde on Wednesday and requested him to make some arrangements to allow them to open shops in some pockets of Jahangirpuri where the number of Covid-19 cases is low.Jahangirpuri councillor Poonam Bagri said in other parts of the city, only those lanes are sealed from where Covid-19 cases are reported while markets are allowed to open with restrictions. But that was not the case in Jahangirpuri.“In Jahangirpuri, markets are still closed and shopkeepers and vendors have no earnings. We have written to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal regarding the problems being faced by traders and residents of the area due to the closure of markets. Surviving without a livelihood for nearly three months is not easy for middle-class and lower middle-class families of Jahangirpuri,” she said.Bagri said some parts of Sadar Bazar, which was a containment zone, has now been opened after traders protested and raised the matter with the administration. “Shinde has assured us that he will conduct an inspection with the health department officials to assess the Covid-19 situation and allow shops in some pockets to open at least by next week,” she said.Rahul Juneja, member of Jahangirpuri B-C Block market association, said, “Items kept in the shops are getting spoiled -- rats have destroyed ready-made garments. We have no income, and, yet, we have to pay fixed charges for electricity and water. We are now struggling to survive and the situation will become worse if we are not allowed to open our shops soon.” Shinde said isolated cases have been reported from different pockets of Jahangirpuri and so the area continues to remain a containment zone and markets cannot be allowed to open.“Isolated cases of Covid-19 are being reported from the area. In that scenario, we cannot take a chance as Jahangirpuri is a densely populated area. As a precautionary measure, markets have to be kept shut for now. We are closely monitoring the situation and will consider opening markets in some pockets once there is some improvement in the situation,” he said.The district magistrate further said on the request of residents, the timings of grocery shops have been increased by two hours -- from the earlier 8am to 10am to 7am to 11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shops-shut-for-nearly-3-months-traders-in-red-zone-jahangirpuri-seek-nod-to-reopen/story-42ZOfXEHB59pXhPKW2jhfP.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Govt Industrial Training Institute in Ludhiana to organise virtual job fair||As shortage of workers is a major concern for industries here, the Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI), Gill Road, has decided to organise a virtual job fair for pass out and final-year students. Virtual interviews will be conducted next week through video-conferencing and currently, candidates have been asked to register online. The initiative has been taken by members of the institute’s management committee. The job fair will be organised in collaboration with district bureau of employment enterprises (DBEE).As lakhs of migrant workers have returned to their hometowns and the industry is reeling under labour crisis, authorities decided to organise the job fair and provide skilled candidates to the industry.The principal secretary, technical education and industrial training, Punjab, Anurag Verma on June 9 instructed principals of all ITIs across the state to organise virtual job fairs and tie up with industries to know vacancies so that trained candidates can be provided to overcome manpower shortage. The virtual interviews will allow employers and candidates to meet and interact.Inderjit Nagpal, member of government’s institute management committee of the Government ITI, Ludhiana, and city based industrial paint dealer, said, “There is a shortage of 30,000 to 40,000 workers here and to meet the demand, either the workers have to be brought back from their home state or new employees must be hired to complete production work. The hosiery and auto industries are reeling under crisis and require manpower to run their factories.” As many as 2,780 candidates from different ITIs of the district have registered online against 2,215 vacancies in the 128 companies who have shown interest in hiring candidates.Baljinder Singh, principal of Government ITI Gill Road said, “We have received overwhelming response from the candidates and industry and will be holding interviews next week. More than 1,200 candidates have registered for jobs such as machinist and welder.”Anurag Verma, principal secretary, technical education and industrial training, Punjab, said, “These virtual job fairs will help the students get employed and help industries get skilled candidates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-industrial-training-institute-in-ludhiana-to-organise-virtual-job-fair/story-XAzSw6YQxO6piSqU4xxJTO.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Ganga Ram hospital moves high court against Delhi government’s FIR||The administration of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has filed a plea in the Delhi high court, seeking the scrapping of an FIR based on a complaint by the Delhi government for allegedly not following Covid-19 testing guidelines.The plea, which is likely to be heard on Monday, also sought the setting aside of an order passed by the Delhi government on June 3 that prohibited the hospital from testing for Covid-19. Earlier, on June 3, the the hospital was asked by the Delhi government in an order to stop Covid-19 testing, citing violations of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.However, the order was later recalled on Saturday and the hospital authorities were again allowed to resume testing.The Delhi government had filed an FIR against the medical superintendent of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Rajendra Nagar for allegedly not following protocols for testing Covid-19 patients. The FIR was filed last week on the basis of a complaint by Delhi’s deputy health secretary, Amit Kumar Pamasi.The public relations officer of Ganga Ram Hospital refused to comment on the plea in the high court.The Delhi Medical Association had, in a press statement, condemned the FIR and called the case against the hospital’s health workers “highly demoralising” during a pandemic.The FIR has been filed under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code that allows a punishment of one month’s simple imprisonment and/or ₹200 fine or six months imprisonment and/ or ₹1,000 fine if the offence puts human life at risk. The IPC section can be invoked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, which has been in force in Delhi since mid-March.“The order of Health and Family Welfare Department regarding guidelines for tracking and monitoring of every Covid-19 suspected cases tested in various accredited labs across Delhi wherein it was mandatory for the labs to collect sample only through the Delhi government’s RT-PCR App. Further CDMO (Chief District Medical Officer) cum mission director, Central, mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram hospital is still not using RT-PCR app even till today (03/06) which is a clear violation of direction issued under Epidemic Disease Covid-19 regulation 2020,” a copy of the FIR read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganga-ram-hospital-approaches-hc-asks-for-delhi-govt-fir-against-it-be-quashed/story-XiAYSP1KvMMSDKq6Adwm7H.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Increase beds, ventilators, use govt flats as Covid-19 hospitals: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court has directed the government to increase the number of beds and ventilators for Covid-19 patients and also told them to consider using “ready to move in” government flats in the city as Covid-19 hospitals. The court told the government on Thursday that it could put beds and other infrastructure to accommodate infected patients in those houses. The detailed order of the court was uploaded on Saturday.During the hearing, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also asked all the hospitals in the city to upload the correct availability of “realtime bed capacity data” so that citizens would know about the bed capacity in hospitals in advance.The directions came while the court was disposing of a joint plea moved by several lawyers of Charter law chambers, through advocate Mridul Chakravarty, seeking proper implementation of containment guidelines, especially in Defence Colony of South Delhi (around 11 houses in C block had cases of Covid-19), and to ensure the availability of enough beds for Covid-19 patients in hospitals in Delhi.On June 11, advocate Chakravarty, appearing for the petitioners, contended that the Delhi government had not declared Defence Colony as a containment zone as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. He also submitted that more beds are required for Covid-19 patients as their number is exploding.Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel Shadan Farasat, told the court that till June 9, they had 9,179 beds in the city, of which 4,914 beds have already been occupied and the rest are available for new patients. He also submitted that there are a total of 569 ventilators, of which 315 are being utilised and the remaining are available for use.He further assured the court that they are strictly following all the guidelines and directions issued by the Centre and by other competent bodies.Following arguments, the bench said that since a group of 11 houses in C block has already been made a containment zone, there was no reason to declare all of Defence Colony a containment zone.The court also said that the “world is presently going through Covid-19 pandemic affecting all sections of the society at large, and in a matter like this, the government should be given some degree of movement.” It said that both the Centre and the Delhi government are aware of the situation and have been issuing directions from time to time.“There cannot be any hard and fast mathematical solution to such a problem. In a situation like this, experimental based solutions are to be tested [sic].”During the hearing, advocate Chakravarty, the counsel for the petitioners, also suggested that there are “ready to move in” government flats available in the city which could be utilised as Covid-19 hospitals.The court, while appreciating the suggestion, asked the Delhi government to consider it when they formulate or amend their policy decisions. It also asked the government to consider the suggestions made by the Delhi Medical Association on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/increase-beds-ventilators-use-govt-flats-as-covid-hospitals-hc-to-govt/story-pHsNzS8AlIeKnTbRrDovMP.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to hand out oxygen meters for Covid-19 patients in home isolation||The Delhi government is working on a plan to loan pulse-oximeters patients with mild symptoms of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for regular monitoring of oxygen levels during home isolation. With the number of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the rise and limited number of hospital beds available, the government is working on a plan of treating as many people as possible at their homes itself.So far, 34,687 people in the city have contracted the viral infection. Of these, 20,871 are active cases or those still living with the infection. Data provided by the Delhi government shows that almost 70% of those with the infection in the city are currently in home-isolation.“Delhi Govt. to distribute ‘Pulse Oximeters’ to Corona positive patients who are under home isolation, for regular checking of their oxygen levels. AAP government is making all efforts to assist patients in every possible way,” read a tweet from AAP’s official handle.The government is procuring 1 lakh pulse-oximeters, a small clip-on device that has to be attached to the finger-tip to check the amount of oxygen in the body. Current guidelines say that Covid-19 patients have to be admitted to hospitals if their oxygen saturation drops to 90% or below (normal is 95 to 100%).“The body not getting enough oxygen is one of the major reasons for Covid-19 deaths. Now, many patients panic and rush to the hospitals after testing positive because they do not know what to do. However, if every patient in home isolation has a pulse-oximeter they can keep monitoring their oxygen saturation regularly and rush to the hospitals in case the oxygen saturation dips below 93%,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.The pulse-oximeter will have to be returned once the patient recovers. A pulse-oximeter costs between R 1,000 to 3,000.A district level plan is being worked out to ensure that all Covid-19 patients get pulse-oximeters. “The government is currently planning how to implement a pilot project to provide devices, such as a pulse oximeter and a wrist-band that can monitor temperature and perimeter control, to patients in home-isolation. These devices will not only ensure that the temperature and oxygen level of patients are monitored regularly, it will also help the district officials to monitor if such patients are staying at home or not,” said a senior district level officer.This is the best way to reduce Covid-19 mortality, added a member of the five-member committee, which has been set up to advice the government on strengthening of healthcare infrastructure. “Among patients who need hospitalisation, survival is the best among those who get oxygen early on. Now, how can the government ensure that people in home isolation reach the hospital on time and get medical assistance? Distributing the simple pulse-oximeter will allow patients to monitor their own oxygen levels and rush to the hospital in case of an emergency,” said Dr Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council.The committee has suggested that the government would need to create over 40,000 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients with severe disease by mid-July. With the L-G now also allowing treatment of those from neighbouring states in Delhi, the government is planning to create 1.5 lakh hospital beds – some in stadiums, banquet halls, and dharmashalas – by July-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-may-loan-pulse-oximeters-to-covid-patients/story-TsQZeC9GDyi1hBz3z5lFxL.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Rs 500 fine for flouting quarantine norms, not wearing mask and consumption of tobacco in public||New Delhi: Flouting quarantine rules, not wearing masks, failure to maintain social distancing, and chewing and spitting tobacco in public will attract a fine of Rs 500 in Delhi from Sunday, according to new rules approved by Delhi lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Saturday that aim to crack down on those violating rules central to the safety protocol to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Baijal on Saturday empowered officers of the state health department, district magistrates (DMs), sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs), officers authorised by them, and Delhi Police officers to impose these fines on the spot. Spitting and consuming tobacco in public was a punishable offence earlier too with the same fine but this was hardly enforced by civic agencies.According to the rules, the enforcing agencies will impose a fine of Rs. 500 for the first offence and Rs. 1000 for the repeat offence. In case a person fails to pay the penalty on the spot, action under Section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to civil order) shall be taken against offenders . Section 188 of the IPC attracts a maximum fine of Rs 1,000 or six months imprisonment or both. These rules and fines are a part of the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, (Management of COVID-19) Regulations, 2020, approved by the L-G on Saturday. “The regulations empower the city’s secretary (health and family welfare); Delhi director general health services (DGHS); district magistrate, chief district medical officer (CDMO), sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and district surveillance officer (DSO); and officers as authorised by the department of health & family welfare, Govt. of NCT of Delhi and district magistrates and zonal DCs of MCDs; and the officers of the rank of sub-inspector and above of Delhi Police to impose the fines,” a statement from the L-G office read.The move comes a day after HT reported how resident welfare associations and traders were disappointed with the government’s announcement that the lockdown would not be extended any further in Delhi.B S Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA front, an umbrella body with around 100 associate RWAs, alleged that the authorities were taking no action against people not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing.“It is good that such fines have been imposed, but we hope it is strictly enforced on the ground. So far, we have seen extreme leniency from the enforcement agencies. There is hardly any presence of police or MCD officials to fine people. When you do not have enough manpower or resources to penalise those not following the civic norms of self-protection and hygiene, which currently attracts heavy fines under the Disaster management Act, then you need a lockdown,” Vohra said.The L-G’s office, in its statement said, “Fines will be imposed if any person is found violating the following norms -- 1) Observation of quarantine rules. 2) Maintaining social distancing. 3) Wearing of face mask/cover in all public places /workplaces. 4) Prohibition of spitting in public places. 5) Prohibition on consumption of paan, gutka, tobacco, etc., in public places.” The rule is valid for a period of one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-500-fine-for-flouting-quarantine-norms-not-wearing-mask-and-consumption-of-tobacco-in-public/story-XWaenEDjMOjyzqdqgfxocJ.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Prices for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals in Delhi may be capped||Prices for treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in private hospitals across Delhi might be capped, with the matter set to come up for discussion in the next meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday, as per the agenda of the meeting.“Fixing price ceiling for treatment by private hospitals as some of them are charging exorbitant price and seeking huge advances,” read the agenda of the meeting. The DDMA will also discuss fixing ceiling for charges of private ambulance services.There are 97 private hospitals in the city treating Covid-19 patients as on Saturday, according to the Delhi Corona app. The government had ordered 117 hospitals across the city with 50 beds or more to reserve 20% of their bed strength for the treatment of Covid-19. This has gone up to 80 or 100% beds in some of the hospitals like Moolchand, Fortis Vasant Kunj, and Sir Ganga Ram since.Saroj hospital in north Delhi had come into limelight after an internal communication of charging minimum Rs 3 lakhs for each Covid-19 patient went viral on social media. “It has been brought to our notice that an outdated circular is being distributed on social media about the charges of Covid-19 treatment at Saroj Superspeciality hospital. We categorically deny having approved or having billed any Covid-19 patients as per the charges mentioned in the said circular,” the hospital had said.The health minister on Saturday said that the government is yet to take a decision on whether the prices for treatment of Covid-19 in private hospitals need to be capped. The government in an order on June 4 had asked private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to provide a list of prices of the wards and isolation, ventilator support, PPE kits, central line insertion, biopsy, Covid testing, CT scan, MRI, etc.“All the hospitals have been asked to share the rates that they are charging for COVID treatments. We will decide on what to do after observing rates of every hospital,” said Jain on Saturday. The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to give directions on a plea to prevent overcharging by private hospitals and refusal of treatment due to lack of funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prices-for-covid-treatment-at-pvt-hospitals-may-be-capped/story-JXgBqJyy4QcE6XaHCJ85UK.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||9 months on, Delhi traffic police yet to refund fines||Nearly nine months after the Delhi traffic police accepted there was a technical fault in the setting of speed detection cameras on the Meerut Expressway (National Highway-24) and announced the reversal of around 1.50 lakh wrongly issued fines, the department is yet to repay at least Rs 8-10 crore that was collected from commuters. While the police moved a proposal to work on returning the fines in October after the issue was brought to their notice, senior traffic police and transport department officials confirmed that they could not find any provision under the Motor Vehicles Act through which the money collected as fines could be returned. Between August and October last year, the Delhi traffic police wrongly fined at least 1.50 lakh commuters on the Meerut Expressway, between Millennium Park and Ghazipur, for speeding above 60kmph even though the speed limit signage on the stretch indicated a limit of 70kmph. After several commuters who were issued fines raised the issue with the Delhi traffic police and threatened to move court , the department conceded its error and agreed to reverse the fines, saying that the speed limit boards were incorrectly placed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The 1.50 lakh commuters include only those who drove or rode between 61-70 kmph but were fined because of the camera’s incorrect speed calibration.Nine months after this incident, several affected commuters are still awaiting a refund. The department’s estimates show that commuters paid a total of nearly Rs 8-10 crore as fines before the matter was brought to notice of the top traffic police officers. The commuters were issued fines of Rs 1,000-2,000 for each “offence”. Senior traffic police officers familiar with the matter said the wait could prove futile as there is no provision under either the old or the amended Motor Vehicles Act (MVA) to refund a fine that has already been collected . A senior traffic police officer, who did not wish to be named, said: “There was an internal file that was moved within the department to make provision for those who were wrongly fined on the stretch, but nothing came of it. There is no provision under the MV Act to refund fines. The only ones who benefited from the reversal were those who did not pay the fines.”The official added that several meetings conducted between October and December between the police and Delhi government’s transport department to find ways to refund the amount came up with no solution. Amar Singh, a 43-year-old resident of east Delhi’s IP Extension, said that he was fined twice for “speeding” on the stretch, once on August 25 and the second time on September 3, last year, and given 60 days each time to pay the fines. “So, basically the people who abide by the law and paid the fine on time are the losers now? ,” he asked. Singh and three of his neighbours, who were also fined on the stretch, plan to approach the courts. “It wasn’t just us; according to the traffic police’s own admission, 1.50 lakh people were wrongly fined and they are keeping the money unlawfully. If there is no provision for a refund, is there a provision to keep unlawfully collected fine money?” Singh added NHAI officials said that when the matter first came to light, the traffic police wrote to the department asking that the speed limit on the stretch be lowered to 60kmph. However, the request was denied because the speed limits were set and the signage was put up as per the prescribed norms.“We told the traffic police back then that the speed limits of expressways cannot be similar to the city’s. The limit of 70kmph was decided only after coming to a consensus with the traffic police because the earlier limit was 100kmph. The cameras have been re-calibrated according to our signage now,” said RP Singh, who was heading the Meerut Expressway project for NHAI at the time. Rohit Baluja, a road safety expert and president of Institute of Road Traffic Education (IRTE), said that if it is the traffic police’s responsibility to prosecute commuters for breaking the rule, they must also reimburse a wrongly collected fine with interest.“They must come up with the means of repaying the commuters that were wrongly penalised,” Baluja said.He also pointed out that every day, hundreds of fines are wrongly issued to commuters because of faulty cameras, improper road signage and unclear markings, but no one is held responsible. Delhi traffic police chief Taj Hassan did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/9-months-on-police-yet-to-refund-fines/story-H262osrQSUpVLEIz8NDovL.html
14-06-2020||Jaipur||Monk arrested on rape charges in Rajasthan’s Karauli district; objectionable material recovered||A Jain monk has been arrested on charges of raping a woman in Karauli district of Rajasthan, said police on Saturday. Pen drives and hard disks containing objectionable material were also recovered from the room of the accused, they said.The 38-year-old monk was a native of Jodhpur and was staying in a Jain shelter home in Mohannagar locality of Hindaun town. On Thursday, the survivor, along with her sister-in-law, had gone to the monk to seek his blessings. “First , the survivor’s sister-in-law went to his room and the monk allegedly tried to molest her so she left the room immediately. Then the complainant went inside the room where the monk allegedly raped her. He also threatened to bring harm to her family with his special powers if she disclosed the incident to anyone,” said deputy inspector general of police, Bharatpur range, Lakshman Gaur.However, the woman confided in her family soon and they went back to the shelter home. The accused reportedly locked himself inside his room so the police had to be called.“On Friday, the statements of the woman and her sister-in-law were recorded before the court after which the monk was arrested. He has been sent to judicial custody for 15 days. A case against him was registered under section 354 (assaulting woman) and 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code,” Gaur said.“On Friday, a team of the forensic science laboratory from Jaipur and a police team from Karauli also recovered a bag from the monk’s room at the shelter home. The bag had two laptops, 19 mobile phones, 33 pen drives, 4 hard disks and a packet of condoms. The hard disks had objectionable videos on them,” said a police official associated with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/monk-arrested-on-rape-charges-in-raj-objectionable-material-recovered/story-5fCeECrh3JXljjY7CZtZSJ.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt orders nursing homes to treat Covid-19 patients||The Delhi government on Saturday ordered all nursing homes in the city with 10 to 49 beds to start treating Covid-19 patients. Only standalone eye centre, ENT centres, Dialysis centres, Maternity homes and IVF centres will be exempt from this order.“The occupancy of the beds earmarked for Covid patients is displayed on a real-time basis in Delhi Corona App. More than 70% Covid beds in the private sector are already occupied. Further, it is projected that there would be a requirement of more than 15,000 Covid beds till June 30, and by the end of first fortnight of July, the requirement would further swell up to more than 33,000 beds,” the order read.There are about 700 nursing homes in the city, most of which have around 20 beds, according to estimates by the Delhi Medical Association.“All nursing homes in NCT of Delhi having a bed strength of 10 beds or up to 49 are declared as Covid nursing homes. All such nursing homes are required to make their Covid beds functional within three days of issue of order,” the Delhi government order read.Action will be initiated against nursing homes that fail to do so, said the order issued by Dr RN Das, medical superintendent of nursing homes in Delhi’s directorate of health services.The order says that complete nursing homes have been converted to Covid hospitals in order to prevent intermixing of Covid and non-Covid patients.This was the major point of contention of several private hospitals when the Delhi government had issued orders to reserve 20% of the bed strength in 117 hospitals with 50 beds or more on May 24. The government has since asked some of these private hospitals to expand this to even 80% or 100% of their bed strength such as at Moolchand Hospital and Fortis Vasant Kunj.So far, 97 private hospitals have started treatment for Covid-19 patients, according to the Delhi Corona App.The number of admissions are on the rise, with 550 people getting admitted and 400 being discharged on Friday, as per data provided by the Delhi government on Saturday. As on Saturday night, the city had 9,724 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, of which 5,449 were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-orders-nursing-homes-to-treat-covid-patients/story-5Hw3m26q7ekl3Xj6G7dmyO.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Businesses struggle to stay afloat in Ludhiana as pressure for rent mounts||Already reeling under losses due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, it’s a double whammy for the city’s business owners who are at loggerheads with their landlords over the payment of rent.Reports have been pouring in about several traders on Malhar Road bringing down the shutters after failed negotiations with their landlords. Malhar road shopkeepers’ welfare association president Paramjit Singh said, “The rent for properties on Malhar road ranges from Rs 1 to 3 lakh a month. Most shops have remained closed for the past two-and-a-half months. Amid constant pressure from landlords over rent, many see no option but to move out.”While stating that it’s no one’s fault, as many landlords are dependent on the rentals for income, the traders say it’s better to reach at a mutual understanding as finding a new tenant would anyways be difficult for the property owners at this time. An eatery owner on Malhar road, requesting anonymity, said, “We used to pay Rs 2 lakh a month to the landlord. But due to the lockdown, there has been no business for the last two months and I don’t see the situation improving anytime soon. If my landlord remains adamant on the rent, I will have to shut my business.”Ghumar Mandi shopkeepers association president Pawan Batra says, “This problem is being faced by everyone. A few commercial property owners and their tenants have brought up this issue with us. We are trying to make both parties reach a compromise.”Chaura Bazar shopkeepers association president Parampal Singh Witty said, “Both the landlords and their tenants are in a dilemma over the issue. Some of them have settled the issue amicably as the tenants also do not want to leave the place of business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/businesses-struggle-to-stay-afloat-as-pressure-for-rent-mounts/story-FGpB79yV9sMSsvHrjLcmIP.html
14-06-2020||Gurugram||Parents divided over board exams as Covid-19 cases continue to rise||City parents are a worried lot with the pending CBSE and CISCE board exams slated to take place in July even as cases of Covid-19 continue to rise across Delhi-NCR. CBSE had conducted examinations till March 18 when it decided to put it on hold due to the pandemic. It then came out with a notification on May 18 to hold examinations for remaining 29 subjects from July 1 to July 15. As per the CISCE revised schedule, the ICSE papers (class 10) would now be held between July 2 and 12 while ISC exams (class 12) would be held between July 1 and 14.While several parents said that they were not in favour of children stepping out for the exams at this time, others said that they were taking precautions and preparing for the exams. Several also took to Twitter on Friday seeking a cancellation of the class 10 board exams.Jugnu Almeida, whose son has four ICSE examinations left to go, said that many parents like her were paranoid about children contracting the coronavirus disease. “We are hoping that the exams get cancelled. Children have been at home for the past three months and now they are being expected to step out. There is a fear that they may fall sick and even carry the infection back home,” said Almeida. She said that children were anxious about the exams and studying in a half-hearted manner.Puneeta Chadha Khanna, another city resident, said that there was a fear of community transmission at the rate that cases were growing and that not all schools had the infrastructure to conduct the examinations safely. Asha Johari, whose son is appearing for the CBSE class 12 board exam slated on July 7, said that she trusted the school to take precautions and was in favour of exams taking place as planned. “The number of exams that students are supposed to appear for are varying across streams and elective-choices. In the absence of exams, a uniform marking approach would be difficult and not acceptable to all. We are awaiting directions from the school regarding the protocols that will be in place in the examination centre,” said Johari.Meanwhile, at home, Johari has been taking steps to ensure that her son has a strong immune system. She has been relying on multivitamins, warm water, and other immunity-booster foods for her son, as he prepares for the pending examination. “We are just taking care to ensure that my son has a good immunity. On the day of the exam, he will be wearing a mask and carrying a sanitizer,” said Johari, adding that her son would be stepping out of the home for the first time in three months for the board exam. Monica Khanna, whose son is appearing for CBSE class 12 board examination, said that the school had sent out a standard operating protocol. It has asked children to compulsorily wear a mask and carry sanitizers. Instructions regarding physical distancing have been shared too and children have been asked to not socialise with fellow students. “We are trying to educate children as much as we can about various precautions. There is paranoia but exams also need to be given,” said Khanna.A CBSE official said there was no update or change in the schedule till now, adding that schools were directed to implement physical distancing norms at the examination centres. The CISCE also shared similar directions -- own masks, sanitizers, and stationery, while gloves were optional. Schools have already started preparing for the board exams. Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said that the school was adopting various measures for complying with physical distancing norms.“The desks have been placed far apart from each other to maintain an optimum distance between students. We have also roped in extra guards to ensure that not more than two children enter the washroom at the same time. Similarly, not more than two people will be allowed at the water cooler,” said Misra. The school has also procured temperature scanners to ensure that children with fever are not sent to school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/parents-divided-over-board-exams-as-covid-cases-continue-to-rise/story-xaaQkEYm6Ct4MeLVjkerZJ.html
14-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram administration to form special task force to fight Covid-19||In a bid to review the containment measures for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city, the additional chief secretary on Saturday held a five-hour-long meeting with senior officials of the police and district administration to discuss the preparedness against the pandemic.Vijay Vardhan, who holds the portfolios of finance, revenue, disaster management, home, jail, criminal investigation and administration of justice, discussed the Covid-19 situation in the city as the total number of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus crossed 3,000 cases in Gurugram.Vardhan directed the district administration to form a special task force to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak and its aftermath. He asked the deputy commissioner to involve doctors from Delhi hospitals, such as AIIMS, Safdarjung and others to plan a strategy for the future.Vardhan said there has been a sharp increase in the cases in the past few days and all the stake holders will have to work together and focus on the necessary arrangements required to control the situation. He further said that the Gururgam district administration will have to work much harder than other districts since the total share of the district in the Covid burden of the state was almost 51%. He also said the state aims to review if the authorities are undertaking effective containment measures.“We also want to assess the actual situation in the city. Gurugram is a major concern. The state will be reviewing the situation related to case recording, deaths, testing rates, availability of beds and personal protective equipment (PPE). We will also share ways of effective containment if required,” Vardhan said.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, during the discussion said that they have done a mapping of 400 doctors and their details are available on the district administration’s website. These doctors are connecting with asymptomatic patients through their helpline number 1950 and providing online consultation. Vardhan said that the doctors should be connected to the patients living in their close vicinity so that patients can get immediate support. Also, he directed to provide counselling to positive cases so that they do not slide into depression and fear.Highlighting the role played by city police, Muhammad Akil, the police commissioner, said that adequate arrangements have been made across the city, including vigilance, to enforce social distancing and the use of face masks. He shared figures of people arrested, penalised and booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the CrPc. “We have penalised 448 people for not wearing face masks under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code and we have booked 460 and 322 people under the Disaster Management Act. We have in total arrested 1,378 people for violating the government guidelines,” he said.Akil said they have made adequate arrangements in the 98 containment zones in the city, including vigilance, to enforce Covid-19 distancing and the use of masks.“We have deployed 1,850 police personnel in Covid-19 duty and we are rotating their shifts in 28 days. The personnel who are deployed in the containment zones are provided with additional protective gears and have been advised to maintain social distancing and not to touch the vehicles passing by and other articles unless required to ensure their safety,” said Akil.The police said their planning and implementation machineries are acting in concert to minimise the impact of the disease. “We are conducting regular meetings with the station house officers(SHOs) in person and over video conferencing to monitor their areas and to give daily updates.Around 85% of the patients of coronavirus in the city are asymptomatic in nature and are placed under home isolation, said officials.The police on Saturday made adequate arrangements in the 98 containment zones in the city to enforce social distancing and the use of masks. The police have asked the residents’ welfare association(RWA) members to strictly adhere to social distancing and health hygiene norms to protect their residents from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-administration-to-form-special-task-force-to-fight-covid-19/story-xzwfaRpeSC3r7GCrTB9aMM.html
14-06-2020||Gurugram||Food distress persists, most daily wagers unwilling to return soon: Report||Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch (GNEM), a civil society group, on Friday, released a report stating that daily wagers and industrial workers were the most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, with monetary reserves for many dwindling to as little as Rs 500. The report — aptly titled ‘Caught in a Bind: A Status Report on Uncertainty and Distress Amongst Gurugram’s Unorganized Workers’ — states that livelihood insecurity among daily wagers remained extremely high despite the easing of the lockdown and gradual resumption of economic activity.Based on an IVR survey of 5,000 people conducted in the last two weeks of May, the report outlines that re-employment was tepid with 60% of daily wage workers and 42% of factory workers out of work. According to 45% of those who work in factories for a monthly wage, factories had begun operations but they were still waiting to be called back to work. At least 34% of permanent factory employees also said the same thing. The report attributed the reason for poor re-employment to social distancing norms that needed to be adhered to, due to which companies were only recalling a few workers who were being made to work for longer hours, often with no overtime.According to the report, 44% of self-employed workers had not yet been able to restart work owing to negligible demand and lack of capital to restart business. Due to financial distress, debt was also rising, especially among the self-employed. Out of those surveyed, 25% of the respondents did not take loans and relied on savings or help from family, while 30% took loans of up to Rs 2,000. Around 24% of respondents took a loan ranging from Rs 2,000 and 5,000 and 8% above Rs 8,000. Self-employed workers reported more debt, with 44% borrowing between Rs 5,000 and 8,000.The report stated that while demands for rent were a source of anxiety, such demands were not persistent. Only 25% of the respondents faced pressure from landlords to pay rent. Lack of rent waiver and cumulative rent owed to landlords, however, was a reason to worry for migrants.With uncertainty around income, food, and rent, many workers had moved back to their native villages. Out of those surveyed, only around 30% of migrants were keen on returning immediately, while 40% were planning to wait and watch. A higher proportion of migrants from Assam, Bihar and West Bengal were eager to return immediately, while around 64% of the respondent from Uttar Pradesh were willing to wait for employmentThe report also stated that the administration’s efforts towards tackling food distress were inadequate and implementation of distress PDS during the peak period of food distress (April and May) was delayed due to which hunger problems in the city had compounded. It says that the administration’s distress ration system was a non-starter, mired in opaqueness, and had failed to cover a significant population, especially those in industrial pockets. Around 37% of the respondents said that the withdrawal of cooked meal facilities had exacerbated stress for them as they were dependent on it.VS Kundu, additional chief secretary, said that the administration had carried out household surveys to assess requirement of those in need, after which ration had been distributed. “Ration distribution is an ongoing process and is expected to continue till the end of June at least. The administration tried to cover as many people as it could,” said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/food-distress-persists-most-daily-wagers-unwilling-to-return-soon-report/story-7wqUxHsCUQm0xzE188WxhI.html
14-06-2020||City||Gurugram: DTCP removes five gates, demolishes unauthorised structures in DLF Phase 2||Gurugram: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Saturday removed four gates which had been erected on internal roads in DLF Phase 2 after complaints from area residents that movement was hindered due to these gates. A DTCP team removed the gates, which were in the Q block, even as some residents resisted the decision, said officials. Apart from this, one of the external gates at an entrance of DLF Phase 2 was also removed. There are a total of six external gates put up by the residents at the colony’s entrances. Officials said that on the assurance of the local residents’ welfare association (RWA), they decided not to demolish the rest of the external gates and instead, give time to the residents to seek permission for them from the authorities.“The gates were removed as no permission had been taken from the authorities. We are not against the security and safety of residents but gates can be installed only after permission from the district administration. There are six main gates in DLF phase 2 and we have asked the RWA to seek approval from the authorities,” said RS Bhath, district town planner. He further said that the residents have also agreed that in case permission is not granted, they will get these removed on their own.Vinod Tayal, a member of governing body of DLF phase 2 RWA, said: “The internal gates of the colony can be removed if the residents face problems but the main entry gates should not be removed as the safety and security of residents of DLF phase 2 is dependent on them. We will take up the matter with authorities and resolve the confusion.”DEMOLITION DRIVEDTCP officials also carried out a sealing and demolition drive in DLF Phase 2 against house owners who had obtained occupation certificates before the lockdown but were taking advantage of the situation by constructing additional rooms on stilts, or had covered setbacks of their houses and indulged in other violations of their building plans.Officials said action was taken at 10 houses in the area where they demolished walls, rooms and minor additions in the structures. “We also sealed five houses which were unoccupied but due to the Covid-19 situation, did not force the labour to leave these houses. The owners will have to restore the structures as per the original building plan,” said Bhath.Earlier on Friday, a large scale demolition drive was carried out by the enforcement wing of the DTCP in Bhondsi in which 20 structures, including some built up houses, were demolished. “It came to our notice that plot owners in Bhondsi had taken advantage of the lockdown and constructed structures, after which action was taken. A survey is now being conducted to find similar violations across the city and action would be taken in coming weeks,” he said, adding that it has been decided now that instead of demolishing only a part of the building, the department will now remove the entire structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-dtcp-removes-five-gates-demolishes-unauthorised-structures-in-dlf-phase-2/story-vKOWpXlMBs1wy0x1qM7sPK.html
14-06-2020||Gurugram||Number of containment zones in Gurugram increased from 66 to 98||With a rapid increase in the number of patients suffering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the administration on Saturday revised the list of containment zones, taking the total number from 66 to 98 in the entire district. As per the new order, Gurugram will have 94 containment zones, while Pataudi will have two zones, along with one each in Sohna and Farrukhnagar. Earlier, Gurugram had 63 containment zones, while Pataudi had two zones and Sohna had one. There was no containment zone in Farrukhnagar earlier.The new zones contained in the city include private condominiums, HSVP sectors and residential colonies.The total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the city till Saturday evening was 3,125. The city reported 203 cases on Saturday, 185 cases on Friday, 191 on Thursday, 217 on Wednesday, 164 on Tuesday, 243 on Monday, 230 on Sunday and 129 on last Saturday.The sudden spurt in the cases is being ascribed to the desealing of borders with Delhi and the opening of markets, offices and industry under Unlock 1.0. To better manage the Covid-19 situation in the district, the Haryana government appointed a new civil surgeon earlier this week. Further senior bureaucrats from Chandigarh were asked to oversee the Covid-19 situation in the district, said officials of the district administration. The areas, which have been included as containment zones in the city, include Tower 19, Central Park, Sector 48; Block J&F Mayfield Garden; five towers in Power Grid apartment in Sector 43; blocks A to H in DLF Phase -1, Silver Apartment DLF Phase -1; Parsavnath Tower C, Sohna Road; S block, W block; Park View, Vatika city, Parsvnath Exotica, Vipul Society in Sector 53, Nirvana Country in Sector 50; Shishpal Vihar A block in Sector 49, Raheja Atlantis Apartment and Navketan Apartment. On the western side of the highway, the containment areas include street number one to 4 in Shanti Nagar, street number one to four in Shivaji Nagar, Aarvy Hospital street, street numbers 3 and 7 in Patel Nagar; Shakti Apartment in Sector 15, Part-2, streets in Jacobpura, Street number 13 in Manohar Nagar, Krishan Colony street 4 to 9, Jyoti Park streets 7.8,10, 11 and 13.In Pataudi, the containment zones include streets in ward number 8 and streets in Dadawas village. In Farrukhnagar, the containment zones include Ward number 5, New Colony. In Sohna, the contained areas include street number 6, N Block, Mohan Nagar and Naya Gaon.The order issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram read, “The sub-divisional magistrate , Gurugram, Badshahpur, Sohna and Pataudi will be the respective nodal officers ensuring the demarcation of the boundaries of the containment zone area, barricading of containment zone with entry exit gate, display board requiring requisite information for the convenience to the residents of containment zone (sic).”A district administration spokesperson said that the containment zones have been expanded due to the rise in Covid 19 cases. “All measures are being taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus and containment zones are being monitored strictly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/number-of-containment-zones-in-gurugram-increased-from-66-to-98/story-LYCQR5h1hrMPMdg5axJ9CK.html
14-06-2020||Mumbai||Talks begin to get local trains back on tracks in Mumbai||To make it easier for frontline workers and supporting staff to report for duty, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to again raise the state’s demand that suburban railway services be resumed in Mumbai, during his video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 17.However, according to officials, discussions are going on between railway authorities, state officials and ministry of home affairs ,and local train services for essential workers may begin from Monday.On Wednesday, Thackeray had reiterated the need to resume suburban train services in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. He said frontline workers are finding it difficult to commute and many have not been able to join duty due to the absence of public transport. State health minister Rajesh Tope, during his video conference with Union health minister Harsha Vardhan on Thursday, requested railway services for those involved in essential services. After the conference, Tope said, “I have reiterated our demand for suburban railway services for essential and emergency services. I am confident the Union health minister would discuss it with the Prime Minister.”Railway officials in Mumbai on Saturday said no directions have come in from the railway ministry. “There are messages in circulation about starting of suburban trains... it is informed that so far, we haven’t received such instructions... We will update you once we receive instructions from competent authority,” Shivaji Sutar, chief PRO, CR, tweeted. Officials from the state government said several letters have been sent to the Centre after the demand was raised by the CM during his video conference on May 11.Train services are being demanded only for frontline workers and supporting staff involved in essential services. “There has been crowding in buses after we allowed private offices to operate at 10% of their workforce from Monday. This has been causing inconvenience to the people in the essential and emergency services. Many of them travel from far-flung suburbs. They are already in tremendous stress, and resumption of railway services would help to offer some relief,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-may-urge-pm-to-get-trains-back-on-tracks/story-0cidlfEStMaGR6jBU3v9lM.html
14-06-2020||Chandigarh||Police recover car used in firing outside liquor shop in Chandigarh||Chandigarh A Honda Amaze used by two men who opened fire at a liquor shop in Sector 9 on June 2, injuring two persons, was recovered on Saturday, police said.The car was traced to Jagadari in Haryana but the owner when questioned said it had been borrowed by 22-year-old Vainkat Garg from Ambala.Police later found that Garg was a close aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and had harboured the gunmen who drove the car to Sector 9.Police have already arrested Garg, who belongs to Naraingarh in Ambala . Two men opened fire on the evening of June 2 at a liquor shop in the Sector 9 inner market, near police headquarters. A total 10 rounds from .22 bore and .32 pistols were fired at the shop owned by 69-year-old Ram Avtar Batra, resident of sector 21, who also runs a petrol pump in Sector 35.The gunmen have been identified as Rinku alias Topi of Pehwa and Davinder Chawla of Hisar. They are yet to be arrested. Chawla had in the past murdered a jail employee in Haryana and had jumped parole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-recover-car-used-in-sector-9-liquor-shop-firing/story-kkMAgsQXN4lGaNe2o4oJwO.html
14-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Lodhi after lockdown||It is super-crowded. Lodhi Garden. There are totas, bayas, kala papeehas, puhyas, mynas, babilas, kauwas, ullus, gaurayyas... bulbuls, koyals, the beautifully named ram chiriyas, kabutars and, of course, the white battakhs too—the last of them hopping by the pond, in massive groups, showing no physical distancing, not bothered at all by the coronavirus pandemic.Most of these birds cannot be seen, of course — it is late morning. The Lodhi Garden’s avian dwellers tend to emerge out into the sky from their hiding spots in the evenings.But one can hear their sounds. And though it is impossible to distinguish the various species by their distinct chatter, one knows who they can be—thanks to painted boards dispersed across the garden with the names and illustrations of birds drawn cutely, like in a children’s textbook. At a time when everything that seemed ordinary has become extraordinary, a walk in Lodhi Garden is turning out to be the stuff dreams are made of. Strolling along its tree-lined pathways gives a visitor, marooned for so long at home due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, the impatient energy of a spring uncoiling after long being compressed inside a box.There is a tantalising feel of freedom.The garden reopened just a few days ago following an ease in the lockdown. Entry hours are limited, for now—5.30am to 11am, and 4pm to 8.30pm.While it continues to be risky to reclaim the wider city (the virus is not slowing its spread), the hauntingly empty Lodhi Garden is emitting the vibes of a private park in your backyard that you never had. There is barely any human presence. Hawkers of kettle chai, cold drinks, ram laddus and namkeen packets, who would constantly be popping out from behind trees and shrubberies, are missing from view. Even the grass seems wild and untamed. The many dogs are lying lazily on the muddy hedges, perhaps to stay cool in the sweltering temperatures.Nothing has profoundly altered the garden in the two and a half months when it lay closed, and yet it is looking so different. Perhaps because of the long absence of its regular human visitors. At this hour, on any given day in the BC (Before Corona) era, the grounds would be filled with romantic couples of all ages who came here to escape the prying eyes of the world. Their current disappearance illustrates another human toll of the pandemic—undoubtedly a very many lovers must have been unable to unite in these difficult times. (Now a rare jogger passes by, without a mask.)In the old times, it was almost always impossible to find a place to sit on any park bench. But at this moment, in the new normal, benches after benches are lying vacant. The saddest sight is to be found in the garden in front of Muhammad Shah Sayyid’s mausoleum (the same monument where every evening in the pre-corona days, a small group of calligraphers would gather to attend their daily Urdu calligraphy class). Here is an empty green bench under a tree, with dry leaves dispersed all around it—as if it had been ages since any person stepped over to claim the bench with a beloved or a book. The setting strongly evokes the feeling of an abandoned refuge.You ought to at least toy with the idea of coming to Lodhi Garden now—carefully and with masks and sanitisers—to experience it in its newly-acquired eeriness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lodhi-after-lockdown/story-qh8zJSUyfqEa2sIX9JvQ3O.html
