15-06-2020||City||34 Covid deaths in last two weeks worries district health officials||GurugramGurugram has witnessed 37 deaths due to Covid-19 till Monday (June 15), with 34 of those fatalities being recorded in the last two weeks alone, data available with the Haryana government showed.Gurugram district at present has the highest numbers of deaths in Haryana. Data further showed that most of the deceased were above 60 years in age and had contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus from the hospital while undergoing treatment for other health issues.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district, said, “Most of the fatalities were seen in people above the age of 60. Their immunity was compromised due to other health issues like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, tuberculosis and asthma. They all had co-morbid conditions. Only one or two cases did not have any health issues and yet succumbed to the illness.” On May 31, the total death count in the district was three. The number had climbed to 37 by Monday. Yadav said that contact tracing shows that most of the people who contracted the virus had visited hospitals for other ailments and got contaminated there. Yadav, who is also the head of the Covid-19 death audit committee, said, “The team has done contact tracing of the people who died due to coronavirus and in most of cases it has been found that they had visited hospitals for treatment of other diseases and got infected. It is suggested that people, especially elderly, should not visit a hospital until it is absolutely necessary,” he said. A total of 100 deaths have been reported in the state so far. Gurugram alone accounts for 41% of the Covid-19 burden of the state. Over 7,722 cases have been reported in the state, out of which Gurugram accounts for 3,477 cases. Of these 3,477, at least 1,664 are still active cases. Data shows, the hospitalisation ranged from 311 to 465 in the last six days. Out of which 27% patients were put on oxygen support and 10% on ventilator support. Patients, who were put on oxygen support fluctuated between 68 to 143, while those put on ventilator were from 31-48 from June 10 to 15. To tackle the inflow of critical patients, 180 — of the 335 total ventilators in different hospitals of the district— have been reserved for Covid-19 patients .Vivek Kalia, nodal officer, hospital and ventilator management, said, “Based on our projections, nearly 80% of the active cases will need isolation beds, 15% will need general ward beds and 5% ICU beds. But we will be considering the peak numbers as cases continue to increase. Covid-19 cases can exceed 10,000 mark by the end of the month. We have already directed private hospitals to reserve 25% beds for Covid patients. More ventilators will also be requisitioned.”Earlier this week, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner issued an order directing hospitals above 50-bed capacity to reserve 25% of their beds for Covid-19 patients. With this, the overall bed capacity in Gurugram has reached a count of 1,150. As per the projections made by Kalia’s team, if hospitals are directed to reserve 50% bed, the count will reach 2,300. If, however, the cases grow at 12-15%, the city would require 4,000 -,5000 beds. In August, if the cases increase to almost a lakh, the requirement would be of at least 37,000 beds and more than 2,000 ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-covid-deaths-in-last-two-weeks-worries-district-health-officials/story-Df0pI2NIQWr5CvMSiXvsMI.html
15-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Cops susceptible to Covid to be kept away from outdoor duties||The Gurugram police are planning to make an age-appropriate roster of personnel deployed on various duties to prevent the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease among them, with those above 50 years of age to be kept away from containment zones in view of the rising number of cases in its ranks. So far, 50 Gurugram police have tested positive for Covid-19. The police personnel are involved in enforcing the rules in the containment zones, in hospital duties and borders which leaves them vulnerable.At present, of the police personnel deployed across the city, 500 are above the age of 50 years while 1,000 are between the ages of 40 and 50 years. These have been asked to work from office spaces and have not been assigned outdoor tasks, said the police.Officials said at least 4,500 police personnel in the district are under the age of 40 years. There are around 6,000 police personnel in total, apart from 990 special police officers and 1,060 home guards deployed across the city.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said they have decided to deploy police personnel above 50 years of age indoors where they will not be dealing with the public and will have minimum direct contact with people, considering their higher vulnerability to being infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus. “I have asked the deputy commissioner of the areas concerned to prepare the data of personnel deployed in their jurisdictions with details of their current deployment. We will finalise the rotation of duties after analysing the data,” he said.Akil said meanwhile, the district police shall not, to the best extent possible, deploy personnel with enhanced medical risk factors, be it age or pre-existing medical conditions. “We are taking all due precautions and are regularly advising our staff about the safety protocols against the pandemic,” he said.The initiative was taken after a 58-year-old inspector, posted in Gurugram, succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Sector 51 on June 10. He was the first police personnel to die of Covid-19 in the district.Seeing a rise in the number of coronavirus cases among police personnel, the health department had screened nearly 600 personnel, deployed across the city for lockdown duties, thrice in the past 14 days. Also, around 600 family members of police personnel living at police lines in Gurugram and Manesar were screened after some policemen tested positive in the first week of June.Police said of the 50 personnel who tested positive, 40 are presently in home-isolation while the rest are at a quarantine facility at police lines in Manesar. “We had set up the isolation ward in a newly constructed building in Manesar to safeguard the force and their family members from vulnerability to the Covid-19 infection. All facilities are provided to the force to tackle this tough situation,” said Akil.The officer also said that all police personnel deployed on high risk duties are provided with body protective gear, triple-layer masks, gloves and sanitisers.Akil said that the police officers deployed at hot spots, containment zones, Isolation wards, Covid hospitals are directed to wear PPE suits, which are certified by the Union ministry of health.“Policemen, who come in close contact with patients while carrying out debriefing, contact tracing or tracking positive patients, are being screened by the health department and samples of their family members and close contacts are being collected,” he said.The Gurugram police force currently has nearly 3 lakh face masks, 1.5 lakh gloves, 2 lakh hand sanitizers and 30,000 soaps and hand washes in stock.Akil said all efforts were being made to ensure that police personnel are safe from the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-cops-susceptible-to-covid-to-be-kept-away-from-outdoor-duties/story-3JUZ4HKUTy4V7NoX5iJRGN.html
15-06-2020||Gurugram||Cabbie gangs resurface as travel curbs eased||Following the easement of curbs on travel, ‘cabbie gangs’ that rob commuters along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, by offering shared rides, have resurfaced, the police said. At least three such incidents were reported last week and the police have registered FIRs in the cases.The police said the gangs have been targeting commuters at Iffco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and Shankar Chowk.A police official from the crime branch, requesting anonymity, said, “With the borders opening up and restrictions on lockdown relatively eased, the gangs are operational again. The commuter is typically picked up from a busy stretch on the highway and offered a drop to Delhi, Sohna, Nuh and regions bordering the city for ₹40-50. Shortly after, the car deviates from the route and the victim is asked to hand over his phone and reveal his ATM Pin, often at gunpoint. In certain cases, the victims are assaulted, gagged and threatened with knives. They are dropped several hours later in a deserted area.”Earlier this week, an accountant was taken hostage in a cab and robbed of ₹87,000 after he had taken a cab from Iffco Chowk. On June 8, Praveen Kumar, a Delhi resident, who works at a construction company in Manesar, was waiting for a cab at Iffco Chowk when a vehicle pulled up, offering him a ride. Two men were sitting in the vehicle. After driving for a few metres, one of them, who had a gun, started assaulting Kumar and asked him to handover his watch, mobile phone, wallet and ring. He was later dropped on the highway.Most people rely on shared cab rides due to lack of public and private transport options and cheaper fares.Kanhai Ram, a victim of a snatching incident at Rajiv Chowk on Saturday, said, “Uber and Ola cabs are available but they are expensive and sometimes, refuse the commute to the destination, citing lockdown restrictions. The Metro is still not operational. I have to depend on the shared cab rides to commute to work as it is cheap and convenient,” said Ram.Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “At least three crime branch teams have been tasked with surveillance of key stretches to nab the accused. It is not certain if the same gang is behind these recent incidents or multiple gangs are involved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cabbie-gangs-resurface-as-travel-curbs-eased/story-ZGgAer6UcYfk27V2kqyaCJ.html
15-06-2020||Gurugram||MCG to dump fresh waste at a new site in Farrukhnagar for a year||To process the existing legacy waste at the city’s Bandhwari landfill, the dumping of fresh waste at the landfill is likely to come to a complete halt from next month onward for one year, said Vinay Pratap Singh, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), on Monday. Approximately, 1,100 tonnes of daily waste produced by the city will instead be dumped and processed at a Farrukhnagar landfill during this period.The shift in the dumping of waste is supposed to take place in a staggered manner as initially, the MCG is likely to use both the facilities, “After two weeks, as MCG officials get accustomed to the new facility, we will stop dumping the waste at the Bandhwari landfill,” Singh said.Earlier this year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had set a late-2020 deadline for the MCG to treat 28 lakh tonnes of legacy waste, accumulated over the past 12 years, at the Bandhwari plant. “The NGT had asked the civic body to bio-remediate the entire legacy waste at Bandhwari plant by the end of this year. However, this target was set before the national lockdown came into effect and, consequently, the machinery for processing the legacy waste got delayed. As such, an alternative site for dumping fresh waste had to be found by both the MCG and Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF),” said Singh. Another reason prompting MCG to look for an alternative site was to escape an environmental penalty being imposed by the NGT if no solution was found to the Bandhwari legacy waste, said senior MCG officials privy to the matter. At the Bandhwari landfill, nearly 1,900 tonnes of waste is dumped daily by Gurugram and Faridabad together. In August 2017, a report by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) found that the leachate overflow from the waste had resulted in contaminating the groundwater in a few areas in Faridabad, Gurugram, and south Delhi — all falling within a 10km radius of the landfill. Singh said that MCF has also found an alternative site within their district to process the waste for Faridabad. Yash Garg, the MCF commissioner, said that the civic body is in the process of setting up a temporary processing plant near Sector 49 in Faridabad that is expected to be fully operational within the next three months.The MCG will be submitting a report to the NGT on June 20 regarding the progress in the matter, which will be independently reviewed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), said Singh, adding that further said that the next hearing in this matter is scheduled for mid-July. In November last year, MCG had got an approval from the state government to use a 25-acre land at Chand Nagar Ki Dhani Road in Farrukhnagar, located around 30 kilometres from Gurugram, for processing the city’s waste. However, a Farrukhnagar resident approached the judicial court in Pataudi in December 2019 and subsequently a stay order was put on processing the waste at the site, said Singh“Earlier this month, the MCG had appealed on this stay and stated that the absence of processing waste was negatively affecting the residents of Gurugram and was likely to have far-reaching environmental implications. The court vacated the stay and we started our preparation for the new processing site,” said Singh Singh, on Sunday, met with members of the Farrukhnagar Municipal Committee to chalk out the final plan for the project. “I told the members that the move is only a temporary one and we will be bearing the cost of the lease. As a gesture of their support, we also will be incurring the expenses for processing the waste collected by Farrukhnagar Municipal Committee, which will be around ₹80 lakh per year. Also, once we return to the Bandhwari plant, the infrastructure will be left behind for future use by the municipal committee,” he said.Singh said that the MCG will return to the Bandhwari only if a substantial amount of legacy waste is cleared after a year and the landfill has enough space to accommodate fresh waste. “We have received a verbal agreement from the Farrukhnagar Municipal Committee in the matter and a formal agreement will soon be signed,” said Singh.When asked about the matter, KK Yadav, secretary, Farrukhnagar Municipal Committee, said, “Farrukhnagar generates around 6 tonnes of daily waste. We were looking for a way to process it. Thus, when the MCG approached us with the proposal of waste processing, we immediately gave our consent to it as it will mutually benefit both the civic bodies.”Ecogreen, the concessionaire for the city’s waste collection, will dump its waste at the new site and will revert to Bandhwari after a year. “The work on setting up the infrastructure for the waste processing plant at Farrukhnagar is almost over. We are hoping to start the processing of waste either by the end of this week or early next week. While the bio-remediation process will start within the next ten days, the bio-mining of the existing legacy waste will start by mid-July,” Singh said.Bio-remediation refers to the natural decomposition of waste with the help of either microorganisms or chemicals. Bio-mining, on the other hand, refers to the segregation of waste, before the final processing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-dump-fresh-waste-at-a-new-site-in-farrukhnagar-for-a-year/story-LBDtGSoSzzoaJxWKemf1KI.html
15-06-2020||City||Tent house owner was strangled to death, finds autopsy report||Gurugram: Four days after a 51-year-old tent house owner was found dead under suspicious circumstances at his shop in Arjun Nagar, the police on Sunday registered a case of murder after his autopsy revealed that he had died of ‘asphyxia’ and was strangled to death. The accused persons are yet to be identified, the police said, adding that a probe has been initiated in the case.According to the police, the victim, Rajiv Manchanda, was taken to the civil hospital on June 10 at 5.30pm by his relatives after he was found unconscious at his shop. He was declared dead on arrival and the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of code of criminal procedure. In their statement to the police, his family had said that he was undergoing treatment for a liver ailment and he had fallen ill due to complications related to the same. Later, the post-mortem of body was conducted, whose report was awaited. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “According to the post-mortem report, the cause of death in this case is asphyxia following ante mortem ligature strangulation. We have registered a case of murder. We are checking the CCTV camera installed in the area to get some clues.”In the statement to the police, the victim’s sister-in-law had said, “After my husband’s death, my brother-in-law was looking after the tent business. He had a liver ailment and had been ill for some time. On June 10 around 5.30pm, I heard that his condition worsened and I informed my nephews, who took him to the civil hospital. He was declared brought dead.”A case was registered against unidentified persons under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of Indian Penal Code at New Colony police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tent-house-owner-was-strangled-to-death-finds-autopsy-report/story-PJC3UQR0crJKMj7eqXOzuM.html
15-06-2020||City||Hindu Rao preps up, will need a day or two to start functioning as Covid facility||New Delhi: The north Delhi municipal corporation-run Hindu Rao hospital has begun preparations to treat coronavirus patients but authorities at the facility said it may take a day or two more to fully start functioning as a Covid set-up as non-Covid patients were yet to be shifted to other hospitals and logistical support was awaited.The Delhi government and the north corporation had on Sunday announced their decision to convert the 980-bedded hospital -- one of the largest in north Delhi -- into a dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility from Tuesday.Senior doctors at the hospital said they might be able to attend Covid-19 patients with mild and moderate symptoms from Tuesday but to treat severe or high-risk patients, they will require logistical support from the government and complete transfer of other patients to other facilities. Hospital authorities, however, began preparations on Monday, discharging many patients and transferring serious cases to other hospitals, sanitising the building and installing thermal scanners, etc.Family members of a few patients complained of hardships in taking their relatives home or to other hospitals. “My father was admitted in the hospital on June 6. He is suffering from pneumonia. Today, the doctors discharged him and asked us to take him home. He is not able to walk. We are not sure if he is okay, so we will take him to another hospital. They should have told us in advance,” Pawan Pawar, a resident of Ashok Vihar said.A senior functionary at the hospital said on anonymity, “We discharged patients not requiring hospital intervention. Those with life-threatening condition are being shifted to other corporation hospitals. The process of transferring patients is on. We still have patients in the medicine, gynaecology and paediatric departments. We can’t properly start Covid-19 treatment unless all patients are shifted. Otherwise, a chance of virus spreading among non-Covid patients will always remain. We might be fully functioning as a Covid-19 hospital by June 18 (Thursday).”Some patients are seriously ill and on ventilators, and so it will take a day or two to shift them, the official said. About 209 patients in different departments were being shifted to Kasturba, Rajan Babu and Giridharilal hospitals.Hindu Rao has 17 ventilators, eight intensive care unit (ICU) beds and four high dependency units (a notch down from ICUs). As many as 250 beds have oxygen support, the civic body said.Delhi government’s health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt had on Sunday declared Hindu Rao as a dedicated Covid-19 facility and directed the medical superintendent to start admitting Covid-19 patients from Tuesday (June 16). The hospital and municipal authorities had conducted an internal meeting to check preparations for converting the hospital into a Covid-19 facility.A second hospital functionary said more logistical support would be required and for better care of Covid-19 patients.“We will need more PPE (personal protective equipment) kits and ventilators. Two separate ICUs will be formed for coronavirus positive and suspected patients, respectively. At present, we have a limited number of PPE kits. We are seeking more logistical support from the state government,” the official said.On Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the three mayors of the north, east and south Delhi municipal corporations to assess the Covid-19 situation and chalk out a strategy to augment bed strength. Representatives of the three municipalities had offered to use their hospital infrastructure along with community centres and sports stadiums and complexes as Covid facilities. North corporation officials said infrastructure, equipment and other requirement as per protocols were in the process of being upgraded and procured. “Thermal scanners, PPE kits, N-95 masks and other safety equipment and ventilators, pulse oximeter among other tools are being procured. The hospital premises is being sanitised. A combined pool of doctors and other health care workers is being created for posting in different areas,” north corporation spokesperson Ira Singhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hindu-rao-preps-up-will-need-a-day-or-two-to-start-functioning-as-covid-facility/story-B8ndxI5ljC5i0RR8gdUtPI.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||40% inmates released from Burail Jail during Covid-19 lockdown||Chandigarh About 40% of Chandigarh’s Burail Jail inmates were released on parole, including those under trial and convicted prisoners to decongest the prison during the Covid-19 lockdown period from March 26 to June 14, shows data from District Legal Service Authority (DLSA). Of the 576 prisoners eligible for release, 397 prisoners were allowed to leave by prison authorities, the data reveals.There were 1,007 inmates in Burail Jail as of March 26 this year (it has capacity of 1,120) of whom 420 were convicts, 583 were under trial and four were minors.The parole was facilitated following the Supreme Court’s (SC) directions in March through a high-powered committee headed by chairperson, State Legal Service Authority, justice Jaswant Singh, including principal secretary home department Arun Kumar Gupta, IG prisons Om Veer Singh and CJM-cum DLSA secretary Ashok Kumar Mann.The committee also decided in a May 16 review meeting that inmates would return to jail in a staggered manner from July 2 to July 22. They would be isolated for 15 days in a special ward set up in the prison before being screened.However, the final call on extension of parole will be taken at a review meeting by the end of July depending on the Covid-19 situation.According to the data accessed by Hindustan Times, out of 263 persons under trial, just 118 were released whereas out of 334 convicted prisoners eligible for parole, 147 were released.Meanwhile, Mann said 87 prisoners who were eligible could not be released because of procedural errors concerning their sureties bonds and other such domains. Sixty two special parole applications were rejected while 30 were still pending.Mann also added that the prisoners were given special parole for 56 days according to SC directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-inmates-released-from-burail-jail-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-El9R2P7uyRRz0KEGNLUCzL.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students’ council demands remission on fee for guest-basis hostellers||President of the Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC), Chetan Chaudhary, and joint secretary Manpreet Mahal on Monday wrote to dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla and demanded remission of hostel fee for those staying there on guest basis for March and April.“Students are in a sense of panic as authorities are demanding fee from those living in the hostel on guest basis but students have not been in the university for the last two months,” the letter stated.In their letter, they also said that the representation was not accepted by interim dean students’ welfare (DSW) SK Tomar. However, Tomar denied the allegations. Now, PU hostellers can collect their study materialPU issued a notice on Monday saying hostellers whose study material is at hostels can now collect it from there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-council-demands-remission-on-fee-for-guest-basis-hostellers/story-VsW9OQ4wGTw7uvLKKD3u1H.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai receives half its June average rain in first 15 days, heavy rainfall in suburbs||A day after monsoon onset was declared over the city, isolated areas in the suburbs recorded moderate to heavy showers on Monday allowing the city to achieve 50% of its average rainfall for the month of June.The weather bureau on Monday afternoon revised its orange alert for the city (heavy to very heavy rain) to a yellow alert (moderate to heavy rain) and has issued an orange alert for Tuesday and Wednesday. Over the next 48 hours, the city and suburbs can expect cloudy conditions with heavy to very heavy rain, the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) said.From June 1 to June 15, 5.30pm, Santacruz weather observatory recorded 245.5mm rain against the monthly average of 493.1mm. During the same time, the Colaba weather station, recorded 262.8mm. Location-wise rainfall was over 72 mm rain in parts of Andheri and Vile-Parle over six hours (2.30 pm to 6.30pm). South Mumbai received moderate showers between Sunday night and Monday morning as well as moderate rain through the day on Monday. Between 8.30am and 8.30pm Monday, Santacruz recorded 37mm rain, falling under the ‘rather heavy’ category while Colaba recorded 11.2mm ‘moderate’ rain. “Mumbai did not receive much of its expected rains after onset so far since it was a soft onset. However, momentum is very likely to pick up over the next 48 hours,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.Independent meteorologists said weather systems were strengthening in the Arabian Sea and along with the monsoon current heavy rains were slated to occur between Tuesday to Thursday (approximately 200mm over three days) leading to the possibility of water-logging in some areas.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in the suburbs was 33.7 degrees Celsius on Monday, almost 2 degree Celsius above normal while the minimum was 27 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius above normal. South Mumbai recorded 32.4 degrees Celsius, 0.9 degree Celsius above normal while 25.5 degrees Celsius was the minimum temperature, close to the normal mark. Humidity levels were 94% in the suburbs and 90% in south Mumbai.State receives excess rainfall in the first two weeks of JuneMaharashtra recorded 89% excess rain in the first two weeks of June (123.5mm against the normal of 65.3 mm for the period). Only three districts - Sangli, Akola and Yavatmal - recorded ‘normal’ rainfall while all remaining sub-divisions have recorded either excess or large excess rain. Central Maharashtra recorded 114% excess rain with maximum rain recorded at Jalgaon, Dhule, Nashik followed by Marathwada at 98% excess with Aurangabad, Latur, Beed recording highest rain while Vidabrha recorded 68% excess rain with Washim, Chandrapur and Buldhana recording heaviest rain spells over two weeks. Along the Konkan coast, Thane has witnessed 109% excess rain with 234.8 mm against the normal 112.6 mm for 14 days. Waterlogging at AndheriOn Monday afternoon between 3-4 pm Andheri in western suburbs reported around 60mm of rainfall, according to BMC measuring station. Due to this, there was waterlogging in Andheri subway, hence, traffic movement had to be suspended for a while, BMC said. In the rest of the city, no waterlogging incident was reported.(Inputs from Mehul Thakker)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-half-its-june-average-rain-in-first-15-days-heavy-rainfall-in-suburbs/story-5zBFrZDemnHG4x9o1I0FxM.html
15-06-2020||City||JKBOSE Class 10 results: Doda boy tops with 99% marks, border village girl is second||A boy from Doda district topped the Class 10 results declared by J&K Board of School Education (JKBOSE) on Monday.Mumin Islahi, son of Iftikhar Adil from Doda’s Shiva village, secured 99% marks (495 out of 500). who He is a student of SP Smart Higher Secondary School.Mumin was followed by Harmeet Kour, daughter of Baldev Singh from border village Pangdour in Samba district, who scored 98.6% marks (493 out of 500). She studies in Krishtu Jyoti Convent School, Samba.However, girls outshined boys with a pass percentage of 72%, while the latter achieved 68%.The overall pass percentage stood at 70%. Out of 53,807 candidates, 37,458 were declared qualified.Of the 37,458 qualified candidates, 19,957 were boys and 17,501 girls.The board declared the results for Jammu province, which falls in the summer zone.Last year, 34,651 students had qualified the Class 10 examination. The overall pass percentage was 64.91% with girls securing 67.26% pass percentage and boys accounting for 64.91%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jkbose-class-10-results-doda-boy-tops-with-99-marks-border-village-girl-is-second/story-mcoRAdD3xGVm7bmbWGKOeK.html
15-06-2020||City||Amarnath Yatra: Shrine board works section supervisors leave for Baltal||The works section of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) left for Baltal on Monday morning to supervise the track clearance works, said official sources.The annual pilgrimage in all its likelihood will take place, they added.“Works section comprising around a dozen officials left Jammu this morning for Baltal. They will be overseeing track clearance works, for which Ganderbal district commissioner has already been issued directions,” said officials.The remaining officials of the SASB will leave on July 5.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, only 2,000 pilgrims are likely to be allowed per day during the curtailed pilgrimage from July 21 to August 3 via Baltal route.They officials also revealed that the registration shall be made online.So far, it has been decided that barring sadhus, no pilgrims above the age of 55 years will be allowed to embark on the yatra, which will take the shorter Baltal route.“All those undertaking the pilgrimage must possess Covid-negative certificates. The pilgrims will be cross-checked for the infection upon entry into J&K before they are allowed to undertake the yatra,” said an official requesting anonymity.The SASB is also looking to telecast the live aarti from the cave shrine in the morning and evening for the devotees, the official added.Another official said since it would be a curtailed yatra, the SASB is mulling to allow it via helicopters only. However, lieutenant governor’s principal secretary and SASB CEO Bipul Pathak said, “The board is yet to meet and take a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarnath-yatra-shrine-board-works-section-supervisors-leave-for-baltal/story-6snRLS946ZuXzMNqoBhDJJ.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||72-year-old ex-serviceman dies, 40 more test Covid-19 positive in Ludhiana||A 72-year-old ex-serviceman from Mansuran village died of coronavirus while 40 people, including three undertrials of the Borstal Jail, were tested Covid-19 positive on Monday as the industrial town witnessed the biggest single-day increase in the number of novel coronavirus cases.The ex-serviceman, identified as Hardeep Singh, who had been suffering from comorbidities, including diabetes, pneumonia and cardiac issues, died due to multiple organ failure this afternoon, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.Health officials of Pakhowal Primary Health Centre, with the help of cops at the Jodhan police station, cordoned off the area and a medical team collected samples of the exserviceman’s son, daughter-in-law and grandson and other family members.Besides, village sarpanch Om Prakash, who had come in contact with the victim, was also tested positive of Covid-19. Hardeep Singh was first rushed to a charitable hospital in Sarabha village from where he was referred to Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital.Kartar Singh, son of Hardeep Singh, said, “As ventilator was not available at both the hospitals, my father was rushed to the DMCH, where he was kept in a ventilator. However, he died this morning.”MIGRANTS’ QUARTERS BREEDING GROUND OF COVID-19As many as 10 cases surfaced from migrants’ quarters (vehras) in Janta Nagar. The infected people included three women and seven men. Besides, five people, including four women and a man, were tested positive of Covid-19 at the Habib Gunj containment zone. A 40-year-old male migrant worker from Bihar, currently quarantined in Bohapur village in Machhiwara, was also tested positive. He was here for paddy sowing work.CONTACTS OF POSITIVE PATIENTSA couple, aged 66 and 62, from Islam Ganj and a mother-son duo, aged 52 and 24, s from Sarjot Nagar, a man and a woman 36 and 29 years respectively from Amarpura in Field Ganj, all contacts of positive patients, were also tested positive.7 TB, 5 WITH INFLUENZA-LIKE SYMPTOMS ALSO POSITIVEWhile seven people, suffering from tuberculosis, and five with influenza-like illness (ILI), were tested positive of Covid-19, three others were found positive from in the test reports received this evening.24 COPS IN SELF-QUARANTINEAs many as 24 cops, 14 from the Kanganwal police post and 10 from Division number 2 police station, have been asked to remain in self- quarantine after three undertrials were tested positive.Earlier, a 24-year-old police constable, Gurpreet Singh, posted in the same police station, was tested corona positive.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Dr Sachin Gupta, nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “We have got the list of cops from both the police stations. We will check who came in direct contact with the undertrials and samples will be collected and, after receiving test results, further action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/72-year-old-ex-serviceman-dies-40-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-ludhiana/story-BiiJrJwswhnxMDPTDQAzgJ.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 41 resident, 29 others win Rs1,000 each in CHB draw||Chandigarh: In prizes announced on Monday to encourage more people to go in for e-payment, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) said a woman resident of Sector 41-A was among 31 persons who won Rs 1,000 each for making payments online to CHB. CHB has recently introduced the facility of online payments for various services so that people do not have to make the effort of visiting the board’s offices. In March, CHB had decided to hold a computerised draw every month to give a reward of Rs 1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions irrespective of the amount paid. Draws could not be held during the Covid-19 lockdown. On Monday, a computerised draw to decide 10 winners for each of these three months was held under the supervision of Subeena Bansal, member of the board.Among the winners, the lowest online payment made was Rs 52 and the highest was Rs 1, 54,588.A total of 16 persons, more than half of the winners, had deposited less than the prize money of Rs 1,000. A majority of the winners (12) were from Maloya.The 30 winners include 14 allottees of small flats, 11 of residential property and five of commercial property.The next draw for June will be held in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-41-resident-29-others-win-rs1-000-each-in-chb-draw/story-wXZCfH01mupJ1w3snSZY9H.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools given fourth deadline extension to upload their balance sheets online||After issuing show-cause notices to 51 schools in Chandigarh for not uploading their balance sheets on their websites, the education department on Monday gave the schools 15 more days to put up their financial details online. This is the fourth extension of the deadline; meanwhile, no school has been penalised for non-compliance.This was decided during the first meeting in two years of the fee regulatory body of Chandigarh held on Monday, director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar confirmed. The body also decided they will seek self-attested affidavits from hundreds of parents who had filed complaints with them before acknowledging their objections. As many as 51 private unaided schools of Chandigarh were issued show-cause notices for mass non-compliance of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, on May 26. The schools were given seven working days to reply which were reviewed by the committee on Monday.As per the Act, which was notified in Chandigarh in 2018, if a school contravenes the provisions, it shall be punishable with a fine between Rs 60,000 to Rs 4 lakh depending on the number of violations and level of school (primary, middle, secondary).The Act also makes it mandatory for the fee regulatory body to scrutinise complaints within 15 days of receipt while ensuring the final decision is made within 60 days.Anamika Vohra, whose son studies in St Joseph School, Sector 44, said, “Over 200 people have signed the complaint submitted to the fee regulatory body. All of us were signatories while Monica, a practising advocate at Punjab and Haryana High Court has submitted an affidavit. Now they want an affidavit from over 270 parents?”“Schools have been given time till June 30 to upload their balance sheets. Either they will comply or send us a reply which will be verified by district education officer (DEO),” Brar said.When asked why no school was penalised, Brar said, “The committee was of the view that schools should be given more time. Also, the schools have challenged this provision in the Punjab and Haryana HC which will be heard on Tuesday.”Multiple complaints have also been filed by the parents with the fee regulatory body according to which schools were charging hiked consolidated fees instead of tuition fees of last academic session, in violation of the UT education department’s order.UT education secretary Arun Kumar Gupta refused to entertain any queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-given-fourth-deadline-extension-to-upload-their-balance-sheets-online/story-TNZqQOCmf85eesnQTFggrO.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Rickshaw-puller attacks labourer for not offering liquor, booked||A rickshaw-puller has been booked for attempting to murder a labourer in Sadhu Nagar of Haibowal here late Sunday evening for not giving him liquor.The accused allegedly assaulted the labourer with a sharp-edged weapon and fled from the spot assuming he was dead.A team of the Haibowal police reached the spot and initiated investigation. The accused has been identified as Vinod Kumar alias Bhangi of Kehar Singh Nagar.The victim, Gaurav Kainth alias Robert alias Shalu, 42, of Sandhu Nagar, said he lived in a shanty in a vacant plot in Sadhu Nagar and the accused was a regular visitor to his shanty, where they used to consume liquor together.He said, “On Sunday night, we also consumed liquor together. When the liquor finished, the accused demanded more. When I told him that I was left with no liquor to offer him, the accused assaulted me and left.”“However, after some time, the accused returned with a sharp-edged weapon and attacked with the intention of killing me. He assaulted me repeatedly and fled from the spot assuming that I was dead. The locals rushed me to a hospital.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Malkit Singh, investigating the case, said a case under sections 307 (attempted murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-rickshaw-puller-attacks-labourer-for-not-offering-liquor-booked/story-BSEKj4bo19AD7xohvrJusJ.html
15-06-2020||City||3 deaths, 179 fresh infections reported in J&K||Three persons died and 179 tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 5,220, with 62 fatalities.Among the deaths in Kashmir, one is that of a 70-year-old from Chadoora in Budgam district. Officials said he had sepsis and bilateral pneumonia.Besides him, an 18-year-old youth from Monbal, Handwara also died at SMHS hospital and tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously. His family members said he succumbed to severe head injuries suffered by him during an assault by his neighbours. The police have registered a case in this regard and made some arrests.As per the official release of Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), of the 1,835 samples tested on Monday, 126 turned out to be positive. Among these, 79 were from various battalions of the CRPF.With 366 active cases, Srinagar has the worst-hit by the disease. It is followed by Baramulla with 281 active cases and Shopian with 229.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-deaths-179-fresh-infections-reported-in-j-k/story-U1X2d28wc4BTjBm0MmAvVM.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Private schools’ committee requests Delhi govt to release pending EWS reimbursement of 105 schools||A committee representing around 400 private schools in the national capital on Monday wrote to Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia requesting the release of pending reimbursements for the expenses they incurred for students enrolled with them under the economically weaker section (EWS) and disadvantaged groups (DG) categories.The committee said that the payment of as many as 105 private schools is pending for the academic year 2018-19 and 2019-20. The range of pending reimbursement varies between ₹8,00,000 and ₹35,00,000, the committee has estimated.The committee also stated that some of these schools have not received reimbursements since the academic session 2014-2015.According to the Right to Education (RTE) Act 2009, 25% of seats in entry-level classes —Nursery, KG and Class 1— are to be reserved for children from EWS/DG families. The Delhi RTE rules specify that students enrolled under the EWS/DG categories in private schools are entitled to free textbooks, writing material and uniforms, for which the government reimburses a fixed amount.In a letter addressed to Sisodia, the president of the action committee of unaided recognised private schools SK Bhattacharya wrote that several schools were going through a financial crisis amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “The fee collection has consistently diminished throughout the months of March, April, May and June 2020, leaving the schools struggling to honour their financial obligations. As a result of this, the school fee falls short of meeting the monthly outflow on salaries,” he wrote in the letter.HT had, on June 10, reported that nine of 10 parents did not pay their children’s fees in April in around 48% of 170 private schools in Delhi due to the economic slowdown triggered by the Covid-19 lockdown. The proportion worsened in May—to 64% of the schools.The committee said that many private schools built on government as well as private land have been waiting for the release of outstanding dues towards EWS/DG students. “The majority of the schools built on Delhi Development Authority (DDA) land are awaiting the release of outstanding dues towards EWS/DG students. The said dues are pending from the academic session 2014-2015 onwards”“Many schools on private land are also waiting for the EWS reimbursement for the sessions 2018-19 and 2019-20. That an immediate release of payments from the Directorate of Education (DoE) at this time will ease the burden for many schools, who would be unable to make salary payments for the month of May 2020,” the letter read.Binay Bhushan, the director of the DoE, said that the government has released the reimbursement amount for a majority of the private schools. “There could be a delay in the payment of last year’s reimbursement in case of some schools because all the deputy directors got busy with Covid-19 related work in March. We will look into this and direct the deputy directors to release the money at the earliest,” he said.A senior official from Sisodia’s office said, “Many schools do not submit the complete documents and bills on time and that’s why there is a backlog. The DoE always tries to release the funds on time. The government will look into the request received on Monday.”While the majority of the principals refused to comment on the matter, some said that they will not be able to pay salaries to their employees for the month of May. “We have not received even 10% of the students’ fee in April and May. If we get the pending reimbursement now it will help us pay the salaries of our employees,” said the principal of a private school in east Delhi on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/private-schools-committee-requests-delhi-govt-to-release-pending-ews-reimbursement-of-105-schools/story-haapYy3BkuUd5ACGZpBmFK.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||New deputy commissioner assumes charge in Ludhiana||Varinder Sharma, a 2009-batch IAS officer, assumed charge as deputy commissioner (DC) of Ludhiana with the promise of carrying on the initiatives and projects started by outgoing DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal. Earlier, Sharma had served as DC at Jalandhar and Mansa and also as chief administrator of the Bathinda Development Authority in the past. Speaking to mediapersons, Sharma said providing a transparent administration with complete accountability would be his priority.He added he would try his best to take forward Agrawal’s initiatives. He said special plans would be formulated to deal with issues related to Covid-19, traffic, environment, healthcare, education, safety of senior citizens, women and children, besides other areas. Earlier, the police gave him the guard of honour. On the Covid-19 pandemic, Varinder Sharma appealed to residents to follow the directions issued by the Punjab government and the health department.He also appealed to all officials to work as a team for the overall development of the district. Outgoing DC Agrawal thanked the residents for their wholehearted support.He said his tenure as DC of Ludhiana was a fulfilling one, as he received support of all, including the administrative staff and residents, in carrying out the works for the welfare of the people at large. ADCs Amrit Singh, Neeru Katyal Gupta, Amarjit Singh Bains, Jaspal Singh Gill, besides other officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-deputy-commissioner-assumes-charge-in-ludhiana/story-VuXtUVp4QANpBVAnLfBm5H.html
15-06-2020||City||SRO-202: J&K admn scraps controversial ordinance, reduces govt employee probation to 2 years||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday scrapped the controversial Sadr-e-Riyasat Ordinance (SRO)-202 and stated that no fresh appointments shall be made under it.“Administrative council chaired by L-G G C Murmu takes historic decision. No fresh appointments under SRO 202. Probation period of old appointees reduced from 5 to 2 years. Massive step towards employee welfare,” J&K principal secretary Rohit Kansal tweeted.Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh also posted a tweet in this regard. “L-G Murmu just now called up to convey that as suggested to him, #SRO202 will not be indicated in new recruitment rules and for the existing appointees under SRO202, the probation period has been reduced to two years. Must compliment him for prompt response,” read Singh’s post.The BJP government had come under sharp criticism for continuing the discriminatory SRO 202, which was issued by the then chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed on June 30, 2015, during the PDP-BJP regime.Under the SRO, those getting government jobs had to be kept on probation for five years, with regularisation only after qualifying certain ability tests and trainings. Besides, the appointees were entitled to a minimum scale of pay.NC JAMMU CHIEF TERMS REVOCATION VICTORY OF STAKEHOLDERSNational Conference provincial president Devender Singh Rana on Monday described the revocation of SRO 202 as a triumph of those appointed under the provision in Jammu and Kashmir and those aspiring for employment in the government sector.“Better late than never, the course correction was the only rightful option for the administration as the SRO 202 lacked logic and reason,” Rana said in his reaction to the decision. He hoped that the administration would now release all the emoluments to the appointees under SRO 202 which would have accrued to them in accordance with the earlier rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sro-202-j-k-admn-scraps-controversial-ordinance-reduces-govt-employee-probation-to-2-years/story-IROdTMaIiWpiCmdJ3DOANP.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||HC strikes down MSEDCL’s ₹2.22-crore supplementary bill to COEP||In a reprieve to the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday upheld an order of the Electricity Ombudsman, Mumbai striking down supplementary demand of ₹2.22 crore from the leading government engineering college in Maharashtra.Justice Ujjal Bhuyan on Friday dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) challenging the Ombudsman order.In accordance with the tariff order passed in August 2012 order by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), MSEDCL changed the tariff category of CoEP hostel to HT-IX (non-express) on September 5, 2012.In 2015-16, CAG found mistakes in billing of certain category of MSEDCL consumers after which the electricity supplier carried out inspections and in March 2018 issued a supplementary bill to CoEP of about ₹2.22 crore claiming that the college’s hostel was wrongly categorised as a low tariff HT-IX consumer. MSEDCL also threatened to disconnect power supply to the 11 hostel buildings in case of failure to pay bill in due time.CoEP first moved the consumer forum and later the Electricity Ombudsman at Mumbai seeking to squash the supplementary bill. On April 2, 2019, the Ombudsman allowed plea of the college and struck down the supplementary demand notice.MSEDCL then moved the high court challenging the Ombudsman order on various grounds. HC noted that Section 56 (2) of the Electricity Act prohibits recovery of any sum from consumer after a period of two years from the date when such sum became first due, and therefore, it was not open to the electricity supplier to raise demands of differential bill for a period from February 2012 for the first time in March 2018.Besides, the judge said HT-IX tariff category was applicable to educational institutions and sports club, gymnasium, swimming pool, etc. attached to such institutions situated in the same premises and exclusively meant for the students. “If sports club, gymnasium, swimming pool, etc. attached to such institution and situated in the same premises exclusively meant for the students are covered by the said tariff category, there is no reason to exclude the hostel where the students reside from the ambit of the expression educational institution,” said justice Bhuyan. “Therefore, on this count also, raising of the supplementary bill is highly questionable,” the judge added.He said the Ombudsman correctly held that MSEDCL was not entitled to demand any differential bill for any period before February 2018, when tariff category of hostels was last changed. In this regard, the Ombudsman had relied on MERC order of February 2003 directing that there shall be no retrospective recovery of arrears on the basis of any abrupt re-classification of consumers, and that in such cases the billing should be prospective as those cannot be construed as cases of escaped billing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-strikes-down-msedcl-s-2-22-crore-supplementary-bill-to-coep/story-9ZrzkTC4K9qsdUr5bGmL6I.html
15-06-2020||City||Senior citizen hit by 2-wheeler in Airoli, dies||A senior citizen was killed after a two-wheeler knocked him down in Airoli on Sunday night. The incident took place on Sunday around 9.30pm when Sitaram Kerure, 65, had gone out to walk his friend Shivraj Sundalkar to his home. When Kerure was crossing MIDC road in Yadav Nagar while returning home, a two-wheeler hit him leading to severe injuries on his legs and head. The biker, identified as Aakash Ahire, was injured as well after he lost control of his bike and skidded on the road, said police.“Sundalkar, who saw the accident take place, and Kerure’s son took him to Indravati Hospital in Sector 3 where the doctors advised them to take Kerure to Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa where he was declared dead around 10.30pm,” said an officer from Rabale MIDC police station. A case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered against Ahire. No arrest has been made yet as Ahire too is injured, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizen-hit-by-2-wheeler-in-airoli-dies/story-9ZlKHMRiwDea5UcSu7dC8L.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||6 arrested for smuggling gutka worth ₹4.84 lakh||Oshiwara police on Sunday arrested six people for smuggling gutka worth ₹4.84 lakh from Gujarat. A truck and a tempo were seized along with the gutka. “We had received a tip-off about the smuggling activity. We laid a trap near Rajnagar in Jogeshwari (West) and found the banned substance. We have arrested all the six accused,” Dayanand Bangar, senior police inspector from Oshiwara police station said.“This truck had come from Gujarat to deliver seven buffaloes and there was a hidden space made of wood on top of the truck in which they had hidden the gutka. We seized gutka worth ₹4.84 lakh,” said another police inspector.The arrested accused have been identified as Sahal Madhia, 24, Arar Madhia,31, Chandrakant Pawar, 52, Zuber Kamani,30, Imtiyaz Madhia, 40, Imran Ravani, 40.According to the police, accused seem to be professional and they may have delivered consignment on many occasions. The accused have been booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Disease Act and National Disaster Act.The accused will be produced before a local court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-arrested-for-smuggling-gutka-worth-4-84-lakh/story-pxsfg6Lfxmz3qBbYw2SeDN.html
15-06-2020||City||Governor Koshyari bags first prize in letter writing competition on Mahatma Gandhi||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday won first prize in the state level letter writing competition (inland letter card category) on Mahatma Gandhi and bagged ₹25,000. The theme of the competition was ‘Dear Bapu, you are immortal’ and it was organised by the department of posts on the occasion of the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.The Governor had participated in the event in his individual capacity and had sent in an essay on inland letter card to the organisers in Hindi, said a release issued by Raj Bhavan on Monday. The competition was organised for participants up to 18 year of age and those above 18 years in the categories of ‘Inland Letter Card’ and ‘Envelope’. About 80,000 people participated in two groups in the competition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/governor-koshyari-bags-first-prize-in-letter-writing-competition-on-mahatma-gandhi/story-5L3CJyZbSkRf23ZBKbvWkN.html
15-06-2020||City||Only 1 militant active in Doda district, forces committed to make region terror-free again: J&K DGP||The Jammu and Kashmir’s director-general of police Dilbag Singh on Monday said that only one terrorist remains active in Doda district and security forces were committed to making the region terror-free.Talking to media persons in Doda, Singh said, “The security grid is strong and many successful anti-terror operations have been carried out in Kishtwar and Doda. Now, only one militant remains active in Doda but the forces are after him. The region will soon become terror-free once again”.It may be stated here that following the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen “commander” Tahir Ahmad Bhat of Pulwama recently in Doda district, security forces have now upped the ante to catch longest surviving terrorist of Jammu and Kashmir — Jehangir Saroori alias Mohammad Amin Bhat of the same outfit.Saroori is the longest surviving militant in J&K and carries an award of nearly ₹50 lakh on his head that was announced by the police and National Investigating Agency.In October 2018, ₹30 lakh bounty was announced on Jehangir Saroori by the Jammu and Kashmir police for any information leading to his capture. The Kishtwar police had also put up ‘wanted dead or alive’ posters in the region for Saroori and his associates.The DGP added that in the past 16 to 17 days security forces eliminated 27 militants in Kashmir that included “commanders” of JeM, LeT, and Hizbul Mujahideen.He said that in recent months many militant commanders were eliminated in the valley.“While Pakistan proxies are being taken care of, it has not closed launch pads across the border. In fact, the first group of terrorists was pushed from the Keran sector on March 31 and they were eliminated within five days. Even now infiltration attempts are made, but our security forces are foiling them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-1-militant-active-in-doda-district-forces-committed-to-make-region-terror-free-again-j-k-dgp/story-Mn8tsfTqCgGlI8F4CxxWYK.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Pune reports more discharges than fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday||On Monday, 236 people were discharged after being cured of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, while 234 fresh cases were reported in the city in 24 hours since Sunday evening.The positive progressive count of the city is now 9,890, while the number of discharged stands at 6,446, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department.Ten deaths were reported on Monday taking the death count to 458.Out of the 2, 986 patients admitted currently, 230 are in a critical condition. Three deaths were reported from Naidu hospital, including a 47-year-old male residing at Koregaon Park who was admitted on June 12 and declared dead on the same day. The cause of death (COD) is reported to be cardio respiratory arrest bilateral extensive pneumonia, along with Covid-19 infection. Second death reported from the hospital is of a 60-year-old male, a resident of Gangadham chowk. The patient was admitted to the hospital on June 10 and declared dead on June 13. The cause of death is reported to be severe hypoxia due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), along with him being Covid-19 positive.The third death reported was of an 82-year-old male resident of Kondhwa. The patient was admitted on June 9 and declared dead on June 14. The patient also suffered from diabetes and acute kidney injury. Three deaths were also reported from Sassoon General Hospital which includes that of a 69-year-old female from Yerawada. She was admitted on June 13 and declared dead on June 14. The cause of death was reported as type I respiratory failure with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) bilateral pneumonia due to Covid-19.The second death was that of a 42-year-old male who was residing at Dandekar bridge. The patient was admitted on June 11 and declared dead on June 15. The cause of the death was reported as acute respiratory failure due to ARDS, diabetes, hepatitis and sepsis.Third death reported is that of a 90-year-old female residing at Gokhalenagar. She was admitted on June 11 and declared dead on June 15. The cause of death is ARDS, hypertension, myocarditis and acute kidney injury. Other deaths include a 64-year-old male from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. The patient was a resident of Dandekar bridge who was admitted on June 9 and declared dead on June 14. The death was reported due to hypoxic respiratory failure and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Another death of a 55- year-old male from Yerawada was reported on June 14 from the Sahyadri hospital. The patient died due to severe ARDS, acute kidney injury and hypertension.A 75-year-old male was declared dead at Aundh district hospital on June 15. The patient suffered from bronchial asthma. Another 73-year-old male from Inamdar hospital was reported dead due to hypertension, diabetes, and acute kidney injury, along with Covid-19 infection.Woman undergoes treatment for a month, discharged after complete recoveryA 50-year-old woman was discharged from the Aundh District hospital after undergoing Covid-19 treatment for a month. The woman, a resident of Yerawada, was also admitted at the Intensive care unit after her condition deteriorated. Dr Prakash Rokde, medical officer at the hospital, said, “The patient complained of fever on May 15 and was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. After undergoing treatment for over a month, she has been discharged on June 15 after she tested negative for the virus on June 14.”“She was shifted to the ICU on the third date after she was brought to the hospital as her condition worsened and then shifted back to the general ward on June 4.”“The treatment method for the patient included oxygen IV, antibiotics, tablet azee, injection clexane, injection methyl prednisolone, vitamin C and tab zinc,” added the doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-more-discharges-than-fresh-covid-19-cases-on-monday/story-oXrUOAqr0urMpSvtQVkvaI.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Online portal supervisor held for firing at youth in Chandigarh’s Sector 56||A man working as a supervisor with an online portal in Mohali was arrested on Monday for attacking and firing at a 21-year-old youth in Sector 56, Chandigarh, the previous night. Police said the two had an old rivalry over a girl. With the arrest of accused Amandeep Singh, police also recovered a .315 bore countrymade pistol (which he procured from Uttar Pradesh), two live cartridges and a kirch (sharp-edged weapon) from his possession. A case of attempt to murder has been registered.Victim Vinod Kumar runs a grocery store from his house in Sector 56. He was taking a stroll when Amandeep allegedly attacked him with a kirch on his arm and head. As Vinod tried to escape, the accused fired a bullet that just grazed his head. When Vinod raised the alarm, Amandeep fled, taking away his mobile phone as well.Vinod was rushed to hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment.Police said Amandeep’s girlfriend was Vinod’s classmate. Vinod also liked her and tried to create differences between the couple, which had led to a fight in January too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-portal-supervisor-held-for-firing-at-youth-in-chandigarh-s-sector-56/story-F1nhb5p1Jucgf7kcrPG42O.html
15-06-2020||City||Himachal government extends registration date under Himcare to June 30||Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman on Monday said that the registration under Himcare has been extended till June 30 from the earlier deadline June 15.He said the people of the state were not able to register under the scheme due to the lockdown.“Now, to facilitate the families which failed to make their cards under the scheme during the lockdown the government has decided to extend the registration date,” he said.He said that the families, whose cards have expired on June 15, can also get their cards renewed till June 30.He said that the beneficiary could register themselves at www.hpsbys.in or through Lok Mitra Kendras.The documents need to be uploaded for registration under this scheme. Apart from the prescribed premium, beneficiaries have to pay the premiums up to ₹1,000.He said that the families whose card validity is getting over by June 1, this is the last chance for them to renew their cards.Those, who fail to renew their card before or till June 30, will not be able to get their cards renewed till January and will not be entitled to the benefits under the scheme for six months.He said that free treatment facility up to ₹5 lakh is being provided under the Himcare. As of now, 5.50 lakh families are covered under the scheme and free treatment facility is being provided through 201 hospitals which also includes 63 private hospitals. He added that 87,870 patients availed the benefit worth ₹78.6 crore under the scheme during the last one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-government-extends-registration-date-under-himcare-to-june-30/story-IVIptTNAKYW0Ah3yDgrYzN.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman, lover held for husband’s murder||Ambala: A woman was arrested on Monday with her lover for the murder of her 45-year-old husband in the Naggal area of Ambala.Amrik Singh was reportedly poisoned by Geeta, 40, and Surjit Singh, 26, of Bamba village, on June 12 as both were in a relationship, the brother of the deceased, Somnath of Chaormastpur village, said in a complaint.Station in-charge, Naggal police station, Dharambir Singh, said, “Geeta and Surjit Singh served tea with poison to Amrik who died later. The accused confessed to the crime and were arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-lover-held-for-husband-s-murder/story-s1NkvLoe18aop0ZLrkZAvK.html
15-06-2020||City||3 pvt dental colleges refuse to take onus for students’ safety during exams||Blurb: Students being asked to furnish affidavits that ‘they will be responsible for contracting infection during exam’Patiala: At least three of the 11 private dental colleges in Punjab have asked the students to furnish affidavits that they themselves will be responsible if coronavirus contracts them during the examinations. The move has come after Baba Farid University of Health Science (BFUHS) announced exam dates for the BDS students.According to the students HT spoke to, at least three private dental colleges based in Patiala, Ferozepur and Faridkot have sought affidavits, while some have conveyed verbally to students to take responsibility if they contract the virus.A dental student, pleading anonymity, said, “The university has announced exam dates and colleges are refusing to take responsibility if we catch the infection.”Principal of Patiala-based Laxmi Bai Institute of Dental Science and Hospital Dr Ashutosh Nirula said, “We are doing everything according to guidelines of BFUHS. Though we are taking affidavits, but we will help students as we are in the medical profession. Besides, through affidavit we are trying to find out who is coming from red zone and containment zone.”Dental Student Association Punjab (DSAP) has already submitted a memorandum to Punjab government seeking postponement of BDS exams till normalcy prevails.BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said, “We know how to conduct exam. Nobody will be get infected while appearing in the exam as we will follow all the norms. Besides, I am not responsible for what private colleges are asking students to do. None of the government colleges has asked students to sign any such affidavit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-pvt-dental-colleges-refuse-to-take-onus-for-students-safety-during-exams/story-hE9sIZ6ZyRFpQkl1EdENiL.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||As residents protest, more pockets of Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh likely to come out of buffer zone||Hours after residents protested at the containment zone in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, the Chandigarh administration called the meeting of the area affected committee, which is learnt to have decided to remove strict perimeter control from nearly 60% of the areas that are currently under buffer zone.The colony has the city’s only containment zone in its pocket number 15. In addition to it, seven other of the 20 pockets are under buffer zone. Around 12,000 people live in these eight pockets.“The perimeter restrictions are likely to be removed from four of the seven pockets in buffer zone, where no Covid-19 case has been reported. In the AAC meeting, discussions were also held whether restrictions can be removed from other pockets in buffer zone by isolating house blocks where cases have been reported,” said a senior UT official, who attended the meeting.Pocket number 15, where protests took place on Monday, is likely to continue as a containment zone, added the official, requesting anonymity. “The final decision will be taken by the UT administrator, likely during Tuesday’s daily review meeting,” the official said. TEMPERS SPILL ONTO STREETSHaving stayed under strict restrictions for more than a month and a half, residents of Pocket No. 15 came out on the lanes on Monday morning, raising slogans against the administration. They threw garbage in front of their houses and also removed some barricades erected to restrict their movement. “The desperation levels in the containment zone are rising. People are traumatised. Many have lost their jobs and are facing severe financial crunch,” said a resident, who didn’t want to be named.Residents complained that except for dry ration of flour and pulses, there has been no support from the administration. “We have been caged here, even when no positive case has been reported for more than two weeks. The administration hasn’t come forward to help us, especially financially. We still have to purchase vegetables, milk and other items of daily needs from our pocket. As most of the people are from low-income groups, it is becoming difficult to manage the expenses,” said Varinder, a resident.The residents ended their protest only after police assured them their demands will be looked into immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-residents-protest-more-pockets-of-bapu-dham-colony-in-chandigarh-likely-to-come-out-of-buffer-zone/story-LSohocZ7rBV3Rbatr1q4mL.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Finally, ISBT Mohali back in business as Punjab, Pepsu start services||Mohali: A dream project of the former Shiromani Akali Dal government, the state-or-the-art Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT Mohali) lying almost abandoned after power changed hands in Punjab, is finally back in business.The development follows the Chandigarh administration’s decision to suspend interstate operations of Chandigarh Transport Union and other state operated buses from the city’s Sector 43 from June 13 to June 30, following a spike in Covid-19 cases.All Punjab and Pepsu Roadways buses are now operating from ISBT Mohali, which was inaugurated on December 17, 2016, by then the Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal. Only one terminal of the bus stand was made operational then, and after SAD lost the elections the ruling Congress termed it a ‘white elephant’ before abandoning it.The company which built and operated the ISBT also went bankrupt and fled.Halts only at bus stands“The buses will run only within the boundaries of Punjab and Chandigarh, with halts at bus stands and not at stops falling on the way,” said Bhupinder Singh, director, transport, Punjab.“If the bus is running from Mohali to Amritsar, it will halt only at the Jalandhar bus stand, not at the bus stops in Balachaur and Phagwara,” he added.Passengers will have to buy tickets from counters while maintaining social distancing and masks are mandatory.Not more than 25 passengers will be allowed in a bus with a total capacity of 52 seats. Two passengers will be accommodated on three seats, with the middle seat kept vacant, while one passenger will occupy the adjacent row with two seats.Bhupinder Singh said the seats not to be occupied will be marked with a cross, adding that there was no notification regarding operation of private buses.Project that went off-trackThe ambitious Busopolis project was launched in 2009 and was to be completed in December 2011. Spread over seven acres, it was to have an inter-state bus terminal, three multi-storey towers with retail and office spaces, multiplex, five-star hotel, banquet hall, hyper markets, and a helipad atop a tower. But since its inception, the project has been mired in controversies and possession delays. While the bus terminal has become operational, the commercial towers are yet to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/finally-isbt-mohali-back-in-business-as-punjab-pepsu-start-services/story-KYTgskHJhP0YjnFSg7WoBI.html
15-06-2020||Music||K-Pop goes solo to follow social distancing: No group rule leaves some happy, some sad||The craze of K-Pop among youngsters can only be seen to be believed! Those who have attended the previous years’ contest would know about the huge fan following it commands. But, though last year 75 countries participated in the world K-Pop contest, this year it will be different since the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted this genre of Korean pop music and dance, as well. Among the few counties that are enrolling for the festival this year, India is one. And the fans here are kicked to be part of the gala yet again. To them, what has come as a surprise is the fact that only solo entries will be allowed this year. “The enthusiasm and vibrant energy of K-Pop fans in India drove us to pursue the contest even in this time of pandemic... The festival has changed its rules and ways due to the coronavirus scare,” says Kim Kum-Pyoung, director, Korean Cultural Centre India, informing, “Participants cannot participate as a group but only perform solo to avoid any kind of gatherings and chances of infection. And it is for the very first time that we will be hosting the regional round on an online platform. We have made this decision owing to the current, exceptional and extreme situation that people are facing. We believe that well-being of the community is much more important to flourish and explore one’s potential.”   The news has excited some fans and aspiring finalists. Jasmine Kaur, a school student from Delhi’s Ramesh Nagar, and a diehard fan of K-Pop boy band BTS, says, “I love K-pop! The best part about their songs is the lyrics. I have recently recorded a song for the competition, and the good thing was I didn’t feel any (stage) fear. Otherwise I used to feel so under confident while performing on the stage; but when I recorded my participating video while in the comfort of my living room, I was like wow, this is so easy! So, I recorded Whistle, a song by girl group Blackpink. Wish me luck so that I get through to the finale!” Another Delhi-based participant, Aranya, 17, who lives in Kalkaji, emphasises on the importance of getting a first hand experience of stage performances. She says, “For an artist, stage appearance counts and it’s one of my strongest points. I will be missing that since recording at home is no fun; it’s like practising since the vibes are very casual.”There are some youngsters who are not happy about this new decision, which is lowering their chances of a win. Pooja Mishra, a fan of the popular boy band EXO, is a participant from Mumbai this year, who was supposed to perform in a group initially. She shares, “I felt this is a missed opportunity for me... We were presenting our best in the group, but now with the rule of only solo performances, our chances of presenting something extraordinary have reduced drastically. I will still try to perform in the best possible way.” The ‘single entry only’ rule has acted as a boon for a few others like Harshita Goyal, a college student from Noida. A fan of K-Pop girl group, Twice, Goyal adds, “I’m one of the biggest fans of K-Pop, and have been trying their dance style for a while now. I thought I can’t participate because I’m not associated with any group or fan club, and performing solo while others are in group also reduces your chances. But this time, there are only solo entries and I’m super excited! I’m preparing my dance performances on bhangra beats and will submit my entry soon. I just hope ki regional round mein toh select ho jaun.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/music/k-pop-goes-solo-to-follow-social-distancing-no-group-rule-leaves-some-happy-some-sad/story-YdepfDL2XqZFmLcyK1wXaO.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||177 Indians stranded in Dubai for 3 months land in Chandigarh||Mohali: As many as 177 Indian nationals from the region stranded in Dubai following the coronavirus outbreak landed at Chandigarh International Airport on Monday in an Indigo Airlines flight at around 2.55 pm .Operating under the Indian government’s Vande Bharat Mission: Phase-2 to evacuate Indians stranded abroad, the flight had on board 177 passengers from Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, said an airport spokesperson . About 168 passengers were from various districts of Punjab, and the rest from Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Jammu and Kashmir.All passengers were screened by the health department, Punjab, before being handed over to respective states after immigration and customs clearances for quarantine as per state protocols.The states had also arranged for transportation to take them back home. District nodal officer, Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar, said all the passengers would be quarantined at government facilities at various places for 14 days. Those who came in today were asymptomatic, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/177-indians-stranded-in-dubai-for-3-months-land-in-chandigarh/story-OOvlw7OnSa2E3lJsDRuFFK.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two women decamp with Rs 8lakh, jewellery from house in Ludhiana||Even as the district police have so far failed to get any clue in Friday evening’s Rs 7lakh burglary in Industrial Area-B, another robbery was reported in Heera Nagar on the Noorwala Road on Monday.Two women, impersonating as employees of a survey company, robbed Rs 8 lakh and 300gm gold jewellery from a house after injuring the wife of a factory owner in Heera Nagar.The women had allegedly made the victim sniff some intoxicant, following which she fell unconscious. At the time of the incident, the woman was alone at home.On being informed, the police reached the spot and initiated investigation. The victim has been rushed to a hospital, where her condition was stable.The victim, Rashmeet Kaur, 31, is wife of Amarjit Singh, who owns a machine tool factory in Millar Ganj. The couple has three children, including 3-year-old twins, who had gone for tuition at the time of the incident.Amarjit Singh said he, along with his father had gone to the factory when the incident took place.According to police, around 11:30 am, minutes after their domestic help left the house, two women, posing to be surveyors, rang the doorbell.Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO at the Jodhewal police station, said, “When Rashmeet opened the gate, the women demanded water to drink. Rashmeet let them come to the verandah. The women then said they were surveyors and started asking some general questions. Immediately, the women overpowered her and assaulted her with a blunt weapon.”“The accused also forced her to sniff some intoxicant. After Rashmeet fell unconscious, the women robbed cash and gold after breaking open locks of the almirah,” the police said.Gurmeet Singh, brother-in-law of Rashmeet, said, “Rashmeet had made a call to her sister in Hoshiarpur minutes before the incident. After she gathered some consciousness, she redialled her number.”“Rashmeet was only murmuring over phone which was not audible to her sister. After repeated calls, when her sister could not talk to Rashmeet, she made a call to their relatives in the same locality and asked them to go to their house. When relatives rushed to the house, they were shocked to see Rashmeet lying unconscious on the floor and the house was ransacked. Then they informed the police,” said Gurmeet Singh.He added women had robbed Rs 8 lakh in cash and 300gm gold jewellery from the house.The SHO added the police have scanned CCTVs installed in the area. The women had gone to several houses in the area. However, no one allowed them to enter, but Rashmeet asked them to enter the house.The Basti Jodhewal police have lodged an FIR against unidentified women and initiated investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-women-decamp-with-rs-8lakh-jewellery-from-house-in-ludhiana/story-FQsHdVc1EBq5B39kJRuAcO.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Teaching suspended at Panjab University till June 30||Amid surging cases of Covid-19, Panjab University has decided that classes at the varsity and affiliated colleges will remain suspended till June 30. However, the administrative offices will function with 33% staff from Tuesday.The university was scheduled to reopen on Tuesday (June 16) after a month-long summer break.Earlier, the university had allowed its offices to function with 100% staff, if required, from June 8. “In teaching departments where the number of non-teaching employees is five or less, the chairperson may ask more than 33% staff to come for duty, depending on requirement,” the order issued by registrar Karamjeet Singh said.PU administration has also changed the office timings from Tuesday. The new timings will be from 9.30 am to 5pm with lunch break from 1pm to 1.30 pm. However, no public dealing will be conducted.The university also decided that controlling officers, chairpersons, directors and unit heads will report for duty in their respective offices or departments on all working days.Also, department heads have been directed to take decisions on rotation of staff, seating arrangement and distribution of work and time. Also, those reporting for duty have been directed to strictly follow Covid-19 safety protocols issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, government of India.Rajesh Gill, president of Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) said, “The order has come as relief for teachers as conducting classes is not possible right now.”However, as per the order, principals may call employees for duty as per requirements. Besides this, affiliated Colleges in Chandigarh and Punjab will follow guidelines issued by the respective governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teaching-suspended-at-panjab-university-till-june-30/story-lydFuZN5UtHD2UMAAYFhkO.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 effect: Cycling now trending among Chandigarh fitness enthusiasts||Chandigarh For the last two years Shubham Karkra, 18, was regularly pumping iron till gymnasiums across the country closed down because of the Covid-19 lockdown. So when restrictions were lifted but gyms were not allowed to open by the UT administration, Karkra switched over to cycling. For the past one month, his daily fitness schedule includes two hours of cycling. “Unable to go to the gym in the current scenario, I find cycling the best alternative, followed by some exercises for biceps,” says this Class 12 student who lives in Sector 51.Like Shubham, a number of fitness enthusiasts across the tricity have found a new love in cycling during the Covid-19 period. Among them is Umrao Singh, 27, who had once formed a motorbike club, Thunders, with his college friends dedicated to their love for the Enfield Bullet Thunderbird. Members, who over the years got stuck in the career race and forgot about the club, are now back – but the motorbikes have been replaced by bicycles. Ideal for long ridesSince the last month, weekends are reserved for long cycling trips. “We have started organising road trips after quite some time, but now we’re on bicycles. Now, every Sunday around eight to 10 of our friends take off on a long trip. This Sunday we went to Timber Trail, cycling for around 100km,” says Umrao, an engineer and resident of Sector 46. “Apart from getting us back together, cycling helps us remain fit and it’s fun too,” he adds Sukhpreet Kaur, 28, an engineer working with Infosys has also discovered a new passion in cycling. “I started last month. Earlier my fitness routine revolved around the gym, but now it’s one hour of cycling in the morning and at times I go for a walk,” says this resident of Sector 22. “Either I cycle around my sector or go to Sukhna lake.”Cycling has always been associated with the city designed by French architect Le Corbusier and because of its cycling track, Chandigarh stands out among Indian cities, often drawing comparison to other European cities, where cycles are a popular mode of transport. The city’s iconic Sukhna Lake too is now turning into a ‘cyclist’s paradise’. “It’s been decades since I worked out, but last month when the lockdown was lifted, I thought of buying a cycle and initially got one without a gear. However, it was difficult to pedal on long routes, so, after 10 days, I bought another one with gears. Now my daily circuit is around 50 to 60 km and the lake is a part of my daily cycling route,” says 54-year-old advocate Vikas Cuccria, a resident of Sector 39.Sales increase The sale of bicycles has increased to four to five folds in the last one month. “Earlier before the lockdown we used to sell around two cycles a day, now we are touching eight. A lot of machines are coming in for repairs as people who were not using them are now cycling regularly,” says Manjeet Singh, store manager of Firefox Cycles in Sector 22.“We have over 200 active runners in our running group Chandigarh Runners and in the last one month, over 50 of our members have included cycling in their fitness regimen. These days they are spending more time cycling than running,” says fitness freak Jaspreet Kaur, a mother of two, who runs and cycles to stay fit and healthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-effect-cycling-now-trending-among-chandigarh-fitness-enthusiasts/story-CiqOvms43Sk7TrTl6VBfqN.html
15-06-2020||City||Abduction case against ex-DGP Saini: Hearing on plea seeking transfer of case deferred till June 23||Mohali The district and sessions court of Mohali on Monday deferred till June 23 the hearing on an application seeking transfer of case against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini from the court of additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) Monika Goyal. The case pertains to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. The case was registered against Saini on May 6 this year.The application was filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh and it came up for hearing in the court of district and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai.The court also put Saini on notice while fixing June 23 as the next date of hearing. The sessions judge, meanwhile, restricted the ADJ’s court to pronounce order on the case till a decision is taken on the application seeking transfer of the case.In his application for transfer of the case, Palwinder stated that he apprehended “unfair proceedings”. The application was moved after the ADJ’s court granted interim bail to Saini in anticipation of SIT adding Section 302 of the IPC to the earlier FIR.Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian police.A case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder.Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abduction-case-against-ex-dgp-saini-hearing-on-plea-seeking-transfer-of-case-deferred-till-june-23/story-BSoGu1SHjA5kAoxYlOVZDN.html
15-06-2020||City||Congress leader, husband and son arrested for abetting Sangrur resident’s suicide||Congress leader Poonam Kangra, who is also a member of the Punjab state commission for scheduled castes, was arrested along with her husband and son for allegedly abetting the suicide of a civil hospital ward attendant, on Sunday night.The victim had consumed poison in the first week of June after his daughter allegedly eloped with Kangra’s son Vikasdeep. He died during treatment at the hospital. Police had booked the Congress leader, her husband Darshan Kangra and their son for abetment to suicide on the complaint of the victim’s wife. “The trio was presented in the court on Monday and sent to police remand till June 18,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg.KANGRA’S SUPPORTER ALLEGES POLICE TORTURESikander Singh, 40, of Toga Heri village near Malerkotla, who is a supporter of the Congress leader has alleged that the police had picked him up five days ago and thrashed him in police custody, forcing him to say that he had stayed at Kangra’s residence. “Police forced me to also say that Darshan Kangra had threatened the victim,” he alleged. Leader of opposition, Harpal Singh Cheema said that he has taken up the matter with senior police officials and sought justice for Sikander Singh.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, rural) Satpal Sharma denied allegations of police torture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-leader-husband-and-son-arrested-for-abetting-sangrur-resident-s-suicide/story-9W72AIVme0lUJ5Wkqx3VeN.html
15-06-2020||City||18 migrants injured as bus overturns in UP’s Kanpur||A bus with 64 migrants on board overturned after a tyre burst on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway here on Monday, resulting in injuries to 18 people. Police said the bus was on its way to Bihar’s Muzaffarpaur from Delhi when its driver lost control over it due to the tyre burst near the Bilhaur area here. The bus hit a divider before it overturned, Bilhaur SHO Santosh Kumar Awasthi said. On hearing migrants’ cries, locals rushed to the spot and informed police, Awasthi added. The injured were admitted to a community health centre (CHC), the SHO said, adding three people whose condition was said to be critical were shifted to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-migrants-hurt-as-bus-overturns-in-up-s-kanpur/story-Z6M3vAs5w2xK5MYtiaaYcK.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Mercury touches 43 degree Celsius mark in parts of Delhi||The mercury touched the 43 degrees Celsius-mark in parts of the national capital on Monday and is expected to hover above 40 degrees Celsius for the next three to four days.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 41.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. The weather stations at Palam and Pusa recorded the maximum temperature at 43.2 degrees and 43.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.Humidity levels oscillated between 35 and 73 per cent, officials said. A partly cloudy sky is likely on Tuesday. Also read: Temperatures rise in Haryana, Punjab; Hisar hottest at 42.9 degree CelsiusThe maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 42 degrees and 28 degrees Celsius, the weather department said.The weatherman said the mercury will hover above 40 degrees Celsius for the next three to four days before light rains bring relief from the heat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mercury-touches-43-degree-celsius-mark-in-parts-of-delhi/story-iCemeJqVgKND4IN10Qo4BN.html
15-06-2020||City||Kashmir Pandit migrants’ body rejects relief funds ‘scam’ probe panel||A Kashmiri Pandit migrants’ body has rejected the inquiry committee formed by the Jammu and Kashmir administration to investigate the alleged scam of ₹2,340 crore involving relief funds meant for the community.Reconciliation, return and rehabilitation of migrant Kashmiri Pandits issued a statement on Monday saying they had sought an investigation by the CBI or the ACB. “Instead, the administration has formed an inquiry committee which includes members who were involved in the process of enrolling the activists and disbursing the money to them,” said Satish Mahaldar, chairman of the body.“The body rejects the inquiry committee set up by the J&K administration to investigate the scam of ₹2,340 crore,” he said.He added that the notification from the office of the relief and rehabilitation commissioner, Jammu, dated June 11, 2020, has ordered “the internal audit of zonal/camp offices by a committee”. It said that a “a five-member committee will conduct the detailed audit of the official record pertaining to the cash assistance, ration, inclusion/deletion, bifurcation, cashbook, cash A/c, etc. and will submit a detailed report”.“We totally reject this committee. How can justice be expected from those people who were very much part of the scam? It seems that the committee has been made to cover up the scam. It also is very clear that the government is not sincere to give justice to the wronged,” the body said.“Ethically, what should have been spent on the relief and rehabilitation of the persecuted has been mischievously and deliberately given to the undeserving,” said Mahaldar.While giving details of the press briefing they had addressed on May 17, Mahaldar said the Jammu and Kashmir administration is annually dispersing an amount of approximately ₹78 crore to political workers in Kashmir.“Documents with us show that the administration has been paying the National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party and the Congress workers for the past 30 years. These leaders and workers have been getting the money from J&K coffers every month and every year since 1990. The amount totals a whopping ₹2,340 crore for the last 30 years,” he said.“We lost our houses and land because of terrorism and persecution and now the relief meant for us is also being cornered by many people in Kashmir. This is an irony,” Mahaldar said.“We reiterate our demand for an independent inquiry either by CBI or ACB. The amount involved in the scam is huge and the people involved need to be punished.” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-pandit-migrants-body-rejects-relief-funds-scam-probe-panel/story-mQMygCh4mYM3zHpWPbptGM.html
15-06-2020||City||Under financial distress, auto driver ends life by jumping before train in Jalandhar||Under financial distress due to the lockdown, a 40-year-old autorickshaw driver ended his life by jumping before a moving train in Jalandhar on Sunday evening.Family members say that the victim had been struggling to make ends meet for the past three months and though the state government had allowed autos to ply from May 18, the victim was facing losses due to the two-passenger rule. He was under extreme distress as he was not earning much and had to borrow money to meet household expenses, his younger brother said. Investigating officer, assistant sub-inspector Hira Singh said inquest proceedings were initiated under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the basis of the family members’ statements. The body has been handed over to the family, he added.Reacting to the incident, autorickshaw union general secretary Rakesh Sharma said most autorickshaw drivers in the city were pushed to the edge due to lack of customers. “There are around 5,000 CNG-run autos and over 25,000 registered autos in the city, but only a few are on the road these days. We are struggling to find passengers as most people prefer to stay home due to fear of infection.” said Sharma, demanding relief from the state government. Note to readers: If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Those in Jalandhar can contact Dr Aman Sood at the civil hospital helpline 0181-2224848.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/under-financial-distress-auto-driver-ends-life-by-jumping-before-train-in-jalandhar/story-3VKVgAH9w4eIG9t5jkGyBM.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi’s Covid-19 tally reaches 2,068 with 25 new cases||Dharavi, Asia’s most populated slum area, on Monday, reported 25 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of people infected with the virus in the area to 2,068.“25 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Mumbai’s Dharavi area today. The total number of positive cases in the area rises to 2,068,” said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Dharavi has recorded 77 deaths till date, it added. According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Maharashtra has reported 1,07,958 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 53,030 cases are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-2-068-with-25-new-cases/story-e0avQwokDysop7XVgCE5eI.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Temperatures rise in Haryana, Punjab; Hisar hottest at 42.9 degree Celsius||The maximum temperature rose slightly to above normal in Haryana and Punjab on Monday, with Hisar sizzling at 42.9 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana was the hottest place in the two states, recording a two-degree increase above the normal, according to the Meteorological Department here.Ambala, Karnal and Narnaul also recorded above normal temperatures of 41.4 degrees Celsius, 39.5 degrees Celsius and 42.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.Also read: Mercury touches 43 degree Celsius mark in parts of DelhiAmritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded above normal day temperatures of 42 degrees Celsius, 41.7 degrees Celsius and 41.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, registered a high of 40 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/temperatures-rise-in-haryana-punjab-hisar-hottest-at-42-9-celsius/story-SgF0OmlQKG0w4XM7WZuDJL.html
15-06-2020||Business||Safal partners with Zomato for doorstep delivery of fruits, vegetables||Mother Dairy-owned fruits and vegetables brand Safal has partnered with Zomato to begin the home delivery of fruits and vegetables.In the first phase, Safal has initiated delivery from 11 booths in select locations of Delhi-NCR. Safal booths located in these areas will ensure stock availability while the food delivery app will deliver fruits and vegetables at the doorsteps of consumers.Each of the 11 Safal outlets will cater to a radius of 10 km around them. Consumers can avail the facility of home delivery by ordering the products through the Zomato application.Pradipta Sahoo, Business Head - Safal, Mother Dairy Fruits & Vegetables Pvt Ltd said, “To catalyse the ease of living and convenience for our consumers, Safal has initiated the home delivery option in partnership with Zomato.”Sahoo added: “We are taking requisite precautions to offer safe and quality products to our consumers. In the initial phase, key locations of Delhi-NCR like Saket, Vasant Kunj, Dwarka, Janakpuri, and Panchsheel Enclave in Delhi and Sector 50 and sector 29 in Noida will be covered. Going forward, the service will gradually be expanded to other outlets to ensure coverage to the entire Delhi-NCR region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/safal-partners-with-zomato-for-doorstep-delivery-of-fruits-vegetables/story-WShkz7uB3UGgHhf1fLhInO.html
15-06-2020||City||J&K’s new media policy draws sharp criticism from Kashmir journalists||Jammu and Kashmir’s new media policy has evoked sharp criticism from journalists in the valley, politicians and the civil society.Many have called it an attempt to kill the independence of journalists and media outlets operating the region, especially Kashmir.Earlier this month, the J&K administration approved the new Media Policy-2020 stating that it was meant for effective communication and public outreach.The administration also stated that the policy attempts to “thwart misinformation, fake news and tries to develop a mechanism that will raise alarm against any attempt to use the media to vitiate public peace, sovereignty and integrity of the country”.The policy allows the directorate of information and public relations (DIPR) to “examine the content of the media for any fake news, plagiarism and unethical and anti-national activities” and any individual or group indulging in such things “shall be de-empanelled besides being proceeded against under the law, the administration said.Veteran journalist and former north India correspondent of BBC, Altaf Hussain said it is an attempt to browbeat the media so that they are not able to report facts.“This is to kill the independence of media. There have been such attempts in the past as well. In these past 30 years, there would be so many occasions where we would annoy either the government or the militants and many of our colleagues lost their lives for it. We have resisted such pressures and guarded our own freedom. Now, it’s the time to show the same resolve to uphold truth,” Hussain, who has also edited a vernacular newspaper, said.“We don’t have to come out on the streets, but simply have to report honestly. These are challenging times for they want us to go the way of lapdog media,” he said.While most newspaper owners refused to comment or write on the new media policy fearing reprisals from the government, some termed it as a coercive measure to silence the media voices.Asem Mohiudin, founder and editor of weekly The Legitimate, said J&K’s media industry is under tremendous constraints and instead of bailing it out, more coercive laws are being enforced.“Since 2006, it is the third time that the UT has changed its media policy. Ironically, all the times no responsible media entrepreneur or journalist is consulted for the framing of the policy. But later on the policy is never fully implemented hence it violates its own rules and laws… Now it has come up with another modified version. That only violates the ethics of professional journalism.”Haroon Rashid, editor of a prominent Urdu daily published from Srinagar, said from the past three decades, journalists working in Kashmir have been facing suffocation. “This policy is not only dangerous but also one-sided, and nobody from the local media was taken into confidence during its framing.”Kashmir Press Club general secretary Ishfaq Tantray said the club members had an online meeting and a need was felt that all media organisations should come together for a joint mechanism to deal with the issue. “I see this media policy is a serious threat to press freedom in J&K and everybody needs to come forward and devise a joint response.”Safwat Zarger, who writes for Scroll, said nobody is against the idea of coming down on fake news or other unethical journalistic conduct, but this policy effectively leaves the judgment in the hands of bureaucrats, which is dangerous. “Such a policy is detrimental to the freedom of speech and expression and has no place in democratic framework.”Former chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah was also critical of the policy. “The only version the authorities want heard is their own. The truth will be the biggest casualty of this Orwellian order,” Abdullah said while tweeting an editorial of a national daily against the new policy.PDP spokesperson Suhail Bukhari, who is also a former journalist, said the new policy introduced by J&K government is an assault on the freedom of press and demanded its roll back. “By bringing the new media policy, the administration has begun yet another element of its agenda it embarked on August 5 by disempowering the people of J&K.”A Congress spokesperson also criticised it saying, “Nobody is happy with new media policy.”Communist Party of India CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said the new policy has spread unease amongst journalists working in the region. “Those who framed this policy have given a clear picture that they don’t want journalists answerable to their readers and editors, but to bureaucrats and security officials.”However the BJP has welcomed the policy. “Journalists also should be made accountable. Many people write only negative things about the government and never highlight the positive developments, so that was necessary,” said BJP state spokesperson Altaf Thakur.Calls to commissioner secretary information Rohit Kansal and information director Sehrish Asgar did not yield any response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-s-new-media-policy-an-affront-to-press-freedom-say-kashmiri-journalists/story-onv0pfBkgHcBnUH6ZoQl2O.html
15-06-2020||City||SMVD shrine board CEO reviews working of nursing college, gurukul in Katra||Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board CEO Ramesh Kumar on Monday reviewed the functioning of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi College of Nursing (SMVDCoN) and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Gurukul during a meeting held in Katra.The CEO took stock of the online classes being organised for the students of both the institutions during the lockdown and also discussed modalities for regularly organising online internal tests for evaluating their level of exam preparation.During the progress review of online teaching-learning processes by SMVDCoN, the CEO was informed that different modes like Google Classroom, Google Duo, WhatsApp video calling, telephonic communication and SMVDCoN portal were utilised and one-to-one group interaction was also conducted.The CEO asked the respective principals to organise weekly telephonic sessions with the students at a fixed time by making groups of students for better concept clearance. He asked the Gurukul principal that besides the online mode, if need be, study material should be despatched to the students at their residences.Underscoring the need for optimally enhancing the prospects of suitable placements of the passing-out students of the nursing college, Kumar asked the principal to tie-up with various leading healthcare institutions in the country for arranging placements for the students as the first batch of the BSc Nursing students of SMVDCoN is passing-out this year. While reviewing the initiatives being taken for enhancing employability of the Gurukul students, the CEO emphasised the need to guide the students about various career options and available opportunities. In this context, he asked the principal to contact various organisations for exploring possibilities of job placements for the passing-out students.In furtherance of this objective, the CEO stressed for imparting practical training and required skills to the students in Vedic mantras, Karam Kand, Jyotish, Vastu Shastra and other religious ceremonies and rituals so that they avail adequate job opportunities after passing-out from the institution. The first batch of the Shastri Part-III is passing-out from the Gurukul this year.Among those who participated in the meeting included Hem Kant Prasher, chief accounts officer of the shrine board; Dr Sunil Sharma, deputy CEO of the shrine board and administrator of SMVDCoN and SMVD Gurukul; Dr Shailla Cannie, principal of SMVDCoN and D. Dhananjay Mishra, principal of the Gurukul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/smvd-shrine-board-ceo-reviews-working-of-nursing-college-gurukul-in-katra/story-A5E3ejkuI6RoVXsEKyHXhL.html
15-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan offers Covid-19 testing facility to Delhi, neighbouring states||With Covid-19 cases increasing in neighbouring states, the Rajasthan government has offered testing facilities of up to 5,000 samples daily to neighbouring states.“In times of this crisis, neighbouring states which are overloaded with patients and short of testing facilities can get tests done in Rajasthan,” Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said at a meeting to review the pandemic situation in the state.Gehlot said States such as Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh could get tests for their patients done in Rajasthan.Also read: Amid surge in Covid-19 cases in India, recoveries rise to 51%Rajasthan is among the states carrying out the highest number of testing.Gehlot also announced that by July end all government hospitals will have oxygen supply through pipelines instead of cylinders.The chief minister said Rajasthan had started from zero testing capacity which is now around 25,000 tests per day. He also said that the recovery rate has improved dramatically to touch 75% due to the constant monitoring and screening of patients.Kalicharan Saraf, who was health minister in the previous BJP government, said the government was making false claims to win brownie points.“The government claims that they are doing 25,000 tests daily and will soon increase it to 40,000. But according to media reports, the government is only carrying out 11,000 tests per day. So they are misguiding people,” said Saraf.Also read: Increase Covid-19 testing capacity, Delhi govt orders labs“If the government has testing facilities then why don’t they use it for people of Rajasthan first before trying to win cheap popularity by offering it to other states,” he said.He said if 25,000 tests were actually being carried out, Rajasthan would have been able to control coronavirus till now.Jitendra Chaudhary, head of the lab technicians association at SMS hospital, said using the CB-NAAT machines and pooled testing technique has helped to ramp up testing capacity in the state. There are 72 CB-NAAT machines being used for Covid testing. ICMR approved these diagnostic machines which are used for testing TB to be used for COVID testing.Dr Virendra Singh, a member of the CM’s advisory committee on Covid-19 said that Rajasthan has more capacity to test than the samples received and so for a limited time period, testing facility can be extended to other statesHe said while the testing capacity is adequate, the government should try to shorten the time lag in testing and providing the report to patients. “Reports should be available to patients within 6-8 hours instead of 2-3 days.”While the state is increasing testing capacity across districts, it is declining in Jaipur because there is pressure of testing from other neighbouring districts in the Covid-19 testing centres. Of the total samples, 34% are those from other districts such as Tonk, Dausa, Karauli, Alwar and Bharatpur.Till now, some 1.3 lakh Covid-19 samples have been tested in five centres in Jaipur. Of these, 89,000 tests were of Jaipur and the rest were from other districts.Since the number of samples of other districts is more than those from Jaipur, the samples from Jaipur are often put on hold for 2-3 days which delays the test results.Jaipur has been overtaken by Jodhpur in the number of tests. Jodhpur which has three Covid-19 testing centres is testing more samples than Jaipur. So far, 1.7 lakh samples have been tested in Jodhpur.Currently testing is being carried out in 16 districts in the state though the chief minister and health minister have said that testing facilities will soon be developed in all 33 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-offers-covid-19-testing-facility-to-delhi-neighbouring-states/story-CCG0nsdhSpSzUfnoytwiUN.html
15-06-2020||City||HP health dept scam: Rathore challenges CM to publicise ₹12 crore bill||State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Monday hit out at chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for his statement in which he claimed that state Congress had sent a bill of ₹12 crore to Congress high command on the pretext of Covid-19 and has challenged CM to publicise the bill.While addressing a press conference at Rajiv Bhawan, Shimla, Rathore said that CM is trying to distract people’s attention from the issue. He should disclose that to whom the bill was sent and who had signed it.He said that all Congress Block Presidents will be submitting a memorandum to the governor through their areas sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) seeking a probe into recent scams in the health department by a presiding high court judge. He also demanded the resignation of CM.Rathore said that Congress will expose all corruption and scams of present BJP-led state government.He also demanded state government make special arrangements for bringing labourers from Nepal during the apple season. The state government should constitute a committee and Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses should be sent to Nepal borders in order to bring labourers free of cost.He said that the total collection of ₹13.51 lakh has been made in State Congress’s Disaster Relief Fund and a cheque of the entire amount will be presented to legislator Dhani Ram Shandil on June 19. This amount will be used to purchase ventilators and other medical equipment and will be donated to Covid-19 dedicated hospitals such as Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College and Hospital, Tanda and Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Hospital, Ner Chowk, Mandi.He added that the state Congress has received a detailed report from the expert committee constituted by their party to revive the economy of the state and the report will be submitted to the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-health-dept-scam-rathore-challenges-cm-to-publicise-12-crore-bill/story-e0CzQuF2HF2ucOMoEsAYCK.html
15-06-2020||City||11th case surfaces in Dera Bassi’s Mubarakpur village in four days||A 45-year-old woman from Mubarakpur tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases from this Dera Bassi village to 11 in four days. Meanwhile, three more cases were reported in Mohali district, taking the number of confirmed cases to 180. With eight people being cured and discharged on Monday, the number of recoveries rose to 125. As three people have succumbed so far, the number of active cases stands at 52.The fresh cases include a 65-year-old woman from Gillco Valley in Kharar, 14-year-old boy from Nayagaon and 35-year-old man from Peer Muchalla in Zirakpur.Civil surgeon said Dr Manjit Singh said their contact tracing is being conducted and all family members will be tested on Tuesday. The Mubarakpur woman is a contact of the 43-year-old man who tested positive for Covid-19 on June 12, four days after returning from Delhi. Another man, three women and five children from among his family and neighbours have also tested positive so far.Meanwhile, eight patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, on Monday. They include a 28-year-old woman from Salempur; two men, aged 36 and 66, and two women, aged 34 and 61, from Sector 78, Mohali; a 61-year-old man from Sector 70; a 20-year-old man from Kurali; and a 32-year-old man from Dhakoli.Surat couple, Delhi woman test positive in PanchkulaA couple from Surat and a Delhi woman tested positive in Panchkula district on Monday. A man, aged 27, and his wife, aged 25, had come to Madawala in Pinjore for work, when they developed symptoms and were tested. Meanwhile, a 22-year-old woman from Delhi visiting the Housing Board Colony in Kalka was also found infected. The three have been admitted to the isolation ward of the general hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula.“These cases will not be counted in Panchkula’s tally as they were travelling to the district,” said Jasjeet Kaur, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11th-case-surfaces-in-dera-bassi-s-mubarakpur-village-in-four-days/story-VjUeVcwcYdbCA6fHKoq03J.html
15-06-2020||Kolkata||Nearly 52% of Kolkata residents favour total lockdown for another month: Report||Nearly 52 per cent of over 2,500 people surveyed in the city have favoured a complete lockdown for one more month, amid the unrelenting rise in Covid-19 cases, according to a study by a social media platform.LocalCircles, a community-based social media platform which has Nadir Godrej, Anand Mahindra and R C Bhargava as members of its advisory board, recently conducted a survey in high virus load cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Ahmedabad to find out what the residents there had to say about any further extension of lockdown.Among the 2644-odd respondents in Kolkata, 52 per cent were found to be in favour of a one-month complete lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19.Of the 5,998 respondents in Delhi, 79 per cent called for a complete lockdown.In Mumbai, 64 per cent of 5,412 people have also sought the same.Chennai saw 61 per cent of 5,232 respondents pitching for one-month lockdown.India has so far recorded more than 3.3 lakh cases of Covid-19, with death toll having crossed the 9000-mark.The country has undergone lockdown in four phases starting March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/nearly-52-of-kolkata-residents-favour-total-lockdown-for-another-month-report/story-CeatkdXI7DDZrgURrnrX9L.html
15-06-2020||City||₹20,000cr transferred to Jan Dhan accounts of 20 crore women during lockdown: Smriti Irani||Financial help worth ₹20,000 crore was provided to as many as 20 crore women having bank accounts under Jan Dhan Scheme during the lockdown induced to thwart the spread of coronavirus, Union minister Smriti Irani said on Monday.She was addressing a virtual rally of party office bearers and workers of Kangra Parliamentary Constituency through video conferencing from New Delhi.She said that all the financial benefits were transferred in the accounts of the beneficiaries, thereby ensuring that the money goes directly to their accounts.Irani said that Ujjwala Yojana launched by the Prime Minister has ensured that each household has a smoke-free kitchen.She said that lakhs of soldiers and ex-servicemen in Himachal Pradesh were benefitted from ‘One Rank One Pension Scheme’. She termed abrogation of Article 370 and 35A as the biggest achievements of Narendra Modi-led government’s second term.The Union minister also appreciated chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for effectively fighting the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the state.She said that the efforts made by the state government were acknowledged at the national level.In his address, Jai Ram Thakur said that it was due to the Digital India Scheme launched by PM Modi that the people were able to connect with each other amid the lockdown.The chief minister added that ₹500 each were deposited in the accounts of 5.90 lakh women under the Jan Dhan Yojana in April and May.Besides, 1,11,863 people have been benefitted in the state as ₹500 each have been deposited in their accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Graib Kalyan Yojana, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-000cr-transferred-to-jan-dhan-accounts-of-30-crore-women-during-lockdown-smriti-irani/story-IvBZijJa58FJpUooaZVJQM.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Man plans own killing for insurance money; plot unearthed after his death||Burdened by financial distress, a man in Delhi decided to end his life and hired a juvenile to execute the killing, so that his family could get the insurance money, but the police unearthed the plot five days after his body was found.Gaurav Bansal, who lived with his wife and children in Arya Nagar in IP Extension, ran a ration shop and was under acute financial stress, police said on Monday.sA police official said the exact amount of Bansal’s insurance was not immediately clear but it could be over Rs 10 lakh. He, however, said the man had paid around Rs 60,000 to execute his killing, which the four accused shared among themselves.After his body was found hanging from a tree with his hands tied near Kheri Baba Pul near outer Delhi’s Najafgarh area on June 10, police registered a murder case and began investigation, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) A. Koan.Police said they arrested a suspect, Suraj (18), who admitted to have committed the crime with while his two accomplices - Manoj Kumar Yadav (21) and Sumit (26).All three are residents of Mohan Garden in Uttam Nagar and have been arrested.Suraj told police he was roped in by the juvenile who was in contact with Bansal. The juvenile revealed to police that Bansal hired him, the DCP said.Bansal had told the accused if they kill him, his family would get the insurance money, the police official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-plans-own-killing-for-insurance-money-plot-unearthed-after-his-death/story-GmpNJF5QT0FdRdyxrR2vtK.html
15-06-2020||City||Asked to get smartphones for survey, ASHA workers in Ludhiana stage protest||Struggling to arrange ‘latest smartphones’ for the health department’s recently launched door-to-door survey, ASHA workers in Ludhiana staged a protest outside the civil surgeon’s office and raised slogans against health authorities on Monday. Leading the protest, All India ASHA Worker and Facilitators Union’s state unit president Jeet Kaur said, “A majority of ASHA workers don’t own a smart phone. Moreover, we are being asked to collect details such as name, parents names, mobile number, gender, age, occupation and ailments of all persons aged above 30. This seems to be an infringement of privacy.” She added that ASHA workers will be given merely Rs 4 to fill one form, which is three-pages long.The union’s district president, Balbir Kaur said it was the sixth survey in three months. “Earlier, we had conducted a verbal survey for generating awareness about the spread of Covid-19. Thereafter, we did a survey to check if there were any positive patients in the localities. Then we went to gather details on Tablighi Jamaat followers, devotees who returned from Holla Mohalla and recently returned NRIs,” said Kaur.Demanding to make the survey a paper-based one, a delegation of ASHA workers handed over a memorandum to the deputy commissioner’s office later in the day. They also demanded that some private details should be eliminated so as to maintain patients’ privacy.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Baggar said that staging a protest was not a solution. “Instead of discussing their concern, the workers began raising slogans,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asked-to-get-smartphones-for-survey-asha-workers-in-ludhiana-stage-protest/story-9g42Kmu9NavEPK9zbzdA7L.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Recovery rate among children highest among all age groups in city: PMC data||The Covid-19 recovery rate of children - between 0 and10 years - is the highest among all age groups as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department data. Of the 9,082 positive cases reported in the city till June 12, 577 are within the age group of 0-10 and only two deaths have been recorded so far. A 13-month-old girl from Warje died on May 10 and a two-month-old infant was declared dead on June 7, but reported on Saturday. As per PMC data, the death rate among children is the lowest, however, doctors state that even though they are less likely to be severely affected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, they are potential carriers and all precautions must be taken to remain uninfected.Of the 575 Covid-19 infected children (0-10 years of age), 388 - 205 males and 183 females- have been discharged. The remaining 187 -102 males and 85 females- are currently admitted at various hospitals across the city. Of the two deaths, the 13-month-old girl had been admitted to the Sassoon General Hospital on May 4 while the two-month-old baby boy had been admitted to KEM on June 3 and was suffering from anterior mediastinal hemangioma compressing trachea, apart from being Covid-19 positive. Dr Ramchandra Hankare, PMC health chief, said, “The common ailments seen in kids are malnutrition, anaemia, heart disease, congeniality anomaly, leukaemia, diarrhoea, measles, TB and blood cancer. Although they have a high recovery rate, they are still considered as high risk groups and the treatment is done accordingly.”“The need to segregate them from other patients is because the treatment or the drug dose is as per the weight. It is true that the mortality rate is low amongst children, however, they are still considered to be high risk groups like the senior citizens,” said Dr Hankare. The state government directives also clearly states that any person above the age of 65 and below 10 should avoid going out even as restrictions are being relaxed after the lockdown. Dr Tushar Parikh, consultant, paediatrics and neonatology, Motherhood Hospital, says, “There are multiple reasons why kids are less likely to be severely infected due to Covid-19. Even though children have a weaker immune system than adults, the latter are more likely to have other comorbid conditions and so the immunity is compromised. Secondly, children have been recently vaccinated with the BCG vaccine and this particular vaccine has proven to be helpful in some cases across the globe. Thirdly, since the receptors in kids’ organ cells are ‘less expressed’, so the virus cannot enter the cells and therefore, the damage is not so severe. The viral load is less and the virus does not multiply as much as it multiples in adults. These are just hypothesis and nothing has been proven, but it is helpful to ensure that there is no need to panic among the public.”Dr Parikh adds that although parents should not panic, they must take care of their kids as much as adults. “The Centre for Disease Control in America has stated that multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) is a condition where different body parts can become inflaed and there is no known proof of what causes MIS-C. However, we know that many children with MIS-C had the virus that causes COVID-19, or had been around someone with Covid-19. It is also known MIS-C can be fatal, but most of the children recover with good healthcare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/recovery-rate-among-children-highest-among-all-age-groups-in-city-pmc-data/story-hrCowUvtnVCCxoBVaWLrpK.html
15-06-2020||Dehradun||17 fresh cases take Uttarakhand tally to 1,836; 24 patients recover||Uttarakhand reported 17 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Monday, as the overall tally in the hill state rose to 1,836.A bulletin issued by the state health department said seven Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Monday morning and another 10 were recorded the previous night.The new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the state’s following districts: Almora (1), Bageshwar (2), Nainital (3), Tehri Garhwal (3), Pauri Garhwal (3), Rudraprayag (2), and Pithoragarh (2).A majority of the Covid-19 patients have recently returned to Uttarkhand from Delhi-national capital region (NCR) and Maharashtra, which have emerged as hotspots of the epidemic, amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the raging viral outbreak. While one patient is a close contact of a person, who had earlier contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.On Monday, 24 patients were also discharged from hospitals across the state after they recovered from the viral infection. Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in the following districts: Dehradun (9), Pauri (1), Chamoli (5), Udham Singh Nagar (5), and Bageshwar (4).The state has tested over 46,000 swab samples to date, of which the results of more than 4,600 are still pending.Uttarakhand has a recovery and infection rate of 61.82% and 4.54%, respectively.Dehradun district has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases at 475, followed by Nainital (338), Tehri Garhwal (294) and Haridwar (209). While Uttarkashi district has the lowest number of Covid-19 positive cases at 33.Uttarakhand has 78 containment zones, including 43 and 21 in Haridwar and Dehradun districts, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/17-fresh-cases-take-uttarakhand-tally-to-1-836-24-patients-recover/story-bcZrtUwv3bOxpgafefLHHP.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Won’t force Class 10, 12 students to appear for exams: CISCE to Bombay HC||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) on Monday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that Class 10 and Class 12 students (in India as well as abroad) will not be forced to appear for the remaining board exams.The board informed the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde that if students do not wish to appear for the pending exams in July, they will be issued final results on the basis of their performance in internal exams or pre-board exams, or based on the results of the subjects they have already appeared for in the board exam.The board said this decision will be communicated to all the 2,605 schools affiliated to it in India as well as abroad, and the option of every student will be ascertained. The schools would have to inform the option chosen by all their students to the board by June 22.The statements came in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an advocate whose son is appearing for the Class 10 exam, seeking direction to the board to cancel the remaining papers and declare results on the basis of gradation, past performance and performance in the subjects for which exams have already been held.The PIL stated that the board declared its examination schedule in last year in December and the exams started as scheduled on February 27. All the papers till March 18 were held according to the declared timetable. However, on March 18, the board rescheduled the remaining exams due to restrictions imposed in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.On May 22, the board declared that the remaining papers of Class 10 will be held between July 2 and 12, while those of Class 12 will be held from July 1 to 14.Earlier, CISCE was keen on holding exams for the remaining papers. In its reply to the PIL, the board had pointed out that on June 7, it held a video conferencing with principals of 196 of the 226 schools affiliated to it in Maharashtra, of whom 84℅ were in favour of holding exams for the remaining papers.The bench has now sought a clarification from the Maharashtra government on the board’s stand, and posted the petition for further hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/won-t-force-class-10-12-students-to-appear-for-exams-cisce-to-bombay-hc/story-rTCc4Dmpv1eYUa7GbGXsHI.html
15-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka Health Minister attends wedding without wearing mask amid Covid outbreak||Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu was on Monday seen without face mask at an event in Davanagere amid Covid-19 crisis in the country.The Minister was attending the wedding ceremony of son of former minister Parameshwar Naik at Hagaribommanahalli in Davanagere.This is not the first time that Sriramulu has flouted the norms for preventing the spread of Covid-19. He took part in a procession in Chitradurga on June 2 and flouted social distancing norms. He was seen surrounded by several supporters while a big garland was being offered to him.The state has reported 6,245 Covid-19 cases including 2,977 cured, 3,196 active cases and 72 deaths. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-health-minister-attends-wedding-without-wearing-mask-amid-covid-outbreak/story-YbXx9zncCsMtXIqVGjbB6O.html
15-06-2020||Kolkata||WB govt introduces software to keep track of employees working from home amid Covid-19||The West Bengal government has come up with a software to monitor the performance of its employees working from home amid the Covid-19 scenario, a senior official said on Monday.The state’s department of finance is using the software on an experimental basis, he said.“If the results are satisfactory, we will put this to use in other departments,” the official said.State government employees should not violate office hours “thinking that it will get unnoticed because he/she is at home”, he added.“The employees have to log in to the software, enabling the department concerned to monitor their performance and office hours. We must ensure that work is not hampered because they are at home,” the official said.The West Bengal government had last week said only asymptomatic employees shall be allowed to attend office on rotation basis.“Anyone with symptoms of mild fever, cough and cold need not attend office, and officers and staff residing in the containment zones shall not come to office. He/she will work from home till the area is declared as a Clear Area (category C)...,” it had said, issuing a set of guidelines.The state government has also discouraged face-to-face meetings and said officers should communicate via intercom, mobile phone and video-conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-govt-introduces-software-to-keep-track-of-employees-working-from-home-amid-covid-19/story-TRRfnFbMrjdaXZELv7FJoM.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Fish prices see 80% hike as supply chains dwindle; mutton, chicken remain ‘costly’||The retail cost of fish has spiked in the city as supply chains are not able to meet the demand, according to traders.The retail cost of chicken has remained high, as HT reported in May – the broiler price is still Rs 240 per kg, up from the pre-Covid rate of Rs 140 per kg in February; and up from the initial negative Covid impact of Rs 70kg in March.The retail cost of mutton has also remained at the Covid-spiked rate of Rs 700-Rs750 per kg, up from the pre-Covid rate of Rs 620 per kg.Now, fish eaters will feel the bite as well.FishFish retailer Thakur Pardesh, who owns two shops - one at Kothrud and another at Ganesh peth - said, “There is a sharp rise in fish costs due to less supply. Good quality pomfret no costs between Rs 1,700 to Rs 2,000 per kg. This is an 80 per cent hike in prices as compared to last month. It is the same for surmai (seer fish) and ravas (Indian salmon). Besides prawns and bombil (Bombay Duck), prices of all fish are high.”Surmai which retailed for a pre-Covid rate of Rs 500/kg is now Rs 900/kg.Pardesh explains: “The main reason is the supply. Fisheries along the west coast have all almost come to a standstill. We are hoping that the fisheries on the East coast, from Howrah, in West Bengal, start normal supply. The demand for fish is high in the city.”MuttonVitthal Thorpe, who owns the Ahilya Devi mutton shop at the KK market in Bibwewadi, said, “Before lockdown, mutton was Rs620 per kg. For the last two months prices are Rs 700-Rs750 per kg. Every shop has different rates considering the less availability of goats. As the livestock markets are not operational in rural areas, mutton shop owners procure goats directly from farmers. Travel costs increased, so it is natural for mutton prices to remain high. Demand for mutton is good.”Vijay Kamble, president, Kolhapuri mutton sellers’ association said, “We are not getting goats and transport costs have increased. The Kolhapur Collector gave us a price cap of Rs580 per kg, but as costs have increased we are selling mutton at Rs620 per kg in Kolhapur.”Chicken“Chicken prices are high as there is not enough supply from poultry farms. Wholesale prices are high. Chicken broilers are selling for between Rs220 to Rs240 per kg, and last week, reached Rs280 per kg,” said chicken retailer Amin Shaikh.Venky’s general manager P G Pedgaonkar said, “The poultry industry has seen many ups and downs during Covid-19. Demand for chicken increased now. We have seen the lowest, as well as the highest prices in the last few months. Till the supply chain normalises, rates will remain on the higher side.”Poultry federation of India’s president Ramesh Khatri said, “Prices of chicken are high everywhere. Once the hotels and restaurants start functioning, the demand for chicken will increase. The industry is hoping that within the next two months supply and demand get stable.”Customer speakGanesh Zende, a non-vegetarian consumer who lives on Satara road with a family of six, said, “The rates of chicken, mutton and fish all of are high, but the price of fish is now beyond a limit. I prefer to eat chicken and sometimes mutton.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fish-prices-see-80pc-hike-as-supply-chains-dwindle-mutton-chicken-remain-costly/story-u0OtPpXLUOhXh5I5pz8fjJ.html
15-06-2020||Hindustan||Breaking the logjam on the northern border||A clearly defined, accurately depicted and accepted boundary is essential for exercising sovereignty within the nation state, and the process starts with mutually accepted broad contours of where the boundary should lie followed by a political agreement to refine and define it. The boundary is then subjected to delineation, which essentially implies drawing on the map where the boundary runs, and finally demarcation by identifying and marking on the ground with natural features and boundary pillars.Where such an exercise is not considered critical, politically or economically, and both nation states find it expedient to let the ground reality prevail, the concept of frontiers emerges wherein both states exercise control up to a general line, leaving an opaque zone or buffer ensuring avoidance of confrontation or conflict.Finally, boundaries can be defined by natural features such as rivers, watersheds and prominent landmarks or artificially by latitude and longitude reference.Colonial Britain addressed boundaries and frontiers from the perspective of imperial interests and not securing lasting sovereignty for a unified India. Consequently, except where a direct threat from a neighbouring power suggested demarcation so as to draw the inviolable line, the British were content to declare major stretches as frontiers. While the McMahon Line came near to defining the generally accepted alignment of the Indo-Tibetan boundary in the eastern sector, the western sector remained the major bone of contention.INHERITED BRITISH LEGACYPost the First Anglo-Sikh War and under Article 4 of the Treaty of Lahore on March 9, 1846, the Lahore Durbar ceded all territories between the Beas and Indus rivers to the British and Article 12 in turn rewarded Gulab Singh with ‘independent sovereignty’ of these territories. The Karakoram in the north and its extension south-east was the extent of the Sikh Empire when these treaties were concluded.William Johnson, an official of the Survey of India, while at Leh en route to Khotan in 1865, came up with the advanced boundary line of the Kashmir state without any serious physical survey. This extended the ceded territories of the Sikh Empire eastwards to the Kun-Lun watershed, encompassing Aksai Chin. It found expression in the Survey of India map of 1868.In 1893, Hung-Ta Chen, the Chinese official at Kashgar, handed a map showing the proposed boundary to George McCartney, the British consul-general at Kashgar. This showed the border along the Karakoram mountains, which was a natural boundary up to the Indus river watershed. The British presented this line, known as the Macartney-MacDonald Line, to the Chinese in 1899 through Sir Claude MacDonald, the British representative at Peking. The Chinese did not respond and it was taken as accepted. The boundary had more or less reverted to the extent of the ceded territories of 1846. In 1962, the People’s Liberation Army advanced up to the 1899 MacDonald Line and is generally now the Chinese claim line as was also articulated in 1959.Based on imperial British cartographic declarations of shifting boundaries in the western sector, India inherited and chose to persist with the whole of Aksai Chin being part of erstwhile Kashmir state integrated into India. While the analysis, views and theories doing the rounds of academic circles and seminars may suggest the long term strategic purpose of Chinese actions and the threat to India, the fundamental objective is to bring around an agreement on the contours of the boundary, of course as perceived by the Chinese, so as to set the path for delineation and demarcation.EXPANSIONIST POWERDiplomacy by its very nature is designed for sugar-coated compromise. It is no substitute for, and is inversely proportional to, hard national power. Under the Sino-Indian Border Peace and Tranquillity Agreement (BPTA), 1993, the two sides agreed to call the entire disputed border as the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which in fact became a frontier; liable to alteration by force and with the hope of delineation. After 22 rounds of talks by special representatives, nothing appears to have been reconciled. Chinese incursions have been generally glossed over and presented as a peaceful diplomatic solution.China today is an expansionist power with historical grievances, much like Germany in the 1930s, blatantly disregarding treaties and conventions. Such powers have always been balanced by coalition of alliances or building corresponding power to resist and address the asymmetry. Our neglect, unwillingness and incapacity to invest in creating such corresponding power, and our ideologically and morally driven non-alignment precluding alliances fore-closes these options. With both avenues closed to address this expansionism, the future holds humiliation behind the façade of diplomacy.COURSE AND CONSEQUENCESIrrespective of the political dispensation in power, our national security issues are a matter of exaggeration and magnification of minor tactical actions by the ruling party and any setback, actual or perceived, is painted as a sell out by the opposition leaving no scope or ground for serious and pragmatic debate for resolution with national interest in focus. Then there is the Indian Parliament 1962 resolution to recover every inch of Indian territory from China making any seriously negotiated settlement nearly impossible.For six decades, we have wished away the reality. Emotional hyper nationalism is no substitute for comprehensive national power and sober handling of national security issues. What then is the solution to this logjam? Do we have the will and wherewithal to force the issue? Can we shed the ideological baggage or impractical resolutions? If not, then perhaps a practical and honourable accommodation with China remains a pragmatic option. Zhou Enlai’s proposal of 1960 and Deng Xiaoping’s of 1982 need serious consideration free from and above bindings.The nation and the political leadership are free to choose what course to follow but would not be free from the consequences of the choice.lgnsbrar@gmail.comThe writer is a former chief of staff at Leh-based 14 Corps and deputy chief, integrated defence staff. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/breaking-the-logjam-on-the-northern-border/story-SmoSbJfuwiylNZlhhkit7H.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar’s Covid-19 doubling rate at 27 days, 10 deaths reported in five days||Covid-19 cases in Amritsar, the worst hit district in Punjab, have doubled over the last 27 days with the number of cases jumping from 305 to 613. The first Covid-19 case was reported in the district on March 21 after a UK-returned man tested positive for the deadly infection. The district, which falls under the red-zone, took 58 days (till May 18) to report 305 cases, of which 263 patients had returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra. However, soon after relaxations were imposed community transmission (where a patient has no travel history and has not come in direct contact of any infected person) commenced and Covid-19 cases doubled from 305 to 613 in 27 days (till June 14).Of the 613 Covid-19 patients in the district, 418 have recovered and 21 have succumbed to the disease.17 DEATHS IN 27 DAYS While Covid-19 cases are rising in the district, there has been a corresponding decrease in recovery rate. As many as 295 of 305 people were discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, till May 18 while 418 of 613 patients have been discharged till June 14.Amritsar has reported 17 Covid-19 deaths in 27 days, of which 10 deaths were reported in the last five days.ACTIVE SURVEILLANCE IN PLACE: ADC When asked about the steadily increasing cases in Amritsar, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal said, “Most of the cases are being reported through flu corners and many are close contacts of Covid-19 patients. The health department and district administration is actively surveilling the district and trying to contain the contagion. At least 1,000 samples from the district are tested at GMC Amritsar daily.”“We have already announced the first containment zone in the district and a survey is under process to identify other potential containment zones,” ADC Aggarwal said, adding that people were advised to maintain social distancing and wear face masks to avoid infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-s-covid-19-doubling-rate-at-27-days-10-deaths-reported-in-five-days/story-Og4DrpyAf9tp89LhXdxs0O.html
15-06-2020||Football||East Bengal’s Acosta leaves for home, complaining about club’s apathetic attitude||Costa Rican World Cupper Johnny Acosta’s association with East Bengal ended on a sour note as he left for his home on Monday morning, disappointed by club’s “apathetic” attitude after his contract was terminated by former investor Quess Corp. The central defender had played a key role in their runners-up finish in 2018-19. He played two seasons with them. One month into the COVID-19 lockdown, Quess Corp applied the Force Maejeure clause to terminate players’ contracts and purportedly sent eviction notice to some of them in May. “I close a cycle of my life, this time a little different. In a great institution to which I have a lot of love and respect, Quess East Bengal FC, but that in the end there were contract and salary issues that failed to comply,” Acosta wrote on his Instagram page.  I close a cycle of my life, this time a little different. In a great institution to which I have a lot of love and respect, @Quess East Bengal Fc, but that in the end there were contract and salary issues that failed to comply, in addition to little help for my return to Costa Rica where the club showed little disposition and apathetic to my situation! I keep the good times and I thank all the fans who always show their support I carry them in my heart, thank you @eastbengalfcA post shared by  Jhonny Acosta (@acosta1202) on Jun 14, 2020 at 6:27am PDT “In addition, little help for my return to Costa Rica where the club showed little disposition and apathetic to my situation!,” he added. East Bengal have now terminated their tie-up with Quess Corp, who had a 70 per cent stake in the club. They had a three-year deal but the Bengaluru-based investors exited on May 31. Then head coach Alejandro Menendez did not retain Acosta for the 2019-20 season but he finally made a comeback after the Spaniard left midway into the season. Acosta played his last game for East Bengal against Real Kashmir FC before the I-League was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “I keep good times and I thank all the fans who always show their support. I carry them in my heart, thank you East Bengal FC,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/east-bengal-s-acosta-leaves-for-home-complaining-about-club-s-apathetic-attitude/story-BY5hUJPJy7sBsc1903mXYL.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Increase Covid-19 testing capacity, Delhi govt orders labs||The Delhi government on Monday ordered private and government laboratories to work at full capacity and increase their scale of testing for Covid-19, according to ANI.According to the order, private labs will have to give results within 48 hours. On Sunday, Delhi’s rate of testing stood at 14,390 per million of the population.Delhi has been struggling to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases and recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,224 cases on Sunday. The national capital now has more than 41,000 cases.According to the Delhi government’s projections, the capital could need 5.5 lakh beds for Covid-19 patients by the end of July.Monday’s order comes a day after Union home minister Amit Shah took stock of the pandemic in Delhi at a high-level meeting with Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and officials of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA).After the meeting, the Centre announced series of measures to control the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi, including conducting a comprehensive door-to-door health survey in all containment zones, doubling the tests by Tuesday followed by three-fold increase within a weeks’ time, earmarking 500 railway coaches with 8,000 beds and asking private hospitals to earmark 60% of beds for Covid-19 affected patients at lesser rates as well as formation of two committees to look into hospitals related issues.Later Sunday evening, Shah also met mayors of Delhi’s three municipal corporations along with Kejriwal, Lt Baijal Vardhan and senior officials and asked all of them to “work together” and implement the slew of measures decided in the morning to augment Covid-19 testing and treatment facilities in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/increase-covid-19-testing-capacity-delhi-govt-orders-labs/story-3AC4w0FJgHDYWYbzQ60pyH.html
15-06-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports over 400 Covid-19 deaths, state tally at 14,901||Uttar Pradesh on Monday reported 18 more coronavirus deaths and 476 new cases, officials said. The death toll in the state now is 417 with the coronavirus tally reaching 14,091. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 8,610 of the total infected have recovered. The state has 5,064 active Covid-19 cases now, he said. He said 13,388 tests were conducted in UP on Sunday and accredited social health activists (ASHAs) were visiting villages to trace workers who have returned from other parts of the country. Till now, over 16,46 lakh returnees have been tracked and samples of 455 of them have been sent for testing, according to the principal secretary.The state government’s 1.21 lakh surveillance teams have surveyed over 92 lakh homes and covered 4.69 crore people, he said, adding that the Aarogya Setu mobile application is also being used to track suspected patients. “Acting on alerts generated by the app, 81,339 people were called and given advice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-reports-over-400-covid-19-deaths-state-tally-at-14-901/story-UZPxpI9i46fohevYy3lcON.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||60-year-old man is Chandigarh’s sixth Covid-19 casualty; city’s positive case count reaches 357||A 60-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, who was admitted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 on June 12, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, a day after his death.He is the city’s sixth Covid-19 fatality and second from the congested colony in Sector 26. In five of these cases, the infection was found after the patient’s death.Meanwhile, four other cases surfaced in the city on Monday, including that of a 30-year-old pregnant woman from Sector 52 and a 65-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony, which accounts for 245 cases so far. Two other cases have been reported from Khudda Jassu, taking the city’s tally to 357. However, with six people being discharged after getting cured, the number of recoveries climbed to 301. The number of active cases stands at 50.HAD CO-MORBIDITIESGiving details about the death, health officials said the man with history of hypertension was admitted to hospital with interstitial lung disease and severe acute respiratory infection. He died while his Covid-19 reports were awaited. He has four family contacts and all of them are being sampled, said officials.Among the other cases, a man and a woman, both aged 32 and relatives of an already positive case from Khudda Jassu, have contracted the infection. The Khudda Jassu man worked in a Sector 16 medical store, whose owner was the first to be found infected. Four other family members of the worker were also tested positive earlier. A 30-year-old pregnant woman from Sector 52, who is expecting delivery next week, was tested positive at a hospital in Kharar. Her seven family contacts have been quarantined. Also, six family members of the Bapu Dham Colony woman, who tested positive, have been sampled.Raising concern about the rising number of cases, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed health officials to focus on visitors coming from outside and also to take special care of patients with co-morbidities. The doctors informed the administration that in the past few days, out of 530 samples tested at the PGIMER, only 11 have been positive. Similarly, out of 149 samples tested at GMCH, Sector 32, only one was positive. DEATHS SO FARMay 3: An 82-year-old woman, who was a resident of Sector 18, died while undergoing treatment at a hospital in PanchkulaMay 8: A man from Hallomajra tested positive for Covid-19, two days after his death at GMSH-16May 9: A 62-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony tested positive posthumously at GMCH-32May 24: A three-day-old girl delivered by a Dadumajra woman at the civil hospital in Sector 22 tested positive a day after being reported to be brought dead at PGIMERJune 2: An 80-year-old woman from the containment zone of Sector 30 tested positive after being declared brought dead at GMSH-16||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-man-is-chandigarh-s-sixth-covid-19-casualty-city-s-positive-case-count-reaches-355/story-E1VZS9hXWRiPF9DeAl6i5K.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s Sassoon interns write to minister demanding hike in stipend||Interns at the BJ General Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital have written to the Maharashtra minister of medical education to hike their stipend from Rs 11,000 per month (current) to Rs 50,000 per month. The request comes against the backdrop of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) offering to pay the same amount to its intern doctors serving Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients in various hospitals. The letter states, ‘Pune has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases all over Maharashtra. The hospital is not only handling the load of Pune district, but also of the neighbouring districts. Each patient coming to the hospital is being attended without us being aware of their Covid19 status and the testing and reporting of Covid-19 takes time. We are being posted in wards, OPDs and intensive care units, wherein we come in direct contact with the patient. Interns working at BMC hospitals have been granted Rs 50,000 stipend per month during the pandemic and we have a similar demand. We request you to provide us Rs 50,000 stipend as well.’” The letter also states that “while interns working in BMC hospitals are given enough personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, at Sassoon, the interns are directly exposed to the patients and later, it is confirmed that they are Covid-19 positive”. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) under which the hospital functions, said, “The BMC has offered to pay its interns Rs 50,000 per month and so this decision to hike the stipend needs to be taken at the local level. Also, the stipend cannot be hiked across the state for a few students. There are only 200 beds at Sassoon and so, only a few of the interns are attending to these patients in rotation, such a decision cannot be taken by the DMER.” Dr Parag Patil, a final year student working and studying at BJ medical college, said, “ We are working in Covid and non-covid wards every alternate week and so, the pressure on us is comparable to the doctors working in any Covid-19 hospital in the city. We are ready to work, but currently our stipend is too less as compared to Mumbai and we would want it to be on similar lines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-sassoon-interns-write-to-minister-demanding-hike-in-stipend/story-vu2TMGKCGCMQLMP092sSbJ.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Pandemic prompts Pune varsity for a centre to study viruses||In the backdrop of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has planned a new research centre for the study of viruses and allergies like Covid-19 (coronavirus), the Centre for Molecular Diagnostic and Research. The facility will also include a testing facility for such viruses. According to SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar, a proposal is in the works to be sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “The centre will focus primarily on research about viruses like Covid-19, allergies, pollution and other related things. The centre will also include a testing facility. We are hoping that within a month’s time we will get the permission and then actual work of starting the centre will begin,” Karmalkar said.According to Karmalkar, the centre is going to be an important step for SPPU to start research in viruses. Departments like microbiology, zoology, biotechnology and bioinformatics will be attached to this new centre.“The research projects of these departments will be carried out at this centre and for this modern equipment and technology will be brought to the centre,” he said. Covid-19 testing will be done at this centre“Looking at the current situation it has been decided that the Covid-19 testing will be done at this centre once we get permission and it starts. For this, from SPPU’s biotechnology, bioinformatics and microbiology departments, 15 faculty members have been chosen. They will be sent to ICMR for training and then the actual testing will start,” said Karmalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pandemic-prompts-pune-varsity-for-a-centre-to-study-viruses/story-BB1suGn7pstWy6lSOLJ6aP.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Guilty of Covid-19 until proven otherwise||There’s no good time to get unwell, certainly not during a pandemic. God forbid if you have fever, restlessness, cough or fatigue. But I wasn’t so lucky. I called up a doctor and was asked if I had difficulty in breathing or if I had travelled in the past month. The appointment was fixed after I answered in the negative.Lockdown times have changed every aspect of life be it working, teaching, learning, conferencing, commerce or dispensation of justice. Rules have changed. The basic tenet of jurisprudence is that one is innocent until proven guilty. Today, every person is guilty of Covid-19 until proven otherwise.I drove to the hospital and was ushered in after a thermal screening. An air of fear hung heavy. Blood tests were carried out. My heartbeat and blood pressure shot up. With an eagle’s eye, the doctor scanned the chest report, checked the pulse and declared admission in the ICU. I was wheeled in where another doctor was waiting to attach nodes and monitor the ECG.A corona warrior in protective gear took the swab samples before I was moved into the main ICU. I felt like a monk in the patient’s attire. All my belongings were put away one by one.I rolled over into bed only to find that the nodes fixed and connected to the overhead monitor. A plastic band with my name, date of birth, patient number and date of admission were slipped onto my left arm, making me feel firmly entrenched.Two patients shared a small space between glass panels with curtains in between. There were several such partitions along the narrow passage. Doctors and nurses were on the move and the team spirit was palpable.I was among the few conscious patients in the unit. For dinner, I thought it was customary to get khichdi till a nurse asked, “Uncle, do you have teeth?” I replied in the affirmative only to be told, “Then why are you having khichdi?”Nevertheless, I gulped down the bland dinner, while the monitors kept beeping in the background day and night. The volume would go up if the heartbeat of any patient rose or the oxygen level went down. A sink right opposite added to my woes.The next morning, I was told that I’d tested negative for Covid-19. I was shifted to an extension of the ICU with four beds. On peering out of the window, I saw the minaret of a gurdwara before spotting the reflection of a temple. Reassured, I started re-reading The Four Agreements by Don Miguel Ruiz, a descendant of the Toltecs. According to the Toltecs, your mind is a dream where a thousand people talk at the same time and nobody understands each other so you can’t see what you really are.As I sat beside the window wondering if all this is real, I asked myself: Where am I? Minutes later, the psychiatrist asked the same question! Not satisfied with the reply that I’m retired and settled in Chandigarh, I was asked: When and why did you come here? Finally, the doctor was satisfied with my cognitive abilities and cleared me for discharge.In these tough times, our doctors and nurses have an arduous task at hand. But I always found them stretching beyond the call of duty, reporting before time despite commuting long distances and working away from home for days together. As I drove home, I saluted their dedication and perseverance that had put me firmly on the road to recovery. jaspalsingh1019@gmail.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based retired chief commissioner of income tax, northwest||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guilty-of-covid-19-until-proven-otherwise/story-gemgB8WkyC0Cz8hWOapYIK.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||38 people test positive in Himachal, state’s Covid-19 count climbs to 556||Thirty-eight people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Himachal Pradesh in 24-hours, taking the state’s Covid-19 count to 556.Nineteen cases were reported from Baddi, Solan’s industrial hub, three each from Kangra and Hamirpur and two from Chamba and Una on Monday. Seven cases were reported from Una late on Sunday.With the 19 fresh cases, Solan on Monday recorded the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases.Solan chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said five of the new cases were linked to a former Gularwala panchayat pradhan who had tested positive on June 11. So far, there are 59 Covid-19 cases in the district, of which 30 are active.Dr Gupta said authorities had started contact mapping the new patients. Most patients have no travel history.16-yr-old tests positive after deathA 16-year-old from Piyrah village of Chamba district tested positive for Covid-19 after his death. He had died on the intervening night of June 12 and 13 as he was suffering from some health issues. His sample was sent for testing as a precautionary measure. The body has already been cremated. District health authorities are ascertaining the cause of death.A 45-year-old woman from the same village has also tested positive and has been shifted to the Covid-care centre.Four of family infectedSeven people tested positive for Covid-19 late on Saturday in Bangana subdivision of Una district.Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said that new cases include the family of an ex-serviceman who had tested positive few days ago. They include his 90-year-old mother, a 50-year-old wife and two daughters aged 19 and 16. Their samples came out positive while random testing.A 55-year-old woman from Amb subdivision and a 43-year-old man from the bordering town of Mehatpur have also tested positive. Three more cases were reported from the district on Monday.Apart from it, three cases each were reported from Kangra and Hamirpur in the late evening.So far, Himachal has recorded 556 cases, of which 342 have recovered while six, three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.195 active casesThere are 195 active cases in the state. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 145 cases followed by Hamirpur with 134 cases, Una with 73 cases, Solan with 59 cases, Chamba with 38 cases, Bilaspur with 29 cases, Sirmaur with 27cases, Mandi with 22 cases, Shimla with 21 cases, Kullu with four cases and Kinnaur with two cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/28-people-test-positive-in-himachal-state-s-covid-19-count-climbs-to-546/story-gJIntfKAdIaJxI5zAnLVWN.html
15-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan MLAs to stay put at hotel till Rajya Sabha election||Congress general secretary Avinash Pande said on Monday that the legislators who are supporting the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan would continue to stay together at a hotel till the Rajya Sabha election due to the alleged poaching threat from the BJP. Pande said the legislators had been staying like a family and various, adding that brainstorming sessions and discussion on the future roadmap for the development of the state were being held at the hotel, where the legislators have been kept after discussion with them. According to Pande, special operations group of the Rajasthan Police is investigating the alleged attempts to poach and destabilise the state government, and the report is likely to come soon. Pande said the Independent MLAs and legislators of other parties had supported the government, which took the number to 125 (including 107 Congress MLAs) in the House of 200. “It was decided that the legislators will stay together so that the BJP’s attempts, which the party did in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, could not succeed in Rajasthan,” he told reporters at the JW Marriott hotel in Jaipur. “We are staying like a family and this is a blessing in disguise.” Asked about the Food and Civil Supplies Minister Ramesh Meena’s absence, Pande said the Sapotra MLA was away due to some “personal reasons”, but he was in touch and would will follow the party directions. Meanwhile, a letter written to Pande by a MLA Bharat Singh surfaced on Monday, in which the legislator had pointed out that most of the Rajya Sabha MPs “do not even recognise” the legislators, who elect them. Singh alleged that the upper House MPs had nothing to do with anyone after the elections get over. In the letter written on June 11, the former minister said senior leaders of the party were focusing on the Rajya Sabha elections with seriousness despite the fact that two seats were sure to be won by the party. He pointed out that the Congress could win the Lok Sabha election, too, if the party leaders started working in the same manner. Asked about it, Pande acknowledged that Singh had written the letter and expressed his sentiments in a “positive way”. On the cabinet expansion, Pande said discussion would be held at the right time. Government chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who filed complaints alleging attempts to destabilise the state government said he would elaborate on it once his statement is recorded by the Special Operations Group of the police. Sources said Joshi had handed over some evidence in connection with the attempts. The MLAs were taken to a luxury resort last week for discussion on the June 19 Rajya Sabha election and later they were shifted to JW Marriott on Friday. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has alleged that the BJP was conspiring to poach the MLAs in order to destabilise his government, a charge denied by the saffron party. Elections to three Rajya Sabha seats will be held on July 19 for which the Congress has nominated K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, while the BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and has the support of Independent MLAs and legislators of other parties like the Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPI(M) and the Bhartiya Tribal Party, taking the number of legislators on its side to 125. The ruling Congress has more than enough majority to win two seats and the BJP, which has 72 MLAs and support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAs, has the numbers to comfortably win just one seat. PTI SDA HMB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-mlas-to-stay-put-at-hotel-till-rajya-sabha-election/story-LzoXyHyIrwJxghhCfW7yKJ.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Spreading corona awareness, one wall at a time||A network of youth volunteers under the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS) is helping raise awareness about Covid-19 pandemic through street art and wall paintings. The NYKS comes under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, and has a network of 8.5 million youth spread across 623 districts in the country. This community outreach is not just happening in the Capital, and is spread in various cities. Crisp messaging, colourful visuals and catchy slogans have made these walls a symbol of our fight against coronavirus and will go down in the city’s history as a reminder of our resilience.“We have a pool of volunteers across our nine offices in Delhi. These National youth volunteers are part of our community outreach programmes under the guidance of our district officers. When this pandemic spread, we tapped into social media to help create awareness and extend help. After lockdown relaxations, our volunteers started distributing food, making posters, and painting walls with the support of the district administration,” says Nand Kumar Singh, state director, NYKS Delhi.Read: 86-year old Delhi resident shines a ray of hope in these grim times by defeating Covid 19These volunteers are in direct contact with the community and work at the grassroots. To become a volunteer, it is necessary to have passed the class X CBSE exams, and the age cap is 29 years. The idea is to hone rural youth physically, mentally and morally, and to integrate them with the mainstream so that they become responsible citizens.Vikas Kumar, an 18-year old volunteer from North-East Delhi district, was 14-years old when he started volunteering for NYKS. He completed his higher secondary education from Kendriya Vidyalaya and is currently working with five other volunteers. “We made paintings in Ganga Vihar, Amar Colony, Tunda Nagar and Johri Pur. We were told that we have to spread awareness about coronavirus and it was upto us to decide how to go about it. We went door-to-door making announcements, distributing masks and talking to residents about their problems. I have always wanted to be involved in this kind of work and help others,” he says, sharing that there is still a long way to go before stigmas around the virus are removed.Wall paintings are an effective tool of communication, because they don’t just beautify a place, but also catch more eyeballs. Nisha Kumari, district youth coordinator for New Delhi district, says, “We have covered the areas of RK Puram, Chanakya Puri, Delhi Cantonement. Wall paintings look very attractive and draw the attention of passers-by. It is something that elicits feelings of happiness and you can’t miss it,” she says.Volunteers are allocated as per the requirement of the districts. Poonam Sharma, district youth coordinator for North district, says, “I have 11 volunteers who are involved in making posters, painting walls and helping the elderly. We are conducting slogan-writing competitions and mask-making drives to engage with the community. Dry ration and cooked food is being distributed by these volunteers,” she explains. The response has been fairly positive in her district, save for some who are the worst-hit by the pandemic. “Many of them didn’t have ration cards so our volunteers helped get their e-ration cards,” she adds.Read: Mumbaiwale: The 20 coolest city chroniclers on InstagramRajesh Kumar Jadon, district youth coordinator for Central district is working with 13 volunteers at present. “We are working in Yamuna Bazaar, Karol Bagh and Paharganj. Our volunteers have enlisted the help of some painters to help polish the walls because not everyone is comfortable trusting just about anyone to paint their walls,” he says. His volunteers stitched 1,500 masks, cooked and distributed food, and provided stationery to kids who are studying at home. “One of our volunteers got a sanitization machine and sprayed around 50 houses for eight days,” he shares.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/spreading-corona-awareness-one-wall-at-a-time/story-lnN4bCnVExB7YNcvUCRMTK.html
15-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan registers 12,772 Covid-19 cases, death toll nearing 300||Two deaths and 78 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan today, according to the State Health Department.The total number of coronavirus cases in Rajasthan has reached 12,772, including 2,847 active cases. The death toll in the state due to the infection stands at 294, it said.With an increase of 11,502 cases in the past 24 hours, the Covid-19 count in India reached 3,32,424 on Monday, according to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry.The Covid-19 count includes 1,53,106 active cases while 1,69,798 patients have been cured and discharged or migrated so far, and the toll due to Covid-19 has now reached 9,520.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-registers-12-772-covid-19-cases-death-toll-nearing-300/story-5fNec80NZPZ9TWFTZImVoO.html
15-06-2020||Bangalore||Fitness industry struggles as gym owners unable to pay rent in Bengaluru||As the central government has not allowed reopening of gyms in the country amid Covid-19 pandemic, many gymnasiums in Bengaluru are on the verge of closing or sale.Rakshith Gowda, a gym owner and secretary of gym owners association told ANI that they are not even able to pay rent of the premises which is Rs 60,000 to 1 lakh per month.“The condition of the owners of the gym have worsened. We have to pay a minimum of Rs 60,000 - 100,000 rent of the building and for past 4 months we couldn’t pay the rent, salary to trainers and cleaners, EMI,” Gowda told ANI.“I urge the government to take necessary steps to bring up the gym sector as they have allowed opening up of shops, temples, malls. We urge the government to take proper steps in the interest of gyms,” added Gowda.Mahesh, a gymer said that he had to participate in a competition and due to lockdown he could not work on his bodybuilding.“I was building my body for one year and due to lockdown I couldn’t do the workout, I had to take part in a competition, now I need at least another one year to build my body back,” Mahesh said.Prasad, international bodybuilder said, “Most of the bodybuilders and gym owners are running gyms by taking loans, they are not in the situation to pay their loan EMIs.”“It’s very important for us to reopen gyms and run them with all precautions and guidelines but the government is not allowing us to pay our loans and many gym owners and trainers are facing a tough time to earn living. We have requested Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol and cabinet ministers to allow us to open, but the government hasn’t taken the decision in the interest of gyms which is creating more problems for us,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/fitness-industry-struggles-as-gym-owners-unable-to-pay-rent-in-bengaluru/story-XTN9NiAxGyZcUNPcJ9172M.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||16-year-old Gurugram returnee tests positive in Faridkot, 21 active Covid-19 cases in district||A 16-year-old boy, who had returned from Gurugram on June 4, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the patient, a resident of Dogar Basti, had returned from Gurugram with his parents. His parents, however, have tested negative. He has been admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH). Now, there are 21 active cases in the district,” he said.The district health department has started contact tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-year-old-gurugram-returnee-tests-positive-in-faridkot-21-active-cases-in-district/story-Gixwi4MSJeod7lEP48DsEP.html
15-06-2020||Bangalore||‘Worship on Wheels’: Bengaluru church holds drive-in service||A city church on Sunday conducted a drive-in worship service where the congregation attended in the comfort of their cars to maintain physical distancing during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Welcome to the Worship on Wheels (WOW) as we begin reopening of the church. Give a shout of praise to Jesus with your mask on. Hallelujah,” said a priest of Bethel AG Church International Worship Centre from the stage in an open plot where several cars lined up for the Sunday service.Several people attended the church at Hebbal in all kinds of cars, wearing a mask and maintaining physical distance.The church conducted the service in a plot acquired in December 2019, located 200 metres away from the current church complex in Hebbal, with the aim to build a larger church building to accommodate the increasing congregation.Six services were held on Sunday - two each for those driving-in on motorcycles and cars and two more inside the church for the devotees taking public transport or walking in.Services for people arriving on bikes had been scheduled at 7 am and 5 pm, on cars at 9 am and 7 pm and for walk-ins at 11 am and 1 pmSimilarly, to pray for those people who cannot attend any of the six services, an online sermon was live streamed at 12 pm on Facebook and YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/worship-on-wheels-bengaluru-church-holds-drive-in-service/story-9gSHwStuLM70uC19KcS3qK.html
15-06-2020||Patna||7 killed, 4 injured in road accident in Bihar’s Gaya district||Seven persons were killed and four others injured when a speeding truck hit two auto-rickshaws on GT road in Bihar’s Gaya district on Monday, a senior police officer said.The incident took place on GT road (NH 2) near Bishunganj village under Amas police station of the district when a speeding truck rammed into the two auto-rickshaws killing seven people and leaving four injured, the officer said.The identities of the deceased are being ascertained, Senior Superintendent of Police, Rajiv Mishra said, adding that bodies have been sent to Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital, Gaya for postmortem.The injured persons are being treated at Madanpur primary health centre of Aurangabad district and Amas primary health centre where the condition of some of them are stated to be critical, police said.Those killed and injured in the accident were returning to their village Regania under Amas police station in two-autorickshaws after attending a “tilak” function at Baluganj in Deo block of neighbouring Aurangabad district.The two auto-rickshaws were on their way towards Gaya from Aurangabad while the speeding truck was coming from the opposite direction (from Gaya to Aurangabad), sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/7-killed-4-injured-in-road-accident-in-bihar-s-gaya-district/story-ZZUHahocR9Gd6KCi54ujiI.html
15-06-2020||Lucknow||In a major reshuffle, seven IPS officers transferred in Uttar Pradesh||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Uttar Pradesh government transferred seven Indian Police Service (IPS) officers on Monday.Six out of these seven officers, who were posted at the police headquarters in various posts, have been made Commander-in-Chief of the state’s Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) at Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Muradabad.The list of IPS officers who were transferred includes the names of Kuntal Kishore, Rajiv Narayan Mishra, N Kolanchi, Ajay Shankar Rai, Atul Sharma, Pankaj Kumar, and Sabha Raj.IPS Sabha Raj, who was previously posted as Commander of the 20th Battalion of PAC, Azamgarh, has been transferred to the DGP Headquarters, Lucknow.Apart from this, the administration also transferred three Additional Superintendents of Police (ASPs) on the same day.ASP Ashok Kumar Meena has been made the ASP, Rural, Saharanpur, while, Uday Shankar Singh has been assigned as ASP, Rural, Mathura, also, Dinesh Kumar Singh has been transferred to the post of ASP, Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/in-a-major-reshuffle-seven-ips-officers-transferred-in-uttar-pradesh/story-t6PBuYBbAx3jY8Ez3sqPCK.html
15-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 37 more cases of coronavirus||Jharkhand reported 37 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday, taking the total tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the State to 1761.According to Jharkhand Health Department, 37 cases of Covid-19 reported in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 1761 including 905 recoveries and eight deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-37-more-cases-of-coronavirus/story-3tqdjmziKy8US4cbY5mAyL.html
15-06-2020||Patna||Bihar: One more death takes Covid toll to 36; cases rise to 6,475||The Covid-19 infection tally reached 6,475 in Bihar on Sunday when 186 fresh cases were reported, while the death toll reached 36 on account of a casualty reported from Vaishali district, officials said.Click here for full Covd-19 coverage The state health department, however, could not provide details of the latest fatality from Vaishali which had earlier reported two coronavirus deaths and become the third district after Khagaria and Begusarai to have reported three deaths each. Other districts in the state which have reported Covid-19 deaths are Bhojpur, Darbhanga, Jehanabad, Patna, Saran, Sitamarhi and Siwan (two each). Districts with a single casualty each are Araria, Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, Jamui, Madhepura, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Nawada, East Champaran, Rohtas, Samastipur and Sheohar. In terms of the total number of confirmed cases, Patna and Bhagalpur districts account for 324 each, followed by Begusarai (299), Madhepura (292), Khagaria (291), Rohtas (282) and Munger (270). All 38 districts in Bihar have reported Covid-19 cases and 33 have tallies in excess of 100. At a press conference, state Health Secretary Lokesh Singh, however, insisted that the situation has started looking up in Bihar as 289 people have recovered in the last 24 hours, which was significantly higher than the number of fresh cases reported during the period. He said the number of people returning to Bihar from outside and testing positive since May 3 was 4,449, which is “close to 72 per cent of the state’s aggregate”. Total number of samples tested in the state so far is 1.23 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-one-more-death-takes-covid-toll-to-36-cases-rise-to-6-475/story-hS0Sv9QAL9nBMq6m1JoPQL.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Limited local trains resume in Mumbai for essential staff, no night service: Read full details||A limited number of suburban trains started zooming in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from Monday morning after a gap of over two-and-a-half months, officials said.The train services resumed a day after a statement to this effect was issued jointly by the Western Railway (WR) and Central Railway (CR).The local services on the network of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) - the city’s lifeline - are specifically for the employees of the Maharashtra government who are engaged in essential services, both clarified in the statement.According to railway officials, the approval to resume local train services was received from the railway ministry on Sunday evening. Discussions between the railway ministry and Maharashtra government regarding the operation of trains went on till late on Sunday.The CR will run 200 services (100 up + 100 down) on its main line - between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Thane, Kalyan, Karjat and Kasara and the Harbour line - Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Panvel, the statement said.The WR will run 73 pairs of suburban services including eight pairs between Virar and Dahanu Road, it further said.These trains will run from 05:30 am to 11:30 pm, according to the joint statement.Approximately 1.25 lakh employees of essential services of state government are expected to commute by these special limited services. During normal times, over 85 lakhs commute daily on the suburban networks spanning Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad.The Railway workman special trains, already running will continue to run and personnel of the Railway Protection Fprce (RPF) will be deployed at various stations.Food and other stalls will not be opened, the statement said. There is also a ‘No Hawker’ and ‘No Parking’ zones in 150 metre radius.To maintain social distancing, the railways is planning to allow 700 passengers per local train. One 12-compartment local has a capacity of carrying 1,200 passengers, but routinely during peak hours prior to the lockdown, as many as 5,000 commuters would travel per train.A few booking counters will be operated on Central and Western railway stations. The service will be only for essential workers and medical staff, who will be given an e-pass along with details including picture, name, designation, office railway station, residence railway station, and mobile number.The e-pass is likely to have a QR code that will be scanned at the entry point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/limited-local-trains-resume-in-mumbai-for-essential-staff-no-night-service-read-full-details/story-Tq4GnPtmya1z7rnzyLy0yI.html
15-06-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata man throws 2 children from rooftop, two-year-old dies: Police||A two-year-old boy died and another was injured on Sunday after they were allegedly thrown off the roof of a four-storey building in central Kolkata’s Burrabazar area by a 55-year-old man who had some dispute with the father of the deceased, police said.The other boy, who is six-years-old, was admitted to a hospital in a serious condition. The accused was later arrested, they said.“Two boys - aged two years and six years - fell down or were thrown off the fourth floor of a building. When they were taken to a hospital, the two-year-old was declared brought dead,” Joint Commissioner of Police (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said.Locals, as well as family members of the two, alleged that a man had thrown the two from the roof of the building, he said.“The man was arrested and is being interrogated. Strong legal action will be taken against the culprit,” Sharma said.Preliminary enquiry revealed that the arrested man had a dispute with the father of the deceased child around a fortnight ago, the official said.The building from the roof of which the two children were allegedly thrown off is in Burrabazar area, the city’s wholesale business hub.The relation between the two children was not immediately known.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-man-throws-2-children-from-rooftop-two-year-old-dies-police/story-nzdrXYEeHcW3lLfR3YB0pK.html
15-06-2020||Kolkata||NIA gets custody of suspected woman LeT terrorist from Kolkata||National Investigation Agency (NIA) has got custody of alleged Lashkar-e-Taiba handler Tania Parveen from Kolkata.According to NIA, Tania Praveen was taken into custody by the National Investigation Agency on June 12 in Kolkata for questioning. She is allegedly linked to Pakistan based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba and also involved in using WhatsApp number of Pakistan and is a part of several WhatsApp groups of Pakistan.She was reportedly in touch with several Pakistani handlers through various Pakistani SIM cards and other channels like WhatsApp.The investigative agency has now taken 10-day custody of Praveen where a team of anti-terror probe agency will question her at the Kolkata office. She was arrested in March and was lodged in Dumdum central jail.It is believed that she will reveal a lot of information about the Pakistan-based banned terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba.Tania Parveen was arrested on March 20 and was sent to 14-day police custody.It is suspected that Tania Parveen is originally a Bangladeshi national who illegally crossed the border and came to India 10 years back. She studied MA in a Kolkata-based college and was influenced by terror outfit through social media. As per reports, she then got in touch with LeT members and also made calls to people in Pakistan.Several Pakistani SIM cards were allegedly found in her possession and she was part of various WhatsApp groups which also exchanged videos of LeT training and literature.As per reports, Tania Parveen was also in touch with Hafiz Saeed, the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack mastermind. Reportedly, she has been actively involved with Lashkar-e-Taiba and has also given provocative speeches.She even received money through hawala network for terror activities. Tania allegedly wanted to establish an Islamic country in India and took inspiration from IS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/nia-gets-custody-of-suspected-woman-let-terrorist-from-kolkata/story-jJRzlIFTXt8GRDkhLKxqjJ.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally increased by 35 per cent in a week, shows data||The national capital Delhi has seen the number of coronavirus cases rise rapidly in the last few days. Delhi recorded 2,224 cases on Sunday, the third consecutive day it has seen more than 2,000 new infections. It was also the city’s highest increase in the number of infections in a single day so far.Delhi ended Sunday with 41,182 infections (24,032 of them active) and 1,327 deaths.In fact, from Monday (June 8) to Sunday, the city has registered 12,246 cases. In the previous week (June 1-7), it recorded 9,092 cases. This is a 35 per cent increase in cases in a week.The number of containment zones in the city, meanwhile, rose from 147 on June 1 to 219 on Sunday.Delhi also added 56 fatalities on Sunday, according to the official health bulletin, taking the total number of deaths in the national capital to 1,327.Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Sunday held a meeting through a video conference with senior officials to ramp up the testing facilities to 10,000 in next two days, have 100 per cent house-to-house survey in containment zones and comply with other directions of the Union home ministry, the bulletin said.As many as 15,823 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 24,032 active cases, the latest bulletin said.As many as 2,90,592 tests have been conducted till date, it said.Total number of Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 20,793, it said.The number of containment zones in Delhi rose from 147 on June 1 to 242 on Sunday, according to the Delhi government.According to the latest update by the Delhi government, North district (36) has the highest number of containment zones, closely followed by South-West district (34) and South district (31).Besides, there are 24 containment zones in West district, along with 22 each in East and North-West district, as per the data shared. Southeast and central districts occupy 19 containment zones each, followed by 16 each in Shahdara and New Delhi, the data stated. With just three, northeast district has the lowest containment zones in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-increased-by-35-per-cent-in-a-week-shows-data/story-Fp7IWWW0iMUnSLG3qACg8I.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Phone numbers, locations of hospitals added to Delhi Corona app||To make it easier for patients to reach out to hospitals that are dedicated to treating Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government has added phone numbers of all 105 hospitals featured on its ‘Delhi Corona’ app. When a patient clicks on the name of the hospital where beds are available, its phone number, along with its location on a map, will pop up.The hospitals have also been colour-coded red, yellow and green depending on the availability of beds, with red denoting hospitals with very few beds available and green denoting hospitals with an adequate number of beds.On Sunday evening, 56 hospitals were green, while 25 were yellow and 27 were red.Currently, there are 9,647 beds available for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi and the government is looking to increasing this number to around 15,000 by June 20. By the end of next month, the Delhi government is looking to expand the number of Covid-19 beds to 1.5 lakh, including those in makeshift hospitals at stadiums and banquet hallsEarlier this week, when HT had called up hospitals to check on the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients, ascertaining the exact number of beds available had proved to be difficult.The government had launched the ‘Delhi Corona’ app in the beginning of the month to provide real-time information on availability of beds for the treatment of Covid-19 in hospitals across the city. Days after launching the app, the government had also ordered the hospitals to ensure real-time updating on the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/phone-numbers-locations-of-hospitals-added-to-delhi-corona-app/story-H0jTwsQY8Z22Wtz8lHYuiK.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai port handled 321 ships, 9 million metric tons of cargo during Covid-19 lockdown||The Mumbai port has handled 321 ships and nine million metric tons of cargo during the coronavirus-induced lockdown period, a top official said tonight. The port is fully operational now, the official said. Six cruise liners have arrived in the port since June 12 and some more are scheduled to dock to disembark Indian crew members stuck on these “floating luxury hotels” after the pandemic halted their operations at various places across the globe. A total of 14 cruise liners are to dock at the Mumbai Port Trust to disembark 10,000 Indian crew members by June 28, Sanjay Bhatia said in a statement. “During the lockdown period, Mumbai Port has continued to handle large range of cargo such as steel, sugar, pulses, fertilizers, cement, motor vehicles, crude oil and chemicals, among others, at its berths in Indira Docks, Marine Oil Terminal-Jawahar Dweep, Chemical Terminal-Pirpau, and midstream. The port handled 9.6 million metric tons of cargo from 321 vessels,” Bhatia said. He also said the port also continues to handle cruise liners at its facility, enabling signing off of Indian crew on board cruise ships around the world. “The port has been in the forefront in supporting the seafarers by helping them sign off at Mumbai Port,” Bhatia added. “Till date, six cruise vessels (have) berthed in the port and more than 1,000 Indian crew (have been) handled. One of the huge cruise ships -- Ovation of the Seas -- was (also) docked in the port,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-port-handled-321-ships-9-million-metric-tons-of-cargo-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-xFO8ECQwEH59ohkGo6FVjI.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||IRS officer kills self by drinking ‘acid-like substance’ in Delhi’s Dwarka||A 56-year-old IRS officer allegedly killed himself by drinking an “acid-like substance” in his car in Delhi’s Dwarka area on Sunday, police said.A suicide note recovered from his car mentioned that he feared that he might “spread Covid-19” to his family and does not want them to suffer because of him, they said.He had got himself tested for Covid-19 a week ago and the report came out negative but he was scared that his family might get infected of the deadly virus because of him, a senior police officer said.The incident was reported at Dwarka South police station regarding a man lying unconscious in a car, police said, adding that he was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead, police said.Initial investigation suggested that he drank “an acid-like substance” sitting inside his car and also left a suicide note in which he mentioned that he was killing himself “as he feared that he might spread coronavirus”, he said.He seemed very upset with the situation around and feared his family might get infected with the deadly virus too, the police officer said.The case is under investigation and police will talk to other family members regarding it, he added.The body will be handed over to the family on Monday after conducting post-mortem, the police said. SUICIDE HELPLINEAasra: 022 2754 6669Roshni NGO: +914066202000Cooj NGO: +918322252525||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/irs-officer-kills-self-by-drinking-acid-like-substance-in-his-car-in-dwarka/story-thxArNroSFwRVeCgdrjjrI.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi civic bodies offer schools and community centres for Covid beds||The three municipal corporations in Delhi on Sunday offered all their community centres, schools and health facilities to the Delhi government to ramp up health care infrastructure to deal with the rising cases of Covid-19 in the national capital. This comes on a day when the Delhi government declared the north civic body’s Hindu Rao Hospital a dedicated Covid-19 facility.The leaders of the three municipal corporations — north, south, east — made the offer during a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah and attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, mayors and deputy mayors and commissioners of the three civic bodies, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria and other senior officials. It was the second high-level meeting held on the day in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis in the Capital. The city reported 2,224 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 41,182. As many as 1,327 people have died due to the disease in Delhi. Shah held the first meeting with Baijal, Kejriwal, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and senior officials of the Union home and health ministries and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The home minister stressed the need for mutual coordination to fight the pandemic and make the national capital “Corona-free”. He directed the Centre, the Delhi government and the municipal corporations to ensure proper implementation of the decisions taken in the first meeting, such as house-to-house survey and increased Covid-19 testing, according to the statement issued by the home ministry.With Hindu Rao hospital now a dedicated Covid-19 facility, north corporation Mayor Avtar Singh said, “We have extended our support to the Delhi government to fight this pandemic. There are other hospitals and our staff is working hard to provide the best possible care.”Hindu Rao hospital has about 980 beds – including 17 ventilators, eight intensive care unit (ICU) beds, and four high dependency unit (a step-down from the ICU). Another 250 beds have oxygen support on them, according to the north civic body.There are 209 patients currently being treated in the hospital, and they will be moved to Kasturba Hospital, Rajan Babu Hospital, and Giridharilal Hospital.“Modifications will be made in terms of manpower deployment, infrastructure and facilities related to patient care and health care workers,” said north civic body spokesperson Ira Singhal.The three corporations together run eight hospitals with over 2,800 beds. The south and east corporations have offered their community centres, schools and hospitals, which they said can be turned into Covid-19 facilities as and when the government needs. The two corporations have 71 and 95 community centres respectively. “All our community centres are completely air-conditioned. It was also discussed that efforts should be made to ensure that there is no delay in cremating those who have lost their lives to Covid-19,” said Rajdutt Gahlot, deputy mayor of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation.While the corporations have extended their support to the Delhi government, the east and north corporations raised the issue of funds shortages.East Delhi mayor Anju Kamalkant said, “We requested the government to pay us ₹470 crore so that we can effectively carry out Covid-19 management work.”With GTB hospital in east Delhi being designated a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, east Delhi mayor said the load on Swami Dayanand hospital has increased. The body has sought permission from the Delhi government to increase the beds in the hospital from 370 beds to 500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-civic-bodies-offer-schools-and-community-centres-for-covid-beds/story-k8IISTBjNTnXTzdZbcZ4XP.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi government withdraws order to convert Nursing homes into Covid centres||The Delhi government has withdrawn its order to convert private nursing homes in capital with 10 to 49 beds into Covid nursing homes within a day of its release. The move announced on Sunday morning was supposed to add 5,000 beds to Delhi’s total capacity for treatment of coronavirus patients.The decision was widely seen as part of frantic efforts by the Delhi government to ensure the availability of close to 80,000 beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients’ treatment by the end of July, when the total number of cases are expected to rise to 5.5 lakh by one estimate, overwhelming the city’s health infrastructure if advance preparations are not made.“In order to avoid intermingling of Covid and non-Covid patients in small & medium multi-specialty nursing homes (10 bedded to 49 bedded) and also to augment the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients, all nursing homes in NCT of Delhi having bed strength of 10 beds or more upto 49 beds are declared as Covid nursing homes,” the order said this morning. It had, however, left standalone facilities like eye centres, dialysis centres, maternity homes from its purview.The Delhi government’s move this morning was also seen in the context of criticism that the city’s health infrastructure was cracking under pressure and over the highlighted cases of undignified handling of bodies, which even invited the Supreme Court’s ire.Another government estimate based on projections using mathematical models has predicted coronavirus cases in the capital’s rise to 100,000 cases by June end, which would necessitate the availability of at least 15,000 hospital beds for treatment of moderate and severe cases.In another important and related development, the Union ministry of health directed hospitals in the city to tweak the protocol and immediately hand over the bodies of suspected Covid-19 fatalities to their relatives without waiting for lab confirmation of their Covid status.“In compliance with orders of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Union Health Ministry directs that bodies of suspected Covid-19 cases in Delhi be handed over to relatives immediately without waiting for lab confirmation,” the order said.Several hospitals had blamed the need to keep bodies till confirmation of their lab reports as one major reason for the difficulty in managing the bodies which were allegedly found piling up in some hospitals as per media reports cited in the court.The ministry has also set up three teams of four doctors each from AIIMS Delhi, directorate general of health services, Union health ministry and Delhi government to inspect major dedicated Covid-19 facilities proposed in Delhi and make recommendations for improvement.Union home minister Amit Shah had also announced a comprehensive health survey of every person in Delhi containment zones to check the spread of coronavirus apart from the ambitious plan to treble testing within six days.Shah also said that a committee would be set up to allocate 60 per cent beds in private hospitals at a lower rate for coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-withdraws-order-to-convert-nursing-homes-into-covid-centres/story-iv6guKKtC3k9dIAkhqVLAI.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Need transparency in rules for cancelled flights, return of fares’||As airlines are refusing to return the fare amount to customers for cancelled flights in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, passenger bodies and experts are asking airline companies to be transparent about rules. Instead of returning the funds, airlines are issuing credit vouchers to passengers to travel on the same sector in the future.“Credit shell with previous refunds unresolved is unfortunate. Passengers should be informed transparently in advance that no refund will be provided. Consumers have to deal with high fares and no refunds in the most sensitive times. Charging for date change due to cancellations of flights by airlines adds to the misery,” said Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer of South Asia, Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), a global aviation consultancy. Sudhakara Reddy, president of Air Passengers Association of India (APAI), said that a case was filed because passengers are forced by airlines to fly on the same sector. “Air travel is chosen by many in emergency, business or tourism-related travel. Once the purpose of travel no longer exists, why will the passenger want to travel in the same sector again? There are many who are affected as they spent big amount to book air tickets,” he said.On Friday, a bench of Supreme Court judges, justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul and MR Shah, on Friday asked the Centre as well as airline companies to discuss the modalities for full refund of tickets for all flights, which were cancelled owing to the lockdown and to work out ways to provide full refund to travellers. The court will hear the matter after three weeks.Meanwhile, the Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), a city-based consumer rights organisation, sought the intervention of the civil aviation ministry. On June 9, the organisation asked the aviation minister to hold a meeting with all stakeholders to discuss a mutual solution over the refund policy in the interest of the passengers. Honey Sharma, a Mira Road resident, who booked a flight to Delhi in March, said, “I booked my air ticket twice and my flights were cancelled on both occasions. Around ₹13,000 are stuck with the airlines which they are not ready to refund. I cannot afford to book my ticket for the third time and risk more money.” Andheri resident Sachin Holmukhe also booked ticket to Himachal Pradesh for May 15 in March for a trek that is held only in summers. His flight was cancelled owing to the lockdown. “I do not know if the Himachal government will allow treks anytime soon or if I will be able to travel for it the next year. So I wanted my money back. But with the airline refusing to provide a refund, the least I can expect is for them to give me an open ticket so I can utilise it for some other sector,” he said. On June 4, the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) issued guidelines to member states, asking airlines to respect passengers’ right to refund for flights cancelled due to lockdown and said airlines should not deny refund amount. Taking note of difficulties faced by airlines, the guidelines also stated credit vouchers can be issued only if passengers are okay accepting them instead of refund.A retired airline official said, “There is no doubt that the airlines are not doing justice by refusing to provide refund. Moreover, the airlines have even declared to charge the passengers with fare difference, if any. Hence, airlines should at least increase the validity of the open ticket [currently air tickets are valid for travel upto a year] and allow passengers to travel other sectors too. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-transparency-in-rules-for-cancelled-flights-return-of-fares/story-qvKV8MXATGPxfcpm9iX1xL.html
15-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases at 3,903||The satellite city continued to witness a spike in the number of cases, as 169 cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in Navi Mumbai to 3,903. The death toll surged to 118, after four new deaths were reported. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) informed that 54 patients were also discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 2,240 (57% recovery rate). Until now, 14,991 people were tested in the city for Covid-19. “Among the 169 new cases, the highest (46) were reported from Airoli, followed by 25 from Turbhe and 23 in Kopar Khairane, and include four teenagers,” an NMMC official said.Meanwhile, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported the second highest spike in Covid-19 cases on Sunday, after 44 new cases were reported, taking the total count to 972 cases. Three deaths were also reported, even as 35 patients were discharged.Of the total positive cases reported from PCMC’s jurisdiction, 170 are from Kalamboli, 339 from Kamothe, 215 from Kharghar, 140 from New Panvel, 88 from Panvel and 20 from Taloja. Kamothe also has the highest number of total deaths (14).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-s-covid-19-cases-at-3-903/story-s6lGzsdnuC5wncpXpcgSpN.html
15-06-2020||City||Two crematorium staffers in Thane test positive for Covid-19||Thane recorded 134 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, of whom two are employees of the Jawahar Baugh Crematorium near Thane railway station. The total cases in Thane now reached to 5,139. According to officials, around 80% of Thane’s Covid-19 victims were cremated at the Jawahar Baugh Crematorium. “One of the employees of the crematorium showed symptoms, following which he underwent a test and was found positive for the virus. The other employees were also then tested, of which one result came positive. The duo are undergoing treatment at a Covid hospital,” a civic official said. Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) alleged that crematorium employees who handle bodies of Covid-19 patients are not given proper safety gears, putting them at a great risk of infection. Refuting allegations, TMC deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said, “We provided safety gears to all employees who are on our payroll as well as those on contract. But we will check on the claims of shortage of personal protective equipment gears and ensure that all employees have proper safety kits.”Meanwhile, the city also reported five deaths on Sunday, taking the total toll to 158.In neighbouring Kalyan and Dombivli, 101 new coronavirus cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total cases to 2,149 in the twin cities. With three more deaths, the total death toll now stands at 60 in Kalyan and Dombivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-crematorium-staffers-in-thane-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-mP1sHJsJDoT0GBz3g6mgjN.html
15-06-2020||City||259 Indians stranded in UK to return to Mumbai today||Over 650 crew members from India, stranded on board a ship in the United Kingdom (UK) since the lockdown began in March, are set to return home. Of these stranded passengers, 259 crew members will be brought to Mumbai and 280 Indians to Panaji on Monday morning in two charter flights from Gatwick airport. The remaining crew members on Marella Explorer cruise liner will return in the coming days. On June 12, Nallasopara legislator Kshitij Thakur, wrote to Union external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, requesting him to make arrangements to fly the crew members back to the country. “Some of those stranded on the ship, now anchored at Southampton, are from my constituency and sought my help. Most of the crew members are depressed from the past few weeks,” Thakur said. In his letter to the minister (a copy of which is with HT), Thakur wrote, “Earlier, there was some efforts made to fly the crew back home, but due to some document requirements, the flights were cancelled.”Taking cognisance of the matter, the external affairs ministry directed the Indian High Commission in London to intervene, after which two charter flights were arranged for 259 stranded Indians to Mumbai and 280 Indians to Panaji, which will leave from the UK on Sunday night.One of the stranded crew members on the ship Rajesh Gawde thanked Jaishankar, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Thakur for taking efforts to bring the crew back home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/259-indians-stranded-in-uk-to-return-to-mumbai-today/story-y72FeMclAdMINprKv7RjIK.html
15-06-2020||City||After plaints of mix-up in Covid report, Thane woman delivers healthy baby||A 34-year-old nine-month pregnant woman from Thane, who underwent a harrowing experience owing to an alleged mixed up in her Covid-19 report, delivered a healthy baby girl at Panandikar Hospital near Thane station on Sunday. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), while maintaining that there was no mix up from their side, said it is willing to pay for the mother and child’s hospital expenses on “humanitarian grounds.” Vishwanath Kelkar, deputy civic commissioner, said, “We sympathise with the family for all the struggle they went through. The civic commissioner issued directives to bear the expenses of the woman’s delivery and Covid treatment. The family will not have to shell out any money, the decision was taken on humanitarian grounds.”On Sunday, HT reported that the woman was tested positive at Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital (Kalwa), and admitted to Thane Civil Hospital (Tembhi Naka). The civil hospital admitted her for a day and later shifted her to BYL Nair Hospital as it was not equipped with C-section facilities. The woman’s husband said the civil hospital allegedly sent a report to Nair Hospital, in which the patient’s name was wrong, raising doubts over her Covid test result. She was again brought to the Kalwa hospital, where her second test result also came positive. Her husband however, claimed that she contracted the virus after staying in the Covid ward for a night. But TMC maintained that she was tested positive on both occasions. The woman’s husband, who is at a quarantine centre, said, “The doctors decided to keep my daughter in a private hospital at Ghodbunder to ensure that she does not contract the virus from my wife . The hospital has not asked me to pay for anything yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-plaints-of-mix-up-in-covid-report-thane-woman-delivers-healthy-baby/story-swiTTFXA4X1aA0zlp1yd7N.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Amid tussle between Governor, Maharashtra government, colleges in Mumbai promote students, start new admissions||Even as the stand-off between the state government and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is also the chancellor of universities in Maharashtra, on the status of examination for final year students continues, colleges are busy promoting and starting admissions for first and second-year students.While the University of Mumbai (MU) has clarified the gradation and promotion process, colleges say it’s easier said than done. With only a handful of staff manually working on results, and teachers working on the gradation formula in order to release subject-wise scores, most colleges are yet to start the admissions process.“We had conducted exams for some subjects before the lockdown was implemented, so while teachers finish assessing these papers, they are also working on the gradation formula. This 50-50% process is tricky and we don’t want to make errors, so it is time-consuming,” said Parag Ajgaonkar, principal of NM College, Vile Parle.According to a statement released by the varsity on May 23, it has requested all affiliated colleges to promote students from non-traditional courses on a 50-50% formula, through which colleges can base 50% of a student’s performance in internals and other projects in the current semester and 50% to be based on the student’s performance in the previous semester. “If there are any internal exams yet to be completed, colleges should conduct the same online or on phones. In the case of exams already conducted, colleges will choose the higher score of the student and consider the same for final results,” stated the circular.A handful of colleges have already finished the gradation process and are planning to start admissions by mid-June. “We are still not sure if we have to wait for the university to give us a go-ahead for admissions or not? Our management has decided to start admissions irrespective of any word from the varsity,” said the vice-principal of a suburban college.In some cases, colleges have already finished training students and teachers in online classes, and plan to implement the same at the earliest. “Training has been conducted for some time now so our college is ready to conduct classes online. We are hopeful of Class 12 results being released sometime soon so we can conduct admissions to first-year degree college and start classes too,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-tussle-between-governor-maharashtra-government-colleges-in-mumbai-promote-students-start-new-admissions/story-L9dKpV7l1rPr10GY2xDZFI.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||No clarity on commencement of academic year, say schools in Mumbai||Even as the state education department had earlier announced that academic year 2020-21 would begin from June 15 (Monday), confusion prevails over the reopening of schools, as with the state government did not issue any circular or a directive pertaining to the matter. Till the time of going to press, the state education department did not release any official communication to schools on the commencement of classes – be it online or offline. While state education minister Varsha Gaikwad did not respond to HT’s calls and messages, a senior official from the department said the standard operating procedures (SOPs) submitted to the state contain details of reopening, which they would be made public after government’s approval. “Meanwhile, teachers can go to school and work on creating e-content for online classes,” said the official.“We have absolutely no clarity on what the government wants us to do. As circular is issued in the matter, we asked teachers to try and come once a week on a rotational basis and do some work related to the creation of learning content in the school. But we can’t pressurise teachers to come, especially considering the lack of transport options available to them,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals Association. While some schools are planning to start a few online classes from Monday, they framed their own schedules in the absence of instructions. “We are currently planning to teach for two hours a day until the government gives us clear instructions,” said the principal of a suburban school. On May 31, education department officials said that though schools in the state would not start anytime soon, the new academic year would begin on June 15. This meant that online learning would begin in places where students have access to technology and in other parts of the state, modes such as TV, Radio and physical delivery of learning material shall be explored to continue learning. On June 12, the education department recommended schools to follow the SOPs on school reopening and conducting online classes. As per the SOPs, students of Class 3 - Class 5 can only be asked to attend online classes for upto an hour a day, while those from Class 6 - Class 8 can be asked to attend upto two hours a day. Students of Class 9 – Class 12 can be asked to attend online teaching sessions for a maximum of three hours a day. The SOPs stated that in July, areas which did not report a single Covid-19 case can start reopening schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-clarity-on-reopening-for-new-academic-year-schools-in-mumbai/story-SFtIRGGfgu2tHAW7pLnoqO.html
15-06-2020||City||Mumbai civic body helplines see rise in calls as Covid adds to anxiety, stress||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, helpline numbers for mental health counselling are seeing a rise in calls, with anxiety and adjustment issues topping the list.In the past two months, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) helpline number — HitGuj – has received more than 2,000 calls. On a daily basis, the helpline number— 24131212 – used to get over 20 calls daily. But since the outbreak in March, the number has risen to 35 every day.“Anxiety-related calls have increased by over 50%. Growing unemployment and loss of business have triggered mental ailments. Also, with the relaxation of lockdown, people are worried about going to office because of the fear of contracting the infection,” said Dr Amey Angane, assistant professor of the psychiatric department of the hospital.The toll-free helpline number – 1800120820050—BMC-Mpower 1on1 has recorded 45,000 calls over the past two months since its launch. In April, BMC-Mpower 1on1 was launched as a collaboration between the government of Maharashtra and BMC with Mpower Foundation, which is an Aditya Birla Education Trust initiative. A majority of the concerns were related to safety, anxiety about stepping out of their homes, returning to work, commute, work-life balance, and their family and friends.According to their data, 52% of the callers complained of anxiety, 22% had issues related to isolation and 11% showed symptoms of depression. While 5% of the callers had sleep-related complaints and the remaining 4% were for exacerbation of previous mental health concerns. On both the helpline numbers, the highest number of calls was between the age group of 25-40. Due to restriction on movement of people to avoid any possible contraction of the virus, psychiatrists are witnessing rising cases of irritation and anger among people. “People are getting frustrated sitting at home. Also, the negative and fake news that circulated on social media, just worsens their mental health. Many young people are taking out their anger through bad behaviour at home which further increases the tension at home,” said Dr Sagar Mundada, a city-based psychiatrist. Medicines prescribed by psychiatrists often fall under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and in the category of Schedule 10 drugs. As a result, many medical stores refused to provide psychiatric drugs through digital prescriptions. This led to relapses of mental health issues among patients. Dr Harish Shetty, a city-based psychiatrist who had written a letter to the Union Health Ministry on it, said, “These drugs are often abused that’s why so many restrictions have been imposed on prescribing it. But due to refusal to provide medicines through digital prescriptions, the level of anxiety, sadness and depression among existing patients has increased.”The pandemic is also taking a toll on the mental health of teenagers due to limited socialisation and isolation. The effect is more among families with Covid cases. Dr Nilanjana Goshwani, a developmental paediatrician, said, “When they know that a family member has contracted the infection, they often develop anxiety. They also start complaining of symptoms such as body pain, headache and some even develop fever.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-helplines-see-rise-in-calls-as-covid-adds-to-anxiety-stress/story-Rz83POhGZM6b1sOAZby9lO.html
15-06-2020||City||Tackling soaring Covid-19 cases immediate job for Ludhiana’s new deputy commissioner||A 2009-batch IAS officer, Varinder Sharma, has been appointed as the new deputy commissioner (DC) of Ludhiana. Earlier posted as the Jalandhar DC, he will take charge of his new post in Ludhiana on Monday.Just like Jalandhar, Ludhiana is also witnessing a steady rise in Covid-19 cases, which would not be a cake walk, Sharma said. Hence, his primary focus will be to plug the soaring cases.He said his emphasis will be to take concrete measures to bring life back on track along with strict adherence to the lockdown rules.Quoting similar events from history, Sharma said any pandemic brought a lot of pain and misery. “But an important takeaway from such testing times is to keep moving forward. Ludhiana is an industrial city, which drives the economy of the state. Smooth resumption of the industry and business is crucial. But, necessary protocols should be followed at the same time,” Sharma said.He stressed that by acting responsibly and adhering to the norms of social distancing, people could win the battle against the virus.“We just have to make some lifestyle changes to bring down the number of cases. This can be done easily by not acting causally,” said Sharma, adding that he will also work towards ensuring that government benefits reach every resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tackling-soaring-covid-19-cases-immediate-job-for-ludhiana-s-new-deputy-commissioner/story-Vp6zObrBwjDT5VY9rLYJLJ.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC to launch new Hancock bridge by August end||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced plans to open the reconstructed Hancock bridge in Sandhurst Road by August-end. On Saturday, the bridges department set up a 24-metre structural girder at the bridge site along with part of a plate girder.Sanjay Darade, who chief engineer, bridges department, said, “Today we have set up the structural girder of 24 metres with a part of a plate girder. The second part will be completed in another 15 days. After that, with the help of a railway mega-block, we will finish the plasterwork.”One of the two girders required for the new Hancock bridge arrived in Mumbai on June 11. At 63.8 metres, it is the longest girder to be used on the city’s railway network, according to civic officials. The second girder is expected to arrive soon.BMC is planning to start traffic on the bridge by the end of August, Darade said. Civic officials said that the new bridge, which is slated to be 64.6-metre-long, will be wider than the earlier one. The bridge will be ready for traffic from both sides after the asphalt work is completed.The Hancock bridge project has faced several hurdles since inception, and work has progressed at snail’s pace. The firm M/s Jaykumar Infraprojects Pvt Ltd, which had bagged the contract in May 2016 for rebuilding the bridge, had moved the Supreme Court after it was removed from the project after getting embroiled in a road scam. In February 2018, the contract was awarded to Sai Projects, with a target for completion set at 19 months.The cost of the entire project is ₹52 crore. Hancock bridge, which was originally built in 1879 near Sandhurst Road railway station, connects Mazgaon to the Western parts of the city. It was demolished in January 2016 after being declared unsafe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-launch-new-hancock-bridge-by-august-end/story-lkcH5sYcvcfb1WrmELD06K.html
15-06-2020||City||Ludhiana police nab man who shot Raikot farmer dead||Police have arrested Gurwinder Singh, who is accused of shooting dead a 65-year-old farmer at Jhorran village in Raikot on Saturday.Police said Gurwinder was arrested on Saturday night while he was planning to escape from the town. The murder weapon, his licensed .12 bore rifle, has been recovered.He was produced before a court that remanded him to five-day police custody. Kamaljit Kaur, daughter-in-law of the victim, Jarnail Singh, told the police that her father-in-law had bought six acres from Gurwinder Singh of Jhorran village. Though full payment was made for the deal, Gurwinder had not given possession of the land.On Saturday, her father-in-law called the accused to settle the matter, but the latter shot him dead, she alleged.“The accused fled on his bicycle after the crime. We launched a manhunt as soon as the murder was reported and arrested him on Saturday night,” said inspector Harjinder Singh, station house officer (SHO), Hathur.Gurwinder is facing a case of murder registered at the Hathur police station.The deceased is survived by his two sons, who live in the Philippines and the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-nab-man-who-shot-raikot-farmer-dead/story-nkjdF0dxZQBwnGk5PQfPDJ.html
15-06-2020||City||Number of flights, passengers on the rise at Chandigarh airport||With around 12 flights operating from Chandigarh airport now, the incoming passenger frequency in the last one week has increased with approximately 1,000 passengers arriving and departing daily.The operations resumed at the airport on May 25 after it remained closed for more than two months in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.As per flight schedule data, the flights are now departing with 80% occupancy and arriving with 91% occupancy since last week.DAILY FOOTFALL MUCH LOWER THAN AVERAGEAccording to the data provided by the airport authorities, in the last six days, a total of 2,978 passengers have arrived in Chandigarh, whereas 2,686 have departed. A total of 65 flights have operated so far to and from Chandigarh between June 10 and June 14, carrying only 5,664 passengers.On Sunday, seven flights operated to and from Chandigarh in which 386 passengers arrived and 328 departed, with a total footfall of 714. A day before on Saturday, 16 flights operated to and from Chandigarh in which 915 passengers arrived and 765 departed with a total footfall of 1,680.Before the lockdown, the average footfall at the airport used to be around 5,000-5,500 passengers daily.The footfall has increased gradually since May 25 when operations resumed. During the first two weeks, only 2,376 passengers arrived in 31 flights functioning with 42% occupancy, and only 1,433 departed with a 26% occupancy.The most popular destinations from where maximum passengers have been arriving are Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Ahmadabad, Bengaluru, Dharamshala and Srinagar, and the most popular carriers are Indigo, Air India, Air Asia, Go Air and Air Vistara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/number-of-flights-passengers-on-the-rise-at-chandigarh-airport/story-ZSEydTr2tFA0atonZRpBaI.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||AAP’s Panchkula nominee held in ₹2-crore fraud case||Yogeshwar Sharma, who contested last year’s Haryana assembly elections from Panchkula on the Aam Aadmi Party ticket, was arrested on Sunday for allegedly duping a retired bureaucrat of around ₹2 crore in a property deal.Yogeshwar Sharma is a resident of Sector 16. The complaint has been identified as Harjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 40B, Chandigarh, and a retired Punjab bureaucrat.Harjeet Singh in his complaint alleged that Sharma had cheated him of ₹2,05,50,000 in the name of selling the basement and ground floor of a shop-cum-office (SCO) in the Sector 46C market.The economic offences wing of Chandigarh Police has registered a case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).A 30-year-old resident of Daria village was allegedly duped of ₹2.37 lakh by a banker from Mumbai on the pretext of providing a personal loan worth ₹30 lakh. The victim was identified as Sunny Kumar, who has a private business. Kumar told police that he got in touch with Kamil Khan for a personal loan of ₹30 lakh.Khan asked him for necessary documents and through a number of cash deposits in December and January, got ₹2.37 lakh transferred to himself. When Khan stopped taking his calls, Kumar approached the police.A case has been registered under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-s-panchkula-nominee-held-in-2-crore-fraud-case/story-x68Lh0TEnHOU55VhnuyumL.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ten die of Covid-19 in Haryana, recoveries cross 3,000 mark||Ten patients in Haryana lost their battle to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the death toll in the state to 88. Six of them were from Gurugram, two from Rohtak and one each from Jhajjar and Panipat, as per a health department bulletin.The state also recorded 459 fresh cases from 18 districts, taking the tally to 7,208. Sonepat, Karnal, Rewari and Charkhi Dadri did not report any fresh case.The number of recoveries in the state crossed the 3,000-mark with 200 more patients being declared cured on Sunday. Haryana now has 4,117 active cases. There were 47 critically ill Covid-19 patients, including 14 on ventilator support across eight health facilities on Sunday.The national capital region (NCR) district of Faridabad emerged the top contributor to the tally of fresh positive cases on Sunday, reporting 191 infections followed by Gurugram which had 169 new cases. The two NCR districts jointly accounted for 78% of the fresh cases reported on Sunday and 69% of the total active cases.Additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora on Sunday said that Covid-19 patients have shown good recovery in the last one week. “Data shows that 1,523 patients have recovered in this week whereas 2,797 new patients were admitted in health care facilities or home isolated during the same period,’’ Arora said.The ACS said the government has also taken the initiative to call up every infected person in home isolation. This is to take feedback on availability of regular health services to them, to ensure they follow the instruction given to them during home isolation, address difficulties faced by them and lend support. For calling these infected persons, services of Haryana helpline 1075 were being utilised.As per the medical bulletin, Ambala reported 15 cases on Sunday followed by Palwal and Rohtak (13 each), Kurukshetra(10), Hisar (8), Bhiwani (7), Panchkula and Jhajjar (6), Fatehabad (5), Yamunanagar (4), Nuh (3), Kaithal, Jind, Sirsa and Mahendergarh (2 each), Panipat (1)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ten-die-of-covid-19-in-haryana-recoveries-cross-3-000-mark/story-x26hqRSsQrQfclN5cvAxTP.html
15-06-2020||City||KU yet to give clarity on exam schedule, students anxious||UNCERTAINTY: Confusion prevails over promotion criteria; management to meet today Haryana government’s notification regarding final year exams in higher and technical education institutions is already out, but Kurukshetra University is yet to decide its future course of action.The uncertainty has given way to confusion among lakhs of students enrolled in various varsity programmes and courses offered on campus as well as in its affiliated colleges.The government has made it clear that students of final year will appear for their terminal examinations between July 1 and July 31 and the results be declared by August 7.The management of Kurukshetra University has called a meeting on Monday to make the decision.“The government’s guidelines were issued on Friday, but I have yet to go through them. In this regard, we are going to hold a meeting on Monday,” said university’s vice-chancellor (V-C) Nita Khanna.WEIGHTAGE WOESThe government has announced that students in intermediate semesters will be promoted with 50% weightage of internal assessment and 50% weightage of marks obtained in previous examination.The notification has, however, also categorically mentioned, “If the university intends to take examinations of such students of the campus departments, they may do so.”Many students are finding it confusing and seeking clarity from the university.“Though we have read the guidelines issued by the government, we don’t know whether we will have to appear in the exams or the university will promote us,” said a student of BTech (printing and technologies), mass communication department. Even students of about 250 colleges associated with the Kurukshetra University are waiting for any formal communication.“We are eagerly waiting for any notification from our college about the exams, but there is no clarity yet,” said a BSc second year student of DAV Girls College, Yamunanagar.Kurukshetra University controller of examinations Hukum Singh said, “The final call will be made by the academic council of the university and we will implement whatever decision they make.”Reacting to the problems being faced by students, a senior professor of the university, who sought to remain anonymous, said, “The university should clear the air immediately. Only 16 days are left for the exams and those appearing for them have to make arrangements for their travel and stay.”He said the government’s ‘limited’ guidelines were not sufficient as a lot of preparation and work needed to be done to conduct the exams of final year students and promote others to next semesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ku-yet-to-give-clarity-on-exam-schedule-students-anxious/story-n7P3lb1iNsZWDI6Ra5w7AK.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||For admission to DU’s music courses, a YouTube audition||Candidates applying for admission to Delhi University’s (DU) music courses for the upcoming academic session will have to upload their performances on YouTube as part of their practical entrance tests, a move necessitated by restrictions in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic, varsity officials said. Candidates will be shortlisted for an online interview on the basis of these videos.The move is part of the university’s temporary shift to alternative admission processes for candidates applying to music, sports, sports science, and physical education courses, as well as for admissions under the extra-curricular activities (ECA) quotaAccording to the minutes of the university’s admission committee meeting held on May 26, in view of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis, alternative plans suggested by a subcommittee constituted for sports, ECA and performance based admission will be adopted this year.“After detailed deliberation, the committee decided that under the prevalent condition due to Covid-19, the alternative plan for admission under ECA, sports, music and physical education, of having only online admission process, as suggested by the sub-committee be adopted for the academic year 2020 – 21,” the minutes stated.The minutes were approved on June 10 by the standing committee of the university’s academic council — DU’s highest academic body. Arun Kumar Attree, a member of the standing committee, said, “Since it is not possible to call students physically to the campus for auditions or trials, it’s been decided we will skip them entirely this year. Entrance exams for music courses will be conducted online by the faculty of music and fine arts, and admissions to physical education courses will be done based on merit certificates.” In its suggestions, the sub-committee said, “The candidates, for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses, will upload a video of their seven-minute performance on YouTube and mark it as unlisted [Unlisted YouTube videos are not for public viewing]. The link of the uploaded YouTube video will be submitted by the candidates along with the admission application form on the DU admission portal.”“The shortlisted candidates to be called for the online interview. The admission committee will conduct the online interview for the final selection of candidates for admission to UG and PG courses of music faculty,” read the sub-committee’s suggestions document, a copy of which is with HT.The university offers three music courses at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels.DU has also decided to skip physical fitness tests this year for admissions to BSc and MSc courses in Physical Education, Health Education and Sports, and Bachelor of Physical Education. “There cannot be any physical test or trial in the prevailing circumstances. The candidates may be asked to upload a self-declaration certificate in his or her fitness along with a medical certificate. The entrance test will be conducted for these courses as earlier for which the modalities will be announced shortly,” said a member of the admission committee. The modalities of the entrance exams will be announced in the coming weeks by the National Testing Agency — a nodal agency for conducting premier entrance exams in the country, the member added. HT had reported that the university has also decided not to conduct trials for admissions under the sports and ECA categories this year. In DU colleges, 5% supernumerary seats are reserved under these two categories collectively in each course.Members of the DU’s executive council (EC) — the highest decision-making body — expressed reservations over online practical exams for music courses. “There can be many issues with candidates uploading videos online. Many may not have quality mobile phones to record, due to which the audio quality may be hampered . Also, online interviews are going to be very difficult for many students,” said Rajesh Jha, a member of the EC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-admission-to-du-s-music-courses-a-youtube-audition/story-W7zqHYBBTl7w1Yx7gFol1H.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||State records 3,390 more cases, health minister says peak has started||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count on Saturday reached 1,07,958 after it recorded 3,390 more infections on Sunday — the fifth consecutive day of over 3,000 new cases — even as state health minister Rajesh Tope said the pandemic’s peak has started in the state and that cases will continue to rise for the next 15 days at least. He also said that a drop in cases is likely to start from this month-end. Of the state’s tally, 53,017 are active cases, according to the state health department. Meanwhile, the number of recovered patients crossed the 50,000 mark on Sunday, two days after the state crossed the grim mark of 1 lakh patients. The total number of recovered patients stands at 50,978.Tope said, “Fresh cases will continue to rise for the next 15-20 days as the peak has started. The decline is likely to start from June-end. I’m saying this going by what is happening in other countries. The situation in the state will stabilise and things will settle.”The state also reported 120 deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 3,950. Of them, 43 deaths are from the past two days, while the rest are between June 2 and June 11, clarified the health department. On June 11, the state had recorded its highest single-day increase in fatalities — 152. On Sunday, 1.632 patients recovered and were discharged from various hospitals across the state. The recovery rate has improved and has reached 47.02% from 43% on June 1.Mumbai, the worst-hit city across the country, has recorded 1,395 cases as its case count reached 58,226. Of them, 29,050 are active cases. The city also reported 69 deaths and toll stands at 2182. On May 22, Mumbai has reported its highest one-day spike in cases — 1,751.Statistics show that there has been an increase in new cases from June 3 since the state relaxed lockdown conditions even in red zones such as the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) (the areas governed by nine municipal corporations including Mumbai), Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur — the 19 corporations.On June 3, the total number of cases in the 19 municipal corporations was 67,885, which has now risen to 96,369. The 19 corporations also make up 89.26% of the total cases (1,07,958) recorded in the state.The health officials, however, stressed that the situation is also improving as growth rate of new cases has come down and at the same time, doubling rate of new cases is increasing.“We can say that the rate of growth of new cases has considerably slowed down and our case doubling rate is now better than the national average. Daily new cases in Mumbai is almost constant in the last seven days,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, health department.The state’s doubling rate of cases currently is 21.3 days, whereas the national average of doubling rate is 17.1 days.Dr Hemant Deshmukh, Dean, KEM Hospital in Mumbai, also stressed that they have succeeded in stabilising the pandemic as they are getting fewer critical patients in the last few days. “My personal experience is that we have seen gradual decrease in the number of admissions of critical patients in the past five days. I can see two reasons for this. One, we have developed more centres for critically ill patients and second, the disease is probably getting stabilised. We have succeeded in reducing the criticalness of the disease due to aggressive contract tracing. We are getting more patients with mild symptoms,” Dr Deshmukh said.Of the day’s 120 deaths, 69 are in Mumbai, 11 each in Pune and Jalgaon, seven in Aurangabad, five in Ulhasnagar, four in Thane, three in Solapur, two each in Osmanabad and Akola and one each in Palghar, Vasai-Virar and Ratnagiri.Of total deaths reported on Sunday, 66 were above 60 years of age, while 40 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years. The rest 14 patients were below 40 years of age. Of the deceased, 80 had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, health officials said.The health department said 6,57,739 tests have been conducted at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 5,49,781 people tested negative, said an official.The mortality rate, however, has also increased to 3.66% (3,830 deaths on June 13) from 3.27% (1,792 deaths on May 26). It is also more than the national mortality rate, which is 2.87%, with 9,195 deaths till Saturday, stated the data shared by the state medical education department.So far, 29,641 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,87,596 people have been put under home quarantine.As part of the ‘Mission Begin Again’ to ease the lockdown, the state government from June 3 had allowed outdoor activities such as jogging, running, cycling in open grounds and stadiums. From June 5, it allowed shops and marketplaces to be opened and from June 8, it allowed private offices to open with a maximum strength of 10 people. It has further allowed inter-district movement in the MMR and allowed BEST buses to ply in the region from June 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-records-3-390-more-cases-health-minister-says-peak-has-started/story-8ONNqyZe87NSMWAJJmJZDL.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt plans to increase hospital beds to 20,000 by June 20||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Sunday, inspected a religious group’s centre in Chhatarpur that is likely to become the Capital’s biggest makeshift hospital with an estimated 10,000 beds even as the Delhi government announced that it has made plans for 20,000 additional Covid-19 beds in the city by June 20. District administration officials said they expect the facility to be ready for patients by the end of the month.“The visit was necessary to check if the place can accommodate the estimated infrastructure requirements in the light of increasing Covid-19 cases. The district administration has conducted a feasibility study. I came here for a review. More details will be shared in the days to come,” said Baijal, at the Radhasoami Satsang Beas facility near Bhatti village in Chhatarpur.Meanwhile, the Delhi government issued directions to ramp up Delhi’s hospital bed capacity by 20,000 by June 20. Of these, 4,000 beds are to be arranged in hotels taken over by the government, 5,000 in nursing homes and 11,000 in banquet halls.There is no change in the plan for the 5,000 beds in nursing homes, even after a recent government order regarding the use of smaller nursing homes (with fewer than 50 beds) was withdrawn on Sunday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, earlier this week, said Delhi would need 150,000 Covid-19 beds by July 31, factoring in outstation patients who may travel to the city for treatment.Baijal, on Sunday, reached the Satsang Beas around 1 pm, after attending a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah. Hours after the field inspection, Baijal joined another meeting chaired by Shah.Both meetings were also attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia.BIGGEST MAKESHIFT HOSPITALThe shed in the spiritual organisation’s Chhatarpur branch measures around 11.90 lakh square feet, which can accommodate 10,000 beds if the space is used optimally, said sub-divisional magistrate (Mehrauli) Sonalika Jiwani. She said the shed will be divided into 200 enclosures, comprising 50 beds each.“We expect patients to start getting admitted in this facility in another 15 days,” Jiwani said.A senior government official who asked not to be named said, “It is the first such experiment in Delhi. Cities like Mumbai have also used sports complexes but those have been turned into quarantine facilities. No other city so far has any hospital of such capacity.”At the site on Sunday, HT spotted workers using canvas and vinyl fabric sheets to build enclosures, and arranging polyvinyl floor coverings. The shed does not have a concrete floor , so the polyvinyl covering is necessary to enable periodic sanitation.A combination of coolers and fans will be used to ensure appropriate temperature and relative humidity in the facility, said a second government official familiar with the government’s site feasibility study. The facility has two toilets, and more temporary ones are likely to be set up in a week or so, the official said.But a major challenge is a shortage of medical staff in the Capital. The senior government official quoted above who asked not to be named said the makeshift hospital in Chhatarpur will operate in two shifts, with each needing at least 200 doctors and 400 nurses and paramedics when operating at full capacity.“We are trying to work out a strategy for that along with the health department,” the official said.The central government has classified Covid-19 facilities into three categories – Covid care centres, dedicated health centres and dedicated Covid hospitals. The first two are meant for mild to moderate category patients, and hospitals are for those who need specialised support such as ICUs and ventilators.The makeshift hospitals at banquet halls and stadiums – including the one planned in Chhatarpur – are supposed to accommodate mild and moderate category patients with comorbidities who need‘round the clock supervision and cannot be isolated at home. So, they are not likely to have ICU and ventilator facilities, said a senior official in the health department who asked not to be named. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, emphasised the necessity to have trained manpower. “The Army and the ITBP had earlier set up such quarantine centres. If it is a hospital, proper strategy is needed to cover the management of patient movements, healthcare worker movements, toilets, changing rooms, equipment stores, etc. The government should get trained manpower for help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-plans-to-increase-hospital-beds-to-20-000-by-june-20/story-QoLISwnvnChHye7BNR4KNP.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Traders’ body says all major markets in Delhi will stay open for now||All major markets in the city on Sunday said they have decided to stay open despite the rising cases of Covid-19 in the city, and scant business. The respective market associations said the decision came in light of the measures taken by the Centre and Delhi government to tackle the coronavirus crisis in the city.With the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the city, speculation was rife that the government could impose restrictions again in some form, forcing Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday to allay such concerns. “No, the lockdown will not be extended any further in Delhi,” Jain had said.All major retail markets — including Connaught Place, Khan Market, South Extension, Greater Kailash, Lajpat Nagar and Karol Bagh among others, have decided to remain open.Brajesh Goyal, convener of the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) trade and industry wing said his outfit had scheduled a video meeting of representatives of over 170 trader associations on Sunday. “At least 157 associations said that though business is slow, they will keep markets open. All markets will scale up the precautionary measures to maintain distancing measures. There are only a few markets that may open on select days of the week,” said Goyal.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a national group representing several retailers, said that after a video conference with over 270 trade leaders, it was decided all markets would stay open for the time being. In a survey CAIT conducted among traders and retailers, 88% said they preferred to shut their shops.“After the aggressive steps announced jointly by the Centre and the Delhi government to deal with the situation at present, we decided to keep markets open. Trader associations will be free to take a decision on what suits them, depending on local factors,” said Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary, CAIT.Sanjeev Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders Association said business has picked up slightly over the past week. “Closing is not a solution. We have to keep at it while taking all precautions. However, it may help if the government reviews curfew timings, as most customers drop in during evening because of the heat. We have to close early, as with limited public transport, the staff starts leaving,” said Mehra.As part of the Union home ministry’s “Unlock 1.0” guidelines, a curfew is to be observed between 9pm and 5am. All shops are required to maintain social distancing, failing which they may face penalties.While the main Sarojini Nagar market will remain open, traders’ association of the mini-market, which had on June 11 decided to stay shut, from June 15-30, said it will take a call on Wednesday. “While there are nearly no customers and few staffers are available to take care of the goods, we will hold another consultation and decide whether to stay open or not,” said Ashok Randhawa, president, Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders Association. Wholesale markets mostly located in densely populated Old Delhi areas such as Chandni Chowk, Chawri Bazar, Bhagirath Palace and Kashmere Gate have decided to stay open partially. Jagdish Mittal, president of Delhi Electrical Insulators Dealers Association at Bhagirath Palace said it was difficult to maintain social distancing and had hence decided shops will open on alternate days.The Nai Sarak Book Sellers Association on Sunday issued a circular that urged shop owners to come to their outlets only if required. “We have requested traders to avoid opening shops till June-end at the earliest,” said Surender Kumar Gupta, a member of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traders-body-says-all-major-markets-in-delhi-will-stay-open-for-now/story-MCXrS5EbK9UtYjla0IExWJ.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Record spike of 2,224 cases in Delhi takes tally to over 41,000; death toll climbs to 1,327||The city recorded 2,224 coronavirus disease cases on Sunday in the highest single-day spike, taking the infection tally to over 41,000, while the death toll mounted to 1,327, authorities said.This is the third successive day when over 2,000 cases have been reported in a day in Delhi. The previous highest spike in fresh cases—2,137—was recorded on June 12.Fifty-six fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department said in a bulletin on Sunday.The bulletin also said the death toll from the infection has risen to 1,327, and the total number of cases has mounted to 41,182.Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Sunday held a meeting through a video conference with senior officials to ramp up the testing facilities to 10,000 in next two days, have 100% house-to-house survey in containment zones and comply with other directions of the Union Home Ministry, the bulletin said.As the cases rose, the Hindu Rao Hospital, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), was on Sunday declared as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, according to an official order.The Covid-19 tally on Saturday stood at 38,958, while the death count was 1,271.As many as 15,823 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 24,032 active cases, the latest bulletin said.As many as 2,90,592 tests have been conducted till date, it said.Total number of Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 20,793, it said.As many as 695 patients in are in ICU while 182 are on ventilators, the bulletin said.The number of containment zones in Delhi now stands at 242, according to the Delhi government on Sunday. Out of the total 309 containment zones, 67 have been de-contained. According to the latest update by the Delhi government, North district (36) has the highest number of containment zones, closely followed by South-West district (34) and South district (31). Besides, there are 24 containment zones in West district, along with 22 each in East and North-West district, as per the data shared. South-East district and Central Delhi occupies 19 containment zones each, followed by 16 each in Shahdara and New Delhi, the data stated. With just three, North-East district has the lowest containment zones in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/record-spike-of-2-224-cases-in-delhi-takes-tally-to-over-41-000-death-toll-climbs-to-1-327/story-S5vuYtYYLxUdbfZdq6ycKP.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Covid crisis: Thalassemia patients struggle to find hospital beds, blood for transfusion||Preeti Talreja, a resident of Vivek Vihar, had to shuttle between two hospitals before she could arrange for her four-year-old daughter’s blood transfusion after the thalassemia unit at Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital closed. The hospital was declared a designated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospital on June 2.Her daughter Mahi was admitted to an emergency ward at Swami Dayanand hospital as her haemoglobin levels were low. “It was a struggle to first get her admitted and then arrange for blood. After we got the bed at Swami Dayanand Hospital for the transfusion, we had to go to GTB Hospital to arrange for the blood.”Most thalassemia patients who are being treated at government-run facilities in the city are facing the same problem.Of the 13 government hospitals offering thalassemia care in the Capital, three — Lok Nayak, GTB and Hindu Rao—were designated as Covid-19 hospitals on June 14. Thalassemia is an inherited blood disorder that causes the body to have less haemoglobin, which enables red blood cells to carry oxygen. Thalassemia patients have to undergo blood transfusion monthly to maintain haemoglobin levels. The blood disorder is listed as one of the 21 disabilities in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.Ever since GTB Hospital was designated a Covid-19 hospital, close to 300 thalassemia patients have been struggling to get their blood transfusion done.Yash Gupta (25), a resident of Bulandshahr, and Soman Madan (32), a resident of Delhi, have been undergoing blood transfusion at GTB Hospital since 1999. Gupta said that he managed to get his transfusion done at Swami Dayanand Hospital after checking with two other hospitals, Madan got his done at a private hospital. But, like Talreja, both had to go to GTB Hospital to get the blood.Madan said, “It’s a lot of hassle, as we have to first find a hospital which will do the transfusion. We then have to take the blood sample for cross-matching to GTB Hospital, collect blood from the blood bank and then go again to the other hospital for a transfusion. Why can’t the government streamline the process so that we don’t have to do the running around?”The Delhi government has issued clear instructions along with the list of hospitals where patients can go for transfusion. As per the instructions, hospitals have to inform patients where they can go; hospitals will have to coordinate to arrange for blood for transfusion; patient have to get a donor along with them but in case they don’t have one or emergency, hospitals can’t deny treatment, etc. The list includes All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Safdarjung, RML, Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalya, Hindu Rao, Swami Dayanand, Kasturba Gandhi etc.But most patients HT spoke to said they had to go to GTB Hospital to arrange for blood. A senior doctor at GTB Hospital’s blood bank said that most thalassemia patients are coming to the hospital to collect blood. “Most of our patients are coming here to collect blood for transfusion. We are not able to organise big camps for blood donations during these times. Now that our hospital has become a designated Covid-19 hospital, we can’t ask people to donate blood in-house. We are organising camps once a week outside the hospital to meet the requirement.”According to NGOs working with thalassemia patients, there are close to 2,500 of them being treated at various hospitals, especially in government facilities, in Delhi. They are now demanding that the government should ensure that people don’t have to run around to arrange blood. JS Arora, general secretary of the National Thalassemia Welfare Society, said, “In these testing times, patients and their relatives have to run from one hospital to another to check for beds and arrange blood. The government should either have dedicated hospitals where these people can go or put in place a system so that they don’t have to suffer. These are high-risk patients and need a transfusion for survival.”Arora said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, especially during the lockdown, arranging for blood has been a challenge for families of thalassemia patients and NGOs as not many large-scale blood donation camps—June 14 is Blood Donation Day—could be organised. Patients’ families said that they couldn’t arrange for donors either, as people are scared to go to the hospital.Shobha Tuli, the secretary of Thalassemics India, said, “Patients are confused right now. The government should have divided all the patients area-wise and told them which hospitals to go to. Patients shouldn’t have to run around for arranging blood. In case patients get transfusions done in a private hospital, then the government should pay for them.”When contacted, Dr SK Arora, additional director, Health, Delhi government, admitted that there were problems initially, but now things were streamlined and he was personally monitoring the situation.“We are issuing repeated instructions to all hospitals to accommodate thalassemia patients registered at Lok Nayak and GTB hospitals without any resistance, along with instructions regarding the availability of blood. It will be the responsibility of the hospitals’ nodal officers to see to the availability of blood for a particular patient before sending an attendant to arrange it. We have created a WhatsApp group of all the nodal officers of all hospitals for the coordination and solve the day to day problems of patients. We issued similar instructions when Hindu Rao Hospital was declared a dedicated Covid-19 hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-crisis-thalassemia-patients-struggle-to-find-hospital-beds-blood-for-transfusion/story-04oPG2iwwzxSp7FOHJfQ7H.html
15-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Current staff can cater to only 500 more Covid beds, say health officials||Ghaziabad: In the wake of spike in Covid-19 cases in the district, health department officials on Sunday made an assessment of available resources and said that they will be able to cater to only 500 more Covid beds with the current staff strength. After the state government’s directions, Ghaziabad has made a plan for about 4,000 Covid beds in order to deal with any future exigencies. At present, the district has a provision of 166 L1 category beds, 100 L2 category beds at Sanjay Nagar hospital and 400 beds of L3 category at Santosh Medical College. The officials said that the three categories of beds in different hospitals are operational (except 30 L1 beds at Muradnagar) at present, while 200-bed L1 hospital at Niwari will be made operational in a couple of days.The health officials said that apart from the doctors available with the MMG Hospital, Women Hospital and L2 category Sanjay Nagar hospital, they only have 78 doctors available under the chief medical officer and nearly 50% of them are either deployed at various health care facilities or for the services like post mortems, deliveries and emergency services. Besides, a few of them are deployed under the sector scheme in Khoda, Loni and Vaishali.“Of the 78 doctors available with us, we have deployed 12 at L1 Covid hospital at Nandgram while 12 others are scheduled to join our 200-bed L1 hospital at Niwari. The hospital will be opened soon. Almost half of 78 doctors are deployed for emergency services like deliveries and post mortem, and cannot be relocated. About 13 of our doctors are also deployed at Khoda, Vaishali and Loni as part of administration’s sector scheme,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“Some doctors are also on duty at three of our quarantine centres. So, with the current availability of doctors, we will be able to cater to about 500 more L1 Covid beds. In case requirement goes up in future, we will have to get doctors from outside districts or our three district hospitals,” Gupta said.Meanwhile, on Sunday, the district recorded 19 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 625. Also, two deaths were added to the tally on Sunday, the health officials said. “With two deaths, we have a total of 22 fatalities till June 14. One of the two was a 52-year-old woman from Vijay Nagar who had tested positive at Meerut. She died on June 12 with complications of hypertension and diabetes. The second patient was a 40-year-old man who was admitted at Meerut on June 12 and died on June 14,” the CMO added.Of the 19 new cases, seven were from Indirapuram, two each from Vaishali, Khoda and Kaushambi while one was from Vasundhara, among other localities.According o the officials, Ghaziabad has now 211 active cases while 392 patients have been discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-current-staff-can-cater-to-only-500-more-covid-beds-say-health-officials/story-AWaARa4pQUqMlGwubnoOGO.html
15-06-2020||City||District court bar association requests sanitization of advocate chambers||GREATER NOIDA: Gautam Budh Nagar district courts bar association has requested the administration for sanitisation to be carried out in advocates’ chambers at the district court located i Greater Noida.“There are around 900 advocate chambers inside the court complex. One entry of visitors is through the gate near the chambers and majority of visitors entering the courts use this gate. Though administration takes up sanitization of chamber lanes, the same has not been done inside the chambers. We have requested that at least once, all advocate chambers should be sanitized. Thereafter, advocates will keep it sanitized,” Sanjeev Verma, president, district bar association, said on Sunday.“Further, the association has appealed to advocates to keep mini sanitization machines at their chambers. All visitors should be sanitized before being allowed to enter chambers. Further, with the machine, the advocates will be able to keep the chambers sanitized themselves. This will help check the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease into their chambers,” said Verma.Advocate Ravindra Sharma, who has a chamber at the court, said he his chamber is in lane 1 and hence requires more sanitization as it is near the entry gate. “I have, in the meantime, decided to buy a mini sanitization fogging machine for my chamber. I request the administration to get all the chambers sanitized at least once.”Court authorities, however, said all areas of the court are being sanitised in coordination with the health department.When contacted, Mujeeb Rehman, the court nazir , said, “As per high court guidelines, we are sanitizing the court campus. Sanitization is being done in coordination with the health department and authority teams. In advocates, chambers we are sanitizing the lanes through fogging machines. Chamber shutters too get sanitized.”Regarding sanitization inside the chambers, Rehman said, “It is not possible as during the sanitization in the morning, the chambers remain closed. Moreover, there is no guidelines to sanitize inside the advocate chambers. In residential or commercial areas, authorities sanitize the lanes and shutters or gates only. Sanitisation of inside area of shops or houses is done by owners themselves.”According to bar association president Sanjeev Verma, “Advocates are offering their full support in the fight against COVID-19. We appreciate the efforts of all advocates who are contributing their efforts and support.”When contacted, district chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said, “The sanitisation is done under the supervision of the authority. If the association requests the authority, then we can do it with their help.”An authority official said on condition of anonymity that upon getting a request they will seek approval from seniors and sanitize the chambers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-court-bar-association-requests-sanitization-of-advocate-chambers/story-UeTbI4r21KLPxVMEEHfsnL.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Kids in Delhi go without vaccine as Covid crisis unfolds||Even as the national Capital resumed the immunisation programme for newborns and infants on May 6 after a hiatus due to the nationwide lockdown from March 25, several factors such as a lack of awareness, limited staff and a majority of Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha)—who are primarily responsible for mobilising parents to take their children for vaccination—engaged in Covid-19-related work continue to impact the process. A month on, several families from marginalised sections have been left out of the immunisation coverage, posing a potential risk to the children’s health.Several women had to give birth at home because they weren’t able to access maternity services during the lockdown. Due to this, newborns missed the dose of vaccination (BCG) given at medical facilities. The dose is crucial for newborns to develop immunity against infections and preventable diseases.Pankaj Gupta, 28, said his wife had to deliver their child at home because the nearest hospital refused to admit her, saying that they did not have beds. “The local dispensary is closed. She is our first child and has turned a month old. We do not know where to take her after birth for follow-ups. People from an NGO had come to the area and told us that we could go to other dispensaries, but there are long queues at the centres. I don’t know how soon we will be able to get her the necessary vaccines,” Gupta, a resident of Sangam Vihar, H-block, who works as a salesman, said.According to Matri Sudha, an NGO working in the maternity and child health sector, a sample study of 50 lactating women who gave birth around the lockdown in South, Southeast and Northeast districts, showed that a majority of them were struggling to get their children vaccinated. “Several dispensaries are closed because the doctors and the ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwife) are on Covid-duty. The health centres that are open have limited staff and long queues, as people are pouring in for all kinds of ailments and medicines. Several people leave empty-handed, daunted by the long wait in the heat,” Ravi Shankar Rai, project coordinator, Matri Sudha, said.He added that according to several ANM and Asha workers, vaccine supply has been halted at some dispensaries, therefore, they cannot do anything to ensure timely vaccination. “The Asha workers also said that they have shifted their focus from vaccination to protection from Covid-19, as the latter is a priority,” the survey said.A survey conducted by the Centre for Holistic Development, another NGO, found that at least eight newborns at Sarai Kale Khan’s slum clusters have been completely left out of the immunisation coverage.Among them is the two-month-old daughter of Shahjuddin, a labourer. She has not been vaccinated since birth. Before he could arrange for an ambulance to take his wife to the nearest hospital, she gave birth to the baby at their shanty. “I don’t know where to take the baby for vaccination. Also, I am scared of exposing her to infection. Before the lockdown, some women workers would come down to take stock of new mothers and infants. They haven’t come since,” he said.The immunisation programme, which had halted due to the lockdown enforced in March to contain the spread of Covid-19, resumed at the city’s vaccination centres in May twice a week—Wednesday and Friday. The Delhi government had urged parents to reach out to these centres. However, many said that they were either not aware of the scheme resuming or facing difficulties at the vaccination centres.Under the government’s immunisation programme, infants, children and pregnant women are vaccinated free of cost. The vaccines include BCG, rotavirus, polio, HIV, pentavalent, measles and rubella virus to be given at the ages of 2, 4, 6,9 and 18 months.The immunisation work is primarily carried out by Asha workers and community health workers. Kavita Yadav, state coordinator for Asha workers, All India United Traders Union Centre, said that a majority of health workers are not able to carry out door-to-door follow-ups on account of their increased responsibilities toward pandemic control measures. “From door-to-door surveys and putting up home quarantine posters to keeping tabs on people in home isolation and supplying medicines at the doorsteps of patients, Asha workers are engaged in a lot of Covid-management duties. They can’t visit new mothers door-to-door and vaccinate the children. Some of them are still visiting children in their designated localities despite the risk of contracting the infection,” she said.Sushma, an Asha worker in Dharampura, said that she is worried about the children who haven’t been vaccinated in the last three months. “We don’t have the time to visit all families so we send them text messages about the date and venue of vaccination. But some parents work as daily labourers or domestic help and don’t have the time to bring in their children. In such cases, we ideally visit the homes and vaccinate these children. It’s not happening now because we’re busy with Covid-related work,” she said.Another worker in Geeta Colony said that their dispensary is under construction and it is difficult for people to stand in queues for hours with their children. “Nobody is allowed inside the dispensaries now and people have to stand outside to wait for their turn. Since we have only two days designated for vaccination, there is always a long queue. Many people leave without getting their children vaccinated after standing in the heat for hours,” she said, adding even as there are proper measures in place at the dispensaries, people fear for the safety of their children.Anju Aledia, the mother of a three-month-old girl, said that she has not visited any dispensary or private clinic yet to get her daughter immunised. “I feel it’s a risk to take children to clinics amid this outbreak. There should be separate facilities designated for children at this time,” she said.However, the Delhi government has refuted these statements.A senior official of Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity, said the department has asked dispensaries to vaccinate children whenever they come in. “When the Asha and ANM workers go to the field, they are given a list of children who need vaccination. They motivate their parents to go to a nearby dispensary and get the vaccines. As of now, these services are affected only within the containment areas, as the healthcare worker cannot enter them. Initially, the dispensaries would designate two days a week for immunisation but now we have asked them to vaccinate children whenever they come, regardless of the day, so we can vaccinate as many of them as possible. Also, we have received no reports of an increase in home deliveries. In case it happens, the vaccines are available at the dispensaries; the parents can come and get them,” the official said.Dr Rahul Nagpal, head of paediatrics, Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj, said that mass vaccination has been majorly impacted because of the focus on Covid-19. “Primary vaccination schedule (before 9 months of age) must not be delayed at all, as it is crucial for a child’s health. Delayed primary vaccination exposes children to the risk of preventable diseases. We have already had a few cases of measles recently due to the delay in primary doses. For those depending on public health services for vaccination, it must be ensured that children are not left out, as the effects might appear in the next few months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kids-in-delhi-go-without-vaccine-as-covid-crisis-unfolds/story-z6zjmwLwvmD4kp2ftXqvcL.html
15-06-2020||City||No room for the poor in Mohali MC’s scheme of things||It has been five years since the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY)-housing for all (urban) scheme was launched in the city, but the Mohali municipal corporation is yet to send a draft to the Punjab government for the notification of three slums, thus exposing the civic body’s indifference to the plight of the weaker sections of the society.Mohali has three undeveloped slums—Udham Singh Colony, Phase 7, Industrial Area with 210 houses; Guru Nanak Colony near Mohali cremation ground with 149 houses; and Balmiki Colony in Phase 6 with 216 houses.The four components of the PMAY scheme include a credit-linked subsidy, in-situ development of slums, beneficiary-led construction, wherein EWS are paid ₹84 lakh for construction, and an opportunity to build individual houses under affordable housing scheme. Two of these components, however, have not been implemented yet.Mohali MC was assigned in-situ development of slums and beneficiary-led construction while Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) was assigned construction of affordable housing schemes.The civic body has so far disbursed only ₹84 lakh to just 76 of the total 234 beneficiaries. Surprisingly, even GMADA has taken no initiative to build houses under the scheme. On February 28 this year, finance minister of Punjab Manpreet Singh Badal, in his budget speech, stated that the government intended to build 10,500 houses during the year 2020-21, and 13,500 houses had already been constructed across the state for EWS.Narinder Singh Dalam, MC executive engineer and i-ncharge of the scheme, said, “We can only develop slums once they are notified and delay in sending the draft was due to lockdown, but we are in process of sending it soon. Regarding the money to EWS, we have identified 235 beneficiaries in a survey in various Mohali villages and ₹84 lakh have been disbursed among 76 beneficiaries.”A senior officer of GMADA said, “We are dealing with only one vertical—affordable housing scheme (AHS). Usually private builders submit proposals that are approved by the committee, but here, no private builder has ever applied.”In January this year, state rural development and panchayat minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa stated that the Punjab government will construct 10,000 new houses under PMAY in rural areas towards which work was already in full swing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-room-for-the-poor-in-mohali-mc-s-scheme-of-things/story-DFmzs6LvxFmdF609K9h0LJ.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Youth injured as shots fired in Chandigarh’s Sector 56||A 21-year-old youth was injured after being shot at multiple times at Palsora village in Sector 56 late on Sunday night. Victim Vinod Kumar, who lives in the same area, was rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, after the incident around 11pm. Police said he had a miraculous escape as a bullet just grazed his head. At the time of filing of this report, police couldn’t confirm how many men were involved in the crime or that how many shots were fired. A case has been registered under the Arms Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 39 police station. The incident comes close on the heels of two shooting incidents in the city.Five men had opened fire outside the Sector 33 bungalow of a businessman Rakesh Singla on May 31, in what turned out to be part of an extortion racket being run by gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. Later, on June 2, two men opened fire outside a liquor shop in the posh Sector 9 locality, leaving two men injured. Several arrests have been made in both cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-injured-as-shots-fired-in-chandigarh-s-sector-56/story-phtVYjHgFEo9jqlAcTOBNM.html
15-06-2020||Noida||Now, exit from Noida will also be monitored||Days after the national Capital unsealed its border, the Noida police from Saturday began monitoring those vehicles exiting the city to Delhi. Gautam Budh Nagar had sealed its border with Delhi in April to avoid the spread of coronavirus cases across state boundaries. According to data released by the district’s health department, 42% cases (June 1) in the district have been traced to sources in Delhi. The district, therefore, continued to disallow any entry for anyone except essential services and those with valid movement passes.However, the past few weeks saw major traffic congestion especially at the entry side into Noida. Delhi had sealed its borders earlier this month, but removed it soon after as the lieutenant-governor intervened. As the Noida Police continued its checks at the entry into the district, long traffic snarls had become common. One reason was that there was no strict monitoring at the entry to the Delhi side. This allowed people, even non-essentials, to cross the border and so, when the returned, there was a long queue at the entry into Noida where police had installed checkposts to check for permission.“There were many people who would leave the city but without requisite permissions. And when they were stopped by Noida Police at the district entry point, they would cause delays. To rectify this situation, our force is now conducting checks on both sides within our jurisdiction to ensure that people who don’t have the passes don’t leave the city,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police said that the weekend traffic volume was low and expect the new regulations to keep it that ways.Noida Police has now placed barricades on both sides to regulate the movement at all border points like Chilla, Kalindi Kunj or DND.Commuters have time and again complained about the lack of coordination on both sides and the move comes as a relief for daily commuters who have permissions.“Every day we face problems and long jams specially during peak hours. People who have no business being out travel and argue with police with their argument being that in the morning they went with no problems so why should face issues when coming back to Noida. This way there will be no unnecessary movement and may the traffic will be smoother,” said a daily commuter.While some people, who have jobs or businesses in the other state, have wanted the border to be opened, Noida citizens support the administration’s decision to keep it sealed keeping in mind the Covid-19 spread here. The Supreme Court has also asked the UP government for answers on why Gautam Budh Nagar is keeping the border sealed. The apex court had earlier asked Delhi, UP and Haryana to form a common policy to tackle the border situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/now-exit-from-noida-will-also-be-monitored/story-xAFWjpgXhuFM6JsjztrolO.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt reverses decision to turn nursing homes into Covid-19 facilities||Within 24 hours of issuing an order that mandated all nursing homes in the city to start treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, the Delhi government on Sunday scrapped it after it met with stiff resistance from the medical fraternity.“The competent authority has directed that order… by medical superintendent nursing homes to keepers of all nursing homes… having bed strength between 10 beds to 49 beds declaring them as Covid nursing homes has been withdrawn with immediate effect…” says Delhi government’s revised order issued on Sunday.Experts and nursing home owners have argued that the decision would not have helped in handling the Covid crisis and taken away an emergency lifeline for the people in the local neighbourhoods. Most small nursing home owners had found the decision flawed on many counts, and believed it would have worsened the situation rather than providing relief to the people. Many of these facilities, which work with bare minimum staff, are the lifeline for local neighbourhoods. By taking away that lifeline government was leaving people with no option for emergency non-Covid care in this pandemic, nursing home owners had argued.Lack of adequate infrastructure Smaller private hospitals or nursing homes that have less than 30 beds that are meant to handle basic health conditions and minor surgeries. Handling rush of patients suffering from a virulent pandemic was not possible in a small set-up, many said. Complying with the requirements for treatment of Covid-19 such as separate entry and exit, and triaging facility, and enforcing overall social distancing norms, is not possible with the limited infrastructure that they have.“Most of these hospitals are non-Covid hospitals located in residential areas. The move could have led to spread of disease in the particular colony where the facility was located, and would have been a big risk factor for community transmission in the long run,” says Dr Naresh Chawla, former president, Delhi Medical Association (DMA).Lack of adequate testing capacityNone of these small clinics have their own testing labs or investigative tools to quickly ascertain the rapidly changing vital parameters of Covid19 patients. All of these hospitals would have been outsourcing samples for testing, especially Covid-19 testing, that would have significantly increased the turnaround time for reports.“We are just economically viable as we aren’t big, money making corporate hospitals, we would have been left with no option but to shut shop,” said a private hospital owner who did not wish to be identified.Loss of options for non-Covid patientsWith most big hospitals having been turned into Covid hospitals, the smaller ones are where many patients were turning to for routine medical and emergency care. The presence of Covid-19 patients, most felt, would act as a deterrent for non-Covid patients suffering from heart, kidney, or other ailments, and requiring procedures such as gallstone or appendix removal, to approach these nursing homes.There are about 700 nursing homes in the city, most of which have around 20 beds, according to estimates by the Delhi Medical Association.“Where would have the non-Covid patients gone since many big hospitals were already treating Covid patients. There should be an option for other patients also. This was not the right move by the Delhi government, and I was sure they would reverse it,” Dr Chawla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-reverses-decision-to-turn-nursing-homes-into-covid-facilities/story-coWxjM3Ebl8FODQweie6xK.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Workers’ unions ask govt to speed up registrations||Construction workers’ unions in the city have implored the Delhi government to speed up the process of registering workers, so that they may be eligible for financial benefits they were assured during the Covid-19 lockdown.The Delhi government has received 29,759 applications a month after it started registering construction workers in the Capital, but only 537 — less than 2% — of them have been issued registration certificates till June 10, a senior Delhi government official said. Officials have said the slow pace of registrations is because few workers have been able to appear for the physical verification process.The Delhi government had in April said it will disburse Rs 5,000 to all registered construction workers in the city. The government has disbursed two instalments of the relief amount so far.Construction workers in the unorganised sector can register themselves with the state government, to be renewed on a yearly basis. The process is online, and helps registered works avail government benefits of welfare schemes such as those regarding loans and pensions.The Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (DBOCWWB), under the Delhi government, had started the registration process on May 15. As per a notice issued by the board on June 10, it had received 28,828 applications till June 9, of which 25, 040 were for fresh registrations and 3,788 for renewal. The Delhi government kicked off the registration process after a plea in the Delhi high court by social worker Sunil Kumar Aledia, filed through advocate Shiven Verma, sought directions to the government to provide relief to workers and labourers, including those who had registered in the last two years, who would have otherwise been ineligible.Of the applications for fresh registrations, the board granted certificates to 442 construction workers till June 9, and of the 3,788 renewal applications, just 74 certificates were issued.Aledia said, “The numbers are very low, and the government should expedite the registration process.”A senior Delhi government official, who asked to stay anonymous, said, “While we started receiving applications online from May 15, not many construction workers could come in for physical verifications, due to the lockdown. We started the physical verification from June 1. Till June 10, we had received 29,759 applications, of which 537 workers have been issued the certificate. We are calling 100 people to the various centres each day for the verification process, but few are able to come. We are trying to speed up the process.” In the June 10 notice, the board stated, “Few applicants i.e construction workers are coming for physical verification which may be due to reverse migration to native places or else.”Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of the Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, said, “More construction workers should have benefited from the government’s scheme. But the process to issue registration certificates is moving at a snail’s pace. The board is calling very few people for verification, and at this pace, it will take a lot of time to register all workers. Only those who were registered with the board earlier are entitled to the financial assistance of Rs 5,000. But of the 3,788 applications, the board has been able to issue renewed certificates to just 74 construction workers.”Gaur, who is also a member of the advisory committee of the welfare board, added, “The government should deploy more people so that the process can be completed at the earliest. We have written to the government in this regard.”While 5,39,421 construction workers are registered with the board, as of on September 30, 2018, the Delhi government had given the Rs 5,000 assistance to 39,600 workers till May 12.In May, the Delhi High Court had directed the state government to send out proper communication, in the form of SMSs, to over five lakh construction workers, majority of who are yet to avail the financial aid of Rs 5,000 is given to them by authorities in view of the ongoing lockdown. The court also said that those workers whose registration has lapsed will also be entitled to the ex-gratia, but after they renew their membership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/workers-unions-ask-govt-to-speed-up-registrations/story-f2GPE8iyqQtAaKwFZFwXDM.html
15-06-2020||City||Delhi: Bara Hindu Rao Hospital designated as Covid facility||The hospital has been directed to start admitting Covid-19 patients from Tuesday, according to an order by Delhi’s health department.“In exercise of powers under the Delhi Epidemic Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 and the Epidemic Act, 1897, Bara Hindu Rao hospital running under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is hereby declared as a Covid-19 hospital. The Medical Superintendent is directed to make all hospital beds available to admit Covid-19 patients as per the laid down protocol by 16.06.2020,” the order reads.The hospital has about 980 beds – including 17 ventilators, eight intensive care unit beds and four high dependency unit beds (a step-down from the ICU). Another 250 beds have oxygen support on them, according to the North MCD.Currently, there are 209 patients admitted to the hospital who will be moved to the Kasturba, Rajan Babu and Giridharilal hospitals.“Modifications will be made in terms of manpower deployment, infrastructure and facilities related to patient care and healthcare workers,” said North MCD spokesperson Ira Singhal.The three corporations together run eight hospitals which have a total of more than 2,800 beds. Of these, the government has so far declared only one hospital – Tilak Nagar Super Specialty Hospital – for the treatment of those with Covid-19.On Thursday, the political representatives of all three civic bodies had held a joint press conference during which they stated that they were ready to “hand over” their hospitals to the government to be declared dedicated facilities to treat patients who contract the Sars-Cov-2.“We are ready to give our facilities, like Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals, to the government so that they can be developed as dedicated Covid-19 units and better treatment is provided,” Jai Prakash, standing committee chairperson of the north corporation, had said.The government is currently planning to add 15,800 beds in 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the city. The government expects that 1.5 lakh beds would be needed for the treatment of patients with severe form of the infectious disease by July-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-bara-hindu-rao-hospital-designated-as-covid-facility/story-eZCRKAjctw7tTF26OrCvrO.html
15-06-2020||Delhi||Govt to regulate sales, storage of hand sanitisers||The sale and storage of hand sanitisers — one of the most effective weapons against Delhi’s war against Covid-19 — may soon be monitored by the government.A senior Delhi government official said that the administration may soon bring a rule making it mandatory for those selling and storing sanitisers to apply for a licence.Currently, the production of hand sanitisers requires a license. However, no licence is required for storing and selling them.“The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, which regulates the import, manufacture and distribution of drugs in India is soon likely to include a provision concerning the requirement of a licence to store and sell hand sanitisers. Some guidelines are being drafted,” an official in the Delhi government said. A senior officer from the government’s health department said, because of the current situation and high demand for hand sanitisers, the product has been listed under essential commodities, which also helps them crackdown on black marketing. “But better regulations demand licencing for storage and sales,” the official added.Hand sanitisers are covered under Schedule K of Drugs and Cosmetics Act. They usually contain ethyl alcohol (a clear, colourless liquid and the principle ingredient in alcoholic beverages like beer, wine or brandy) and methyl alcohol (a light, volatile, colourless, flammable liquid with a distinctive alcoholic odour similar to that of ethanol [drinking alcohol]). The license fee on production of hand sanitisers contributes to the revenue of the Delhi excise department under the category of medicinal and toiletry preparations containing alcohol. In 2018-19, the state government earned around Rs 20.70 crore under the revenues head, for 2019-20, the revised revenue estimate was pegged at Rs 18.95 crore and, in 2020-21, the projected earning under the head is Rs 19.80 crore, budget documents showed. Government officials said, roughly one-fourth of the revenue under the concerned head comes from the production fee levied on hand sanitisers.“While they are used round the year in hospitals and clinics, their domestic usage has increased recently. Production has increased. Additional license fee on storage and sales is expected to add to the government’s revenue and, hence, a revision in the estimates for 2020-21,” said a second senior official.The Delhi government has already asked local producers to keep their production capacity up till at least June 30, and the deadline can be further extended depending on the trajectory of cases in the city. “There are high chances that the period post-covid-management would witness a large amount of unsold stock, and that comes with its own risks. Hence, regulations will be necessary,” the second official said.Experts believe that high amount of alcohol in a sanitiser may cause accidents if handled carelessly. Professor Ramesh Chandra, head of the chemistry department, University of Delhi, said because the presence of alcohol in sanitisers make them flammable, if stored in large quantity it must be in a regulated manner and with all due precautions.Chandra said there are two kinds of alcohol in a sanitiser - ethyl alcohol and methyl alcohol. “A sanitiser must ideally only have ethyl alcohol. Methyl alcohol is harmful if consumed or handled improperly. We also need to strictly regulate the composition of sanitisers when manufactured and I’m sure authorities concerned are doing their best,” he said.Chandra further said that people must also take precautions while getting their vehicles sanitized. “I have heard that recently a man was getting his motorcycle sanitized, with its ignition on, and it caught fire. The vehicle was gutted. However, a bottle of sanitiser left in a car will not catch fire as the temperature inside the car will not go up so high. It will need a direct spark to catch fire,” he explained.RISK AND QUALITYAshish Grover, secretary, Delhi Drug Trader’s Association, said all roadside vendors, food stall owners and tea sellers have switched to selling sanitisers. “In Bhagirath Palace, they are selling it at much cheaper prices, which reflects on its quality. But if it causes some health complications in the future, the traders will be blamed. The government must sell these sanitisers only through authorized stores like Kendriya Bhandar or through license holding drug dealers,” Grover said.He also said many of the roadside vendors who have resorted to selling sanitisers because they ran out of business during the pandemic. They are also hoarding sanitisers but are unaware of regulations. “Because vegetable vendors and local shopkeepers are not aware of such precautions, it may cause life-threatening accidents,” he said.Atul Garg, director Delhi Fire Service, said improper storage of large quantities of hand sanitisers may be dangerous and can lead to fatal fire disasters, especially in residential areas. “These days, because of the increased demand all shopkeepers are hoarding large quantities of hand sanitisers. These sanitisers have 70-75% alcohol and have a low flash point (highly flammable). Unaware of its disastrous properties, if someone stores alcohol-based highly flammable sanitisers close to an electric switch, or an air conditioner, or an inverter, a short circuit, which is one of the most common causes behind fires, may fuel the fire,” he said.Garg said that sale and storage of hand sanitisers must be regulated. “Because most of these shops are in residential or market areas, in case of a fire, it may lead to loss of public life and property. There should be strict regulations on its storage and sales. Only authorised vendors should be allowed to store sanitisers beyond a quantity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-to-regulate-sales-storage-of-hand-sanitisers/story-wSqv16fXg8xbm8fLIbjiFN.html
15-06-2020||City||Will work to make people self-reliant, says Khattar during BJP’s virtual rally||To celebrate the completion of one year of Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s second term at the Centre, the saffron party streamed a virtual rally from Aggarwal Bhawan in Panchkula on Sunday.During the rally, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP chief Subhash Barala, minister of agriculture and farmers welfare and minister of rural development Narender Tomar and national general secretary of the BJP, Anil Jain, addressed the residents. During his address, Manohar Lal Khattar said that with the assistance of the central government, the state government will work towards making people self-reliant. While the industry will be given a push, important decision will also be taken on e-governance so that more employment can be generated for youth.He said that the these are challenging times and the state government will try its best to strengthen every sector.Union minister Narender Tomar and others listed out the work done by the Modi government for the general public in the last one year.Later, the CM said that virtual rallies should be adopted more as during the pandemic, this is a best way to maintain precautionary measures like social distancing. The links for various social networking sites were released in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-work-to-make-people-self-reliant-says-khattar-during-bjp-s-virtual-rally/story-71N4gzaRXYYBNNgZeQek8H.html
15-06-2020||Noida||Noida markets suffer losses due to low customer turnout, odd-even rule||From customers not being aware about which shops are open, to staff not being able to report for work due to sealing of the border with Delhi, many issues plague Noida’s sector markets. They are also reeling under heavy losses -- the one at sector 18 reporting ₹20 crore per day -- and expect to take at least a year for them to recover. The lockdown from March 25 saw some easing from May 21 but customers were hard to come by as fear of contracting the contagious disease kept most away from places that could be potentially crowded.“We are not getting any business and almost every day, our traders are facing losses. Although it is difficult to assess the exact amount but we estimate that approximately ₹20 crore of losses are being faced by traders. We are not expecting the situation to improve anytime soon, not before the end of June at least. It may take at least a year for businesses to go back to the pre-Covid-19 scenario,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector-18 market association and the head of Confederation of All India Traders Association, Delhi-NCR.Traders have been asked to follow an odd-even rule -- based on their shop numbers --for opening on certain days and to sanitise their shops regularly. However, there were other bottlenecks. “As such, the customer often don’t know which shop is open and which is not. Timings are also a major challenge. Markets have to started closing their shops by 7:30pm or 8pm. Because the days are hot and humid, people generally don’t prefer to come out during morning or afternoon hours. Therefore peak hours of conducting business are lost. A number of shop owners, staff and customers come to this region from Delhi. Border restrictions are also proving to be a deterrent,” Jain said.At the Atta market, which used to be the most crowded market in Noida, there are less than 20% customers.“Traders can’t even manage to pay for the daily operational costs. Maybe when the odd-even rule is revoked, like they have done for shopping malls, we may hope for some improvement,” said Dr CB Jha, head of the Atta Market, Noida.“For example, there are three stationery shops in our market which are on the same roster, so they close and open on the same day. This is leading to undue competition. Sector 41 market has not been sanitised even once. There are no bathrooms, so no place wash hands either. If these issues are resolved, consumer confidence might improve,” said Rohit Gujral, president, Sector 41 market.According to the health officials of Noida Authority their priority is to sanitise areas with positive Covid-19 cases, but were also sanitising markets.“We have been sanitising several areas of the city using the fire department trucks. However most are containment zones or areas where cases had been reported. We also sanitise a few markets. If there are complaints, we will definitely look into it,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty (OSD), health, Noida authority.“We are sanitising markets every Sunday with handheld machines and portable mist machines. The containment zones are however being sanitised everyday. Based on the requirements, we can increase the frequency at markets as well,” said Avinash Tripathi, OSD Health, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-markets-suffer-losses-due-to-low-customer-turnout-odd-even-rule/story-ksqPJsC9GRdNYnCt2SFp6O.html
15-06-2020||Noida||UPPCL launches online connection facility for industrial consumers||To streamline the process for new power connections, the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) has launched the an online portal for new industrial entrepreneurs in Gautam Budh Nagar district. Officials said that the new connection will be provided within two weeks after the application is filled online.The chief engineer of the Noida division of power utility Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), Virendra Nath Singh said that earlier this scheme, called “jhatpat”, was only for domestic and commercial consumers. “But now, the jhatpat online connection’s link is available on the portal of UPPCL, www.uppcl.org, for entrepreneurs too. It will not only save their time, but will also make the whole system paperless,” he said.Giving details of the application process, Singh said that after registration on the portal, the applicant will get a user ID and password on their registered mobile number and e-mail address. “After keying in the user ID and password, the applicants will get the forms for the connection. They will have to upload their photographs, identification and address proofs, along with the details of their firms, in it. Once their application will be approved, the UPPCL will provide them their connection within two weeks,” he said.The chief engineer also said that the processing fee for industrial entrepreneurs will be ₹100 per connection. “After filling all eight pages of the application forms, the engineers concerned of the area will contact the consumers and in maximum two weeks to give the connection. The meters will be installed later,” he said.Singh further said that applicants can apply for a connection up to 25 kilowatts under this scheme. “The initial response to this new scheme has been overwhelming as around 25 industrial consumers are getting new connection under jhatpat scheme daily,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/uppcl-launches-online-connection-facility-for-industrial-consumers/story-4KA30JK7OqCKnbr2etSbNL.html
15-06-2020||Noida||Noida police seize four buses going to Bihar, UP districts||Four private buses ferrying over 250 persons to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were seized by Noida Police from Noida-Greater Noida Expressway on Saturday for violating transport regulations.According to police officers, the buses had come from Delhi and were carrying passengers more than their capacities. “The buses had stopped near Mahamaya flyover to pick up more passengers. One bus was bound to Bihar, and the rest were going to various districts in Uttar Pradesh. It was illegal of these buses to get more travellers as they only had single-destination permits and they cannot pick up passengers from places they cross on the way,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ACP), zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh. The buses were also ferrying goods without permission violating regulations, he added.Police officers said after travel restrictions were revoked recently, commercial vehicles are required to get permits from respective administrations when passing through different states.“These buses had single-destination permits and should have not got passengers to gather at the expressway. It was not only illegal but also an accident hazard. Some private transporters share information online and on social media platforms to get more passengers on their way. We have been monitoring such activities before the lockdown as well,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.The police seized all four buses and said action under the National Disaster management act will be initiated against the permit holders.The police said the passengers headed to Bihar were asked to go back to Delhi and make alternate arrangements. For those going to different places in UP, Noida police said it coordinated with Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) to make arrangements for taking the passengers home and they were provided buses on Sunday. The police said that no action was taken against the travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-seize-four-buses-going-to-bihar-up-districts/story-HXxfuv1T75jXdyVoBl3eSN.html
15-06-2020||Noida||With 70 new cases, total Covid-19 count in Gautam Budh Nagar reaches 935||As many as 70 persons, including 18 health care workers and four police personnel, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday. The district now has a total of 935 Covid-19 cases.The district health department said with four more policemen testing positive on Sunday, a total of 23 persons in Gautam Budh Nagar Police have contracted the infection so far. “ Four police personnel from Sector 49 police station have tested Covid-19 positive. Out of the total infected persons in the force, 17 have been cured and discharged from different hospitals,” a police spokesperson said.Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said out of the 70 persons who tested positive on Sunday, 15 persons were tested at private laboratories, while the remaining 55 were tested at government laboratories. “ Out of 70 positive case reported on Tuesday, 18 persons are health care workers, four persons are from the police department, and 35 patients have ILI (influenza-like illnesses),” he said. He further said at least 510 patients, including 16 on Sunday, have been discharged from different Covid-19 hospitals so far. “Apart from the 70 positive cases, 73 other patients have been cross-notified to other districts and states. Twelve Covid-19 positive patients have succumbed to the virus so far. The district now has 413 active cases,” he said.The CMO, however, said if the cross notified patients are included in the district tally, the overall count of Covid-19 positive cases in the district will be 1008.Giving details of 73 cross notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said while 22 of them are from Delhi, one patient each is from Haryana, West Bengal, and Andhra Pradesh. “While 10 patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 38 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including 11 from Ghaziabad, eight from Bulandshahr, two each from Hapur and Aligarh and one from Agra,” he said.Dr Ohri further said that nearly 14,000 samples have been collected in the district for testing so far. “A total of 469 patients were screened on Saturday and 16 persons with symptoms of fever have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Meanwhile, the state government on Sunday finalised the list of 21 private hospitals where non-Covid emergency cases can get treated. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said these hospitals will cater to emergency non-Covid patients so that they can getter better healthcare services. “At present, hospitals with Covid facilities are finding it difficult to cater to non-Covid critical patients,” he said.According to the list, Kailash hospital (Noida, Greater Noida and Jewar branches), Yatharth hospital (Noida, Greater Noida and Noida extension), Sharda medical college, Fortis hospital (Noida), Max hospital (Greater Noida), Sumitra hospital, Prakash hospital, Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital, and Apollo hospital among others have been given the permission for treating non-corona patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-70-new-cases-total-covid-19-count-in-gautam-budh-nagar-reaches-935/story-ceVHbtSsjjgNL30tzlQOyJ.html
15-06-2020||City||Plasma therapy to Ayurvedic medicines, Ghaziabad plans measures to combat rising Covid deaths||Ghaziabad: Amid the spike in deaths due to Covid-19, the Ghaziabad health department is planning a slew of measures, including the use of plasma therapy, in order to bring down the fatality rate in the district. Health officials have also decided to use Ayurvedic medicines, along with conventional treatment, for Covid patients in hospitals and quarantine centres.Ghaziabad has a death rate of 3.31%, which is higher than the state average of 2.93% till June 13. In the district, only four deaths due to Covid-19 were reported till May 31, while 16 fatalities have taken place in June so far. “I have directed officials to apply for getting permission for plasma therapy, as results in nearby Noida have been encouraging. We need authorisation from ICMR for the purpose. We have blood separation unit at MMG Hospital and the facility can be initiated at our L3 hospital. There are a number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered and are ready to donate plasma,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida has approval to administer plasma therapy. “We have good recovery rate. About 7-8 patients were given plasma therapy, and most of them (about 6) have recovered and got discharged. Those under treatment are responding well. So the results are encouraging,” said Brigadier (retired) RK Gupta, director of GIMS.Plasma therapy involves treating the patient with the plasma of a compatible patient who recovered from Covid-19. The antibodies present in the plasma are expected to help the patient fight off the infection.The Ghaziabad CMO further said that he has asked officials for use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). “To supplement treatment, we have also decided to use HCQ for patients in a quarantine facility. But this will not be given to patients over 50 years and also those suffering from different ailments, including cardiac issues. We have also decided to make add-on of four types of Ayurvedic medicines which will be given to patients in our L1 hospitals. These will supplement treatment,” Gupta added.In the new set of protocols, the Union health ministry on Saturday removed its earlier recommendation of using HCQ in combination with antibiotic drug azithromycin in severe cases. The ministry, in its revised ‘Clinical Management Protocols for COVID-19’, said that the anti-malarial drug HCQ should only be used in the early stages of the disease and should be avoided in critical cases.On May 31, Ghaziabad had a total of 305 Covid-19 cases, but the number has risen sharply to 604 till June 13 with 20 deaths.The district officials on Sunday also held a marathon meeting and decided to implement TTT scheme, which includes components of tracing, testing and treatment.“Under the scheme, the health care workers have been asked to get in touch with about 250 families in vicinity of house of a Covid-19 patient and check for instances of SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) and also if anyone has oxygen level below 95%. Such cases will be immediately reported and taken to a health care facility. Further, an officer has also been assigned work to ensure that ventilators in L2 hospital at Sanjay Nagar are put to use,” said GK Mishra, district malaria officer.The Sanjay Nagar hospital is a 100-bed L2 Covid hospital and has been in limelight after eight ventilators were non-functional and never used for patients. After intervention of the district officials, the ventilators were made operational.“An officer has also been assigned task to ensure that any person having symptoms of SARI should be tested and shifted to a hospital from the primary health centre or the community health centre,” Mishra added.According to the health officials, of the 20 Covid-related deaths till June 13, nine have taken place in Ghaziabad, nine others in Meerut, and one each in Delhi and Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plasma-therapy-to-ayurvedic-medicines-ghaziabad-plans-measures-to-combat-rising-covid-deaths/story-2Nel0n4yIEAe3pxWZG1loM.html
15-06-2020||City||Highrise towers to be sealed for 14 days instead of 21 days: UP government||GhaziabadThe Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday issued an order saying that highrises in the state that witness Covid-19 cases, will from now be sealed for only 14 days, as opposed to 21 days, as part of the containment exercise.The directions were issued after several residents asked district officials to define how they decided the numbers of days for which a tower/highrise needed to be sealed.“The issue of buildings/towers being sealed for 21 days had been raised by a number of residents. We had a look at it and decided to tweak the rules. From now on, the sealing activity will only be for 14 days. Also earlier, if there was one case, a containment zone of 250 metres was created. If there was more than one case, a containment area of 500 metres and additional 250 metres buffer area was created. Those rules will now change,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).“We have now decided that even if there is more than one case in one house in urban areas, the containment zone will be only 250 metres or will cover just that one mohalla, whichever is less. A government order has been issued about the new guidelines,” he added.The move is likely to bring relief to residents in two major NCR cities of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, which house hundreds of highrises and have witnessed a high incidence of Covid-19 cases.In its directions on May 31, the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari had issued guidelines, which also dealt with the sealing of highrises and stated that the norms were based on directions issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Sunday’s directions are modification of the May 31 directions.The May 31 guidelines stated that 250 metres or an entire Mohalla, whichever is less, will be marked as containment zone in case there is single Covid-19 case. In case of more than one case, a 500 metre area and additional 250 metre buffer zone will be marked as a containment zone.Regarding the residential highrises, the May 31 directions stated that in case of one or more cases on the same floor, only the particular tower will be sealed. In case there were more than one case in different towers, the respective towers as well as common areas — like gyms, swimming pools, parks — will be included in the containment zone.“During the initial stages when the first Covid-19 cases surfaced in one of the towers in Kaushambi, it was sealed for 21 days. Later, upon subsequent cases, officials sealed the towers for 14 days. Now, with new directions, the residents have clarity about the number of days,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments’ RWA.Other residents said that there is no clarity about the number of days for which a highrise needed to be sealed, which keep changing..“The latest directions were probably issued as there were cases listed in the court. Any such revision of guidelines should be in conformity of Central guidelines. We have also asked the district magistrate and requested him to comply with Central guidelines as per Supreme Court’s direction,” said Mohammad Fuzail Khan, resident of Vaishali.Khan had recently moved apex court to de-seal Gateway Tower highrise and also contended for scrapping of ‘sector scheme’, which is imposed by the administration in the areas of Vaishali, Khoda and Loni.In connection with his petition, the court on June 12 had directed Ghaziabad district magistrate to ensure that all Central guidelines are followed.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to repeated calls for a comment.In his petition, Khan had raised the issue of complete sealing of Gateway Tower, when only one tower was to be sealed as there was only a single Covid-positive case in the highrise.In a similar case earlier, the health department officials had completely sealed Jaipuria Sunrise Greens highrise in Indirapuram, while there was only one case. Later, the chief medical officer directed that only one tower is to be sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/highrise-towers-to-be-sealed-for-14-days-instead-of-21-days-up-government/story-at3sLpA4EYHcAfCg2OdBHL.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||55% students take first online test conducted by Chandigarh education dept||Around 55% students attempted the first online test conducted by the Chandigarh education department on Saturday. The test was taken by students of Classes 9 and 10 from more than 100 government schools in the city. A Google form link was sent to students where mathematics questions were asked in multiple-choice format. Sources in the department said the test was conducted so they can prepare a database on how many students attempted the test and how they fared.The initial report on the accessibility of the test submitted by the education department to higher authorities states, “The online test on mathematics chapter 1 (number systems) for students of Class 9 was attempted by 6,500 students, approximately 55% of all government school students in the city. The test for students of Class 10 was attempted by 6,100 students, approximately 50% of the total strength.”The report also states, “The online link for the test was sent to students. After submission, students were able to check their score, which was saved automatically on the back end. The test contained 25 multiple choice questions and each carried one mark. The tests were conducted between 9am to 10am for Class 10 and 11am to 12pm for Class 9.”Alka Mehta, district education officer, Chandigarh said, “We have made groups of teachers, subject-wise and class-wise. All of them decided that there should be an online assessment to know how many students can access online education and understand it.”“It was a simple test. Only mathematics questions were asked in multiple-choice question format. The test was designed using google forms by our teachers,” Mehta said.“Of course, 100% students could not attempt the test because many have connectivity issues, while many don’t know how to operate smartphones,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/55-students-take-first-online-test-conducted-by-chandigarh-education-dept/story-BzsJpCQCH1fuWLsuEoSjxH.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains to start for Covid-19 frontline staff from today||The Central and Western Railway along with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday confirmed that local train services would be started on Monday for essential workers as identified by state government. After a meeting between BMC, Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR), a proposal to operate local train services was sent to the railway ministry for approval. According to railway officials, approval was received from the railway ministry on Sunday evening. Discussions between the railway ministry and Maharashtra government regarding the operation of trains went on till late on Sunday. CR is likely to operate nearly 200 train services and WR will operate 73 pairs of trains To maintain social distancing, the railways is planning to allow 700 passengers per local train. One 12-compartment local has a capacity of carrying 1,200 passengers, but routinely during peak hours prior to the lockdown, as many as 5,000 commuters would travel per train. A few booking counters will be operated on Central and Western railway stations. The service will be only for essential workers and medical staff, who will be given an e-pass along with details including picture, name, designation, office railway station, residence railway station, and mobile number. The e-pass is likely to have a QR code that will be scanned at the entry point. “Approximately 1.25 lakh essential staff identified by the state government are expected to travel by these trains. It is observed that due to the lockdown, season ticket holders lost a number of days despite holding a valid season ticket. It has been decided to extend the validity of the season tickets to the extent of days lost. The same shall be permitted at the UTS counters at the stations to those permitted by the state government,” read the statement issued by CR and WR.Essential employees will have to undergo a two-level check of railway tickets at stations. The first check will be conducted by railway personnel before entering the station and the second will be done through QR code scanning. The railway stations will have only one entry and exit point that will be manned by Railway Protection Force (RPF), Government Railway Police (GRP), and railway ticketing staff. Barricading of railway stations and restricting public movement inside will be ensured by city police. “Standard operating procedures (SOP) are being readied,” said BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/from-today-local-trains-to-start-for-emergency-workers-frontline-staff/story-zm15AdfpIe3gWeoMZm9POL.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC spent ₹480 cr tackling Covid-19||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has spent a total of ₹480 crore on tackling Covid-19, since the first case was reported in the city on March 11 till June 1. Major expenditure was towards procuring medical equipment, augmenting health infrastructure and food distribution. Till April 2020, the civic body had spent around ₹100 crore.Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “We have spent nearly ₹480 crore as of now. In the past few days, the expenditure has shot up. This is also because we are not getting donations like earlier now. A majority of the expenditure is towards procuring medical equipment and upgrading health infrastructure.”The exact bifurcation of the expenditure has not yet been released. According to BMC officials, in terms of medical equipment, the expenditure has been towards purchase of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks, three-ply masks, gloves, face shields, hydroxychloroquine, thermometers, body-bags, protective eye-wear, sanitisers, etc. In the past one month, BMC has spent on various initiatives, from enhancing healthcare in the form of jumbo bed facilities, setting up new Covid-19 Care Centres to expenditure towards hotel bills for accommodation of frontline staff, along with recruitment of new staff on contract basis. The civic body claims its expenditure on community kitchens for migrant labourers has gone down as many have gone back to their hometowns.BMC has been utilising money from its contingency fund. In the 2020-21 budget, BMC had allocated ₹850 crore towards its contingency fund – a reserve of money set aside to cover possible unforeseen future expenses. However, if the expenditure keeps increasing in the coming days, BMC claims it will have to work on managing the finances by reworking the budget for 2020-2021. “We are currently spending from our contingency fund of ₹850 crore, and have not reworked the budget to make a special provision for coronavirus. However, in the coming one month, we may have to work it out. There is no estimation currently on the expenditure in the coming days.”According to BMC officials, a majority of their donations are in the form of corporate social responsibility (CSR) or organisations. Although the civic body is yet to calculate the exact quantum of donations in cash, as per its estimates, its expenditure can surge up to ₹130 crore a month in the coming months, if the donations start drying up.BMC, which is India’s richest civic body, had presented a budget of ₹33,441.02 crore in 2020-2021. The civic body had, in the budget, allocated a special fund of ₹2 crore to upgrade the medical facilities at Kasturba Hospital, which was the only hospital treating Covid-19 patients then. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in BMC, said, “The administration may have spent around ₹480 crore, but we are not given any details about the expenditure. They have not even informed or consulted the standing committee of the BMC or the general body before making or ordering purchases. The administration should give proper information about the expenditure to the elected representatives and citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tackling-covid-bmc-spent-480-cr/story-waUAImQfw67y1TdXBTQaZN.html
15-06-2020||Gurugram||Two booked for assaulting man in an incident of road rage||The police on Saturday booked two men, who were driving their car on the wrong side of the road, for allegedly assaulting a man following an argument over allowing passage of their vehicle in Wazirabad, near Sector 53. The suspects are yet to be identified, the police said.According to the police, the incident took place when the victim, a resident of Sushant Lok-2, was on his way from Hong Kong Bazar to Marble Market to purchase an earthen pot. As the victim’s car was approaching the Wazirabad crossing, another car coming from the opposite side jumped a traffic signal and blocked his path.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “In the complaint, the victim alleged that when he told them to follow traffic rules, the two men started hurling abuses at him and alighted from their car. They threw punches at the car and smashed the window panes. The victim then threatened to call the police, following which they fled.”In the FIR, the victim said that to protect himself, he had rolled up the windows of his car.A case has been registered against the two men under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 56 police station on Saturday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-booked-for-assaulting-man-in-an-incident-of-road-rage/story-SxT0LoprLwLKzLlZ7c0jqK.html
15-06-2020||Gurugram||Senior bureaucrat visits containment zones, takes stock of Covid-19 preparation||A team of senior state officials led by Vijai Vardhan, additional chief secretary (ACS), revenue and disaster management, on Sunday visited two containment zones in the city to take stock of the Covid-19 situation.The team visited the containment zones at Meghdoot Apartment in Sector 10A and Hari Nagar and interacted with the local residents to get their feedback about the steps taken by the district administration and the local officials. The visit comes in the wake of rising number of cases in the district. As of Sunday, the district has reported 3,294 cases, along with 31 deaths, prompting the district administration to increase the number of containment zones in the district from 66 to 98. Vardhan also interacted with ASHA (accredited social health activists) workers, who informed him about how they were conducting contact tracing and carrying out health survey of Covid-19 patients in the containment zones.During the visit, the ACS issued directions that posters in Hindi, providing information regarding Covid-19, should be pasted in the area so that people can easily understand the various facets related to the infection. He also gave directions to provide tents to the police officials stationed outside the zones in view of the summer heat and rising temperature.Prior to the visit, the ACS held a meeting with officials from the district administration, police and health departments and discussed the Covid-19 situation in the district. Later in the day, Vijai Vardhan also visited the Covid-19 call centre established at the Mini Secretariat and obtained information about the helplines operating for migrant workers and ambulances.During the meeting held at PWD guest house, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, informed that 98 containment zones have been created in the district out of which 86 were in areas falling under the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), 8 in Gurugram bloc, two in Pataudi and one each in Sohna and Farruknagar blocks. “Regular measures for sanitisation of containment zones, disinfection are being taken in these areas. The police have been deployed at the entry and exit of the containment zones and all residents have been asked to download the Aarogya Setu application,” said Khatri.At the control room, Khatri told the team that on an average 250 to 300 calls are being received on a daily on the helpline pertaining to Covid-19 infection, shelter homes for migrants, home isolation, quarantine and other related matters. A team of 40 operators maintain the call centre, answering questions and maintaining data, said Khatri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/senior-bureaucrat-visits-containment-zones-takes-stock-of-covid-19-preparation/story-IWmVSLSdZLylI19eSFsr1I.html
15-06-2020||Gurugram||Digital divide makes it difficult for students to study online||Lalit Kumar, 42, a painter, has been out of work for over two months. Besides the loss of livelihood, the disruption to his daughters’ studies has been a constant source of worry for Kumar, ever since Haryana government schools switched to online lessons via WhatsApp.“We don’t have a phone. The girls borrow one from their aunt and uncle who live in the vicinity, and try to catch up with the lessons,” Kumar, whose five daughters study in government schools in the city, said.A resident of Om Nagar, he said that his family cannot afford a smartphone. “I have had no work for the past two-three months. We have been trying to manage on our meagre resources. Buying a phone is the last thing on our minds,” Kumar, whose wife works as a sanitation worker in a city hospital, said.Kumar’s 12-year-old daughter Manisha who studies in Class 8 in Government Middle School in Shivaji Nagar, said, “I borrow a phone to check for messages from the teacher. There are delays, but we try to do the best we can.” Her sisters also borrow their aunt and uncle’s phone for their lessons. “Officials from the education department had advised us to use a television for the lessons. But we don’t own that either,” Kumar said.Since the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), schools across the country have suspended classes. The central government is scheduled to review the situation next month. Although many institutes have taken the online route and the government has also tailored television programmes for the purpose, several students like Manisha do not have regular access to such devices. From affordability to accessibility, students in government schools continue to struggle.Prinshu Awasthi, a Class 10 student of Government Senior Secondary School, Manesar, has been attending lessons since April on WhatsApp using his father’s phone. “I use it in the morning before he leaves for work. If the phone is not available, I try to catch up with lessons via the television broadcast. Earlier, we would not recharge our phone for days unless there was a pressing concern, but now the usage is more regular. We have to recharge the Internet facility more frequently,” Prinshu said.Prinshu is lucky. While he has both a smartphone and television at home, many of his friends do not.“Our teachers have asked them to borrow phones from others or use WhatsApp on their neighbours’ and friends’ phones until the situation improves. However, they say that borrowing all the time is neither feasible nor something that they are keen to do,” Prinshu said.Haryana government initiated the ‘Ghar se Padhao’ campaign on April 14 to ensure that teachers remain in regular contact with parents and students through WhatsApp during the lockdown. While teachers share academic videos and worksheets, they require students to maintain a dedicated notebook to record their work. According to a report prepared by the education department last month, around 70% of government school students from classes 2 to 12 in the district were connected via WhatsApp as part of the campaign.The remaining students have struggled to stay in tune with the rest of the class on WhatsApp due to accessibility and connectivity issues.Kanishka Bansal, a Class 11 student of Government Senior Secondary School, Kadipur, has been using WhatsApp on a phone that his family bought recently so he and his sister Richa could catch up with online classes. “We bought another phone for our mother so we could take lessons on WhatsApp and did not have to depend on others,” Richa said.“Sometimes, they share the links in the morning and sometimes at night. They ask us to make notes and submit pictures of the assignment. Most people have connected to the group, but some are not regular and use phones borrowed from others to share assignments and tests,” Kanishka said.District education officer Indu Boken had earlier told HT that the Internet was crucial for imparting lessons, adding that for those who didn’t have access to the Internet, lessons would be broadcast on cable TV. Some officials from the education department have also pooled in resources to provide smartphones to students who have trouble accessing online classes. “Some children have not been able to access lessons since they did not have smartphones. Not everyone can afford these phones. However, to help, we distributed some smartphones to meritorious students,” Ritu Chowdhary, district project coordinator, Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/digital-divide-makes-it-difficult-for-students-to-study-online/story-eNoxFPLbkv6SJcMYQlxqLL.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Balbharti’s prints 2.8 crore textbooks amid lockdown||When the Maharashtra government announced a complete lockdown across the state in March owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the publishing bureau Balbharti was in a tough spot. At the time, nearly 2.80 crore copies of textbooks were yet to be printed while the textbooks for Class 12 were still being revised. Three months later, even as several restrictions continue in the state, Balbharti has distributed nearly 7 crore copies of textbooks and study materials for Classes 1 to 12 to distributors and schools in the state. This remarkable feat was achieved by a team of nearly 500 people working with Balbharti for content creation – including printers, processors, members of the board of studies, artists, and the production team. “When the lockdown was announced, we were scared as to what would happen to the remaining printing process and were worried that book distribution would be delayed. Considering the situation in our state, it was evident that restrictions might not be eased soon. Within a few days, our team decided to do our best to bring out textbooks in time,” said Vivek Gosavi, director, Balbharti. Within a month of the lockdown, several groups of various teams working on the textbooks were created on social messaging applications and people started working from home. While re-printing textbooks for Classes 1 to 11 was a big task, a bigger challenge was to create and print Class 12 textbooks as per the revised syllabus which would come into effect from the academic year 2020-21. “Our members of the board of studies worked day and night to provide content and get it corrected and finalised. The designers and illustrators would send their sketches on WhatsApp and we would give them suggestions then and there. This way, we managed to finish our new textbooks for Class 12 by the first week of April,” said Gosavi. PDF textbooks of Class 12 were made available online from April 8 and have seen over 1 crore downloads to date. As restrictions were eased in some parts of the state in April, printing slowly started in areas that were marked as green and orange zones with special permissions. On May 18, Balbharti began delivering its textbooks to distributors and government-aided schools which provide textbooks free of cost to students. “Around 95% of the distribution work is complete. In the coming days, textbooks will reach students through their schools,” said Gosavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/balbharti-s-team-of-500-gets-2-8-crore-textbooks-printed/story-LrCTg2gaSrCZsToK2G6xeJ.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Entrepreneur Samir Bangara dies in accident on Mum-Ahd highway||The former official of UTV Disney and founder of Qyuki Digital Media, Samir Bangara, 42, died in a fatal accident on Sunday morning, in a bike accident in Haloli, Manor, on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad National Highway.According to Manor police, Bangara was trying to overtake a truck. “Bangara died on the spot. The bike was crushed,” said API Pratap Darade of Manor police station.“Bangara was proceeding to Charoti in Dahanu for a bike trip as it was a Sunday,” said Darade.“We have registered a case against deceased Bangara under Section 304(a) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 184 (driving dangerously) of the Motor Vehicle Act. The body has been sent for post-mortem and its report is awaited,” said Darade. Bangara is survived by his wife and two kids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/entrepreneur-samir-bangara-dies-in-accident-on-mum-ahd-highway/story-lipennmEbx4CwHKOX33FPJ.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Outcry as Punjabi varsity announces exam dates only for ‘local students’||Students of other states enrolled in courses offered by Punjabi University have criticised the varisty’s announcement of examination dates only meant for students of Punjab region. Students term it ‘unfair’ and ‘against the Indian Constitution’.The Punjab University had on June 12 issued a circular stating that exams would be held only for those students who are from the Punjab region.According to the circular, their exams will commence on July 10. A student from Haryana, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “How can the university authorities do such discrimination against students on the basis of their region? There are several red zones in Punjab. Students from there are being allowed to appear for exams on July 10, but students from other states aren’t being given the same opportunity, even if they are from the green zones.”“In every department, there is at least 15℅ occupancy of seats by students from other states. If university can allow 85% students to give exams, why can’t the remaining ones appear?” he questioned.“What is the guarantee that cases of Covid-19 will not rise and that would not make conditions for students of other states worse to give exam in future?” asked another such student.However, Punjabi University registrar MS Nijjar said, “I’m not aware of the circular. I will talk to the persons concerned who have issued the datesheet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/outcry-as-punjabi-varsity-announces-exam-dates-only-for-local-students/story-lKjfi1GM0OptsHzpBWKD2O.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police recover escape car used by Sector-9 shooters||A day after the Honda Amaze used by the Sector 9 shooters was recovered, police have recovered a Maruti Alto, that the accused escaped in after the crime.Police said following the disclosure of Vainkat Garg, who was arrested from Naraingarh and is currently in police remand, the Alto, with a Gurugram registration number, was recovered from Naraingarh. Police said the shooters had come to Sector 9 and escaped from there in the Honda Amaze, but switched to the Maruti Alto to avoid detection. Garg, a close aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, had harboured the gunmen who drove the car to Sector 9, they said.Two men had opened fire on the evening of June 2 at a liquor shop in the Sector 9 inner market, near police headquarters. A total 10 rounds from .22 bore and .32 pistols were fired at the shop owned by 69-year-old Ram Avtar Batra of Sector 21, who also runs a petrol pump in Sector 35.The gunmen have been identified as Rinku alias Topi of Pehwa and Davinder Chawla of Hisar. They are yet to be arrested. Police said extensive searches were being carried out at various places in Punjab and Haryana to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/maruti-alto-used-by-sector-9-shooters-to-escape-recovered/story-t9m1ZnwlFInfKr3OGhDz5L.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala man arrested in drugs case commits suicide in police custody||A 40-year-old man arrested in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), 1985, under the custody of Crime Investigation Agency (CIA-1), died on Saturday in a case of suicide, according to police.An inquiry has been initiated, superintendent of police, Ambala Cantonment, Abhishek Jorwal said.More than 25 cases of drugs, theft, and robbery were registered against the deceased. He had attempted suicide earlier too in prison, said deputy superintendent of police Sultan Singh. “Rinku was a notorious criminal and had attempted to commit suicide twice inside lock-up. Due to his past history he was watched carefully but he committed suicide,” he added. “A local man committed suicide inside the lock-up of CIA-1 during the intervening night at around 3:30 am. An inquiry has been initiated and his postmortem will be conducted in the presence of a judicial magistrate,” Jorwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-under-ndps-commits-suicide-in-prison/story-lsgvl00dWOiE28a5c69OhP.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Nine deaths and 320 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Pune||The city reported nine deaths and 320 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. This takes the death toll in the city to 448 and the count of progressive positive cases to 9,656.The total number of patients discharged on Sunday after being declared cured was 123, taking the count of such cases to 6,210.Of the 2,998 still in the hospital, 203 are critical patients. The total number of samples tested so far in the city is 71,425 of which 213 were collected on Sunday; the results of 1,132 tests are awaited. Four deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital which includes a 60-year old male from Jambhulkar chowk who was admitted on June 4 and declared dead on June 13. The person also suffered from diabetes, hypertension, and acute respiratory distress syndrome.A 75-year old male residing at Kothrud was declared dead on Sunday after being admitted on May 29. The cause of death is diabetes, hypertension, Ischemic heart disease (IHD), and sudden cardiac arrest. The third death from the hospital is that of a 59-year old male residing at Mangalwar peth. The patient was admitted on June 9 and declared dead on Sunday. The cause of death is said to be diabetes and hypertension.The fourth death is that of a 55-year old male residing at Gultekdi, who was admitted to the hospital on June 7 and died on Sunday. The person also suffered from diabetes, portal hypertension, pancreatitis, and alcoholic liver cirrhosis.Three deaths were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, including that of a 74-year old female residing at Pandavnagar, admitted on June 10 and declared dead on Saturday. The patient also suffered from hypoxic respiratory failure.The second death from the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital includes a 79-year old male from Baner. He was admitted on June 6 and declared dead on Saturday and was also suffering from multiple myeloma. The third death from the hospital is that of a 36-year old male from Model colony. He was admitted on June 2 and declared dead on Sunday. The person also suffered from hypertension.A 76-year old male from Bibvewadi who was admitted on June 4 to the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital was declared dead on Saturday The patient died due to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) Another 67-year old male from Kondhwa was declared dead from KEM hospital. The patient was admitted on June 7 and declared dead on Sunday. The patient also suffered from ARDS and MODS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-deaths-and-320-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-pune/story-G9Ai5iipyr2F3h8LeYCjYM.html
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||PAU seed sale protocol under scanner after scam||How the owner of Brar Seed Store near Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU) gate number 1 managed to procure and sell a large quantity of uncertified paddy variety seeds PR-128 from the institute’s Ladhowal Seed Farm still remains a mystery, raising questions over sales protocols followed by the institute.Sale of the seeds was illegal as these were being trialled. Store owner Harvinder Singh Brar, alias Kaka, was arrested on May 31.A police official investigating the case who wished to remain anonymous said PAU had been asked to change its protocols to prevent the unauthorised sale of seeds being trialled.The matter was being investigated and PAU had been asked to explain, said chief agriculture officer, Ludhiana, Narinder Singh Benipal.The matter came to light when the department raided Brar’s Seed Store on May 11 and scanned documents, including ledgers, registers and bills.During the probe, the special investigation team (SIT) found five bills issued by Ladhowal Seed Farm (invoice number IUSFL LDH/2010580 to 4) dated May 4, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times.Four bills of Rs 6,720 for 96kg seeds each and one bill of Rs 8,120 for 116kg seeds were recovered.Interestingly, mention of only truthfully labelled (TL) or tested PR-128 seed was shown as sold and payment of Rs 35,000 was made in cash.No name of the purchaser or mobile phone was mentioned on the bills issued by the farm.Brar had allegedly procured the seeds for Rs 70 per kg and sold them for Rs 250 per kg.The police and the agriculture department were probing as to why such a huge quantity of particular seed variety was provided to Brar, which as per PAU was yet to be notified by the central committee for commercial sale.PAU vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon could not be contacted for comments.PAU director, seeds, Tarsem Singh Dhillon said he could not comment on the issue.Earlier, investigations in the spurious paddy seed scam revealed that names of newly developed varieties to be sown on trial basis were already known to the accused even before they were officially launched for cultivation by PAU.Brar was booked after a Moga-based farmer had alleged that the store was selling PR 128 and PR 129 seeds for Rs 200 to Rs 250 per kg whereas PAU was providing them for Rs 70 per kg.Dr Naresh Kumar Arora, IPS ADGP/Crime PBI and SCRB, who is heading the state-level SIT said, “We are in touch with PAU officials and they are cooperating with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pau-seed-sale-protocol-under-scanner-after-scam/story-4SEXITWvKmiyciw9LY6CzN.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Monsoon arrives in Pune; covers all of Maharashtra: IMD||PUNE As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the 2020 monsoon officially entered Pune on Sunday, although with only a few short spells of rain.Along with Pune, the south western monsoon also hit Mumbai, Marathwada and Vidarbha. “In Pune, city and district areas, moderate rains are expected in the next two days - from between 15.5mm to 64.4mm. This is actually good rain. On June 17 there is a warning for heavy rain in Pune. While for the next three days, Madhya (central) Maharashtra, Nashik, and the ghat areas of Pune are expected to have heavy to very heavy rains,” Anupam Kashyapi director, IMD, said.“Our earlier statement was that by June 14 or 15 the monsoon will cover the whole of Maharashtra and today (Sunday), we declare that the monsoon has covered Maharashtra,” Kashyapi added.The southwest monsoon has further advanced into the remaining parts of the Central Arabian Sea and some parts of Madhya Pradesh and most parts of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar.“We have noticed that we are not getting rains as we had expected, which is due to cyclone Nisarga which moved towards Madhya Pradesh,” Kashyapi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-arrives-in-pune-covers-all-of-maharashtra-imd/story-zVLgn2SPZ8GWPW0IwFAGnL.html
15-06-2020||City||Day after son’s arrest in drug case, opposition guns for BJP’s Ambala unit chief||A day after the son of BJP’s Ambala unit president Jagmohan Lal Kumar was arrested with drugs, the opposition on Sunday demanded strict action in the case and raised questions over the state government’s claims of controlling the drug menace. On Saturday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader’s son, Amit Kumar, along with an accomplice, was arrested with 60-gm heroin from near home minister Anil Vij’s residence. The duo was allegedly coming from Delhi at the time, the first information report stated. They were presented before the court on Sunday afternoon and sent to two-day police remand.While Jagmohan Lal Kumar didn’t respond to calls, texts and WhatsApp messages for the second consecutive day, the opposition intensified its attack on the saffron party.KUMAR SHOULD RESIGN ON MORAL GROUNDS: SELJAHaryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said, “Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are competing against each other to violate the law. One of their leaders was recently found thrashing a government official with slippers and now another leader’s son has been arrested with drugs. They are giving assurance of a fair probe but they always cover up such cases.”She further said that the Ambala unit chief should tender his resignation on moral grounds as this is not the first time his son has been caught with drugs. Amit Kumar had been caught by the Mohali crime investigation agency (CIA)-2 near Derrabassi with 30-gram heroin in March last year. He was allegedly selling drugs in the area. HAPPENED UNDER VIJ’S NOSE: CHITRA SARWARAHaryana Democratic Front leader Chitra Sarwara said, “All this is happening right under Haryana home minister Anil Vij’s nose. The fact that Amit Kumar was arrested from near Vij’s house raises a red flag.” Sarwara further said, “This is for the second time that Amit Kumar has been arrested in a drug case, which means he was let off easily the last time.”When asked if the incident calls for the Ambala unit chief’s resignation, Chitra said, “The matter is bigger than that. A resignation is not a remedy. The question is that when the government claims to be taking action against the drug menace, how are those in the political echelons shamelessly peddling drugs.”BARALA REFUSES TO COMMENTBJP’s state unit chief Subhash Barala refused to comment, saying that he was busy with the virtual rally and that the party will decide on the next course of action later. “The issue has come to my notice, but we are busy with the virtual rally being held to mark one year of the BJP government at the centre. I’ll gather more details and see what has to be done,” Barala said.Meanwhile, Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader Digvijay Singh Chautala, who had demanded Kumar’s resignation when his son was arrested last year, is keeping mum this time. After repeated attempts to reach him through phone calls and messages, his personal assistant said Digvijay was busy in a meeting with his brother and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. Senior JJP leader KC Banger also refused to comment on the issue, saying, “I’m out of state and unaware of the development, so I can’t comment on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-s-ambala-unit-chief-must-resign-opposition-says-a-day-after-his-son-s-arrest-in-drug-case/story-H50I4E7igqvc5jU2w9OHZI.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Self-service at Pune petrol pump ushers in a new flow of life in times of Covid||PUNE The Bharat Petroleum-owned petrol pump, situated opposite the Regional Transport Office (RTO) in Pune, has begun self-service dispensing of petrol and diesel, the first of its kind in the city.The petrol vending machines are overseen by pump staff who maintain social distance, but are operated by the customer.“We began this vending machine concept on May 10, as part of the PM’s Atmanirbhar Yojna. This idea was floated by the company to maintain social distance between customer and salesperson, and also to lessen the disputes that often rise while filling fuel. This concept is catching on well, and we are dispensing 800- 900 litres per day of petrol, and 500 -600 litres per day of diesel through the vending machines,” said said Sanket Varude, manager of the pump.“We have noticed that educated people pick up the concept fast, while some, who are not educated need to be taught how to use the vending machine,” Varude added. D Patel, a student, said, “It is my first experience of using this vending machine. It also gives me the confidence that I am getting my money’s worth of petrol, as earlier I had to always be checking if the petrol was filled correctly.”Dr Satyaprem Chole says, “It is quite an experience and I will definitely come back to this petrol pump to try it out again.”Ali Daruwalla, spokesperson, All India Petrol Dealers Association said, “This vending machine is operated at a company-owned petrol pump on a trial basis – using the swipe and dispense method. This is to maintain social distancing and fast track fueling. We are yet to get its results, only then will we look at expanding this concept. It is completely safe and has an automatic nozzle that switches off if petrol overflows.”How petrol/diesel vending machine works- Customer sanitises hands – sanitiser on stand near machine- Enter value of fuel to be filled, in numericals. Pump staff at safe distance acts as guide- Take nozzle, check zero on meter, lift lever on nozzle, then there is a lock under the lever which needs to pressed which allows fuel to flow - Flow stops automatically at the amount to be filled. - Take out nozzle, place back on machine press button marked ‘volume’•5 minutes per customer•Machine takes cash cash, card, and digital payment available with pump staff•Minimum of Rs30 to maximum of Rs 400 for two-wheelers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/self-service-at-pune-petrol-pump-ushers-in-a-new-flow-of-life-in-times-of-covid/story-XXfoQG0Ywc7QwSdNcPjptN.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Cash stolen from temple donation box in Pune’s Budhwar peth||Cash of Rs1,200 to 1,400 was stolen from a donation box at Pasodya Vithoba temple in Budhwar peth. The incident took place in the night, between Saturday and Sunday.The theft came to light after the priest of the temple, who performs puja every morning, visited the temple on Sunday morning.“For now we suspect that the door of the temple was probably left open. There is no sign of forced entry that we have discovered till now,” said police sub-inspector Ajaykumar Patil of Kasba peth outpost of Faraskhana police station who is investigating the case.The metal chest meant for collection of donations was broken open. PSI Patil estimates the worth of stolen currency is between Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,400 including currency notes and coins. The donation box was emptied and last opened around a month before lockdown, according to the police.The temple is located centrally to the market of electronics’ shops in the area. “We are checking for possible CCTV from around the area,” said PSI Patil.The temple has been in a containment zone from several weeks. The temple has a sculpture of Shivaji Maharaj with Saint Dnyaneshwar which is considered to be symbolic of their meeting at the spot, said police.The case under Sections 380 (theft in a dwelling house, among others), 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cash-stolen-from-temple-donation-box-in-budhwar-peth/story-rTexRZcvxsguEXSqVTNFtK.html
15-06-2020||Pune||Civic officials keep palkhi tradition alive, appreciate efforts of residents to fight Covid-19||In a bid to keep the 335-years-old palkhi tradition alive, Murlidhar Mohol, city mayor and Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, along with others performed a puja of ‘Dnyaneshwari’ and ‘Tukaram Maharaj Gatha’ near Balgandharva Rang Mandir, on Sunday.The annual palkhis processions of both, Sant Tukaram Maharaj and Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj, have been affected due to the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic.Others present during the puja included Rajesh Pande, president, Samarth Yuva Foundation and Sant Tukaram Maharaj’s descendant Dr Sadanand More.Mohol said, “During this time of the year Punekars eagerly wait to welcome both the pakhis and the city is surrounded with festive fervour. Unfortunately, this year we cannot celebrate due to Covid-19 crisis and we appreciate that Warkaris have shown the right way by not taking out Wari this year.”Gaikwad said, “Performing puja of ‘Dnyaneshwari’ and ‘Tukaram Maharaj Gatha’ is as similar as Wari coming to Pune and we are thankful to the residents for cooperating with us during these testing times.”“This small event of puja has given us a lot of strength to further fight this pandemic,” said Gaikwad.Sant Tukaram Maharaj’s descendant Dr Sadanand More said, “From the last 355 years this tradition of palkh procession from Dehu and Alandi to Pandharpur is carried out, but this year due to unavoidable reasons it was put on hold for the first time. Every warkari waits for this annual event eagerly, but this year too we performed the puja which is appreciated.”The programme was organised by Sanwad Pune and Samarth Yuva Foundation organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-officials-keep-palkhi-tradition-alive-appreciate-efforts-of-residents-to-fight-covid-19/story-TOZjPRQ7UZbvw154mszLcN.html
15-06-2020||Pune||PMC cremates 2-month-old Covid-19 victim after parents do not show up at hospital to claim body||PUNE The Pune municipal corporation (PMC), on Sunday, cremated the remains of a two-month-old male child who died, and was Covid-19-positive, after the child’s parents did not come to the hospital to claim the body.Dr Kalpana Baliwant, PMC assistant health officer, said, “We were informed by the hospital that the relatives refused to claim the body because they too were in quarantine. I cannot say for sure, but this is probably the second such case in the city. The process to claim the body is also very formal, since we do not practically hand over the body. It is for relatives to identify the body to avoid any mismatching, and to ensure the civic body informs the relatives about the death. The body is not handed over till the cremation. Unclaimed bodies are cremated after a proper no-objection certificate (NoC) from the nearest police station.” Dr Poonam Deshmukh, assistant medical administrator, King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital, where the child passed away, coordinated with the family of the deceased. She said: “Initially when we contacted the parents they said that they are in quarantine and could not come, but when we specifically if the parents had tested positive, they confirmed that the mother and father of the child had not tested positive. The father’s exact words were, ‘If we will not be handed over the body immediately, then what is the use of us coming all the way?’ So we had to inform the PMC about the same and the corpse was cremated with a heavy heart.” The two-month-old child is the city’s youngest Covid-19-related fatality and KEM hospital has issued a statement stating that all concerned authorities were informed of the death on time.The baby, who was admitted on June 3 tested positive for the infection on June 4, and was declared dead on June 7. The death, however, was reported by the PMC on Saturday, June 13.This delay has raised the question about miscommunication between hospital and civic authorities, and therefore, the parents.Dr V Yemul, medical administrator, KEM Pune, said, “We have all the records to show that this death had been informed to the relevant authorities, primary among them being the PMC, on the very same day via multiple channels. Placing the blame on hospitals without any attempt to corroborate facts is only causing panic amongst patients and their relatives and portraying hospitals that are working round the clock during this pandemic in a very poor light. This must now stop.” KEM hospital stated: “The child was found to have an anterior mediastinal haemangioma compressing the trachea and other vessels. During the course of treatment by a team of doctors from the hospital, including a paediatric surgeon, clinical haematologist and paediatric intensivist, a swab was taken and the baby tested positive for Covid-19 on June 4 2020. The baby unfortunately died on Sunday June 7 at 5.10pm. Our administration immediately started the relevant procedures. The hospital statement adds, “We contacted the PMC officers with this information for their guidance for further procedures which includes the death pass, handing over the deceased to the PMC ambulance and cremation; following which, they told us that an NoC would be required from the police station.”“We immediately contacted the concerned police station who promptly gave us the NoC within an hour- and-a-half. Meanwhile, the mandatory procedure of filling of forms was done,” the hospital claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-cremates-2-mth-old-covd-19-victim-after-parents-do-not-show-up-at-hospital-to-claim-body/story-BgjlGPMfeCoAj7unJb7RzO.html
15-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra curbs lifted, govt expects surge; Mumbai past 50K cases||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count on Monday surged to 88,528 with the addition of 2,553 more infections and Mumbai crossed the grim mark of 50,000 with 1,311 more patients, even as the government expects an even bigger spike in the wake of the third phase of its Mission Begin Again coming into effect from Monday. The state government allowed private offices in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to operate at 10% of its workforce or 10 employees (whichever is higher). This relaxation, along with the resumption of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus services, saw more traffic snarls on the roads. The state had, from last week, allowed physical activities such as jogging, running and non-essential shops to operate on alternate days in red zones (excluding containment areas). The state on Monday reported 109 deaths, including 64 in Mumbai, as the toll went up to 3,169.The recovery rate in the state has improved to 46.28% after 40,975 patients were discharged till Monday. The recovery rate in the state was 26.25% on May 20, 29.06% on May 24, 31.26% on May 28 and improved to 43.38% on May 29 after as many as 8,381 patients were reported as recovered following the changes in norms to discharge patients. The mortality rate, however, went up to 3.57% from 3.25% on May 25 and 3.37% on May 31 even as the national rate witnessed a gradual fall. The national mortality rate fell to 2.78% on Sunday, from 3.06% on May 21 and 2.84% on May 31. The state health department has clarified that of the 109 deaths reported on Monday, 32 were reported in the past two days, while the rest are from May 3 to June 5. Of the total deaths, 70 are from MMR, eight in Aurangabad, seven in Pune and six each in Solapur and Jalgaon. 59 of the people who died were above 60 years of age and 89 of them had comorbidities.The state government is closely watching the trend and behaviour of the virus after the lockdown was relaxed in a phased manner over the past one week and even after May 22. Officials from the team of bureaucrats taking decisions on the curbs and relaxations said that there was no surge in cases in the districts after the lockdown was relaxed. “There was a rise in the cases in districts like Nashik, Aurangbad, Nashik after the lockdown was lifted in the third week of May, but it was not a surge. The rise is proportional and the doubling rate of cases in these areas is improving. There was no exponential growth in cases. However, contrary to it, we still expect a surge in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Aurangabad after the relaxations from curbs in three phases over the past one week,” said the officer.The officer said that the surge, however, should not be always related to the opening up of the lockdown. He said that few municipal corporations, including Nagpur and Malegaon, have successfully contained the spread and maybe given more relaxations in the next phases. “There is no discussion held on the next phase of the Mission Begin Again as it will all depend on the trend witnessed in MMR, Pune and other cities like Solapur, Aurangbad after the rolling out of relaxations,” he said. According to a report published on Monday by the Medical Education and Drug Department, among the admitted patients, 83% are asymptomatic, while 13% are symptomatic and 4% critical. The report stated that the highest number of Covid-19 cases is in the age group of 31-40 years with 20.29%, followed by 19.33% of patients between 21 and 30 years. Another official said that a next phase of Mission Begin Again cannot be implemented unless resumption of suburban trains facilities in MMR. “Barring industrial units, malls, multiplexes, almost everything else has been opened, even in red zones. We cannot increase the percentage of employees for private offices or allow more industrial-commercial activities unless suburban trains are allowed. We expect suburban train services to be allowed by the Centre, beginning with essential/emergency services soon,” he said.The official said that district authorities and the municipal corporations have been directed to focus on a two-fold strategy. He said that they have been told to augment the health infrastructure on one hand and contain the spread by strict implementation of curbs in containment zones. The authorities have been told to go for aggressive tracing of high and low-risk contacts of patients and identify them within 24 hours. “They have been told to closely monitor travellers entering into districts and municipal jurisdictions from affected cities like Mumbai and Pune,” he said. A total of 12,684 samples have been tested in the past 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 20.12%. The state has 3,510 containment zones, which have greater curbs of lockdown in place, while 17,895 surveillance teams ensure tracing of contacts. Currently, 5,64,736 people are under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-curbs-lifted-govt-expects-surge-mumbai-past-50k-cases/story-NcdcdiGxvJszfeF8le3xKI.html
