19-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister Jain moved to pvt hospital after condition worsens||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain was moved to a private hospital in the city for further treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) because his condition deteriorated. The 55-year-old minister had tested positive for the infection on Wednesday, after initially testing negative.He had been admitted to the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur with a high-grade fever and low oxygen saturation on Monday night. He had attended an all-party meeting held by the union home minister Amit Shah the same day.He was put on intermittent oxygen to manage the symptoms. He had developed pneumonia, a known complication of Covid-19.“The oxygen support was removed once his saturation level reached about 97%. However, he was not able to maintain the saturation and had to be put on oxygen intermittently. But he was doing well. Surprisingly, he started becoming breathless in the morning. And, the latest CT scan showed that the pneumonia patch has increased,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.He was moved to the intensive care unit of the hospital in the morning. As his symptoms worsened, the minister was shifted to Max hospital, Saket, according to sources in both hospitals. He continues to be on oxygen support. He is being treated by a critical care team. He continues to be “stable,” and is likely to get plasma therapy tonight, according to hospital sources. The minister has no co-morbid conditions. The infection usually causes severe symptoms in older people and those with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney and heart disease.After Jain was shifted, union home minister Amit Shah tweeted, “Praying for the speedy recovery of Shri Satyendra Jain, Health Minister of Delhi who is battling with COVID-19 infection.”Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “Unfortunately, the doctors found in his CT scan his lung infection and pneumonia have increased. He’s been feeling exhausted and giddy since the morning. All treatment and shifting to another hospital will be done on doctors’ advice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-jain-moved-to-pvt-hospital-after-condition-worsens/story-z1O2HAgp4rtD957QDtrcJM.html
19-06-2020||City||Delhi govt to recruit medical and nursing students to staff Covid hospitals||New DelhiThe Delhi government has decided to hire final-year students of post-graduate medical courses such as MD/MS and DNB, as well as final year under-graduate and post-graduate nursing students, to staff the additional intensive care unit (ICU) beds being created in state government-run hospitals. The students would be hired for a period of six months and would be paid an honorarium, the Delhi government said following a meeting of the medical superintendent of Covid-19 hospitals and top health officials with acting health minister Manish Sisodia.The meeting was held to discuss plans to increase ICU infrastructure in view of the rising number of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city.Currently, there are 706 ventilator beds in both government and private hospitals, of which 64% are already occupied, according to data on the ‘Delhi Corona’ app.HT had in its June 17 report pointed out that the government was working on increasing bed strength but the shortage of manpower was a challenge.Dr Mahesh Verma, vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, with which most of the students are affiliated, has been tasked with recruitment and deployment of the required number of students over the next four days. He has been asked to recommend the stipend to be paid.The ICU staff shortage was pointed out as the main reason for not being able to ramp up the capacity. Currently, there are 173 ventilator beds in the Delhi-government run hospitals. HT had earlier reported that the Delhi government would be receiving 200 additional ventilators from the central government. In addition to that, the state government plans to buy 300 more ventilators.The government has also purchased 2,000 oxygen concentrators for patients with moderate illness. The machine selectively removes nitrogen from the ambient air to concentrate it to 93/5 oxygen and provides it to the patient at about 5lts/minute speed.“Most of the existing beds in the hospital currently have oxygen supply for the patients, and in the next 10 days, and all the other beds will have the oxygen supply attached to them in a few days. The bed capacity, as well as all the infrastructure and manpower assistance, will be given to all the hospitals as and when required by them. The Delhi government has directed to increase the ICU bed capacity in all the big dedicated Covid-19 hospitals,” said Sisodia after the meeting.Dr SK Sarin, who was part of the initial five-member expert committee constituted in March to look at increasing Delhi’s capacity to handle Covid-19 cases, said, “We should think of out-of-the-way solutions to address this pandemic. With a few out-of-the-box ideas, we can enhance the existing capacity of ICU beds in the hospitals. We should also think how we can recruit new manpower including health professionals and experts in these hospitals.”The question on staffing issues for the makeshift hospitals in stadiums and banquet halls still remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-recruit-medical-and-nursing-students-to-staff-covid-hospitals/story-rXBilG7xe7SpXzHCRJsVzI.html
19-06-2020||City||450 beds in Burari hospital for Covid treatment||New DelhiAround 450 of the 700 beds in the newly constructed hospital in Burari will be used for the treatment of patients with the coronavirus disease, according to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Of these, 250 beds will have oxygen support.On Friday, deputy chief minister and acting health minister Manish Sisodia visited the hospital to take stock of the preparedness measures in the hospital.“Almost all preparations for Covid-19 treatment have been done here. There will be 450 beds in this hospital for the treatment of Corona patients, and every third bed will have oxygen supply attached to it. Around 125 beds already have oxygen supply, and 125 beds will be provided oxygen through oxygen cylinders,” said Kejriwal.HT had reported in May that the hospital was likely to be used for the treatment for patients of Covid-19. Two other upcoming hospitals in Ambedkar Nagar and Dwarka might also be used for the treatment of the people with the infection if the number of cases goes up.The three hospitals will together add over 2,500 beds to the existing 11,770 beds in the Delhi government-run hospitals.Of the 30,000 hospital beds that the government is in the process of procuring, 1,200 Covid-19 beds are likely to be added in these three newly constructed hospitals.The government has said that as per projections, 1.5 lakh beds will be needed for the treatment of Covid-19 patients by the end of July. This estimate is based on the recommendations of a five-member expert committee that had said that Delhi will likely see 1 lakh cases by the end of the month and would need 15,000 beds for the treatment of those severely ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/450-beds-in-burari-hospital-for-covid-treatment/story-jt0vyku0gnhYtn6StV9XtN.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||10 deaths, 525 fresh infections in Haryana||Ten people suffering from coronavirus died in Haryana on Friday, taking the state’s toll to 144.Among the dead, five were from Faridabad district, three from Gurugram and one each from Sonepat and Bhiwani. According to a medical bulletin, 525 fresh cases were reported from 21 districts on Friday, pushing the the cumulative number of infections to 9,743. The number of Covid-19 active cases was 4,710.The bulletin said 333 patients recovered from the contagion on Friday. With them, the number of those cured of corona reached 4,889. There were 63 critically ill patients hospitalised at 10 medical facilities across the state. About 65% of the fresh cases reported on Friday came from three NCR districts of Faridabad (161), Gurugram (145) and Sonepat (36). These districts also accounted for 71% of the total active cases. Of the 144 deaths due to Covid-19, 55 were reported from Gurugram, 51 from Faridabad and 10 from Sonepat. Among the other districts, Mahendergarh reported 32 cases followed by Ambala (26), Rohtak (20), Bhiwani (18), Palwal (17), Panchkula (13), Nuh (12), Karnal and Hisar (6 each), Panipat, Charkhi Dadri and Jhajjar (7 each), Kurukshetra (3), Rewari, Kaithal, Sirsa and Fatehabad (2 each) and Jind (1). Though the bulletin mentioned that no new case emerged in Yamunanagar, local authorities said 14 people tested positive for the virus. Similarly, nine people, including five relatives of a judge, were found infected in Hisar, civil surgeon Ratna Bharti said. Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said 72 people were found Covid positive in the district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-deaths-525-fresh-infections-in-haryana/story-IAhropAl0BnFdqQlk6DcKN.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to prepare plan to tackle governance challenges in wake of Covid-19||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has commissioned Haryana Governance Reforms Authority (HGRA) to prepare a short and medium-term prospective plan to tackle fresh challenges to governance practices in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.According to a press release, HGRA chairperson Prof Pramod Kumar has been asked to coordinate the work of the task groups constituted to prepare the prospective plan. Additional chief secretary (power) T C Gupta will represent the state government and will be assisted by a team of senior civil servants attached to each task group as member-secretaries. The idea is to refocus the role of the government to correct the disruptions in production and supply chains with a view to prioritise policies to meet the essential needs of people. Also, it will redefine the state’s role in relation to market, particularly in education, health, food security, public health, and housing sectors, the release said.For this purpose, a number of task groups have been constituted to work out the short and medium-term prospective plan. The task group on food, agriculture and allied services will be chaired by Niti Aayog member Prof Ramesh Chand. That of industries and commerce will be headed by Maruti Suzuki chairperson R C Bhargava and former Haryana chief secretary P K Chaudhery will be the co-chairperson.The health, public health and municipal services task group will be led by Public Health Foundation chairperson Dr K S Reddy, along with former Indian Council of Medical Research director general Dr V M Katoch as co-chairperson. The task group on housing for all will be chaired by Niti Aayog principal consultant Ashok Jain. The group on skilling and education is to be chaired by Delhi Technological University vice-chancellor Prof Yogesh Singh. The group on revenue generation, tourism, hospitality, excise and GST will be headed by Prof Mukul Asher of National University of Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-prepare-plan-to-tackle-governance-challenges-in-wake-of-covid-19/story-8QkprMML9xWAKNM4PnUhtN.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi L-G orders mandatory 5 day institutional quarantine for Covid-19 patients||Covid-19 patients in Delhi under home quarantine so far will now have to undergo mandatory five-day institutional quarantine, Lieutenant-General Anil Baijal said on Friday.The L-G’s order added that after the five-day institutional quarantine, asymptomatic Covid-19 patients will be sent for home quarantine, according to news agency PTI. “Five days institutional quarantine of each case under home-quarantine is to be made mandatory and, thereafter, (they) will be sent for home-isolation, except in cases where symptoms require further hospitalization,” Baijal said in his order.However, the city’s AAP government has called the L-G’s decision “arbitrary” and said it will “seriously harm” Delhi. The Arvind Kejriwal government has also asked the L-G to reconsider his decision.Saying that there was already a serious shortage of doctors and nurses for treating Covid-19 patients in the national capital, the AAP government added that manpower is already stretched and large quarantine centres would be needed to accommodate thousands of asymptomatic people.“L-G’s decision on home isolation will discourage many people from getting tested and (this in turn) will spread coronavirus further, PTI quoting Delhi government as saying.The L-G’s order came on a day that Delhi recorded yet another highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases. With 3,137 new infections reported on Friday, the national capital’s tally crossed the 53,000-mark. while the death toll rose to 2,035, according to PTI. Meanwhile, the government is gearing up to augment ICU bed capacity in the city’s dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday.In another development during the day, the Delhi government tested 12,680 people for the coronavirus infection using Rapid Antigen Testing kits and found at least 951 positive samples.“Today, 12,680 people in Delhi were tested for Covid-19 using Rapid Antigen Testing Kits, out of whom 951 people were found positive,” Sisodia said in a tweet. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-orders-mandatory-5-day-institutional-quarantine-for-covid-19-patients/story-BMNIdaMPnt6XLaDCIZKhXI.html
19-06-2020||City||No alternatives to cater to demands of “non-China” products, say Noida traders||Noida: Amid the India-China standoff and call for boycott of Chinese items, customers are specifically asking dealers about details of products and if there are any alternatives. Traders, however, say alternatives are few. “A number of traders have been calling up since the last two days stating that customers are demanding products of Indian make. They are specifically checking whether the product they are buying is from China. If locally produced goods aren’t available, customers seek non-Chinese alternates. Traders want to sell local items but the issue is that there are very few alternatives,” Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association and Delhi-NCR head of the Confederation of All India Traders Association.Retailers, especially those dealing in electronics, pointed out that while the market is dominated by China-made products there is dearth of Indian brands or even those coming from other countries such as South Korea, US, Japan or European nations, which narrows down options.“This is for the first time we have seen that customers are enquiring about the make of a product. We don’t have many alternatives available as the mobile phone segment is dominated by Chinese brands. There were very few customers who did not mind buying products of Chinese brands when they got to know that the product was manufactured in India,” said Rahul Gupta, who owns a mobile phone store in Sector 18.He adds that while the market was already down due to the pandemic, these new consumer trends are further affecting business.“Most customers are aware of brands. The issue is that the Indian alternatives are not competent enough and their production is low. The same problem persists with Japanese and Taiwanese brands. American brands, on the other hand, are very expensive” Gupta said.Anita Singh, another trader, says she also incurred losses due to lack of affordable local alternatives.“Customers are asking for non-Chinese brands, but the market is not ready as we don’t have too many Indian products in the market. Even gift wraps come from China. I lost business of around ₹36,000 on a single order on Thursday as the company wanted about 60 pieces of gift items of Indian make, which were not available,” said Singh, who owns a stationary store in Savitri market, Sector 18.Some consumers, meanwhile, said they did not mind losing money over this. Dr Arvind Mishra, who lives in Noida, cancelled an SUV he had booked last year, of which he was awaiting delivery.“I am exploring other alternatives, and no longer want to give business to China in anyway. The booking amount for the car was ₹50,000 of which the dealer might deduct some portion, but it’s okay,” he said.At the nearby Atta market, traders say they are working on a future course of action. “We are going to have a meeting with traders soon about the future course of action,” said Dr CB Jha, head of the Atta Market, Noida.Jain says such consumer behaviour does incur losses to traders who have already paid for their stocks. “As customers have started to ask for locally manufactured goods, we businessmen are also learning. For instance, for the upcoming festival of Raksha Bandhan, rakhis worth millions were imported from China every year, but with prevailing market current, traders will look for local alternatives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-alternatives-to-cater-to-demands-of-non-china-products-say-noida-traders/story-JmytZeGcuUWBmOO2nRWBGJ.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana deputy commissioner reviews arrangements ahead of monsoons||Ahead of monsoons, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma on Friday conducted a meeting with officials of the municipal corporation and irrigation and drainage departments, among others, to take stock of arrangements.The district administration has set up district-level flood control room. Besides, directions have also been issued for setting up control rooms at sub-division/tehsil level. District heads of all departments will work as nodal officers for necessary arrangements and communications.The DC instructed officials to constantly coordinate with each other via WhatsApp groups to closely monitor the situation during monsoons. He directed them to keep their mobile phones switched on round-the-clock. Sharma told the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to install wireless public address system in vehicle to alert people of floods. Also National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and army officials were asked to take stock of sensitive places along with administration teams before monsoon hits the city. He said that SDMs must ensure working of the flood control rooms round the clock.Drainage department officials were told to keep a close vigil on all spots which were identified as sensitive during inspections conducted earlier. The DC said he will also keep a check on water level of the Sutlej river.The irrigation department’s officials were directed to ensure the cleanliness of distributaries to save crops incase of floods. MC commissioner, executive officers and deputy director of local bodies were directed to get drains cleaned at the earliest.Further, SDMs were directed to make adequate arrangements to ensure sufficient stock of boats, oars, life jackets, motor engines, sandbags, wireless system, manpower, machinery and tarpaulins.Sharma said that safe locations have been earmarked where residents of flood-affected areas will be shifted, if required, and SDMs should ensure arrangement of drinking water and toilets at these places.BDPOS SHOULD ENSURE DEVELOPMENT OF THEIR BLOCKS: DCThe DC also urged all block development and panchayat officers (BDPOs) to carry out overall development in their respective blocks. He said that all flagship schemes of Punjab government should be promoted and maximum employment should be generated through MGNREGA.While chairing a review meeting in this regard at Bachat Bhawan, the DC said all development works in rural areas are carried out on behalf of the government by BDPOs and they should work in a transparent manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-deputy-commissioner-reviews-arrangements-ahead-of-monsoons/story-diGuO3kjvxnvo3DpllhT8I.html
19-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram breaches 4,000-mark; conducts highest number of tests in a single day||With 145 new cases being reported in the district on Friday, Gurugram’s total count of confirmed Covid-19 cases reached 4,136. The district also reported three more deaths, taking the toll to 55. The total number of patients afflicted by Covid-19 in the state stands at 9,743. The district conducted 790 new tests on Friday, the highest conducted in a single day so far, yielding a test-positivity rate of 18% — the same as on Thursday.The dip in the district’s test-positivity rate, officials said, is a result of increased testing, and bodes well for the quality of surveillance. “The TPR in early June started going to levels exceeding 50%, which indicated the need to conduct more tests.With our new lab in Gurugram, we have been able to ramp up the numbers and cast a wider net. As such, fewer samples are turning positive since Thursday,” said Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram. The average TPR for June, however, still stands at 43%, up from nine percent in May. Experts said that the increase in testing, as seen over the past two days, would need to be scaled up even further. “While increasing tests is always a hopeful sign, district health data shows that in the past, testing numbers were reduced when pooled testing was discontinued. At the very least, this increase needs to be sustained,” said Dheeraj Singh, a city-based data scientist tracking state and district level trends in Covid-19 data. A total of 122 patients in the district were also discharged after treatment on Friday, taking Gurugram’s recovery rate to 55.4%, up from 54% on Thursday. A total of 1,788 patients are currently being treated at various hospitals in Gurugram. At least, 10 patients in the district, of a total of 19 in the state, are currently on ventilator support, according to state health bulletin data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-breaches-4-000-mark-conducts-highest-number-of-tests-in-a-single-day/story-t0LmStTzgEXDE6HRUYWbjM.html
19-06-2020||City||Gurugram likely to consider charges fixed for Covid-19 treatment in Delhi’s pvt hospitals||Gurugram: As a committee formed by the Centre has capped the charges for Covid-19 treatment in Delhi’s private hospitals, the Gurugram administration on Friday said that the national capital’s price packages would have “an influence” on the proposed rates for treatment in the district. Stating that since Delhi-NCR is now being considered as one unit for Covid-19 management, Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, said, “The treatment cost fixed for Delhi’s private hospitals does have an influence on the package we are proposing to the state government. The final decision has to be taken by the state. We have submitted the proposed rates.”The Haryana government is in the process of fixing rates for the Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals in the state. On Friday, the committee, led by NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, fixed the rates charged by private hospitals in Delhi for isolation beds, intensive care unit (ICU) without ventilator support and ICU with ventilator support. According to the committee, an isolation bed per day would cost Rs 8,000-10,000, which was earlier somewhere between Rs 24,000 -25,000. The treatment in an ICU without a ventilator can cost between Rs 13,000 and Rs 15,000. It increases up to Rs 18,000 if a critical patient requires ventilator support. The rates include cost of PPEs and medicines. Earlier, without the price check, the treatment cost requiring ventilator exceeded up to Rs 54,000.In Gurugram too, Covid-19 treatment cost of a critical patient in private hospitals for a day ranges from Rs 50,000 to Rs 80,000.On Thursday, Union home minister Amit Shah had chaired a meeting on Covid-19 management in Delhi-NCR. Sangwan, who was present in the meeting, said, “A mandate has been given by the central government to consider Delhi-NCR as one unit. For fixing the treatment cost of Covid-19, we would be considering the figures recommended by other affected districts in the NCR region. A recommendation committee has also been constituted in Faridabad. We are taking inputs from them also.” Mentioning that deciding the price package is a complex process, Sangwan said, “There are different requirements in deciding the overall cost. It includes the cost of PPEs, medicines, specialized services, tertiary care, among others. The final price package will be released soon.” The nodal officers appointed for hospital management in the district were unavailable for comment on Friday. On June 15, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had constituted a committee, comprising the divisional commissioner, MCG commissioner and chief medical officer (CMO), to submit its suggestions on capping the Covid treatment cost by Friday. On Wednesday, the Gurugram administration officials had said that they were looking at Ahmedabad model, and the models of states like Maharashtra and Telangana to derive a conclusion on capping the treatment cost. Also, a press conference was held on Friday by the officials of the district administration, which included Sangwan, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh. Khatri said, “Gurugram is the health capital for having good infrastructure. There is enough availability of beds to treat Covid-19 patients.” It was the first time in the past three months since the Covid-19 crisis started in the city that the officials addressed the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-likely-to-consider-charges-fixed-for-covid-19-treatment-in-delhi-s-pvt-hospitals/story-D1oHcsAEnrvJJH54jHB1LK.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Chase the virus, form task forces: CM to district collectors, civic chiefs||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday gave an earful to some of the district and civic chiefs for the rising rate of Covid-19 cases, fatalities and poor tracing of the suspected contacts in their areas. The district and civic authorities have been asked to rigorously follow the principle of ‘chase the virus’ and constitute task forces of expert doctors to reduce the fatality rate.Thackeray held a video conference with district collectors and municipal commissioners of a few districts with high mortality rate and poor implementation of the guidelines. Thackeray expressed his unhappiness over the smaller number of tracing of the high and low-risk contacts in Mira-Bhayander and Pune, and high fatalities in districts like Dhule, Aurangabad etc.“The addition of the new patients constantly in some districts and cities is worrisome. The spread can be contained only by tracing the suspects and their identification. The laidback approach towards the implementation of the state policies while combating the virus would not be tolerated,” said Thackeray. He added that every district should have its task force of the expert doctors on the lines of the one at the state level. “The Task Force in Mumbai has helped us in reducing the death rate. A similar team should be formulated at the district level with the help of an expert and experienced doctors. It will help the district authorities to follow the guidelines issued by the union health and family welfare ministry while treating the virus,” Thackeray said during the video conference. State health minister Rajesh Tope asked the authorities to involve doctors associated with the Indian Medical Association in the task force. He said the non-Covid patients should not be undermined when there is a possibility of the rise in the monsoon related ailments. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said that the spread rate is high where the tracing of the contacts of any positive patient is less than 10 people. He also directed the collectors to minutely monitor the apartments or buildings with positive patients. Commissioners Mira-Bhayander, Pune, Aurangabad were told to go in for more tracing and testing. Mira-Bhayander administration has been asked to improve its doubling rate which is just around eight-nine days. The state’s doubling rate of cases has improved to 25.9 days on June 16, from 3.5 days on March 31 and 10.2 days on April 30 and 20.1 days on May 31. The case fatality rate of the state stands at 4.77% against the national rate of 3.30%.Mira-Bhayandar has reported 1,995 cases and has reported 99 deaths. Pune has reported 14,000 cases and has seen 610 deaths so far. Aurangabad has reported 3,064 cases and 168 fatalities. District and civic authorities apprised the CM with the measures taken by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chase-the-virus-form-task-forces-cm-to-district-collectors-civic-chiefs/story-pyjeUzVVXznRxkrR5N9eEJ.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||The youth sees disloyalty in using Chinese apps||The events of the past few days have forced the youngsters to ponder as to why there are Chinese apps in their phone anymore.And the resolute has grown only stronger. Rohi Asrani, a second year BMS student from Jai Hind College in Mumbai, says it’s time we see through China’s dubious plans. “With Covid-19, China has gained a special hate from each and every country of the world,” she says. According to reports, the Indian intelligence has red-flagged 50 China linked apps, popular among youngsters, that may pose a threat to national security. These include Zoom, Tik Tok and UC Browser among others. “If by not using or avoiding any of these apps or even Chinese products, I can do my bit for my country, I’d do it over and over again. An app like Zoom is something that everyone is using today but it can be easily replaced by others like Google meet or Skype. And honestly, the Tik Tok trends have had a negative impact on the youth anyway,” adds Rohi. Yogini Mangloorkar and Shlok Malpani from Pillai College in Navi Mumbai feel that once the youth steps up to act, it can go a long way in dethroning Chinese applications from of populist dominance that it currently enjoys. “If we, as youngsters, can help our government and economy, by not supporting Chinese enterprises in any kind, then why hesitate?,” says Shlok, reasoning the serious allegations these apps have faced over the breach of privacy. Yogini adds to that the “unwise Chinese action towards India.” “I wish that everyone realises how serious this issue is,” she cautions, before stressing on the importance of using Indian applications.Chaitra Pandurangi, a student of LS Raheja College in Worli, is of the opinion that these apps have turned out to be major contributors to the ever-growing Chinese economy, and today’s situation calls for a complete boycott. And she raises an important point when she asks, “But what are available alternatives?” The government’s call for Make in India should resonate now more than ever. “The government should encourage Indian software companies to take a step towards developing apps more effective and efficient so that they will get promoted, too,” she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/the-youth-sees-disloyalty-in-using-chinese-apps/story-BK1wQi2VZ2OGc0RDGbnQdN.html
19-06-2020||Gurugram||Outstation students raise concerns, seek clarity on final-year examinations||A week after the state government issued directions for conducting physical examinations for final-year undergraduate and post-graduate students in universities and colleges in the state, both students and principals await clarity on various aspects of the examinations that are supposed to take place from July 1 onwards. Students living outside the city, in particular, have expressed their apprehensions regarding the exams as city hostels remain closed and options for public transport are still limited. Universities and colleges have been asked to conduct all terminal exams by July 31 and declare the results by August 7. As per the government guidelines, issued on June 12, hostels in colleges will continue to remain closed. Students, outside the state, especially women students, have informed their principals that in the absence of hostels, looking for accommodation in the city would be difficult. Laxmi Bai, a final-year student at Government Girls College, Sector 14, said that commuting for exams would be difficult for outstation students like her. The Mahendragarh resident used to stay at the college hostel prior to the lockdown. “The guidelines mention that hostels will continue to remain closed throughout the exam period. We will have to commute for each paper which will be a challenging task in the absence of public transport. Not everyone owns a vehicle,” said Laxmi. She added that those who live in hostels like her had similar concerns but they had been told that while students from the state were supposed to appear for the physical exam, while those from other states could take the exam later. Laxmi added that preparing for the exams would be difficult for most students like her since they did not have books with them. “Most students were at home for the Holi break when the lockdown was imposed. We didn’t get a chance to go back and collect our books. Most of us are managing with study material available online,” she said. Pooja Khullar, principal, Dronacharya Government College, said that the college had raised various concerns and shared around 30 suggestions regarding the guidelines with the higher education department. “Hostels are closed in all colleges while exams are scheduled to take place in July. All college administrators have pointed out the concerns raised by women students from different districts. We don’t know where they will stay. Most women students have also said that their parents wouldn’t allow them to travel alone during the pandemic with little public transport,” said Khullar.She said that were many challenges regarding physical examinations and with very little time remaining, the college was awaiting more clarity so that it can plan ahead.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, also said that he had written to the department seeking the date sheet and clarity on exam centres which would allow outstation students to plan ahead of time.Officials from the higher education department couldn’t be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/outstation-students-raise-concerns-seek-clarity-on-final-year-examinations/story-3J1n8whjHIXmrBsBI1ekqO.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Main gunman in Sector 33 firing arrested||Amritsar resident Nitin Nahar, believed to be the key gunman in the firing at the Sector 33 home of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla, was arrested by Punjab Police in the Holy City on Friday.The firing at Singla’s home on May 31 targeted his younger brother and liquor baron Arvind Singla.Nahar of Indira Colony, Chabal Road, Amritsar, was captured near the city’s Colour Resorts, Attari Road, with his associate Bikramjit Singh, who had reportedly helped shelter him.He had been engaged by gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, currently incarcerated in a Rajasthan prison.The arrests came in an intelligence-led operation by a joint team of Amritsar (rural) police and organised crime control unit (OCCU), a police spokesperson said.Nahar had used a .32 bore pistol in the firing. Karan Sharma, a hotel management student who had also been involved in the firing, was arrested on June 6.Two pistols of .32 calibre and .315 calibre with 40 and 10 live cartridges, respectively, were recovered from Nahar’s possession, which police believed was used in the crime.Acting on Bishnoi’s orders Nahar while being questioned revealed that he had been asked to carry out similar activities in Punjab, Chandigarh and Rajasthan by Bishnoi. He also said he was a close associate of Bobby Malhotra, a gangster with links to Bishnoi and currently lodged in Ferozepur Jail.Malhotra on May 31 had directed Nahar to carry out the attack and a black Audi car was sent by Bishnoi to pick him up from Ludhiana and drop him at the outskirts of Chandigarh. From there, he was picked up in a silver Ford Ikon with the other gunmen and taken to Sector 33 where he fired a few rounds.From here, he was dropped off at Kharar and then taken to a hideout in Amritsar in a white Bolero car on Malhotra’s directions.Nahar is also involved in three other firing incidents in Amritsar, two targeting his rival group members Vipin Kumar (in January 2020) and Love Kumar (in February 2020). The third one in April this year involved a man who had filed a complaint against him in an old case at Chabal Road .Toyota Fortuner: One car used for two shootouts as Bishnoi eyes big stakes in liquor businessA Toyota Fortuna used to ferry gunmen in both incidents of firing at sectors 33 and 9 in Chandigarh, one at the home of a liquor baron’s brother and the other at a liquor shop, within 48 hours on May 31 and June 2, has been recovered by police.Both shootouts were masterminded by gangster Lawrence Bishnoi for a stake in the thriving liquor business in the region. Of the two liquor contractors from Chandigarh being targeted, police officials say, these were “planned to intimidate liquor contractors of Chandigarh and thereby capture stakes in liquor shop contracts, similar to what has been done in Haryana.”The police on Thursday night recovered the vehicle from the farmhouse of one Manjinder Singh Virk in Kumhar Majra village in Kurukshetra. Virk, also a member of Bishnoi’s gang, was on the run. He was involved in firing at a liquor contractor in Shahbad, Punjab, and had attempt to murder and Arms Act cases registered against him in Haryana.Investigations in the Chandigarh firing cases revealed that Virk with two other men, Mandeep alias Jeona of Ambala and Ranjit Singh alias Janty of Ismailabad, Kurukshetra, accompanied shooters Amarpreet alias Rinku alias Topi and Devender Chawla for executing the firing incident at the Sector 9 liquor shop.A night before executing the crime, all the men stayed in a flat in Kharar, Punjab.The Toyota Fortuner was used in the Sector 33 firing for carrying some gunmen who were moved later into a Ford Ikon car which also picked up the main shooter Nitin Nahar.After executing the crime, the men drove the Ikon to where the Fortuner was parked and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/main-gunman-in-sector-33-firing-arrested/story-4miIyykLmJCgZf1BagcaPJ.html
19-06-2020||Gurugram||State health department to conduct sero-survey to detect community transmission||To detect the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the city, the state health department has started conducting sero-survey by testing blood serum of a group of people from a community. Gurugram, with 4136 cases, so far had witnessed the highest number of cases in Haryana. The sero-survey, officials said, will help them detect the community transmission of the disease, if any.At least 450 people in the city will be covered under the survey. Along with Gurugram, four other affected districts — Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat — will also be covered in the survey. Earlier, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had conducted the sero-suvey in 75 districts across the country and found that less than one percent of the population — 0.73% — in the non-containment zone had contracted the virus. “The sero-survey is being done in the state to estimate the proportion of population exposed to Covid-19 infection, including asymptomatic individuals. It is a process to check undetected community transmission. The survey will be conducted in the high-risk or vulnerable population zones, where people have been infected in the past and have now recovered and also those who tested negative for coronavirus,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department.Community transmission of a disease happens when the source of infection can no longer be traced, leading to difficulty in containing it. Gurugram has currently breached the 4,000 mark in Covid-19 cases, and going by future projections, the number can reach up to 9,000 by the end of June. According to Arora, depending upon the seroprevalence of infection, the state can plan appropriate healthcare interventions.“The sero-survey includes IgG Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) test. For the survey, five millilitre blood samples will be collected. The sample will be put in a machine, which will separate blood and plasma. The plasma is then used to detect antibodies developed against coronavirus in the body. The IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episodes of Covid-19 infections in the past.”Studies show that the IgG antibodies start appearing after two weeks of the onset of infection. Even if the patient has recovered, antibodies last for several months. The IgG ELISA test is approved by the ICMR, for it has high sensitivity and specificity.The state has provided required kits to five districts. Since it is a survey, only limited number of kits have been provided. Ambala and Panchkula have got two kits each, while Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonipat has got five kits each. Each kit can test at least 90 samples, which can be tested together in a single run of two and a half hours.“At least 50% of the kit will be used on already confirmed positive patients, having history of confirmation in the last two weeks. The remaining will be used on those who were confirmed negative,” said Arora, adding that district -level team will collect 30 samples per day, maintaining rural-urban ratio. For the survey,samples will be collected from people having co-morbidity issues, from containment zones, health care workers, security and police personnel, rural population after reverse migration, labourers, farmers, staff in government agencies, among others, as per ICMR guidelines. The Haryana government has added few other sections of community — like pre-operative patients and pregnant women residing in containment zones who are likely to deliver in a week, and all elderly vulnerable population living in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-health-department-to-conduct-sero-survey-to-detect-community-transmission/story-hGlfRaOwf42owNDHW3lzmJ.html
19-06-2020||City||Delhi government joins hands with civil society groups in fight against Covid-19||New Delhi: The Delhi government’s Information Technology department will set up a web portal where people who want to take part in the city’s Covid-19 management efforts can sign up, said senior officials on Friday, in a move aimed at simplifying the registration process for NGOs, civil society groups and individuals.The direction, issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, is part of the Delhi government’s augmentation plan, which demands more people be roped in to take part in various aspects of the fight against the infectious disease in the coming days.The volunteers will be engaged in several tasks, including surveillance, managing patients under home isolation, working with government helplines, assisting senior citizens, and helping officials in makeshift Covid facilities being set up by the government, Dev said.The volunteers should be between 18 and 55 years of age, physically “fit” and free of Covid symptoms, read the order that HT has seen.“A volunteer’s fitness, in this case, will be determined through a basic screening process. It primarily means no co-morbid conditions,” a senior government official said.The official said preference should be given to people who have recovered from Covid, as a “confidence-building measure”.In the same order, the government also directed all district magistrates in Delhi to use the same web portal for registration of National Cadet Corps, Scouts, and National Service Scheme cadets for management work. The cadets shall be roped in for the same roles applicable to NGOs, civil society groups and individual volunteers, the order read.The order is based on directions between Union home minister Amit Shah, Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a meeting on Sunday, said the senior government official quoted above.Kejriwal had said last week that the Capital is likely to have around 550,000 cases of Covid-19 by July 31, and would need at least 80,000 beds ready. The government had started a health care infrastructure augmentation drive after the city started recording over 1,000 cases per day on an average May 28 onwards.The government is also likely to induct around 12,000 more civil defence volunteers — taking their strength to around 25,000 — by next week and use their services in the augmentation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-government-joins-hands-with-civil-society-groups-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-l6O7N70N0tpZHravy9NSnK.html
19-06-2020||Gurugram||Home owners at housing project offer over 150 flats for isolating Covid-19 patients||The home owners of a delayed project in Gurugram sector 33 have proposed to the government to complete and use over 150 flats as isolation centres for treating Covid-19 patients. An association of homeowners in Unitech’s ‘The Residences’ said that in view of the increase in the number of Covid-19 patients in the city and need for such facilities, they were ready to offer flats located in the three towers of G Block. However, these flats are only 95 per cent complete and the pending work, which includes water, sewage and electricity connections and bathrooms, can be done jointly completed by the owners and the government, the association said. The project was launched in 2008 and was to be delivered in 2012. There are around 1300 flats in the entire project out of which 50 per cent are occupied, the association added. Suraj Singh, who represents the G block residents, had sent the proposal in this regard to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday. The home buyers will share the cost of completing the necessary construction work. “We are ready to offer 156 such flats to the authorities to be used for treating Covid-19 patients. Our estimate is that 400 good quality rooms with attached facilities could be made available if the offer is accepted,” said Singh.The total amount needed to complete these flats is around ₹6 crore and the buyers are ready to contribute ₹1.56 crore, and six weeks later contribute ₹83 lakh more. “The 156 families of G Block in The Residences have also decided that we will not ask for possession of our homes this fiscal i.e till 31st March 2021 and that it can be used by the Government of Haryana till then,” the letter to the CM said. “The buyers of these flats are not residents of the project and these towers are separate and secluded, and there would be no problem for other residents,” he said. In January, the central government had offered to take over the company and complete the flat; this was accepted by the Supreme Court. Suraj Singh said that the offered flats could be made operational in a matter of a few weeks using the existing material and infrastructure. “It is also located near Subash Chowk and health care experts from top private hospitals that are nearby can come to treat patients. The stranded migrant labour in the city can also get livelihood in the project,” he added.To boost the number of beds available for quarantine of Covid-19 patients, the Gurugram administration last week had said that it was working out a plan with RWAs to set up quarantine facilities in condominiums and community centres wherever these are feasible. Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, Gurugram, said on Friday that 400 isolation centres in city; urban and rural areas are being created to ensure adequate quarantine facilities are available to treat the patients. “At present we have 4500 hospital beds available for treatment of patients and the numbers are being increasd further,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, the district magistrate could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/home-owners-at-housing-project-offer-over-150-flats-for-isolating-covid-19-patients/story-9MtnoPxc2H5PLZVPEFiFLI.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||PSEB planning to allow Meritorious School students to appear in board exams from their home districts||The Punjab School Education Board is planning to allow students of Meritorious Schools to appear for the pending board exams in areas where they are residing. These students will be allotted exam centres at schools closest to where they reside by the board.Board officials have collected information from Meritorious Schools and Ludhiana Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students, according to which out of the 450 students of Class 12, 200 of them are from other districts.Over 50 students belong to Moga, 35 to Barnala, 23 each from Bathinda and Sangrur, 16 to Faridkot, 11 to Mukstar, 10 from Fazilka, 9 from Jalandhar, six from Mansa, four each from SBS Nagar and Ferozepur, two each from Patiala, Rupnagar and Fatehgarh Sahib and one each from Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Pathankot. There are 10 Meritorious Schools across Punjab and majority of the students studying in these schools belong to other districts.Board officials have sought information from Meritorious Schools regarding students from other districts so that a decision can be taken on allowing them to appear for the exams in their own district. With the number of Covid-19 cases surging in the state over the last 10 days, it will be risky for the students to move from one district to another. The board is yet to declare the date sheet for the Class 12 board exams that are expected to be held in July. The board has recently gathered information regarding the number of containment zones and exam centres converted to quarantine centers from the district education officers. Janak Raj Mehrok, the board’s examination controller, said, “We have sought information from Meritorious Schools and are trying to adjust students in exam centres near their homes in their district. We have received details and are in the process of taking a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pseb-planning-to-allow-meritorious-school-students-to-appear-in-board-exams-from-their-home-districts/story-PPgobTxAdHIEP02iEl9xHI.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi University admission process begins online from Saturday||The registration process for admissions to Delhi University’s various undergraduate, postgraduate, Mphil, and PhD courses is set to begin on Saturday. Applicants can visit the university’s registration portal on Saturday and register for the courses.Last year, the online registration process took place between May 30 and June 22 and the first cut-off was announced on June 28. The admission process has been delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The registration portal will open on Saturday and applicants can register till July 4. Students will be given a second chance to update their marks once the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announces its results,” a member of the admission committee said, requesting anonymity.Due to the Covid-19 crisis, CBSE had rescheduled all its remaining Class 12 exams. The exams of 12 major subjects are now scheduled to take place between July 1 and 15. However, while hearing a plea, the Supreme Court on Wednesday has asked the board to consider alternatives like marking students based on internal assessments instead of exams during the pandemic.“We are not sure about the cut-off date since we don’t know when CBSE results will be declared. As per the tentative plans, students will get about 10 days to enter their marks following CBSE results. The first cut-off will be released a week later,” a DU official said, requesting anonymity.This year, the admission process will be carried out completely online. Instead of the Open Day events held every year to clarify doubts at the campus, the admission committee will conduct online sessions for applicants with queries. Several other measures have been put in place to ensure that admissions are conducted smoothly.Manoj Sinha, the principal of Aryabhatta College and secretary of DU Principals’ Association, said, “While discussing this year’s admission policies with principals, the admission committee informed us that there will be no percentage deduction when students are changing their streams in undergraduate courses.”Earlier, students willing to change streams during the undergraduate courses had to undergo a percentage deduction which varied across colleges. This year, colleges won’t have any additional criteria for admission such as interviews for different courses.But Delhi University is yet to announce this change. Officials privy to the development said DU may announce it in its admission bulletin on Saturday. Trials for sports and extracurricular activities (ECA) won’t be conducted this year due to Covid-19 crisis. Admissions to sports candidates across 27 disciplines will be granted entirely based on their certificates. For ECA, the university will only take admissions based on National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) certificates instead of the 14 activities listed every year, including dance, music, debates, creative writing, and fine arts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-university-admission-process-begins-online-from-saturday/story-ReTGnPCAo5mu3gI5V9K1PM.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Treat plea to set up counselling centres as representation: HC to govt||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the authorities to treat a plea that sought the setting up of counselling centres in all the districts of the city as representation. The plea stated that due to the nationwide lockdown and Covid-19, people were facing a lot of psychological issues such as depression, anxiety and suicidal tendencies.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice C Hari Shankar asked the Delhi government to look into the plea filed by advocate Sunil Kumar who had contended that the nationwide lockdown, when most people were not allowed to step out on the roads and asked to stay at home for over two months, had led to psychological issues According to the petitioner, the court has directed the city government to constitute a committee to look into the issue. A detailed order on the matter is yet to be uploaded on the website of the Delhi High Court.The petition, which was disposed of, has stated that even though the Central and Delhi government are doing their bit to deal with Covid-19, the psychological aspects have not been dealt with properly, resulting in rising cases of suicide, depression, anxiety, stress and other related issues in people from all walks of life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/treat-plea-to-set-up-counselling-centres-as-representation-hc-to-govt/story-3j256xR2Y7wo8ZLWXx3cyO.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||HC seeks govt response on plea seeking schemes for orphans||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea seeking a detailed scheme for the education, living and other prospects for orphans, who are suffering due to a lack of government policies for them during the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued a notice to the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Delhi government and its Department of Social Welfare based on a petition by asocial worker Harpal Singh Rana.The plea filed through advocate Akhil Rana, had sought the information through the Right to Information (RTI) Act for the welfare schemes introduced by the government for the welfare, education and living arrangements for orphaned children. He said the information he received varied with respect to the orphan children.The plea also referred to three-four cases wherein children who lost their parents and were living with grandparents and depended on them. The petition contended that a child with six siblings, whose parents died, had applied to the Social Welfare Department which told him that the department only provides old-age pension, disability pension and financial assistance (Delhi Family Benefit Scheme).“In such cases, grandparents or other relatives who are residing with/ taking care of those children face great difficulty to maintain or educate the children due to non-availability of funds,” it said.“It is surprising that respondents (authorities) are providing pensions to old citizens and widows but they have no schemes and projects for these children who have lost their parents and are unable/ incapable to earn their livelihood,” the plea read.The matter will be now be heard on July 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-plea-seeking-schemes-for-orphans/story-jpm1KjFUEk3CqKeHdknMyH.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||FICO opposes finance ministry’s proposal to decriminalise cheque bounce offences||The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) has opposed the finance ministry’s proposal to decriminalise cheque bounce offences.The members rued that significant portion of business, whether retail or bulk, is being carried out through cheques and if the offence is decriminalised, there would be no fear in minds of offenders. FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said,“There seems to be no rationale in the proposed amendments and this will lead to chaos in settlement of financial deals, both personal and business. The decriminaliation of economic offences, especially cases of cheque bounce, will adversely affect working of business entities dealing on credit or postdated cheque basis. This move will certainly prove counterproductive as a potent and expeditious mechanism for recovery of loans through penal consequences.”General secretary Rajeev Jain said, “The provision was incorporated in the Negotiable Instrument Act, with the objective to defeat the criminal objectives of the persons, who intend to swallow the hard-earned money of the investors and entrepreneurs. Promoting efficiency in banking operations and ensuring credibility in transacting business through cheques was the intention reason behind making cheque bounce a non-bailable offence. Judicial interpretations followed from time to time and it was repeatedly held in various judicial pronouncements that Section 138 was meant to protect bona fide creditors against unscrupulous drawers who never intended to honour the cheques issued by them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fico-opposes-finance-ministry-s-proposal-to-decriminalise-cheque-bounce-offences/story-zbpYMDKwdCnvmr9197ZvNL.html
19-06-2020||City||UP govt appeals to people to celebrate yoga day||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government has asked all its employees and citizens to celebrate the International Yoga Day at home on June 21, saying that the move will help fight the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said. In Gautam Budh Nagar, district officials have appealed to various residents’ welfare associations and individuals to do yoga on the occasion and develop strength to fight the infection.“We have appealed to all social groups and individuals to celebrate the yoga day on June 21 on digital media platforms. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, large gatherings are prohibited. So, we can celebrate the day by doing yoga at home, make videos and put them on social networking sites,” said Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer to check Covid-19 outbreak in Gautam Budh Nagar. Bhooshan is also the chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority. Residents in the district have been requested to participate in the yoga day celebrations after the UP government’s Ayush department requested for the same.According to the officials, thehe state government has decided to celebrate the International Yoga Day with the theme: ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’. The celebrations virtually will begin at 7am on June 21 and all are requested to participate, make a three-minute video in some yoga postures and then upload the same at various social networking sites, tagging the Ayush department so that winners can be selected. The participants can upload the video with hashtag ‘mylifemyyogaindia’, said the officials.“The event will inspire people to do yoga, develop immunity to combat the global pandemic and strengthen the community in handling the ongoing crisis,” said Bhooshan.Prizes worth Rs 1 lakh, Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000 are to be presented for first, second and third positions.Noida residents are eagerly waiting for the yoga day celebrations on June 21. “For the past six years, we are regularly celebrating the yoga day together at large events. But this year due to coronavirus outbreak, we will celebrate yoga at home and make videos,” said Neeraj Acharya, a yoga teacher and resident of Sector 70.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-appeals-to-people-to-celebrate-yoga-day/story-BE9Ea27tflPXKNgvwkBv3J.html
19-06-2020||Noida||Sharda Hospital may soon offer 200 beds in paid private ward for Covid-19 patients||Sharda Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital with a testing centre in Greater Noida, has requested the district administration to permit it to start an air-conditioned paid private ward with additional 200 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.The hospital, which on Friday discharged 26 out of the 56 Covid cases under its care, has said that they have been facing pressure from the local community for private testing and admission for treatment.The hospital administration said that the private ward would be affordable for all and while the medical treatment offered would be the same, it will have facilities like air conditioning and privacy for patients. If they get the nod, then the total number of Covid beds offered by the hospital will go up to 600. Currently the hospital has infrastructure for attending up to 400 patients in isolation and ICU wards. The patients are allotted by the state Covid portal by the district health department.“The wards are almost ready and we are just waiting for the approval for which we have submitted the request earlier this week. We will be submitting another request seeking approval soon,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, joint registrar and PRO Sharda University, which runs Sharda Hospital.He said that the private ward will have about 200 beds and will coem up at the School of Medical science and Research. Of the 200 beds on offer, 50 will be in separate rooms and 150 in smaller wards all with the facility of air conditioning.“Sharda hospital has been catering to the Sharda University community comprising over 2,000 faculty, staff, and their relatives. At the moment there is real societal pressure on us to accommodate patients who are living in nearby areas,” read a letter by Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, medical superintendent, Sharda Hospital has hence requested the government to allow it to start paid Covid ward for 200 patients at nominal cost, he added. Recently the UP government has allowed four private hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar district to admit paid private patients for Covid-19 treatment. Officials of teh district administration said they are looking into the matter.“The concerned department is looking into the matter. They will take a call on the matter,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sharda-hospital-may-soon-offer-200-beds-in-paid-private-ward-for-covid-19-patients/story-T5PyOmlKbNCqafXu9eBm1M.html
19-06-2020||City||Nine deaths by suicide in two days in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad||PUNE: Nine deaths by suicide were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas in two days, police said on Friday. Some of the deaths, police said, are related to financial distress caused by the economic disruption during the Covid-19 lockdown.In Pune, four members of a family were found dead in their flat on Friday morning in the Bharti Vidyapeeth police station jurisdiction, according to Pune police, who said they found a suicide note from the apartment stating, “Nobody should be blamed for our deaths.”The four members of the family include a man and his wife in their 30s, and their two children. It is possible that the parents killed the children first before dying by suicide, police said.Deputy commissioner of police Shirish Sardeshpande said preliminary reports suggest the family was in financial distress caused by the Covid-19-induced lockdown.In a separate case, a 45-year-old businessman from Sinhgad died by suicide on Thursday. He was found in his apartment by his brother, who rushed him to the hospital, but was declared dead on arrival.In Wakad, a 32-year-old IT professional was found dead in his apartment on Thursday afternoon. The police said it could be a case of suicide, as a note was found in the house. “The note was not addressed to anyone. It said nobody was to be blamed for the step that he was taking,” said Wakad station house officer Ravindra Mudol. This was the second incident in Wakad where another man, aged 40, killed himself on Friday.In a third incident in Wakad, a 40-year-old man was found dead in his house, in a case of apparent death by suicide. He lived alone, police said.“Each person who has ended their life may have his or her own reason. There’s of course an impact of overall current atmosphere on everyone, while at the same time many of those who end lives may have depression, although it may not necessarily be the cause,” said Dr Soumitra Pathare, psychiatrist and director, Centre for Mental Health Law and Policy, Indian Law Society (ILS).On Friday evening, a Chinchwad man (30) who worked as a contract employee in a private firm was found dead in his house. “He was recently married, but his wife was at her parents’ place out of the city when the incident took place,” police said. Another man (30) from Pimple-Gurav died by suicide on Friday. He was single and lived with his mother, police said.Government counsellor Vaishali Ranade said, “There are a number of reasons behind the increase in such incidents. Job losses in the Covid crisis have created economic insecurity and anxiety, and this is compounded by a lack of communication. Also, we notice that young people have put wealth at the centre of their existence. We will have to learn to decide our limitations and face challenges with what we have got.”Wakad police counsel man away from drastic step The Wakad police have been applauded for their efforts in weaning away a 30-year-old person who was going to attempt suicide on Friday.According to information released by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate, “The victim called the PCMC police and expressed his desire to commit suicide, citing the reason behind his decision.”The Wakad police realised the seriousness of the situation, sent a patrol team to the location and counselled him after which the man decided to opt away from his drastic decision, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-deaths-by-suicide-in-two-days-in-pune-and-pimpri-chinchwad/story-3T84U2QOS6BTnSARiurQCN.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Vendors at Ludhiana railway station out of work due to limited trains, low footfall of passengers||Rail services were partially restored 19 days ago, but over 75 vendors are still without work due to low footfall of passengers at the railway station here. Vendors said, earlier, around 150 to 200 trains used to traverse from Ludhiana with a footfall of around 80,000 passengers daily and they were able to earn their living by selling eatables. But, now there are very few passengers and many of them do not want to buy or eat from the stalls anything due to coronavirus scare.A visit to the railway station revealed that all the stalls and trolleys provided at platform numbers from 1 to 7 are closed and not operational.It was found that most vendors hailed from Himachal Pradesh and they went back to their hometowns when lockdown was imposed.Those belonging to Ludhiana have returned to run their stalls and trolleys, but with only 9 pairs of trains passing the station daily, they do not have enough customers.A majority of the stalls and moving trolleys sell food items such as ‘chhole kulche’, chips, cold drinks, biscuits, water bottles, etc to passengers at the station. Secretary of the Vendors’ Cooperative Society Ram Swaroop said, “After the Railways suspended train services in March due to lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, all vendors lost their source of income and have been without work since then.” He said, “There are many vendors, who are above 55, and working at the station for the past 25 to 30 years here, but, with the changed situation due to Covid-19, it may not be possible for them to get back to work.”Suresh Kumar, a 41-year-old vendor, said, “I want to get back to work but, as the number of corona cases has been on the rise, my family is not allowing me to do so. I have exhausted all my savings during the last three months and now I depend on the NGO, which is providing one-time meal to the poor. The Railways must resume train services so that vendors are able to earn their living.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vendors-at-ludhiana-railway-station-out-of-work-due-to-limited-trains-low-footfall-of-passengers/story-k40U5zsWrb4vRyKSW81xZO.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Covid-19 positivity rate highest in tricity, Mohali, P’kula carry out more tests||Even though Chandigarh has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the tricity, its testing fewer people than those in Mohali and Panchkula districts, because of which its test positivity rate is the highest in the tricity.Positivity rates are determined by dividing the number of tests conducted by the number of cases testing positive. Chandigarh, with a Covid-19 count of 381, has conducted 6,438 tests so far with a test positivity rate of 6%. This percentage is much higher than that of Mohali (1.9%) where 10,467 individuals have been tested and 208 found infected.Panchkula follows Mohali with 7,615 tests, of which 124 have tested positive but only 79 are from the district and the positivity rate is 1%.Defending their numbers, health authorities in Chandigarh claim their screening processes are very effective and have helped them successfully detect and sample suspected cases.On the high positivity rates, Dr KK Talwar, former director, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), says one of the reasons for the higher numbers could be testing of high-risk persons and contacts in cluster areas, especially during the outbreak at Bapu Dham Colony.Intensive screening in high-risk areas“A number of reasons could be involved, including concentrated testing. So as you test more high-risk people the test positivity rate is bound to increase,” he added. Indranil Banerjee, an expert in infectious diseases caused by emerging human pathogenic viruses at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali, said the numbers indicated that more infections had come to the fore in Chandigarh as cluster areas emerged. “So when you test more people in those areas the positivity rate will increase. But, these numbers are volatile and can go up if a hotspot emerges and the number of infected people grows.” A community health expert at PGIMER, wishing to remain anonymous, suggested that as asymptomatic people at Bapu Dham Colony, were not currently being tested, the test positivity rates could come down. ‘Rates could come down soon’“Chandigarh has been following Central government guidelines religiously which do not include testing of asymptomatic patients with no contacts. At the same time, we have a larger population in slums, which have been the hotbed of infection. Also, Chandigarh is a major transit point. Larger population movement leads to greater transmission,” he added.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, said that right from day one the focus was on testing as many persons as possible who fit in the criteria.“I had given orders for testing people even with the slightest of the symptoms, which actually helps in isolating the infected persons and thus spread the infection. Contacts are aggressively traced and mandatorily tested. This has kept our infection spread low and the recent spike is due to the movement of people from hotspots outside the state,” he added.When questioned about the high positivity rate, the UT director, health services, Dr G Dewan, said, “ I can put it this way that our strategy is very good wherein we are able to detect the suspects during screening and only they are taken up for sampling. Their turning out positive only corroborates the fact that our screening is good.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-19-positivity-rate-highest-in-tricity-mohali-p-kula-carry-out-more-tests/story-oGEnULHe0gKzSxX4qg6mIM.html
19-06-2020||Noida||Noida district puts SDMs, city magistrates in driver’s seat to control Covid-19||In a bid to control the rapid increase in the number of cases of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in the district, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration has decentralised the decision-making process and has put all incident commanders in the driver’s seat for handling all Covid-19 related efforts in their zones.The sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and city magistrates in each of the five zones in the district—Noida, Dadri, Greater Noida, Sadar, and Jewar—have been given the power to take decisions on measures to contain the pandemic and will be responsible for reducing the number of Covid-19 cases in areas under their jurisdictions.Earlier the key decisions were being made by district magistrate, chief medical officer, and surveillance officer, regarding containment zones, screening of people, and other issues, while SDMs and city magistrates were responsible for implementing the same on the ground.“Now we have made SDMs and city magistrates as head of their respective zones. They can take prompt decisions and work according to the situation in their respective areas. Now, the health team that used to report to the CMO will work in tandem with the SDM or the city magistrate. This is to take some workload off the CMO and to take quick decisions on the ground. Our motive is to reduce the rapid rise in the positive cases,” said Narendra Bhooshan, senior IAS officer, who is the nodal officer for the Gautam Budh Nagar district.The district has 1,262 Covid-19 cases so far. There are nearly 240 containment zones. including 140 category 1 containment zones and 100 category 2 containment zones in the district so far, said officials. Areas in containment zone category 1 have one positive case and a radius of around 250 metres, while category 2 containment zones have more than one positive case and is spread over around a 500m radius.The SDMs and city magistrates will now have to focus on contact tracing and door-to-door screening of patients in their areas. “Each SDM and city magistrate now needs to engage themselves in conducting contact tracing and door-to-door screening of patients. There are 600 teams for five zones for the purpose, and each team has at least two health care workers. These teams will screen residents door-to-door to identify those who may be infected so that the suspected Covid-19 patients can get treatment without any delay,” said Bhooshan. Every district in UP has a senior IAS officer appointed as a nodal officer to look after Covid-19 efforts and work effectively to contain the virus. In the neighbouring district of Ghaziabad, district magistrate (DM) Ajay Shankar Pandey has directed the health department to set up helpdesks at different areas across the city to screen people for Covid-19.The help desk will be set up at primary health centres, government hospitals, municipal commissioner office, district magistrate office, all zonal offices of Ghaziabad municipal corporation, and all municipal councils of the Ghaziabad district and other offices.“People will be screened at the help desk and those who need it will be provided immediate medical help. Anyone can reach the desk and get themselves screened. Health workers will also provide important information on Covid-19,” said Pandey. The move to set up help desks in the city is to identify infected patients quickly so that the appropriate decisions to contain the spread can be taken immediately, said, officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-puts-sdms-in-driver-s-seat-to-take-covid-19-control-measures/story-1UzDosJ1fXeyCbhUayvTHO.html
19-06-2020||City||Noida: Three-point plan to contain Covid-19 spread and reduce death rate||NOIDA: To deal with the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district health department has been asked to implement a three-pronged strategy -- early detection of infection, better treatment and immediate testing of a non-Covid patient admitted in any hospital, said Narendra Bhooshan, the chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority, who is the nodal officer for the district to combat the infection. The district had 1,262 Covid-19 patients till June 19, while 18 people died due to the infection. After the resumption of economic activities and opening up of public places, the administration is facing a challenge to prevent the rapid spread of the infection. Till June 3, there were 496 positive cases in the district. However, 766 new cases have been reported between June 3 and June 19, said the officials. The three-point plan is the key to reduce the mortality rate and also flatten the rising curve, Bhooshan said.“Recently, two deaths took place due to late detection of the Covid-19 infection. To make sure it does not happen in future, we have directed all hospitals, be it government or private, that first conduct Covid-19 test of a patient who comes for treatment,” said Bhooshan. To identify positive patients at initial stage of infection, mass screening needs to be done, Bhooshan said, adding that for better treatment, doctors are told to closely monitor the health of each patient and promptly provide oxygen if need arises. “We want to follow state government guidelines strictly to prevent the spread of disease. We have directed the health staff to identify the Covid-19 patients at the early stage so that the treatment starts immediately. If any hospital, be it private or government, fails to follow instructions and does not conduct test on the day of admission, then we will take legal action against such hospital,” said Bhooshan.On Friday, Bhooshan also conducted inspection in Sector 134, Shahpur and Govardhan villages, which are containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-three-point-plan-to-contain-covid-19-spread-and-reduce-death-rate/story-14hpqpk2f0dJxzHiobYlMJ.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Schools unable to meet cost can approach govt: Punjab to HC||The Punjab government has categorically told Punjab and Haryana high court that private schools should not be allowed to charge anything beyond tuition fee for the lockdown period owing to Covid-19 outbreak. “If any schools on account of charging tuition fee, as directed by government on May 14, are unable to meet its expenses, they are at liberty to approach district education officer with the plea. It would be looked into as to whether the school can recover other charges from parents,” the state has told the court.The response came as court had asked the state to clarify whether schools can recover other charges for the lockdown period from parents after it is over.The state has told court that other charges for the duration of the lockdown have been waived off as per May 14 order and would continue to be waived off till the time situation normalises. However, schools would be permitted to these charges at a pro rate basis once the schools open for remaining months. The court was told that as per May 14 order schools were to re-schedule the payment of new admission fee and collection of tuition fee only was permitted during lockdown. So charges such as building charges transportation and meals etc is not to be charged, the court was told. The response has come in a plea filed by schools and parents from Punjab over collection of fee amid Covid-19 outbreak. On May 22, the HC, acting on schools’ plea, had allowed them to charge 70% fee from students for the academic year 2020-2021. The court had also allowed schools to charge admission fee in two half-yearly instalments. The decision had resulted in widespread protests by parents in Punjab. Now Punjab government as well as a section of parents are seeking modification of May 22 order. The high court on Friday after hearing all the parties has reserved the petitions for final judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schools-unable-to-meet-cost-can-approach-govt-punjab-to-hc/story-NqxSiNivkcbrgQBhppALpK.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Employees cannot claim right in official accommodation post retirement: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday said that an employer provides accommodation so as to make it convenient for its employees to work and an employee cannot claim any right in the official accommodation particularly when he/she is no more in service.The high court dismissed a plea of a former Panjab University employee who had submitted that his retiral dues have not been released and therefore, he cannot be directed to hand over the vacant possession of the accommodation given to him while in service. He retired in August 2018, when he did not vacate the premises by September 2019, the varsity slapped a notice to vacate the same or face eviction proceedings.Varsity had told the court that the petitioner himself is guilty as he has not submitted “No Dues Certificates” from the estate cell and the rent recovery cell. “The total retiral dues to which the petitioner is entitled to is ₹21,97,012, whereas his liabilities including various orders of attachment passed by the executing courts come to ₹39,36,980,” the court was told adding that he was entitled to retain accommodation for a period of three months after his retirement.The court dismissing his plea observing that petitioner has failed come up with a rule or instructions entitling a retired employee to withhold the delivery of possession of the official accommodation in the absence of settlement of the retiral dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/employees-cannot-claim-right-in-official-accommodation-post-retirement-hc/story-nZT4efx719NNyffdpF68HO.html
19-06-2020||City||Peak power demand crosses 6,000 MW-mark as humidity rises||New Delhi: The peak power demand of Delhi crossed the 6,000 MW-mark for the first time this summer on Thursday night. Power department officials said the power demand is going to increase further in the coming days as humidity levels rise ahead of the monsoon season.The peak demand soared to 6,193 MW at 10.43 pm on Thursday and the previous high of the season was 5,895 MW on Wednesday, said power department officials.On Thursday, in some pockets of the city, the temperature soared to 46 degree Celsius. IMD forecast said there will be some relief from Saturday when light showers are expected before the monsoon hits the city from June 22.“In just 24 hours, Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by over 3%,” said a spokesperson of BSES discom. The BSES discoms BRPL and BYPL successfully met the peak power demand, he said.Last year, Delhi’s peak power demand clocked 7,409 MW in July. This year Delhi’s peak power demand is expected to cross 7,500 MW-mark.Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by around 50% since easing of lockdown restrictions on May 18. Also, since June 1, the peak power demand has increased by over 62%, said discom officials. “The BSES discoms are fully geared to ensure adequate power availability during the summer months. Arrangements have been firmed up to source adequate electricity to meet the demand of over 44 lakh consumers. These arrangements include long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) and banking arrangements of up to 800 MW with other states. In case of unforeseen contingencies because of low generation and outages in power plants, the discoms will purchase short-term power from the exchange,” the discom said in a statement.Delhi’s maximum temperature on Friday was 41.2 degree Celsius. However, the heat index (the temperature that is felt by the human body) was as much as 50 degree Celsius, and this was because of the high humidity levels that oscillated between 40% and 70%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/peak-power-demand-crosses-6-000-mw-mark-as-humidity-rises/story-BkiKHPKbZyy8YqEEbq9T3K.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Industries to play major role in bringing inclusive, sustainable growth back: CII northern region chairman||The Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) theme for the northern region this year will focus on building India for a new world with a focus on lives, livelihoods, and growth—a collaborative North. This was disclosed by the chairman of CII Northern Region, Nikhil Sawhney in a virtual interaction on Friday.“Our interventions on the ground range from policy advocacy, support services for businesses, and information services to providing real-time updates on policy announcements and working with the central and state governments by providing inputs on next steps to tide over the health emergency,” he saidTalking about the problems faced by micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Chandigarh, Sawhney said, “We industrialists will have to work with our vendors, especially with MSMEs to ensure that progress is across the value chain. Hence, the industry has a major role to play along with the government in bringing inclusive and sustainable growth back.”He added that CII will work closely with the government to provide incentives and facilitation to companies wanting to shift their manufacturing operations out of China as part of their de-risking strategy. CII Northern Region has also recommended to all the state governments in the region to spend 10% of their GSDP as a package to give a big push for the economic revival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/industries-to-play-major-role-in-bringing-inclusive-sustainable-growth-back-cii-northern-region-chairman/story-VauVBggeh0jyQCqQwyIwSL.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||IAS officers’ ACR taken out of mayors’ purview in Punjab civic bodies||After notifying Civil Services Board providing for fixed tenure to Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers, a move that did not go down well with the ruling party leaders, the Punjab government has now taken the annual confidential report (ACR) of IAS officers appointed as municipal commissioners out of the purview of mayors of civic bodies in the state. Punjab has 13 municipal corporations (MCs), with those in Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Patiala always having an IAS officer as the commissioner. An ACR is a confidential report, accessing the performance, character, conduct and qualities of the member of service, and helps in their career advancement.With the June 10 notification of the personnel department, undersigned by chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh, the post of mayor has been reduced to a mere rubber stamp, as all executive powers are already vested with the commissioner. The mayor only presides over meetings of the MC General House. Not only this, now instead of the local bodies minister, the chief minister is the final accepting authority of the ACR. Navjot Singh Sidhu, as the local bodies minister, had remained at loggerheads with municipal commissioners and had even recommended strict action against three IAS officers. According to the notification, now the administrative secretary of local bodies will be the reporting authority and will write the ACR, while the minister will be the reviewing authority and the chief minister the accepting authority. IAS officers had been lobbying for these changes to ACR rules for quiet some time.Former local bodies minister late Kewal Krishan, in a bid to give more powers to elected representatives, had allowed president of civic bodies to write the ACR of executive officers besides countersigning cheque books for withdrawal. Later, when the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act was framed, the power was given to mayors, giving them control over bureaucratic setup of the civic body.“After the fresh orders, the mayor is nothing more than a rubber stamp,” said Ajitpal Singh Kohli, a Shiromani Akali Dal leader who remained the Patiala mayor from 2013 to 2018. “The mayor is an elected representative and accountable to the public, which is why they were given the power to judge the working and write ACR of commissioners. Now, the commissioner has no accountability towards the mayor or political setup. Already all executive and financial powers are vested with the commissioner.”Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar said the matter has not come to his notice yet. “Already MLAs and party workers have approached me over the fixed tenure of IAS officers. This is a similar issue. I will convey sentiments of workers to the CM,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ias-officers-acr-taken-out-of-mayors-purview-in-punjab-civic-bodies/story-EcO6s3E6ZR7cKCkdvwQdxO.html
19-06-2020||City||FIR for ‘provocative’ poll speech: Sidhu unavailable Bihar cops stranded in Amritsar||Around a year after a case was registered against Navjot Singh Sidhu for allegedly demanding votes on the line of religion by appealing to the Muslims to unite and vote against PM Narendra Modi, a team of Bihar Police was in city to meet him in connection to the case but was left stranded as the minister was unavailabile.The FIR was lodged with Barsoi police station in Bihar’s Katihar district in April 2019 on directions of the election commission. As the national star campaigner for Congress, the cricketer-turned-politician was seeking vote for Congress’ Tariq Anwar at a rally at Barsoi.To grant bail to Sidhu in this case, two sub-inspector level police personnel, Javed Ahmad and Janardhan Ram, are making rounds of Sidhu’s house at a private township on the outskirt of the city since Wednesday, but have failed to meet him to deliver the documents so far and get his signatures for bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-for-provocative-poll-speech-sidhu-unavailable-bihar-cops-stranded-in-amritsar/story-CL4tZtmz3AvRsntLWdpljL.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||GST scam: Two more held in Patiala||In the chain of previous raids conducted by the state GST department in Rs 350 crore scam, two more persons have been arrested from Mandi Gobindgarh on Friday.The accused have been identified as Abhishek Modgil and Sahil Sharma, who were involved in the issuance of fake invoices. Additional excise and taxation commissioner Showkat Ahmad Parray said that during investigation, it was established that a network of firms was engaged in issuance of fake invoices and passing bogus input tax credit of Rs 45 crore to different firms.Fatehgarh Sahib assistant commissioner state tax, Sunita Batra, said that Modgil is a proprietor of four firms named M/s A.M. Enterprises Mandi Gobindgarh, M.P.S Enterprises Mandi Gobindgarh, M/s Mahadev Metals , Chandigarh and M/s ManiMahesh Alloys, Panchkula; while Sharma is a proprietor of M/s Sahil Enterprises and a partner in M/s A S Enterprises.“All beneficiaries who received fake invoices will be identified to recover tax,” she said. The department has also impounded 24 vehicles of iron scrap that did not have invoice or EWAY bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gst-scam-two-more-held-in-patiala/story-gADp1N6Ev4Jg0VTAYyzNcO.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t go easy on lockdown violators: Punjab health minister||Considering the emerging threat of Covid-19 across the Punjab with 217 new positive cases and nine deaths witnessed on Friday, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu instructed the civil surgeons to speed up the challaning of violators to ensure stringent compliance of guidelines in public places, markets and vegetable markets of urban areas.The minister directed the civil surgeons to immediately file latest report giving details of containment and micro-containment zones to head quarter for swiftly planning of action plan.After getting significant inputs from the district, state-level authorities could assess the ground reality of areas to take further concrete decision and to stop the affect the virus in specific areas by mapping and monitoring the prompt activities of RRTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-go-easy-on-lockdown-violators-punjab-health-minister/story-hOgBzMdaWUD4HMZXbzeCOP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nine deaths, 217 more test positive in Punjab||Punjab on Friday reported nine deaths and 217 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the state’s tally to 3,832, as per the bulletin released by the state government. The state has so far reported 92 deaths. While Amritsar and Jalandhar reported two deaths each, Moga, Barnala, Sangrur, Jalandhar, Patiala and Tarn Taran districts had one fatality each. A 107-year-old man and three other patients succumbed to Covid-19 at Amritsar hospitals. “The 107-year-old man of Golden Temple area, was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on June 17. As he complained of breathlessness, his Covid-19 test was conducted and the reports came out to be positive. The patient also had co-morbidities and he died on Friday,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore, adding that he is the oldest man in Punjab to succumb of Covid-19.Three other people — a 68-year-old man of Katra Khazana, 53-year-old woman of Uttam Nagar on Sultanwind Road and 64-year-old man of Gujrati Basti, died of the disease at private hospitals.Besides, Amritsar district reported 42 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, of which 27 are community transmission cases. Pathankot deputy commissioner GS Khaira said two more people of the district tested positive for Covid-19. 50-YEAR-OLD CANCER PATIENTS DIES IN MOGAA 50-year-old Covid-19 patient from Moga, who was also suffering from liver cancer, died on Thursday night. Civil surgeon Dr Amarjeet Kaur Bajwa said that Tajinder Singh of Moga was admitted at Mohandai Oswal Hospital in Ludhiana for cancer treatment on June 17. “He was discharged from the hospital on Thursday morning but during the day he tested positive. He passed away at 10.30pm on Thursday. The district administration conducted the cremation as per the protocol,” she said.Meanwhile, five persons of Kotkapura town in Faridkot tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that of them, two residents of Prem Nagar are contacts of a positive patient admitted at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Ludhiana.A 17-year-old girl from Fazilka town also tested positive on Friday. The patient has no recent travel history but her parents visited Delhi and their samples have been sent to the laboratory for testing.A 33-year-old Barnala resident succumbed to Covid-19 at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Model Town, Ludhiana. Besides, 25 persons, of which 22 were from Ludhiana, tested positive. WITH 78 CASES, JALANDHAR SEES BIGGEST SINGLE-DAY SPIKEIn the biggest single-day spike so far, 78 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on. Officials said 26 persons were contacts of positive patients, 7 people were domestic travellers, 6 cops, 7 pregnant ladies, 2 prisoners and 30 new patients who were tested positive of virus infection. EIGHT NEW CASES IN PATIALAEight persons have been tested positive in Patiala district on Friday. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said among positive cases, five were from Patiala and one each from Nabha, Patran and Rajpura.One person died and 12 tested positive for coronavirus in Sangrur on Friday. These patients included police personnel, migrant labourers and some contacts of old Covid-19 victims. The health department officials said that a 75-year-old woman Saddiqan of Malerkotla had died at CMC Ludhiana on June 17 but the death was counted on Friday. Five more people from Kapurthala tested positive for COVID-19 in Kapurthala while one patient from Kapurthala died in PGI.Six people, including a family of migrant workers, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Muktsar district on Friday. Epidemiologist Dr Vikram Kumar said a family of migrant labourers, comprising four members, including a four-year-old child had tested positive. The family had come to Punjab from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh. Two other patients had a travelled from Delhi. The patients were admitted at an isolation facility in Muktsar city.In Bathinda, three fresh cases of coronavirus cases, including a woman, were reported on Friday. A spokesperson of the district administration said two of the patients had come from Uttar Pradesh while one had travelled from Gurugram.Besides, five more coronavirus positive cases were reported in Hoshiarpur 23 Ferozepur zila parishad staffers home quarantined Twenty-three employees of the Ferozepur zila parishad have been home quarantined after additional deputy commissioner (development) Ravinder Pal Singh tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Ferozepur ADC (general) Ravinder Singh said tracing of other possible infected persons is still on. Prior to his test, the official was discharging duties at his ZP complex office, including distributing cheques among beneficiaries of government welfare schemes and meeting public.KHAMANO DSP OFFICE CLOSED AFTER COMPUTER OPERATOR TESTS +VE Patiala: The deputy superintendent office of Khamano in Fatehgarh Sahib district has been closed temporarily after its computer operator tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. The 30-year-old woman constable is presently admitted to Gian Sagar hospital in Banur.DSP Dharampal Singh, who self isolated himself, said the office has been closed as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-deaths-217-more-test-positive-in-punjab/story-dkMBjqUWqsPEofHCNZAjEK.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab horticulture dept launches ‘farm to fork’ programme||The Punjab horticulture department has started a ‘farm to fork’ programme under which at least 854 farmers of five districts – Ludhiana, Amritsar, Mohali, Patiala, Sangrur and Mansa – have been roped in to supply seasonal vegetables and fruits in the cities and town falling in vicinity of the growers.These farmers who grow vegetables over 1,383 acre are part of 48 interest groups. “The idea came in after March 22 when lockdown was imposed. We created informal self-help groups, who supplied fresh produce to resident welfare associations in cities and towns,” said Shailendra Kaur, director horticulture.Most farmers who were benefited have set up poly-house and shade net house and are engaged in plucking, grading, sorting, making packets and taking produce to consumers’ doorsteps. By May end, 16,500 tonne vegetables and fruits have been sold and some groups are getting bulk orders from outside Punjab.“We are replicating the model across state and have started converting these informal groups to farmer producer organisations so that they can be self-reliant,” said Kaur.Gurpreet Singh Shergill, a farmer from Majhal village in Patiala, who has formed farmers’ group ‘Dynamic Diversified Farmers, said the model hhas shown good results.“We have 13 farmers in our group who have 200 acre to grow vegetables on. They are growing seasonal vegetables since six years and during lockdown they made maximum profits,” said Shergill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-horticulture-dept-launches-farm-to-fork-programme/story-wobFDCUsr0lu035kEX3pFK.html
19-06-2020||City||With 32 new Covid-19 cases, Himachal crosses 600-mark in 92 days||Thirty-two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 627, officials said.The state breached the 600-mark in 92 days. The first case in Himachal was reported on March 20.Fourteen fresh cases were reported in Hamirpur district, eight cases each in Kangra and eight Solan and two in Bilaspur.MEMBERS OF THREE FAMILIES TEST POSITIVE IN HAMIRPURHamirpur chief medical officer Archana Soni said a 62-year-old woman and her two granddaughters, aged 11 and 6, tested positive in Barsar sub-division. They returned from Delhi on June 11 and were under home quarantine.A couple from Sujanpur sub-division also is among the new cases. The husband-wife duo returned from Delhi on June 10.Three of a family from Bhoranj sub-division, including a 32-year-old mother and her two kids, aged 10 and 5 also tested positive for the virus.Besides, a 38-year-old man from Galod area, who returned from Noida and a 2-year-old girl from Bhoranj are among the new patients. Four more cases were reported late evening.EIGHT CASES IN KANGRAKangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said new patients include seven men and a woman. All of them returned from Delhi and were under institutional quarantine at Parour and Alampur. They have been shifted to Covid-care centre Baijnath.The district’s tally has gone up to 166. Active cases are 65 while 100 patients have recovered and a patient died of the disease.FOUR OF FAMILY AMONG EIGHT TEST POSITIVE IN SOLANEight people have tested positive in Solan district. These include four members of a family from Chambaghat area. They returned from Delhi and were under home quarantine.Besides, two institutionally quarantined people have also tested positive. One of them returned from Delhi and other from Ghaziabad. Two cases were reported from Bilaspur district.223 ACTIVE CASESActive cases in the state stand at 223 and 389 people have recovered. Eleven cases have migrated and six succumbed to the virus. On Friday, 16 more people recovered.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 166 cases followed by Hamirpur with 155 cases. Una has recorded a total of 77 cases; Solan has 71 cases, Chamba 43, Bilaspur 31, Sirmaur 28, Shimla 26, Mandi 23, Kullu four and Kinnaur three cases.Eleven of the 12 districts of Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only Corona-free district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-32-new-covid-19-cases-himachal-crosses-600-mark-in-92-days/story-NICtfHJSzPji8DCqvkgpkI.html
19-06-2020||City||Panvel records highest single day spike with 65 new cases||Panvel recorded highest single day spike with 65 new cases, taking the city’s total to 1,194, whereas, Navi Mumbai recorded 124 new cases on Friday. The number of positive cases in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) limits is now 4,515. On Friday nine deaths were reported from Navi Mumbai for second consecutive day and one death was reported in Panvel.An officer from NMMC said, “84 patients were reported recovered on the day, taking the total recovery figure to 2,603. The recovery rate is now 58%. In the total positive 44 cases were from Kopar Khairane, 20 from Airoli and 18 from Nerul among others. Ten children are among those tested positive on Friday including a 2-year-old boy in Sector 22 in Kopar Khairane.”In Panvel, 65 cases in one day are highest so far, the previous spike was of 56 cases on June 6. Of these, highest number of 26 cases are from Panvel followed by 12 in Kharghar. Around 812 patients have also recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-65-new-cases/story-rn75IsH4MmChfVaSFraOVN.html
19-06-2020||City||Noida Metro to have ‘She-Man’ station for transgenders||In a first-of-its-kind initiative by a metro rail system in northern India, the Noida-Greater Noida Metro has decided to convert the Sector 50 station into a ‘She-Man’ station that will have special facilities and employment for the transgender community.This step is being taken by the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) for the “inclusion and meaningful participation” of the members of the transgender community, NMRC Managing Director Ritu Maheshwari said.   Earlier in 2017, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited in Kerala had taken a similar step by employing 23 transgenders, breaking new ground in gender justice.Maheshwari said as per Census 2011, there are 4.9 lakh transgenders in India, out of which 30,000 to 35,000 are staying in Delhi national capital region.“The ‘She-Man’ station will be on the lines of the Pink stations, which were inaugurated on March 8 this year and provided special facilities for women passengers. The staff deployed at the Pink stations also consisted only of women except security personnel,” she said.“The ‘She-Man’ station will cater especially to the transgender community, though it will be open for all passengers, and will give facilities to facilitate the travel of the trans community in the metro system and also provide employment opportunities for them,” the NMRC MD added.She said structural changes in terms of change in restroom infrastructure and creation of a separate security check for the community are also being considered at sector 50 station.In a statement, the NMRC said it will also be generating awareness about the community among its other commuters through signages at its stations and announcements inside the trains and stations. “The NMRC staff will also be sensitised and trained to communicate with the transgender community in a sensitive and cordial manner,” it said.The NMRC said it also plans to include members of the transgender community into its system by engaging their services in various aspects of the functioning of its system, like ticket counters and other areas through deployed contractors. “Transgenders will be provided proper training, like other NMRC employees, before being inducted into the NMRC system,” it added.  The NMRC has also interacted with various NGOs who work closely with the community to understand their challenges and struggles and devise an effective method for an inclusive society, according to the statement. The NMRC said it has “always been sensitive” towards the needs of “all its commuters” who come from various walks of life and has made constant endeavours to provide a safe and comfortable travelling experience to all its commuters.“Transgenders form a major chunk of the commuters that use the metro system to travel. This step by the NMRC will make the travelling experience for this community more enriching,” it said.Also known as the ‘Aqua Line’, the Noida-Greater Noida Metro, which started functioning in January 2019, runs between the eponymous twin-cities of Gautam Buddh Nagar covering nearly 30 km over 21 stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-metro-to-have-she-man-station-for-transgenders/story-y7KGmUlZN6sd8DZ0Oe3TXM.html
19-06-2020||Patna||Bihar govt extends validity of motor vehicle documents till Sept 30||The Bihar government on Friday extended till September 30 the validity of driving licences, permits, registration and other related documents which had lapsed in February in view of novel coronavirus pandemic.This is the second time that an extension is being given.Earlier, the validity had been given an extension from February 1 to June 30, Transport Departments secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said.The extension would provide relief to vehicle owners and drivers whose documents validity had either expired on February 1, or those whose validity is set to lapse by June 30, Agarwal said.The decision has been taken keeping in mind the problems faced by the people due to the lockdown and to ensure that they do not face difficulties in renewing the validity of the documents, the secretary said. The benefit of extension would be applicable to fitness certificate, all types of permits, learners license, driving license, registration and other related documents.The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has also issued guidelines in this regard, he said.The official also directed all the traffic superintendents of police and transport department officials not to harass anyone on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-extends-validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-till-sept-30/story-2rvjRcv9PD1EdCLbSATVRP.html
19-06-2020||City||15-day-old baby among four Covid-19 deaths in J&K; 125 fresh infections||A 15-day-old child was the youngest to die among the four patients who succumbed to Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, taking the total fatalities to 75.With the 125 fresh infections reported in J&K, the total number of people affected by the disease is 5,680.Officials said all the four deaths were reported from Kashmir division, which included the 15-day-old baby from Srinagar’s Bemina, two elderly men from Srinagar and Baramulla districts and a middle-aged woman from Shopian.The baby, who had serious heart ailment, died at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Soura, two days after testing positive for Covid-19, a doctor said.An 80-year-old patient from Sopore also died at the hospital on Friday, while a 79-year-old man from Srinagar lost his life to the infection on Thursday evening. A woman in her fifties from Shopian district had died at the Chest Diseases Hospital in Srinagar on Thursday evening.Dr Nisar ul Hassan, a senior doctor representing a faction of the Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK), said over 17% of Covid-19 cases in Kashmir pertained to children and young adults.“While children make up for fewer than 2 percent of the reported Covid-19 cases globally, in Kashmir, 17.29% of cases are in the age group of 0-19 years,” he said in a statement issued to a local news agency.However, he stated that most children with the infection had mild or no symptoms. He said no such child became seriously ill.Dr Nisar said based on their analysis of the data, of 989 lab-confirmed cases, 171 (17.29%) were below 19 years of age. “Majority of the children who tested positive for the disease had a history of contact with infected adults,” he said.He said the death of the baby was the valley’s first infant death and the baby had underlying severe heart ailment.Of the total 75 fatalities in J&K, 66 have died in Kashmir division and nine in Jammu division.On Friday, J&K recorded 125 fresh Covid-19 cases. Of these, 23 are from Jammu and 102 from Kashmir division, with 25 among them having travel history.The number of active cases stands at 2,411 after 50 more patients recovered on Friday. The administration informed that 25 people were discharged from Rajouri district in Jammu division and an equal number from Kashmir.So far, 3,194 people have been cured in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 56.23%.The highest case jump in Kashmir was witnessed in Srinagar where 31 more people tested positive for the disease. Pulwama, Kulgam and Baramulla recorded 18, 11 and 10 cases respectively. The other districts saw single-digit increase. In Jammu division, five districts reported new infections — all in single digits.Till date, 2.49 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 39,182 in home quarantine, 31 in hospital quarantine and 45,832 under home surveillance. Besides these, 1.61 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.On Thursday, J&K had recorded 149 fresh Covid-19 infections while four people had succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-day-old-baby-among-four-covid-19-deaths-in-j-k-125-fresh-infections/story-PvDSap0XNWvzbRnGT6ekoI.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana gave Rs 50L aid, job to 300 kin of fallen soldiers in 6 yrs||Even as the ex gratia grants given to the next of kin of fallen soldiers differ significantly from one state to another, Haryana has been kind in supporting families of those killed in action generously. The state government gives Rs 50 lakh ex gratia grant to the bravehearts of the armed and paramilitary forces besides government jobs to their kin. As per the official records, ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in Haryana in October 2014, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government has given jobs to nearly 300 dependents of slain soldiers on compassionate grounds. Haryana has at least three lakh ex-servicemen and their dependents’ number is about 8.75 lakh. According to Raja Sekhar Vundru, principal secretary (sainik and ardh sainik welfare department), every tenth soldier of the Indian Army is from Haryana. “Haryana is probably one of the few states where Rs 50 lakh is given as ex gratia relief to next of kin of the martyrs,” Vundru said.The state government offers Class-2 posts to the dependents of Haryana-origin Class-1 and Class-2 rank officers of the armed and paramilitary forces killed in action. Earlier, the government had been rehabilitating their kin with Class-3 and Class-4 posts under a 2014 policy. The Haryana government had in March 2017 increased the compensation (Rs 50 lakh) with retrospective effect (1.11.2016) even to the family members of the central paramilitary forces’ personnel who die in war or action against terrorists. The government had widened the scope of payment of ex gratia by including contingencies such as death during internal security duty, operations, election duty, duties during natural calamities and rescue operations. The government also gives to all eligible soldiers Rs 35 lakh each in case of 75% disability sustained during war or action against terrorists; Rs 25 lakh if the disability is 50% to 74% and Rs 15 lakh if the disability is between 25% and 49%. This financial aid is given to the soldiers who were residents of Haryana at the time of joining the service, the March 6, 2017 notification says. Haryana also gives Rs 30 lakh aid to family of police personnel who die in the line of duty. The official said after bringing the ex gratia for kin of paramilitary personnel killed in action on a par with the army, the power to sanction Rs 50 lakh relief has been delegated to the deputy commissioners so that there is no delay in transit of documents from district office to headquarters and vice versa. “It was done in view of defence and paramilitary authorities taking some time to issue necessary documentation in cases of death due to enemy action, terrorist encounters and IED blasts,” another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-gave-rs-50l-aid-job-to-300-kin-of-fallen-soldiers-in-6-yrs/story-4kr7LjsSAOgyycTEFNJFJK.html
19-06-2020||City||Pannu is a traitor, his family should be boycotted: Randhawa||After the Punjab Police booked Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, a US-based legal adviser of the banned organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) on sedition charges for attempting to spread dissatisfaction among the country’s armed forces or abetting mutiny, Punjab cooperation and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said that Pannu is a traitor and should be dealt with hard hands.The minister was here for the cremation of naib subedar Satnam Singh at Bhojraj village in Gurdaspur.On Pannu approaching China for getting its support for the separatist agenda, Randhawa said, “Traitors have no religion. Pannu talks about Khalistan.”“Satnam who was killed by Chinese troops, was an ‘amritdhari’. His wife, son and father are also ‘amritdharis’,” he said.“Pannu should be ashamed of supporting China. The entire country should condemn this and Pannu’s family should be boycotted wherever they reside in country,” the Congress minister said.“Pannu is propagating Khalistan just to gather money from Pakistan, ISI, China and other anti-national forces. He should be brought to India and punished,” added Randhawa.‘OPPOSE AKAL TAKHT JATHEDAR’S REMARK ON KHALISTAN’Responding to a query on acting Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s statement favouring Khalistan, the minister said that he is against the statement.“I am also an amritdhari Sikh. But I don’t want Khalistan. We pray and demand for khule darshan of Guru Nanak’s birth place Nankana Sahib which had gone to Pakistan. Will you pray for darshan of Gurdwara Paunta Singh, Takht Sri Patna Sahib, Takht Sri Hazoor Sahib or Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib which fall outside Punjab tomorrow? Such a thing is not a demand of any Sikh or Punjabi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pannu-is-a-traitor-his-family-should-be-boycotted-randhawa/story-mDntU2eC9XjqWxFGHdSE1L.html
19-06-2020||City||Two arrested for murdering farmhouse manager in Nayagaon||Police have arrested two men who allegedly murdered a 65-year-old farmhouse manager at Kahlon Farms near Nada village, Nayagaon, on June 14.The accused were identified as Ajit Pasi, 20, and Mukesh, 20, who worked at the same farm as the victim, Balkar Singh.“The duo was arrested from Mauli Jagran village on Thursday. The third suspect, a minor boy, has not been apprehended as his role in the murder has been ruled out,” said deputy superintendent of police (City 1) Gursher Singh.During interrogation, the accused admitted to have killed Balkar as he used to reprimand them for minor issues and hurled abuses at them. Besides, he also pulled them up for drinking liquor, the DSP said.They had attacked Balkar with an axe while he was asleep on June 14. The victim had succumbed to his injuries at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on June 16.The accused are facing a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-murdering-farmhouse-manager-in-nayagaon/story-B8khzK0bZVrwv5YERqnFrM.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||UT DGP okays promotion of 928 cops||UT director-general of police, Sanjay Baniwal has approved the promotions of 928 police personnel who have been granted personal ranks, including 390 assistant sub-inspectors, 66 head constables and 472 senior constables as a welfare measure in Chandigarh Police department. Last year too, the DGP had approved promotions of 467 police personnel who were promoted to their ranks including 416 ASIs and 51 head constables on Independence Day. Besides, a total of 307 police personnel have also been promoted to their regular due promotions for ranks of inspector, sub-inspector and ASI from August 2019 to date, including 68 personnel being promoted on Friday. The department will also be sending large batches for promotional training so that a pipeline of eligible personnel is created and future promotions can be done without any delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-dgp-okays-promotion-of-928-cops/story-VmWudmFmwlngbffkpYcp6N.html
19-06-2020||Patna||With 138 new Covid-19 cases, Bihar’s count rises to 7,178; death toll at 49||Bihar reported 138 new Covid-19 cases on Friday and two deaths from the disease were recorded during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of those infected with coronavirus in the state to 7,178 while the death toll climbed to 49.A 58-year-old male from Nautan block of Saran district died at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), a dedicated Covid special facility in the state capital Patna, on Friday. Another male, a 22-year-old from Nawada town died at the Patna Medical College Hospital late Thursday evening.“The 58-year-old Saran resident had a travel history of Delhi and showed symptoms of breathlessness,” said Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer of coronavirus at the NMCH.“His son and he had come to our facility directly from the railway station after getting down from a Shramik Special train on June 17. He did not have fever or cough, but was uneasy and complained of breathlessness. He tested positive for the virus the same day. His condition, however, deteriorated rapidly and he died today,” Dr Singh added.However, health officials were perplexed over the death of the 22-year-old from Nawada, as he neither had a travel history nor did he claim to have come in contact with any Covid-19 patients, said officials.“Four people have tested positive on the TrueNat machine as part of the contact tracing of the victim. It is quite possible that the victim himself had come in contact with an unsuspecting Covid-19 positive patient in his family or his close acquaintance. We are trying to ascertain the infection trail,” said Nawada civil surgeon Dr Wimal Prasad Singh.The government, in its customary media briefing Friday evening, reported five deaths, including two from Darbhanga and one from Nalanda, besides one each from Nawada and Saran.That was because the health department, which disseminates Covid-19 information to the public through its Twitter handle @BiharHealthDept, did not update the death toll on Thursday evening even though it had updated information about rise in the number of positive cases. Three of the five deaths, the government announced Friday, were reported around 5pm on Thursday itself.Meanwhile, the recovery rate of patients has gone up to 71% in Bihar, said Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh during the media briefing on Friday.“Of the total 7,178 Covid-19 cases in the state so far, 5,098 had recovered, including 137 who were discharged from different health facilities during the last 24 hours,” he added.Bihar had tested a maximum of 5,978 samples on Thursday, taking the total number of tests to 1,45,562 so far, said Singh.He further said that 4,736 migrant workers, who returned to the state after May 3, had tested positive for the virus. This meant that 66% of the total Covid-19 cases in the state were attributed to the migrants. The percentage was as high as 72% till recently.Though the number of migrant workers coming to the state has gone down, 18 more Shramik Special trains were expected to reach the state from different parts of the country by June 22, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department, Bihar.Earlier in the day, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar inspected the Covid-19 isolation centre at the Patliputra Sports Complex at Kankerbagh and gave necessary instructions to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/with-138-new-covid-19-cases-bihar-s-count-rises-to-7-178-death-toll-at-49/story-9uLwaIzdLgxJe3JXum0mQP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||UT approves installation of solar plants under Resco model||The UT administration has approved the installation of solar photovoltaic (SPV) power plants on the residential sector rooftops under the Renewable Energy Service Company (Resco) model. Chandigarh Renewal Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) is currently tendering this and 2,200 systems will be given as a pilot project on a first come first serve basis soon.Under the Resco model, residents won’t have to spend a single penny on setting up the SPV power plant. The SPV plant will be installed by a private company. Residents will only give permission to set up the plant on their property. The maintenance of the equipment will be done by the private company, while extra power generated by the plant against the power used will be paid to the company. After a period of about 15 years which will be decided through e-tender, the ownership of the plant will be transferred to the resident without any extra payment.The beneficiaries will get the solar power at a fixed tariff of ₹3.44 per unit until the project transfer period. In comparison currently, residents pay ₹2.75 per unit for the first 150 units, ₹4.80 per unit till 400 units, and ₹5.20 per unit if the consumption crosses 400 units. Crest officials said as per calculations an average consumer will end up saving between ₹1-2 per unit. Residents having a connected load of 5kWp and more irrespective of their plot size will be eligible for this. As a pilot project, 2,200 systems will be installed on a first come first serve basis. The project will be installed equally to the connected load maximum of up to 10kWp.Chief executive officer of Crest, Debendra Dalai said, “The department will soon launch a website for those interested after the tendering is done. The number of years before the residents own the SPV plant will be variable, but it is expected to be around 15 years,” he said adding that solar panels on the roof will also help keep the top floor cool during the summers.All plots above 500 sq yards mandatorily have to get SPV power plants, the last date of which had been extended to March 31, 2021, with no further extensions. This scheme will benefit such plot owners who don’t want to spend lakhs on this system however those with plots smaller than 500 sq. yards can also apply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-approves-installation-of-solar-plants-under-resco-model/story-Lj5tAiVpzKaJ2VMqjFe3fO.html
19-06-2020||City||Ambala man held for abetting wife’s suicide||Two days after a woman ended her life in Ambala, the police on Friday arrested her husband for abetment to suicide.The accused is a resident of Sundarpuri Colony. According to the deceased’s sister, the 35-year-old woman has been suffering domestic violence since she got married in 2010. Though her husband had promised not to hit her again after a police complaint, he did not relent. Upset due to this, her sister ended her life on Wednesday, she alleged. On her complaint, the accused was booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code on Wednesday.He was produced before a court that sent him to judicial remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-man-held-for-abetting-wife-s-suicide/story-3zkEij1ntqQ3wAJfCKP4LO.html
19-06-2020||City||Mohali man ends life, wife booked for abetment||Police have booked a woman for abetment to suicide after her 42-year-old husband ended his life by hanging himself at their house in Dashmesh Nagar, Nayagaon, on Friday. Police said no suicide note was found, but the deceased’s mother alleged that he was upset due to harassment by his wife. On her complaint, the deceased’s wife was booked under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code at the Nayagaon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-man-ends-life-wife-booked-for-abetment/story-DN6yuzmgNeglTbSrpz3QsL.html
19-06-2020||City||Another DCP tests positive for Covid-19, three staffers isolated, office closed and sanitised||New Delhi: A deputy commissioner of police of the city police tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, senior police officers confirmed. The deputy commissioner’s personal assistant, operator and driver have been sent to isolation, his office was closed and was thoroughly sanitised, police said.So far, at least six policemen have succumbed to the Covid-19 infection in Delhi and over 1,000 have tested positive for the virus since April. Police have been at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19. Apart from the law and order duty, police personnel across the city are managing containment zones, ensuring social distancing among citizens and helping the government in contact tracing. According to a senior police officer, the DCP was unwell and he got himself checked for coronavirus. His reports were received on Friday, which confirmed that he was infected with the virus.“He had been at home for few days under medical supervision. His office was closed and thoroughly sanitised on Friday. His staff, including his personal assistant, the driver and operator who were in touch with him, have been asked to remain home in isolation,” a senior officer said, requesting not to be named. The officer said it is not know from where the DCP caught the infection but further contact tracing is underway.This is the second case of a DCP testing positive for coronavirus in Delhi. Last month, an additional DCP had tested positive. Both the DCP and additional DCP recovered and joined their duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-dcp-tests-positive-for-covid-19-three-staffers-isolated-office-closed-and-sanitised/story-Ns3wxH10XD9hu9WnXfpKxI.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Issue ultimatum to Beijing to vacate Galwan Valley: Punjab CM to Centre||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday advocated aggressive steps to take back the Galwan Valley territory seized by the Chinese and urged the Union government to issue an ultimatum to Beijing to vacate the occupied land immediately, with a clear warning that failure to do so will lead to serious consequences for them.“While India will also have to suffer some consequences of such an act, it can no longer afford to allow such intrusion and attacks on its territorial integrity,” said Captain, while interacting with the media at the Chandigarh airbase where he had gone to pay tributes to the three sepoys whose mortal remains were flown in from Galwan Valley.Laying a wreath on the mortal remains of Sepoys Gurbinder Singh from Sangrur, Gurtej Singh from Mansa and Ankush from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh, Captain said the nation is forever indebted to them.Amarinder said past experience shows that when faced with aggression, the Chinese have always backed off. It’s time to call their bluff, he said, reiterating that Indians want a befitting response to be the Chinese.Questioning the so-called agreement which prevented the Indian troops from firing, Amarinder demanded to know who had come up with such an agreement. “How can one have an agreement of this nature with a hostile neighbour?” he asked.“It is clear that the attack on Indian soldiers was a pre-meditated move by the Chinese, who had come prepared with deadly weapons,” he said, adding, “by carrying nail-studded lathis and barbed-wired clubs and by attacking our troops, they abrogated whatever agreement was in place. In such circumstance, the Indian soldiers had full right to retaliate using weapons.”“If the situation is allowed to escalate, China, in collusion with Pakistan, will get further emboldened to encroach upon Indian territories,” Captain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/issue-ultimatum-to-beijing-to-vacate-galwan-valley-punjab-cm-to-centre/story-OBu8HkqnMCbEExFO9KXugL.html
19-06-2020||City||Cong leader’s son held for firing at friend sent to one-day remand||Three days after Davinder Singh, alias Damni, son of a Congress leader, allegedly fired at his 22-year-old friend in an inebriated condition, Sohana police arrested him on Thursday evening.The accused was produced before a local court on Friday and sent to one-day remand. Davinder was also sampled for Covid-19. The report is awaited.A resident of Manauli village, Davinder is the son of Congress leader and block samiti member Gurdeep Singh.Sub-inspector Barma Singh said, “Davinder was arrested from Manauli village when he was planning to flee. We sought his remand to investigate the cause behind the firing.” On June 16, Davinder and his friend Jagdeep were travelling in the former’s car on the Airport Road. Davinder stopped the car and started arguing with Jagdeep over an issue. He fired two bullets at Jagdeep’s back and chest with his father’s licensed 12-bore gun, leaving his friend seriously injured. Jagdeep was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.The weapon has already been recovered by the policeDavinder is facing a case of attempt to murder, registered at the Sohana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-leader-s-son-held-for-firing-at-friend-sent-to-one-day-remand/story-pq7qXHabfup3TCekrsrP4H.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Rs 1,037 cr incentive approved in Punjab under Industrial, Business Policy, 2017’||Industries minister Sunder Sham Arora on Friday said that fiscal incentives under the Industrial and Business Policy, 2017, to the tune of Rs 1,037.66 crore have already been approved. This is in addition to the Rs 3,522.41 crore worth power subsidy extended by the government during the same period.Arora said that the Punjab government had notified the policy on October 17, 2017, under which, detailed guidelines were issued. As per the guidelines, state and district level committees have been formed to consider and approve the fiscal incentives for MSMEs and large industries, respectively.State level committee conducted nine meetings and district level committee meetings were conducted to grant fiscal incentives to industrial units, the minister added.Around 53 MSMEs and large industries were considered and granted Incentives with an investment of Rs 5,776.46 crore in state.The minister added that of these 53 units, 23 were granted 100% power duty exemption which is about Rs 1023.66 crore, eight were granted stamp duty exemption to the tune of Rs 3.69 crore, six were granted CLU/ EDC exemption of Rs 2.45 crore and three were granted VAT/SGST market fees, credit guarantee fund trust for micro and small enterprises of Rs 7.86 crore.Apart from these, 13 units were granted approval to migrate from FIIP(R)-2013 to IBDP-2017 to seek higher incentives under the IBDP-2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-1-037-cr-incentive-approved-in-punjab-under-industrial-business-policy-2017/story-2VmeoXC8FEAUjdd550hTwN.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Poetic vision of Tagore, Iqbal in focus during webinar at PU||A national webinar on the poetic visions of Rabindranath Tagore and Allama Iqbal was organised by the department of Urdu of Panjab University on Friday.In his keynote address, Mumbai-based writer Shamin Tariq said that both Iqbal and Tagore were poets of humanity and nationalism. Both of them remained close to the ground realities of life faced by people in the country.Shamin Tariq said that Iqbal appreciated internal beauty rather than the artificial cosmetic appearance. Iqbal’s philosophy of Khudi was based on the upliftment of the thought process of each and every individual.Coordinator of the department of Urdu Ali Abbas said that both Iqbal and Tagore were great poets. They enriched the poetic traditions of India in a big way. Ali Abbas said that Tagore’s “Ekla Chalo Re” and Iqbal’s “Sare Jahan Se Accha” accelerated the pace of our freedom struggle towards total Independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/poetic-vision-of-tagore-iqbal-in-focus-during-webinar-at-pu/story-TjbNbGUe603S2gx4JYrHbP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Medical education dept to equip fraternity with latest tech to cure Covid-19||Ramping up their efforts for equipping the medical fraternity with latest techniques in the direction of curing Covid-19 patients, the Punjab department of medical education and research has coordinated with PGIMER and initiated multi-centric studies on the role of steroids and plasma-therapy in patients.A spokesperson of the department said that after efforts of the department, one patient in Patiala was donated plasma for Covid-19 patients. He said that medical colleges in Punjab have coordinated efficiently and are working as a single cohesive force to tackle coronavirus. This team-based approach is saving lives of many Covid-19 patients, he said.The spokesperson added that a group of experts from Punjab in managing covid patients and regularly discussing cases over phones and video conferencing. Experts include doctors from PGIMER Chandigarh, AIIMS New Delhi, DMCH Ludhiana, doctors from the US, the UK, Canada, and all three state medical colleges in Punjab. Two expert sessions are being conducted by the department. Update session for medical specialists and anaesthetists looking after mild to moderately sick Covid-19 patients is being conducted every Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/medical-education-dept-to-equip-fraternity-with-latest-tech-to-cure-covid-19/story-0GFbv4L7sJNsAL2vHrHq1M.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||PU mulls allotting examination centres to students nearest to their residence||Panjab University has proposed allotting examination centres to students nearest to their residence as the varsity plans to conduct examinations of the exit semester in July.The university on Friday sought details of students from its affiliated colleges who need the examination centres nearest to their residence. The communication was issued on Friday by the controller of examinations Professor Parvinder Singh to the colleges. The university is planning to conduct the exit semester examinations in July.“In order to curtail the movement of candidates, the university has proposed to allot examination centres to the nearby place of residence of the candidate. The opted examination centres should be in the jurisdiction of Panjab University that is in Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Moga, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Fazilka, and Abhohar,” reads the communication issued to the colleges by the university.Professor Parvinder Singh said, “For our campus students, Dean Students Welfare (DSW) has already asked the hostel wardens to provide the data of students who cannot come to the university to take examinations.”The colleges have been directed to send the details of the students of respective colleges by June 29. It has been also directed that in case the options/recommendations are not received before the deadline as stated, it will be deemed understood that no change in examination centre is required.Professor Parvinder Singh said, “We are collecting data of students who come from faraway places or have issues to commute. We will analyse the data and accordingly allot the examination centres to them.”Regarding examination centres for students of other states, the university will take a call next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-mulls-allotting-examination-centres-to-students-nearest-to-their-residence/story-Vi8OtZa3osjmTVz0KVbPBI.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Municipal school teachers, others allowed to travel in trains||Teachers working in municipal schools, employees of collector office, contractual Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation staff, railway staff working in government railway police (GRP), railway protection force (RPF), hospital staff working in private lab including pathological and lab testing staff will be allowed to travel from local trains on the Western Railway.Earlier, employees working in essential service in BMC, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation, Palghar Municipal Corporation, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, Mumbai Police, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), Mantralaya and government and employees of private hospital, were allowed to travel in local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/municipal-school-teachers-others-allowed-to-travel-in-trains/story-F8xAFdATIMfouU7EP9aYZN.html
19-06-2020||City||Group starts free ambulance service for non-Covid patients||A group of youngsters from Ambernath introduced a dedicated free of cost ambulance for non-Covid patients in Ambernath, Badlapur and tribal areas in the vicinity, on Friday.A group of 15 youngsters from Yuva Unity Foundation have so far been distributing food and medicines to the needy.A dedicated number 9156881003 has been introduced for those who require the ambulance during emergencies.Yogesh Chalwadi, founder of the foundation, said, “Most of the ambulances in the city are used for Covid patients, due to this the non-Covid patients have no access to ambulance service on time. The people in the tribal areas are most affected as they cannot afford a private vehicle for transportation. The ambulance will run for free for such patients.”The foundation has introduced one ambulance in the first stage, if there is demand another ambulance will be added to the service. “The entire ambulance will be operated by our team as per the calls we get. To ensure there is no spread of infection even if we will transport non-Covid patients our member will wear proper safety kit and also the ambulance will be sanitised regularly,” said Chalwadi. Throughout the lockdown period imposed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the team has served food to around 4.5 lakhs across Thane district. The team provided groceries to 8000 plus families, water bottles, biscuits and masks to thousands of migrant workers at railway stations and Bhiwandi bypass road.A resident from Loknagari in Ambernath Girish Mahajan, 38, who tried booking an ambulance for his mother said, “When I wanted to take my mother to the hospital there was no ambulance available for almost two hours. In such cases, there is a need to have more ambulance for non-Covid patients.”The Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) officer informed that they have six ambulances to deal with the Covid patients in its vicinity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/group-starts-free-ambulance-service-for-non-covid-patients/story-bjjiBlqR7lxS7jPmfpOTbJ.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Plasma therapy allowed at Amritsar medical college||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed Government Medical College, Amritsar, to treat Covid-19 patients with plasma therapy.Under this therapy, plasma of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 is preserved for transfusing into other critically infected patients.The ICMR had earlier allowed Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, to perform plasma therapy under National Clinical Trial, results of which had been “extremely encouraging”.Punjab medical education and research minister OP Soni said GMC, Amritsar, is fully equipped to provide best treatment through plasma therapy as it has adequate infrastructure and sufficient donors. The minister said any recovered patient can donate plasma after 14 days of testing negative as their blood contains antibodies, which are helpful to cure the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-plasma-therapy-allowed-at-amritsar-medical-college/story-ytf8auucI4PchtKGV7cbCK.html
19-06-2020||City||Galwan valley martyr Ankush Thakur cremated at native village in Hamirpur||The mortal remains of Sepoy Ankush Thakur, who was martyred in a violent faceoff with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley, were consigned to flames at his native village here on Friday evening.His younger brother Aditya lit the pyre in presence of his father and hundred others.The martyr’s body was carried to the crematorium by locals and army personnel amid chanting of anti-China slogans.The young jawan was among the 20 men of the Indian Army, including a colonel, who were killed in an attack by the Chinese forces.Himachal panchayati raj department minister Virendra Kanwar , local MLAs Kamlesh Kumari, Narendra Thakur, Rajinder Rana and Inder Dutt Lakhanpal were also present during the cremation, besides deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena and superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur.A contingent of Punjab regiment fired in the air to bid final adieu to the martyr who lost his life while safeguarding the country’s frontiers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/galwan-valley-martyr-ankush-thakur-cremated-at-native-village-in-hamirpur/story-7Vzk3i30KnMdJhZmxjZCHI.html
19-06-2020||City||Fake degree scam: Manav Bharti varsity chairman arrested after Himachal HC rejects anticipatory bail plea||The special investigation team (SIT) of police on Friday arrested the chairman of Manav Bharti University (MBU), Raj Kumar Rana, after the Himachal Pradesh high court refused to grant him an anticipatory bail. Rana was arrested on the court premises as soon as his bail plea was rejected.He has been taken to Solan for interrogation, said additional superintendent of police Shiv Kumar. This is the fourth arrest in the case. Last week, the SIT had arrested KK Singh, former registrar of the university. Two university officials—registrar Anupama Thakur and assistant registrar Munish Goel—were arrested in March. Rana’s arrest was delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. He, however, had sent his son and wife abroad on March 7 soon after the case was registered.The fake degree scam, which was unearthed in February this year, after the University Grants Commission (UGC) received an anonymous complaint, involves the alleged sale of more than five lakh degrees by two private universities in Himachal, including MBU, Solan and APG University, Shimla. The UGC had informed the state government about the alleged sale of fake degrees by the two universities seeking an appropriate action. A case under sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the university officials for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy on March 3. The investigation revealed that MBU had issued several fake degrees to students. It also revealed that Rana and his family also possessed fake degrees. Since then, cases have been filed against MBU at various places, including Datia in Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Lucknow, Bilaspur and Pune.According to police sources, the SIT has also written to various bar councils and institutions of the country informing them about fake degrees issued to several people, many of whom may have obtained jobs in government and private sector on the basis of these degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-degree-scam-manav-bharti-varsity-chairman-arrested-after-himachal-hc-rejects-anticipatory-bail-plea/story-fxONi80xxEMvlNjpquuPOK.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown puts brakes on research projects in city’s educational institutes||The lockdown induced to thwart the spread of coronavirus has stalled many research projects granted to city’s educational institutes by the department of science and technology and renewable energy, Chandigarh.Every year the department assigns numerous research projects to educational institutes of the city. This year at least 13 short term research projects were granted to Panjab University, Punjab Engineering College (PEC) and Goswami Ganesh Dutta SD College, Sector 32, Chandigarh. However, the work on many of these research projects has been affected this year.Panjab University was given 10 projects including, the development of a machine to convert kitchen waste into animal feed and designing a one-step detection kit for the pesticides. A teacher at PU who was assigned a research project on condition of anonymity said, “I have not been able to start my research work due to the lockdown. My study is experimental and our labs are closed. I had to speak to a few students but that’s next to impossible now.”Naveen Gupta of the department of microbiology at PU has been working on DST’s research projects for the last six years. This year’s project on Sukhna Lake is his seventh project for DST Chandigarh. This year he has been assigned with ecological assessment of Sukhna Lake. He said, “The purpose of my project is to assess the microbiological changes in Sukhna Lake throughout the year. From April, I have not been able to continue with my research work.”A project on energy conservation for street lighting through adaptive brightness was given to Dr Tejinder Singh Saggu, assistant professor at the department of electrical engineering of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh. He said, “We have been told verbally that our project has been selected, however, we have not made any progress so far but we are looking forward to starting the work.”Dr Deepak Rahi’s project on the biomanagement of composite leaf waste biomass of Chandigarh region has also been hobbled by the lockdown. He said, “I had proposed to cultivate mushrooms on the leaf waste management if we can collect the leaf waste at a specific site. I have carried out many experiments earlier and the results were overwhelming. Due to the lockdown, the work has been adversely affected, but I am trying to carry out my project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-puts-brakes-on-research-projects-in-city-s-educational-institutes/story-r9iR9K0s8a8jiN097UinOO.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||BEST to discontinue operations for essential service staff||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) will stop the operation of dedicated buses for employees working on essential duty. The organisation operated a few buses only towards hospitals and police stations for the employees.The decision has been taken after the resumption of local train services on Central and Western railway. Around 600 dedicated buses will be stopped and introduced on other routes including feeder routes in the city. “The buses operating for employees working in hospitals, police stations and other essential staff will be discontinued gradually. Buses will be introduced on feeder routes,” said Manoj Varade, spokesperson of BEST.BEST officials have stated that there has been a demand of buses on feeder routes. “As the trains have started functioning, demand for buses from railway stations has increased. Connecting buses will be increased over the next week,” said a senior BEST official.BEST had introduced 2,132 buses operating on 82 routes in the city for essential service staff under state government’s Mission Begin Again. The buses were introduced on June 8. More than 14 lakh passengers travelled in the first three days after the buses were introduced in the city. Over 30 passengers were allowed inside one bus; 25 seated and five standing.Several instances of violation of social distancing norms were witnessed in the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-to-discontinue-operations-for-essential-service-staff/story-Nw9u9AsFx6uDE8qTCTHaVJ.html
19-06-2020||City||23 surplus lab technicians sacked at Amritsar district hospital||The Punjab health and family welfare department on Friday sacked 23 “influential” lab technicians working at the Amritsar civil hospital, citing that they were in surplus of the sanctioned posts. While issuing a notice to Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore, department’s additional chief secretary Anurag Agarwal said: “There are more than 27 lab technicians working in the district hospital, Amritsar, against the sanctioned posts of five. I have requested many times to rationalise and send back the surplus lab technicians at their respective place of postings but it seems that due to their influence, they still continue to work (there).”“We have to come out of the VIP culture. Since all the surplus lab technicians are very influential, no fair inquiry can be held against them,” the notice further reads. As many as 28 people were working as lab technicians against five sanctioned posts at the hospital. “All those surplus have been dismissed from service or their contract terminated with immediate effect,” confirmed Aggarwal. Dr Jugal Kishore said he has received the notice and the surplus lab technicians will not perform duties anymore.(with inputs from Patiala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-surplus-lab-technicians-sacked-at-amritsar-district-hospital/story-hYsYymlEu49NHc5rrHwshP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt caps Covid-19 test price at Rs 2,400||Private laboratories in Haryana will not charge more than Rs 2,400 for a real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for detection of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).An order to this effect was issued by the additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora, on Friday. The revised test rates came into force with immediate effect. The private labs had been charging Rs 4,500 for the said test.“In exercise of the powers under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the state government directs that no private laboratory should charge any amount more than Rs 2,400 for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19, including taxes, cost involved in pick up, packing and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting,” the order reads.Arora said there were 12 government and seven private laboratories which were approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for testing the samples for detection of the virus. ICMR had in March capped the single test charges by private labs at Rs 4,500.However, since RT-PCR testing kits are now being manufactured in India and are readily available, the medical research body asked the state to negotiate and fix mutually agreeable price for the test.As per the advice of experts, including recommendations of the committee under Dr VK Paul, member, NITI Aayog, and taking into account the cost of kits and consumables, the state government on Friday ordered a downward price revision for the test.Arora said all testing protocols as laid down by ICMR and the central government will have to be followed by the private laboratories.“The private labs will share the data pertaining to the tests results with state government and ICMR on real-time basis. At the time of sampling, the identification, address and verified mobile number of the person, who is being tested, must be noted for record as per the sample referral form. The data should be uploaded on the RT-PCR app at the time of taking the sample. The test report should be communicated to the patient immediately after the testing is complete,” the order mentioned.Arora said a positive test report should be immediately communicated to the civil surgeon of the district concerned through e-mail.“The private laboratories have been instructed to maintain utmost confidentiality about the patient’s details. These labs have also been ordered to preserve the RT-PCR machine generated data and graphs for future verification by the state government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-caps-covid-19-test-price-at-rs-2-400/story-u3tMWnldeVSofYfAGHgh6K.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||International Yoga Day goes virtual in Covid-19 times: It’s yoga at home, with family this year||CHANDIGARH: Till last year, International Yoga Day that is celebrated on June 21 used to be a group activity on a large scale, but this time Covid-19 guidelines of social distancing have changed the way the event is being observed. This time, the theme for the day says it all: ‘Yoga at home, yoga with family’.For the first time, since its inception in 2015, there will not be a mass gathering at centralised places for group yoga. To mark the day and engage more people, government authorities and different yoga associations have opted for virtual yoga.Since the United Nations passed a resolution to celebrate June 21 every year as International Yoga Day, there has been a manifold increase in the number of yoga enthusiasts. Covid-19, however, has driven people to include breathing exercises in their daily lifestyle to boost the immune system to fight the pandemic. Yoga has turned out to be one of favourite fitness regimens during the lockdown.ONLINE CLASSES AND SESSIONS“Though this time we won’t have any mass gathering to celebrate International Yoga Day, the count of people doing yoga on a regular basis has increased as compared to pre-Covid times. Many of our passouts, who are professional yoga instructors, are already taking online yoga classes on a daily basis and they will do it on Sunday too to celebrate the day,” says yoga expert Kulwant Singh, who is working as an instructor at Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 23, Chandigarh.“Every year, we used to hold a yoga camp in the college premises that would culminate with the Yoga Day celebrations on June 21. But this time, because of Covid-19 and keeping social distancing in mind, we started an online camp from June 13. Both morning and evening sessions are held live on the college’s Facebook page and YouTube channel and we are getting a decent response. For June 21, we will be having a special session in which six of our college’s yoga instructors will be going live online,” says yoga college principal Sapna Nanda. “Our institute in collaboration with yoga scholars of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) organised a webinar on ‘Relevance of yoga in present day scenario’ in the run-up to yoga day celebrations today.”YOGA FINDS NEW FOLLOWERSWith gyms and other fitness centres closed to check the spread of Covid-19, more people are opting for yoga that has seen many new entrants in the last three months.“We will be having special online yoga sessions spread across the first-half of the day to mark International Yoga Day on Sunday. Yoga institutes from six countries, including India, Australia, Japan, and Malaysia, will be joining us,” says Indian-origin yoga guru based in Australia, Rajendra Damodara Yenkannamoole, whose organisation Vasudeva Kriya Yoga runs 17 centres in Melbourne and one in Bengaluru.“We will be having sessions on yoga as therapy, yoga for health, yoga for mobility and strength,” said the yoga guru, who has a YouTube channel and website vasudevakriyayoga.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/international-yoga-day-goes-virtual-in-covid-19-times-it-s-yoga-at-home-with-family-this-year/story-iDyAldrysmyomaoOs8hVVP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Panjab University’s survival mantra: Keep politics out, encourage research’||Ranking designed to encourage privatisationRanking of educational institutions is perception management and a statistically futile exercise. Inconsistent, arbitrary in nature, these rankings compare apples with oranges. This fraudulent perception (or deception) management exercise is designed to put educational institutions in market-driven ‘competitive’ mode based on monetary incentives. Low ranking means less funding. Outcomes translated into quantitative numbers decide the rankings. But education, particularly social sciences, are not quantitative and yield instant results. It’s a simple thing our “academicians” don’t want us to understand. To put it bluntly, this ranking exercise is essentially designed to encourage privatisation and commercialisation of education under parasitic neoliberal policies. Better ranking would essentially mean how aggressively these “top” institutions initiated self finance courses by depriving marginalised sections.Sandeep Kumar, Chandigarh Less politics, more academicsPanjab University (PU) has a long history of quality education, good faculty, vast research, highly accomplished alumni in all walks of life, and an international appeal. But over the last few years, the university’s performance is slipping due to lack of funds. Neither the Centre nor Punjab are helping support it financially. The vice-chancellor (V-C) also has to be an educationist and not a man with political party affiliations. As a member of the PU Alumni Association, I feel the university deserves better. Apart from raising the bar of quality education , the campus environment needs to be improved with more focus and academics and less on politics. PU can only beat high ranking universities by improving its teaching, international outlook, and research output. Colonel R D Singh ( retd), Ambala CanttGo digital firstPU should go digital first and ensure its important activities, seminars etc take place online. Facilities, including classrooms should be improved, and the canteens and cafes given a makeover. Academics and not politics should become the focus of the university. All decisions that are taken should have the consent of the students first to give them a say in university matters. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhCertain groups must stop ruling PU ‘by proxy’PU, once the pride of undivided Punjab, enjoyed international fame. Eminent educationists were in charge of the august office of the V-C and the university attracted students from other countries too. The downward trend set in when some powerful groups in the senate and syndicate started ruling PU affairs by proxy. Dirty politics for decades has tarnished the image of the university. The financial crunch is impacting research and hiring of qualified, dynamic faculty. Politics and political interference must end The nominated members must be selected on merit, not on recommendation of vested interests. Quality education, discipline and promoting of the latent talents of students will restore people’s trust in the university.Usha Verma, ChandigarhGenerate funds through innovative initiativesPanjab University will only top the rankings globally and nationally if political interference stops in the appointment of V-C or professors. Secondly, the professors should send research scholars abroad on foreign assignments instead of going themselves as this does not benefit their students or the university. The university should often invite luminaries from all fields from abroad and India to interact with the students and awaken their minds. Instead of fighting the funds crunch the V-C must try to generate funds through innovative initiatives and ensuring that professors who reach retirement age leave the university. Maintenance of the campus and ensuring its cleanliness is also important. Talent should be identified and nurtured. In 1981 PU refused to give funding to its research student Dr Joginder Singh Sidhu, who then went on to the US to earn fame as a scientist, inventor and designer. The world’s smallest and lightest camera is only one of more than 40 innovative products he has developed for the consumer market. He was also instrumental in designing the Smithsonian Institution’s Sikh Gallery in Washington, DC. Such talent should have been accepted and not rejected by PUOpinder Kaur Sekhon, Chandigarh Don’t make it a nursery for political partiesOnce I visited PU in the eighties and I was aghast to hear a senior teacher say our job is to teach and not to do research. Gold is costlier than other metals, what is rare is valuable. Review the system of rotation and time-bound promotions. Give the grades but not the rank. Then comes the Students’ Council. In our times there were no elections for a students’ union. Now PU has become the nursery for political parties. In such a scenario education is relegated to the background. Financial resources depend on grants from the states concerned and the Central government, made generally on political considerations. Political parties through students’ unions will not allow increase in fees. Total student strength, faculty-student ratio and number of research scholars would depend on the job opportunities available. These factors along with strength of students from other countries and states, women students, those from economically and socially challenged categories are subjective and manipulative and unnecessary factors of NIRF. Ranking of a university should be exclusively based on standard of teaching and research of international standard recognition. However, if the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences can excel in the existing system then why can’t other departments achieve that standard?Gurdev Singh, MohaliCentral recognition mustStandards of the university are declining due to financial constraints, without full financial support from the states. Not being recognised as a Central university is also affecting PU as it is not getting the financial support it needs to outperform others. That is also why PU is unable to add new infrastructure, allocate more funds for research projects, or depute university teaching staff to foreign universities. The student-teacher ratio is too high so researchers do not get the individual attention that they deserve from guides. Instead of being in the news for its academic achievements, the university is always in the limelight for disagreements between the V-C and the senate. Politics had gone deep into the roots of the university and the teachers and V-C are not on the same page on many issues, which affects the image and the reputation of the institute. Now a number of universities have been set up by corporate houses, with world class infrastructure and best of faculty from around the globe with a great deal of stress on research and performance. With its old ways of life and political interference PU will never be able to hold its own among the best universities in India or abroad. It will now require a total overhaul to outperform or come close to the best. But will the academicians win over the political appointees? That is a million dollar question. Suresh VermaMaintain International standards to improve rankingPanjab University needs to improve the parameters on which ranking assessment is done. Quality of academics should be improved. Student- teacher ratio should be maintained. With more stress on research more patents should be filed. A number of initiatives have to be taken to attract more students to the university. More international students should be enrolled. Inbound and outbound exchange programmes should be offered. Campus placements should be made more attractive and feasible by inviting multinational and international companies with high packages. Student elections should be banned completely as these are just vehicles of propaganda for their parties.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliEducation should not be dumbed downThe education system is changing to make studies and scoring easier in examinations. The basic standards of education have to be improved to ensure that students and as a result universities improve their performance. Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh.Move with the timesNothing can be achieved without discipline, so strict implementation of the academic curriculum will help faculty as well as students power up their performance. New courses geared to help students face the challenges of the modern world should be introduced. It is true that success demands perseverance. Children are the future of the nation and the authority should guide them on the right path. All laboratories should be modernised and research encouraged. Modern technology should be adopted for classroom teaching. Regular and thorough inspection should be done of university and college hostel rooms to ensure students are not distracted from studies in any way.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliImprove distance learning facilitiesThe reason for PU’s poor performance is stagnation in introducing new courses or giving impetus to research and not revolutionising its distance learning facilities. The alumni association too needs to be galvanized and research given a boost. Undue political interference both at student as well as professorial level must end. Avinash GoyalUpgrade research centresPanjab University is an age-old esteemed institution and has produced eminent scholars since its inception. It has been witnessing a continuous downward trend in various rankings in the last few years. Though its research standards are praiseworthy it has failed to compete with other institutes in the region and nation which have top class infrastructure and valuable collaborations with foreign universities. Their financial strength is also the underlying reason behind their continuous rise and popularity because they charge a hefty tuition fees. PU’s strength lies in its experienced, seasoned and research-oriented faculty. Though it is a public university it has its own limitations and has been facing severe financial problems from the last many years. It now has the responsibility to provide quality and affordable education to students. Meanwhile, the actual reason for drastic drop in rankings can be attributed to the lesser points earned by university in research and citation which needs attention. PU departments, especially science and engineering wings, must come forward to collaborate with the city colleges and professional institutes affiliated with it. Many colleges have research centres on campuses. PU must help upgrade them to push for active participation in research. Colleges and respective university departments need to work in tandem with each other to find solutions to current problems with latest scientific techniques. Such co-ordination will help utilise the talent of students doing masters, graduate and doctorate courses in college departments. Dr Karan Singh Vinayak, ChandigarhResearch infrastructure outdatedThe politicisation of the V-C’s post and also those of the faculty are the primary reasons for the fall in PU’s rankings. The other major factors are negligible recruitments, shortage of faculty from across the country and insufficient funding, besides factionalism and political affiliations of seniors. PU has turned into a cradle of politics and, education has taken a backseat. Research, which was at some point of time was the university’s pride has lost its shine, due to outdated research infrastructure, resulting in knowledge transfer being low. The number of PhDs awarded has decreased drastically. The glory of the university can only be restored by ensuring a healthier educational atmosphere, bonhomie between the faculty and students, and removal of politically inclined persons from the payrolls and student rosters.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-university-s-survival-mantra-keep-politics-out-encourage-research/story-ChRi8tLyQag8LtdG45uvcJ.html
19-06-2020||Lucknow||Delete 52 mobile apps linked to China, UP Special Task Force orders staffers||The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force on Friday asked its staffers to uninstall 52 mobile apps, pointing that these applications could be used to extract information from their mobile phones. The STF order also asked staff members to get their family members to remove the mobile applications.The applications that have been red-flagged by the STF include short-video app TikTok, and other utility and content apps such as UC browser, Xender, SHAREit and Clean-master.The STF advisory comes in wake of an assessment by intelligence agencies that expressed concern about the safety of at least 53 mobile applications linked to China. The National Security Council Secretariat had backed this assessment of the intelligence community.Also Read: Intel agencies red-flag use of 53 mobile apps with links to China: Complete listAmitabh Yash, Inspector General (IG) of Police of UP STF, said that he had issued an order. He said an internal circular had been issued applicable to STF members to uninstall 52 Chinese applications in view of the possibility that their usage could lead to unauthorised sharing and stealing of personal data.The top STF police officer told Hindustan Times that he had got the notice pasted at different places in the UP STF office in Lucknow and had circulated it on internal groups to ensure 100 percent compliance of the order.Amitabh Yash said they had not listed Zoom video conferencing platform in the list of 52 because “the Zoom meeting platform is already banned for the STF members”.“All staff members were told to uninstall it from their mobile handsets and other devices around a month ago,” he added.In April this year, the Union Home Ministry had issued a general advisory on use of Zoom on the recommendation of the national cybersecurity agency – Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-in). This advisory was issued in light of concerns around its safety.Additional Director General (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar added that the circular was issued as a precautionary measure and covers applications that, in their assessment, do not have proven credentials or were liable to be misused. It is designed to stay safe and secure in cyberspace, right from a mobile handset to a laptop or desktop computers.Kumar clarified that the state police headquarters had not issued a fresh order on the mobile apps but these are mandatory requirements to be taken by each organisation to stay safe in cyberspace.Amitabh Yas said he had asked STF members to ensure that their family members did not use these applications as our personal information could also be leaked and shared while talking and chatting on them. “My conversation with my wife and children could be shared even if their mobile handset has Chinese applications,” he said in response to a query on the reason behind asking families of STF members to delete the apps.Officials said the decision was taken after considering the possibility of data theft and leaking of personal information via these applications.Amitabh Yash said though he had listed 52 applications in his circular but the most commonly used applications by the people that are included in the list are TikTok, UC Browser, UC News, SHAREIt and WeChat.He said others in the list are Vault Hide, Vigo Video, Bigo Live, Weibo, Beauty Plus, Xender, Club Factory, Helo, LIKE, Kwai, ROMWE, SHEIN, News Dog, Photo Wonder, APUS Browser, Viva Video – QU Video Inc, Perfect Corp, CM Browser, Virus Cleaner (Hi Security Lab), MI Community, DU recorder, You Cam Makeup, MI Store, DU Battery Saver, 360 Security, DU Browser, DU Cleaner, DU Privacy, Clean Master – Cheetah, Cache Cleaner DU apps studio, Baidu Translate, Baidu Map, Wonder Camera, ES File Explorer, QQ International, QQ Launcher, QQ Security Centre, QQ Player, QQ Music, QQ Mall, QQ News Feed, We Sync, Selfie City, Clash of Kings, Mail Master, MI Video call – Xiomi and Parallel Space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-stf-cracks-down-tells-staffers-to-delete-52-apps-linked-to-china/story-m1gdokSIQBxEfbjwCiFZEJ.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Digital transformation of higher education in India in focus during webinar at Ludhiana college||The internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Ludhiana, on Friday, organised a national -level webinar under the aegis of ministry of human resource development, New Delhi, on “Digital transformation of higher education in India’ which was attended by more than 500 participants.Ved Prakash, former chairman, University Grants Commission, New Delhi, was the chief guest on the occasion. The guest of honour and keynote speaker was AK Bakshi, vice-chancellor, PDM University, Haryana. Vimal Rarh, project head and joint director, GAD-TLC of MHRD, was the other guest of honour and speaker. Prakash highlighted the transforming face of higher education in India as different seats of higher learning have taken to digital tools of teaching amid the Covid-19 lockdown. He added that Indian educationists must take to the different modes of information technology. He also spoke on the future, practical hitches and novelties of digital education. He said the echelons of higher education must play a bigger role in inviting new modes and methods of teaching and learning through various tools of information and technology.Bakshi spoke on the importance of digital education in the times to come. He also motivated the attendees to learn more about various digital methods. He validated his analysis of digitisation of education through various reports and data. He said that the real gap in practical education is that our education system many a times does not challenge the minds of students.Rarh highlighted the significance of ICT in the field of higher education. She emphasised on the idea that all shrines of higher learning must acclimatise themselves with the environment of online education. Meenu Gupta, coordinator, IQAC, welcomed the speakers. Ajay Sharma, principal, delivered the vote of thanks. E-certificates were provided to the participants||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/digital-transformation-of-higher-education-in-india-in-focus-during-webinar-at-ludhiana-college/story-tCoLNUB8PybeIqRIG77UdK.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police arrest 2 Khalistani operatives, bust Pakistan-backed terror module||Chandigarh: Punjab Police on Thursday night busted another terror module with the arrest of two alleged Khalistani operatives, who were preparing to carry out a series of terror attacks and targeted killings at the behest of their Pakistani mentors and handlers.A German-made MP5 sub-machine gun, a 9-mm pistol with four magazines, and two mobile phones with a host of incriminatory conversations, messages, and photographs were seized from the duo.The mobile phones revealed suspicious transactions with Pakistan-based elements, including photographs, voice messages, as well as the coordinates of a particular geo-location, DGP Dinkar Gupta told reporters on Friday.In addition, a large variety of posts and web-links, connected with the formation of Khalistan, were also found on the mobile phone of Gurmeet Singh, who has been in regular touch with the ISI and anti-India elements sponsored by the Pakistan establishment.A case was registered under Sections 120B, 121 of the IPC, and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act besides the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.Acting on a tip-off on Thursday night, an Amritsar rural police team raided a spot near Gurdaspuria Dhaba on GT Road under the Jandiala police station jurisdiction and apprehended Gurmeet Singh and Vikram Singh.The DGP said Gurmeet Singh, 44, of Sultanwind Road, Amritsar, admitted that the photographs and voice messages had been shared with them by their Pakistan-based handlers to locate and pick up sophisticated weapons kept at that location by their accomplices. He said that their handlers had been instructing them to carry out terror attacks in Punjab, especially targeting of persons belonging to a particular community, to further the cause of Khalistan.Gurmeet Singh told the interrogators that he had visited Pakistan about three years ago to meet his handlers.Gurmeet Singh was earlier involved in a case of fraud with his brother, and a case was registered against him in Amritsar.Efforts are on to identify the Pakistan-based handlers of the terrorist module, Gupta said, adding investigations to unearth the linkages and ramifications of the terror module, including those based across the border, are in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-arrest-2-khalistani-operatives-bust-pakistan-backed-terror-module/story-aDAEEbIVr0FeQ45S2DhcnK.html
19-06-2020||Lucknow||UP records highest single-day spike of 809 Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 16,594||Uttar Pradesh on Friday recorded the highest single-day spike of 809 coronavirus cases, with the tally rising to 16,594 in the state, officials said. The death toll due to Covid-19 mounted to 507 after 19 fresh fatalities were reported from different districts of the state, they said. The previous highest single-day spike in cases was on Thursday when the state recorded 604 cases. “Of the total infected people, 9,995 have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. The number of active cases in the state stands at 6,092,” Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. He said record 17,221 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Thursday.The official said the state health department has also started random sampling.“Of the 3,475 samples taken from urban slums in 75 districts, 65 were found positive in 17 districts,” he said. Prasad said 1.30 lakh teams of the health department have conducted surveys of 97 lakh houses. The additional chief secretary said the bodies of patients will be handed over to their family members without awaiting Covid-19 test report. He said family members will have to take all precautions while cremating the bodies. Besides, the state government has fixed the price of Covid-19 testing by the RT-PCR method to a maximum of Rs 2,500 and hospitals have been asked to make help desks equipped with pulse oximeters and thermal scanners to provide immediate help to patients. Prasad appealed to the people to follow social distancing norms, use face covers and take proper care of the aged, pregnant women, children and those suffering from co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-809-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-16-594/story-qHqOM62MlQ1mgAECo3OxPI.html
19-06-2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath shrine’s ‘prasad’ can soon be ordered online, home-delivered||The district administration in Uttarakhand’s Rudryaprayag will soon begin the home delivery of the ‘prasad’ of Kedarnath shrine, officials said on Friday. The decision was taken considering the less number of devotees at the shrine due to Covid-19 pandemic and also to provide livelihood to the women self-help groups associated with the temple which is among the char dhams in Uttarakhand. Manvinder Kaur, chief development officer, Rudraprayag said, “The idea of home delivery of the prasad of Kedarnath temple came after it was observed that the devotees are not able to visit the temple as the Char Dham yatra is yet to start normally.”“As only local devotees are able to visit the temple and that too, in less numbers due to obvious reasons, we would soon take online order of the prasad from them and deliver it to their homes,” said Kaur.Elaborating about the online prasad service, the official said, it will initially start in Rudraprayag district and then eventually be extended to other parts of state and country. “First we will start the service from Rudraprayag district and then, will gradually extend it to the whole country. We are in talks with some companies for providing us an online platform for the orders and then, in association with courier companies, will start delivering them,” he said. Kaur said, the administration will make “packs comprising laddoo and yagna material as prasad under the initiative.”“All the aforementioned materials are being made women self-help groups associated with us. At present when the temple is almost deserted, their income has also stalled. This initiative, when started, will give them a sort of steady source of income,” said Kaur. “Talks with all the parties concerned are on and the initiative will start in next seven days,” she added. Kedarnath along with and Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri, collectively called Char Dham, is one of the most revered pilgrimages in the Hindu tradition and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year.The portals of Kedarnath shrine had been opened on April 29 and the first prayers were offered on behalf of Prime PM Modi to help the country fight against the coronavirus pandemic.With the view to stop the spread of Covid-19 disease, the state government, on June 9, issued guidelines for ‘darshan’ at the Char Dham shrines that include Kedarnath, allowing only local residents to visit. Under the guidelines, pilgrims from outside the state won’t be allowed in till June 30, and only residents of the districts where the temples are located will be permitted to make limited visits to the shrines.However, the move was opposed by the shrine’s priests who said they wouldn’t support visits to the shrine even by locals due to the prevailing situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/kedarnath-shrine-s-prasad-can-soon-be-ordered-online-home-delivered/story-TZMScoObVzkx3jO3X9uPUK.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||50-year-old cancer patient from Moga succumbs to Covid-19||Moga/Bathinda/Faridkot: A 50-year-old Covid-19 patient from Moga, who was also suffering from liver cancer, died on Thursday night.Civil surgeon Dr Amarjeet Kaur Bajwa said that Tajinder Singh of Moga was admitted at Mohandai Oswal Hospital in Ludhiana for cancer treatment on June 17. “He was discharged from the hospital on Thursday morning but during the day he tested positive. He passed away at 10.30pm on Thursday. The district administration conducted the cremation as per the protocol,” she said.Meanwhile, five persons of Kotkapura town tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that of them, two residents of Prem Nagar are contacts of a positive patient admitted at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Ludhiana.“The other three are residents of Surgapuri locality of Kotkapura that has been declared a containment zone. We are confirming whether they came in contact with a positive patient or if there is any other source of infection,” he said.“All of them have been admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot. Now there are seven active cases in the district. Their samples were collected during the door-to-door survey conducted in the containment zone and high-risk areas by the health department,” he added.TEENAGED GIRL FROM FAZILKA POSITIVEA 17-year-old girl from Fazilka town also tested positive on Friday.Fazilka civil surgeon Dr CM Kataria said the patient has no recent travel history but her parents visited Delhi and their samples have been sent to the laboratory for testing.The patient has been admitted at the isolation facility in Jalalabad town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-year-old-cancer-patient-from-moga-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-aJHULvcZ06x688nrQHilYN.html
19-06-2020||City||Himachal govt allows free movement of army, paramilitary||The Himachal Pradesh government has allowed unrestricted movement of the Indian Army and the central paramilitary forces through the state, as per an order issued by chief secretary Anil Khachi late on Thursday.“The members of the armed forces and the central paramilitary forces, coming to the state or crossing the state to join back their duties, can enter or pass on their official ID without the requirement of an e-pass/permit,” the order states. The movement on Indo-China border has increased since the Chinese aggression on the Indian Territory, which resulted in a violent face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan valley where 20 soldiers were killed.Most ground movement of the armed forces towards the Ladakh border takes place through Chandigarh-Manali-Leh highway. Kinnaur and Lahaul & Spiti districts of Himachal also share a long border with China. The army and the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have restricted the movement of people in high hills and additional army units are being moved to the mountainous terrain along the international border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-allows-free-movement-of-army-paramilitary/story-LJT99M6fzySegn9U8CdW6O.html
19-06-2020||City||High drama at Ludhiana’s Chhawani Mohalla as residents demand lifting of containment restrictions||High drama was witnessed at the Chhawani Mohalla, which was declared a containment zone over two weeks ago, as residents went up in arms against the cops deployed there and demanded the restrictions to be lifted. They alleged that ever since the colony was declared a containment zone, there has been an acute paucity of basic enmities. “Neither can we go out for work nor can anyone else enter our locality. There is no milk in the house. The ration is also drying up. Medicines have also finished. We are totally at loss. We do not know what to do and for how long this will continue,” said Rohit Kumar, a trader residing in the area.Vikas Sabharwal, another resident, said, “It has been nearly 15 days since I have stepped out of the house. It gets really depressing sometimes. Our only submission is that those who have been tested negative should be allowed to leave the containment zone. Children and elderly are terrified of this arrangement. Majority of the people living here eke out their living by doing menial jobs. If they continue to remain at home, they will lose their job. How to will they run their household then.” When contacted, Surinder Atwal, councillor of ward 84, in which the colony falls, said that basic facilities are being provided to residents. “I am sure that if residents raised their voice, there must have been good reason. But I urge them to cooperate with us in these testing times,” said Atwal.The densely populated locality was declared a containment zone on June 6 after 15 contacts of a 53-year-old man, who succumbed to the virus on May 29, tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, the locality has 35 positive patients. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The health department is conducting intensive house-to-house checking, surveillance, contact tracing and sampling in the area. Right now, only essential and medical services is being provided in the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-drama-at-ludhiana-s-chhawani-mohalla-as-residents-demand-lifting-of-containment-restrictions/story-U0Qn01jAc90r748DKqhSBO.html
19-06-2020||City||Student-parent forum holds stir in Shimla against private schools charging arbitrary fees||Chhatra Abhibhavak Manch, a local student-parent forum, here on Friday staged a protest outside the directorate of higher education against private schools for allegedly charging arbitrary fees and for disregarding the state government’s decision to only collect tuition fees.After the protest, a delegation of the forum met higher education joint director Pramod Chauhan and elementary education department joint director Hitesh Azad and submitted a memorandum demanding implementation of the state government orders.The officials assured them to take action against private schools.Forum coordinator Vijender Mehra said even when the world is battling coronavirus pandemic, private schools are looting parents. He alleged that most private schools were not even conducting online classes and still collected the whole fees instead of just tuition fees. Private schools are pressurising parents to pay fees by regularly sending them text messages, he said.Mehra alleged that private schools have removed miscellaneous charges like annual charges, smart classroom charges, sports fees and other charges from the fee book and included them in the tuition fees, increasing it by four times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/student-parent-forum-holds-stir-in-shimla-against-private-schools-charging-arbitrary-fees/story-vVQ3MLvGEO4kmvJ2RWIA0K.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala’s Govt Rajindra Hospital lags behind in Covid-19 testing, only 800 samples collected||Government Rajindra hospital, which is one of the tertiary health care institutes of Punjab, with the strength of around 12,000 employees, has only collected 800 samples so far, while the district health department has collected 16,000 samples.The first Covid-19 case was recorded in Punjab on March 5 but the hospital only started taking samples of suspected patients after June 1. Before June 1, all samples had been collected by the district health department.An official of the health department, requesting anonymity, said, “Rajindra hospital has trained staff and doctors while we have had to include untrained dentists and ayurveda doctors in our teams. Had the hospital had started collecting samples from beginning, it would have eased the work load of the health department.”‘MISMANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES’A doctor, pleading anonymity, said, “Resources have been mismanaged. Rajindra hospital has a Covid-19 testing lab, trained and experienced doctors but they delayed sample collection. Had they started earlier, the situation could be different as the contacts of positive could be traced and treated sooner,” he addedGovernment Rajindra College and Hospital principal Dr Harjinder Singh said, “Earlier, the government had not allowed Rajindra Hospital to collect samples.”PRIVATE LAB SEALED FOR NOT TAKING PRECAUTIONARY MEASURESThe district health department has sealed the Ashoka Clinical laboratory for not taking precautionary measures while collecting blood samples. The department also served the laboratory a notice.The department said a 47-year-old Covid-19 patient had visited the lab a few days ago and the staff had taken her blood samples without following precautions.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said, “The lab was sealed for seven days for violating the Covid-19 safety guidelines. The breech was discovered while tracing the contacts of a Covid-19 patient.”“At the lab, we found that none of the staff had been wearing masks and gloves. The lab was also located in the common area where staff members were interacting with the public. As per government guideline, the lab should be located in a separate area from a public dealing place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-s-govt-rajindra-hospital-lags-behind-in-covid-19-testing-only-800-samples-collected/story-NAIu7qh7Hw1uPaJ0AMyHqJ.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||In biggest single-day spike, 76 people test positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar||Jalandhar: In the biggest single-day spike so far, 76 people tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Jalandhar on Friday, health officials said.Jalandhar nodal officer Dr TP Singh Sandhu said, “We have been receiving reports and segregating data of positive patients. The district had 418 positive cases till Thursday, the third highest in Punjab after Amritsar and Ludhiana.”Jalandhar district has reported 14 Covid-19 deaths so far.According to the health department, 152 positive cases were reported in the district since June 14 after three major spikes of 76, 32 and 31 positive cases of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-biggest-single-day-spike-76-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jalandhar/story-Cpl8PgETGPGi3GQzkslgDJ.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Man arrested by PCMC police for murdering father||A 38-year-old man has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for the murder of his father, according to the police.The murder allegedly happened over money dispute, police said.The man, identified as Rajesh alias Datta Mutayya Polkam (38), a resident of Khadki area of Pune, has been remanded to five days in police custody by a local court on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Sunil Muttayya Polkam, 68, a resident of Bhatia chawl in Dapodi, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Bhosari police station of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The body was found with all four limbs bound to the bed in the house. The man was reportedly bludgeoned to death with his limbs tied to the bed. The police responded to calls made by the neighbours. As nobody answered the door, the police broke open the lock of the house and found the body on Wednesday.The reason behind the murder was the refusal of the now deceased man to lend money to his son in order to buy a new tempo, according to inspector Shankar Awtade of Bhosari police station.“The arrested man used to work on a daily-wage basis and wanted to buy a mini truck for transport business. His father had retired from a private company 10 years ago and had retirement money and pension,” said assistant inspector Gajanan Bansode of Bhosari police station, who is investigating the case.The man had come to his father’s house for lunch on Tuesday. “He was drunk and was asking for money that evening while eating. As the father refused to give him the money, he killed him,” said API Bansode.The deceased remained indoors on most days and the neighbours did not have any idea about his whereabouts, according to police. After identifying the deceased, the police set up two teams that questioned all known family members and realised that the son had not returned to his own house in Khadki, where he lived with his family.A case under Section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the arrested man at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-arrested-by-pcmc-police-for-murdering-father/story-Ik1anL7bweKcidK0ikpgjP.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Amravati joint director of town planning, kin booked for disproportionate assets||The Amravati joint director of town planning was booked along with his wife and two children for possession of disproportionate assets. Hanumant Jagannath Nazirkar (53), state joint director, town planning, Amravati, and three others have been identified as his wife Sangita Nazirkar (45) daughter Gitanjali Nazirkar (25), and son Bhaskar Nazirkar (22), according to a statement issued by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Pune.A case in the matter was registered at Alankar police station against the four. The case was registered under Section 13(1)(b) of Prevention of Corruption Act along with Section 109 of Indian Penal Code was registered.The ACB officials found discrepancies in the income of the Nazirkar family members.In the year 2002-2003, the family recorded Rs 1,44,347 income and assets that could not be accounted for. Similarly, in the year 2015-2016, the family collectively had assets of Rs 2,47,25,345. For the year 2017-2018, the unaccounted assets were worth Rs 35,52,638, and Rs 1,11,506 for the year 2017-2018, according to a statement issued by ACB.Nazirkar and his wife were also booked in a case of cheating worth multiple lakhs at the Dattawadi police station in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/amravati-joint-director-of-town-planning-kin-booked-for-disproportionate-assets/story-0ylS0wW2lXO4fQqd4rShEP.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Separated by Covid, Delhi prisoners and families demand e-meetings||Vijay Nahar Singh, 40, was arrested in a murder case eight years ago and is an undertrial inmate at Tihar jail. He was also charged under provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act (MCOCA) that has stringent bail terms, which he could not avail. His only connection with the outside world and his eight-year-old daughter was the bi-weekly mulaqaats (meeting with family, allowed under Delhi Prison Rules) for 30 minutes.Since March, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, this provision was suspended and only five-minute phone calls -- that the prisoner could request to make from the jail’s landline connections -- were allowed in the three jail complexes of Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini. The move was to try and contain the virus from spreading inside jails, which could turn into hot spots if it did. Rajouri Garden resident Singh’s wife, who did not wish to be named, said “I can only speak to him for a few minutes. He is worried about our health. With no money in hand, he can’t even buy anything for himself to boost his immunity during this pandemic,” she said.The prison department also released around 3,000 prisoners on interim bail and parole from, to allow for social distancing. However, this has not stopped the virus from penetrating jails -- the three complexes, which together house a total of 14,000 prisoners and around 1800 jail officers, have reported 20 cases of Covid-19 till date among prisoners and jail officers. Senior prison officers said that contact tracing so far has revealed that in all the three jails, the virus reached the prison through jail officers, who did not show any symptoms.Forty-year-old Farhad Khan, a resident of Govindpuri, was convicted in a drugs case in 2015 and is serving a 10-year term. With a history of asthma and chest related illnesses, Khan is an “at-risk” inmate and got bail on May 14. On June 12, Khan’s wife, who had wished not to be named, the last two months were difficult for them. “I am battling depression and my husband has asthma and vision problems. Since the meetings were stopped, I have no way to know about his health or deposit money for him during Ramzan so that he could enjoy a few treats,” the 45-year-old had said. “I seem to have symptoms of Covid-19.”Three days after this conversation, she died. Her test results confirmed the virus.“I was allowed only a two-minute phone call with her when I was in jail till my bail,” said Khan, who spoke “Half of that time time would pass in getting clear voice due to patchy network. And now, she has left me within a month.”The prisoners’ families now, through their lawyers, are demanding that an alternative solutions, such as video conferencing, should be chalked out to solve their problems. Experts too say that the prison must work on starting e-visits for families. Kalkaji resident Murugan, 21, whose father is an undertrial in a rape case in Tihar, said, “The jail authorities should allow e-mulaquats so that the inmates can at least see their relatives over video and be assured about their health and needs,” he said, adding that he has not been able deposit money into his father’s jail account either. The jail account allows prisoners to withdraw cash and buy provisions from the prison canteens. The prisons’ inspector general, Raj Kumar, however, said there were no plans to start such “virtual” meetings. Experts said that such virtual meetings could help de-stress the prisoners.Ajay Verma , former convener of the National Forum for Prison Reforms -- a group of lawyers that fights for implementation of reforms across prisons --- said, “It will reduce stress of the prisoners. A few states have begun work on it. Visitors can make online registration and meet the prisoners through video conferencing without travelling to prisons”.The Punjab and Haryana High Court allowed the states under their jurisdiction to begin virtual meetings for prisoners and their families, while a petition in the Odisha High Court is also requesting the same.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa said that prisoners still in jail should be given proper facilities to touch base with their families especially in times of a pandemic. “The state government should take some steps for conducting e-mulaqaat because unusual situation calls for unusual actions,” he said.Sunil Gupta, former law officer of Tihar for over three decades, said that all jails in the prison complexes were equipped with video conferencing equipment used for court hearing as well as the legal aid lawyers. “The same facilities can be used by the prisoners to meet their families,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/separated-by-covid-delhi-prisoners-and-families-demand-e-meetings/story-38Iy7MBkAokxc7Q3x5czxO.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ventilators gather dust in Hoshiarpur civil hospital as administrative glitches delay installation||The Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust had donated the civil hospital two ventilators last month, however, they continue to remain non-functional because of administrative glitches even as Covid-19 cases rise in the state. The health authorities have not even set up the building where the equipment is to be installed. The Punjab health systems corporation is yet to accord approval for use of its premisesHospital sources said that to run ventilators, a dedicated staff, including a medical officer, staff nurses and Class-4 employees are required. However, the same was not available.The hospital is equipped with 75 beds to accommodate coronavirus patients but in case of an emergency the patients are referred to higher institutions in other districts. Critical non-Covid-19 cases too have to be taken to private hospitals for resuscitation. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Jaswinder Singh said efforts were being made to get rid of the technical hiccups. “We have written to the health department to provide us with the required staff. A proposal has also been sent to the health systems corporation for altering the building for installation of ventilators. Work will start as soon as we get the sanctions,” said Singh.He said a team had been sent to Kapurthala to study the technicalities associated with ventilator installation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ventilators-gather-dust-in-hoshiarpur-civil-hospital-as-administrative-glitches-delay-installation/story-bPSRLu8trzwF714ytVUEVO.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Pune to receive moderate rainfall till June 21, says IMD forecast||The city received moderate showers on Thursday, according to officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Till 5:30 pm, Shivajinagar has received 1 mm rainfall while Lohegaon received 18.0 mm rain.“The rainfall recorded was between 1.5mm to 6.4mm. This rain has occurred due to western winds coming over Arabain sea which is causing strong convergence and it will have its impact on Konkan as well as Pune. The city will continue to receive moderate rainfall for the next three days,” said Anupam Kashyapi, director, IMD.The maximum temperature for the day was 29.6 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was 22.9 degrees Celsius.During the day, there was a thick cloud cover over the city, with a few spells of rain, according to IMD officials.Some parts of Pimpri-Chinchwad also witnessed heavy rains.Kolhapur sees heavy rainfall Kolhapur in western Maharashtra received season’s first heavy rainfall since Wednesday resulting in the closure of some stretches of a state highway and a district highway for vehicular traffic due to waterlogging on Thursday.The district had faced the brunt of unprecedented rainfall and floods last year.According to officials, a stretch of the state highway connecting Ujlaiwadi to Kolhapur airport in Karveer tehsil was closed for vehicular traffic after water-logging was witnessed there.The traffic has been diverted through Ambewadi Chikhli road, he said.Similarly, vehicular movement was suspended on one of the roads in Kagal tehsil, after the Bastwade weir (a low dam) got submerged under two feet water, said an official from water resource department.According to the district administration, at least 27 weirs on Panchaganga river got submerged after water was released from Radhanagari and Koyna dams.As on Thursday, the Koyna dam had 33.27 TMC water, while the Almatti dam had 36.35 TMC water.In Madhya (central) Maharashtra as well most of the districts received moderate rainfall, according to IMD officials.Forecast for next three daysJune 19: light rain, thunder, lightning very likelyJune 20: Light rain, thunder, lightning very likelyJune 21: Light rains likely||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-to-receive-moderate-rainfall-till-june-21-says-imd-forecast/story-6RTM1cw6C7dt8Zr3EDJNTJ.html
19-06-2020||City||Punjab Agricultural University turns to social media to advice farmers, receives encouraging response||Technology is proving to be a game changer for Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, in the wake of the coronavirus-induced pandemic. Farmers have had to face many challenges due to the coronavirus disease. Covid-19 led to the cancellation of the highly anticipated Kisan Mela and the exodus of farm labour forced farmers to adopt alternative techniques such as direct seeding of rice (DSR).Faced with the unprecedented challenge of educating farmers while also observing social distancing, PAU experts turned to the varsity’s Facebook page on June 1 to sensitise farmers about rodent management and seed germination.With three episodes aired so far, the weekly question-answer programme has become a major hit among farmers not just of the region but also in Pakistan.Amid the encouraging responses of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, were also encouraging comments from the Agricultural University in Pakistan’s Faisalabad.23,000 VIEWS RECEIVED The Facebook page has received an unprecedented response and the second session held on June 10 received nearly 23,000 views (with a people reach up to 55,000), while the latest edition that was conducted on June 17 has received 11,000 views so far.A Pakistan-based PhD scholar Usman Tatla wrote in the comments that the university was doing an outstanding job.Senior agronomist Makhan Singh Bhullar, who is the point person for paddy sowing through DSR technology and bed planting said the university decided to reach out to farmers through Facebook after the Kisan Mela scheduled before the Kharif season was cancelled and the Kisan Vakas Kendra remained closed during lockdown, said Bhullar.“It was important for us to reach out to farmers as they are facing a host of issues. Due to labour shortage a significant number of farmers have switched to DSR. With no previous experience of sowing, some of them faced germination issues and had trouble with rodents,” said Dr Bhullar.FIRST TIMERS BENEFIT Gurnaib Singh from Faridkot district, who is opting for the DSR technique for the first time, said the Facebook interaction session had proved to be a boon for farmers like him.“Since it was a new initiative we were worried about whether the seeds will germinate but the expert session cleared all our doubts. We are following the advice of PAU experts and seeds have started germinating,” said Gurnaib Singh.Harman Singh Gill of Gurdaspur said, “Despite PAU issuing a warning asking farmers not to transplant seeds before June, I had planted the seed in May. The seeds hardened due too untimely rain and I had trouble with germination. I reached out to the PAU experts through their Facebook page and their advice was instrumental in saving my crop,” said Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-agricultural-university-turns-to-social-media-to-advice-farmers-receives-encouraging-response/story-H9QwUJxGgVHvSdVzJmIAnN.html
19-06-2020||Pune||27-day-old baby cured of Covid-19, discharged from hospital in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation, on Thursday, reported 193 persons discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 6,906.One of the cured patients includes a 27-day-old male from Hadapsar. The infant was born at Sassoon Hospital on May 20 and had breathing problem. After the Covid test came back positive the child was undergoing treatment and was discharged after being completely free of the infection on Thursday.The Pune Municipal Corporation, on Thursday, reported six deaths related to Covid-19, taking the city’s total death count to 487.This figure released by PMC does not have the reconciled death figures released by the state health department. According to the state health department, as of June 16, Pune’s death toll, post reconciliation, is 545.In addition, 472 fresh Covid cases were reported within 24 hours on Thursday, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune district to 11,115.Three deaths were reported of citizens residing outside the PMC’s jurisdiction, but from PMC hospitals.Two deaths were reported of residents from the Cantonment area, and one deceased from the Pune rural area. The number of patients in critical care is now at 245.Of the six deaths reported on Thursday, the youngest was a 30-year-old female from Ramtekadi, Hadapsar admitted to Sassoon Hospital on June 10. She had acute respiratory failure and tuberculosis.The other deceased patients include an 84-year-old male from Hadapsar admitted to Poona Hospital and an 80-year-old female from Chatturshrungi road. The other three deceased are a 70-year-old male from Kasba peth, a 65-year-old from Dandekar bridge and a 45-year-old from Hadapsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/27-day-old-baby-cured-of-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital-in-pune/story-xi711apBax19LjeFleoCtO.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Suicide cases dip in Haryana during lockdown, psychologists say family support helps||Karnal: Staying with family may help fight suicidal thoughts, say psychologists, referring to the decline in the number of suicide cases in Haryana during the lockdown period.Though people had to face hardships during the lockdown enforced to slow the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state saw a decline in the number of cases of suicide.Haryana Police data shows that 93 people committed suicide in Haryana from March 1 to May 31 this year, against 155 cases reported last year during the same period. The maximum number of 47 suicides was reported in May as compared to 60 in the same month last year.Despite the state witnessing two suicides by Covid-19 patients in Faridabad and Yamunanagar districts on Thursday, Haryana director general of police (DGP) crime, PK Agrawal says there is no specific reason for the decline in numbers just as it could not be ascertained what led people to take the extreme step.According to police officials dealing with suicide cases, besides fear and loneliness, the non-availability of alcohol and addictive drugs could have led people to commit suicide. Two people admitted to Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital committed suicide in May because they were habitual drinkers and could not get liquor in the lockdown.NO PARTICULAR REASONPsychologists say that mental illness, depression, loneliness, hopelessness and sometimes homesickness and pressure of study or competition among students may lead to suicidal thoughts.“There is no a particular reason for suicides as it depends upon the temperament of a person. It varies from individual to individual as many people are over-achievers. When they fail to achieve their aim, they lose hope,” said Ranjana Singh, the chairperson of the department of psychology at Kurukshetra University.About the decline in cases in Haryana during the lockdown, she said, “We can’t say that the lockdown reduced the risk of suicide but it seems the support of family members helped. Generally, people living alone or in nuclear families are more prone to suicidal thoughts.”Rohtash Singh, a professor of social psychology, said, “Chemical imbalance in the brain may lead people to depression or commit suicide but we cannot specify any particular reason for taking such a step.”On fewer cases during the lockdown, he said: “Social and family ties in Haryana are still strong.”BUCKING THE TRENDThe data shows a few districts saw an increase in the number of suicides. Eight suicides were reported in Panipat from March 1 to June 15 against 10 in the same period last year but the district witnessed five cases from June 1 to 15 this year.Some districts also saw an increase during this period as in Ambala, where 23 people committed suicide during the lockdown against 18 during the same period last year.Twelve suicides were reported in Rohtak from March 25 to June 15 this year against nine cases in the same period in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-cases-dip-in-haryana-during-lockdown-psychologists-say-family-support-helps/story-wGmPn3NhfNBuxDoNQZM7IK.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid-19 tally mounts to 13,750; 515 new cases reported||With the detection of 515 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the count in Maharashtra’s Pune district has reached 13,750, a health official said on Friday.Apart from this, at least 12 deaths were reported in the district, taking the toll here to 552, the official said.Of the 515 new cases, 451 were detected in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits and 33 were recorded from Pimpri-Chinchwad, he said.The number of positive cases in rural, civil hospital and Pune cantonment board area has risen to 1,206, he said.As many as 193 patients were discharged from hospitals in the district following recovery in the last 24 hours, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-covid-19-tally-mounts-to-13-750-515-new-cases-reported/story-Ygx9qkHJE8koGiczu3TTaN.html
19-06-2020||City||Litter-free, progressive Rudewal village wins national award||With a population of just 500, Rudewal village of Machhiwara block in Ludhiana has brought laurels by bagging the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (2018-2019) for its good performance.The village, located on the banks of Sutlej, has been awarded for its sanitation system, civic services, natural resource management and efforts at uplifting the marginalised sections.It will be given an award of Rs 10 lakh, which will be spent on development works in the village.Sarpanch Jasdev Singh Bittu says the village has achieved this feat through sustained awareness programmes. “Though we have a population of just 500, people here are aware and progressive. Each household receives potable water and there is no littering on the streets. The villagers are sensitive to environmental issues and abstain from stubble burning,” he says.“It is this awareness that helped us keep the village safe from Covid-19 so far,” he adds.Bittu says the panchayat has also been taking special care of the weaker sections to ensure they benefit from government schemes. The Machhiwara block samiti, under which the village falls, has also won an award for development and revenue generation and will be receiving a grant of Rs 25 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/litter-free-progressive-rudewal-village-wins-national-award/story-edYgHjKcducKjvMLe3X9EI.html
19-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan registers 331 Covid-19 deaths, 13,909 cases||Rajasthan reported another death due to Covid-19 and 52 cases of the novel coronavirus on Friday, according to an official report. The death was reported from Jaipur.With this, the number of deaths and coronavirus positive cases in the state has gone up to 331 and 13,909 respectively.Of the fresh positive cases on Friday, 13 are from Churu and Jhunjhunu each, 9 from Jaipur, 5 from Dholpur, 4 from Tonk, 3 from Hanumangarh, 2 from Jhalawar and Rajsamand each and one from Chittorgarh, the report said.A total of 10,801 Covid-19 patients have recovered and 10,538 have been discharged. As many as 2,777 cases are active in the state as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-registers-331-covid-19-deaths-13-909-cases/story-ki7F1HwVLCUhOTBXy1JgPP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University students bag 10 top slots in global animation competition||Chitkara University has become the first Indian University to have 10 of its first-year students from the bachelor’s programme in animation feature in the ‘Global Top 50’ in the famed 11 Second Club competition. 11 Second Club is a monthly character animation competition, which attracts participation from animators globally, including professional studio animators. The top entries of 11 Second Club competitions get mentorship support from the community of professional and world-class animators. The students who aced the May 2020 edition of 11 Second Club are Lalit (eighth), Aditya Punj (12th), Pratham Bajaj (14th), Harpreet Singh (22th), Nikhil Bhardwaj (25th), Dabia Gujral (25th), Arshdeep Singh (27th), Shobhit Sharma (34th), Naitik Gupta (49th), Arvind (50th). Chitkara University pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara, while congratulating the students and the staff, said, “It gives me immense pleasure to see our students excel at global competitions. This testifies our industry-oriented curriculum, student-centric pedagogy, and mentorship programs that have yielded results year after year in terms of placements, and creative output.”During the course, the animation students at the Chitkara Design School are exposed to ins and outs of designing, painting, model making, texture design, animation, technical aspects of lighting, composite making, and even editing films. In addition, they receive numerous opportunities to engage in theoretical and practical exercises for honing their artistic, storytelling and technical abilities, thereby making them industry-ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-students-bag-10-top-slots-in-global-animation-competition/story-fVec2quh5QW55Iga3RSGKJ.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rural pharmacists boycott Covid-19 duties in Punjab, demand regularisation, salary hike||Pharmacists posted at dispensaries under the panchayat department on Friday boycotted their Covid-related duties and staged a protest demanding regularisation of jobs and hike in salaries.They raised slogans against the government outside Amritsar deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon’s office. “Members of the Punjab Rural Health Pharmacy Officers Association have been working for the last 14 years for Rs 10,000 per month in over 1,186 pharmacies. The government officials have time and again promised us that our salaries will be increased but nothing has been done on ground,” said Kamaljeet Singh Chauhan, vice-chairperson of the association.“The government hires pharmacists on contractual basis and this year the contracts have not been renewed. The pharmacists have been assigned emergency Covid-related duties at different public places, including the Golden Temple, Durgiana Temple, ICP Attari, Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport, to medically screen people. Despite working in the emergency situations, the government is not fulfilling our demands,” he said. The association’s district president Gurdeep Singh said, “Besides regularising our jobs, the government should increase the salaries of frontline warriors. The employees should be provided medical insurance and the benefits that are available to other medical staff.”Singh said all pharmacists of the state had boycotted Covid-related duties on Friday and protesters were being staged in different districts of Punjab.“We will re-join our Covid-19 duties once the government assures us regularisation of jobs and hikes our salaries. If our demands are not fulfilled we will intensify our protest,” a protestor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rural-pharmacists-boycott-covid-19-duties-in-punjab-demand-regularisation-salary-hike/story-BMDViyZD2yBjNvAu6vAYZL.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Srinagar’s Dal Lake cleaned in accordance to Covid-19 guidelines||The Lakes and Waterways Development Authority (LAWDA) has initiated a mission to clean the Dal Lake in view of revised Covid-19 induced lockdown guidelines.The manual cleaning of the lake provides employment to hundreds of residents. After multiple drives using machines to clean the Dal Lake, the LAWDA has now started relying on human power to clear the lily pads within the lake.The mission, therefore, aims to clear weeds like lily pads, creepers, algae, water plants and other waste material present in the water body.“We are engaging around 1,000 labourers every day in Dal and Nigeen lakes. They take out the weeds from the root while machines can only cut the upper layer,” LAWDA official Shabir Hussain told ANI.One of the most noteworthy tourist destinations, Dal Lake attracts a large number of tourists from across the world every year .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/srinagar-s-dal-lake-cleaned-in-accordance-with-covid-19-guidelines/story-3RQHPrIsgIE0O73y2YMg6L.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 instilled good habits, feel recovered old patients||Novel coronavirus may have brought the world to its knees, but for some recovered elderly patients of Covid-19, it has changed their lives for the better in some aspects.A number of ageing patients in Aurangabad, who have returned home after recovery, say that the infection has not only prompted them to inculcate good dietary habits, but also taught them to be open-minded towards the younger generation and adaptable to the changing world.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTalking to PTI, a 66-year-old man, who was discharged three days back post-recovery, said, “Generally people of my age don’t like any changes in the lifestyle. But Covid-19 made me change some of my old habits. I had not changed my diet for decades, which was actually not suitable for my age.” “After the infection, I decided to change my diet and make it healthier. I also learnt to become adaptable to the changing situations,” he added.A 60-year-old female patient, who returned home from hospital on June 1, says she does remember how she contracted the infection as she never left her place during the lockdown.The woman, who is suffering from diabetes, said, “I have now decided to maintain more hygienic and healthier lifestyle. I have now started consuming some healthy food items, which were never a part of my diet earlier.“I have learnt to ear right food as per the changing season and spending time with the self. During the treatment and the quarantine time, I also turned towards spirituality,” she said.Another recovered woman patient, who is 61 years old, said that Covid-19 has brought several changes in her life.“Generally, elders in any family expect others members to follow what they say. But we must realise that the younger generation knows the world around us better. So we should listen to them. I had ignored this aspect earlier,” she said.“Secondly, the kind of food I consumed till I was found infected was the same that I used to have in my youth.The eating pattern was also not healthy. But now, after recovering from the infection, consuming food only after certain gaps has become my habit,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-instilled-good-habits-feel-recovered-old-patients/story-ZMirDDEJoydqOVjpdRetlJ.html
19-06-2020||Lucknow||Man marries wooden effigy to fulfil father’s wish in UP’s Prayagraj||A man was married to a wooden effigy in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday as per his father’s wish.The bizarre wedding took place in Ghurpur with all the elaborate rituals.It is not just that the wedding was bizarre but the reasons why Shiv Mohan got his son married in this fashion were equally strange.“I have nine sons of which eight were married. My 9th son has no property and not intelligent, so I got him married to an effigy,” said Shiv Mohan, said the father of the groom while speaking to ANI.A few relatives attended the wedding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/man-marries-wooden-effigy-to-fulfil-father-s-wish-in-up-s-prayagraj/story-RI2drdIvNiSarvwpqKV1OJ.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Manish Sisodia to chair meeting on increasing ICU beds in Delhi hospitals||As Covid-19 cases surge in Delhi, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia will hold an important meeting on increasing the number of ICU beds in city hospitals on Friday, government officials said. The meeting will also be attended by Satyendar Jain who held the charge of the health department before being hospitalised as he tested positive for Covid-19, they said.  “The meeting to discuss increasing intensive care unit (ICU) beds at the hospitals will take place at 5 pm. Besides the Deputy Chief Minister, Jain will also take part in it through video call from the hospital,” officials said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that Delhi government is working to arrange more ICU beds in hospitals that may be needed in coming days.As per latest official figures, the number of active Covid-19 patients in Delhi has gone over 26,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-manish-sisodia-to-chair-meeting-on-increasing-icu-beds-in-delhi-hospitals/story-xUBmly44Mr5nwpDoW7FoiL.html
19-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM’s office shut after staff’s kin tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s office-cum-residence here was shut for sanitisation on Friday after an employee’s relative tested positive for coronavirus.According to sources, a woman staff working at ‘Krishna’, the office-cum-residence of Yediyurappa did not turn up for duty for two days after her husband was infected by the virus.“Her husband has been tested positive and not the woman, but still as a precautionary measure the entire building has been sanitised,” an official told PTI.The Chief Minister conducted all the important meetings of the day at the Vidhana Soudha instead of ‘Krishna’, sources said.Similarly, the Divisional office of the Bengaluru Railway Division was closed on Friday for disinfection after an employee was tested positive for coronavirus.“Consequent to an employee of SBC Division found Covid positive and the same communicated to divisional administration on June 18, it is informed that the Divisional Office will be closed on June 19 for disinfection,” said an official communique to all the branch offices of Bangalore Railway Division of the South Western Railway.The letter said the office will reopen on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-s-office-shut-after-staff-s-kin-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-M2TnOoS5WAnscPefu1W5WP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Windstorm wreaks havoc in Fazilka’s Jalalabad, rice mills damaged||A strong windstorm wreaked havoc in Jalalabad, a sub-division of Fazilka, on Thursday night.The gusty winds damaged around six rice mills, including KG Rice Mill, ML Rice Mill, Kissan Solvex and Midda Industries.Sahil Midda, a rice miller, said, “The mills’ boundary walls fell, a portion of the building collapsed in at least two rice mills and machinery and stock were damaged.”Rice mill owner Sumit Aggarwal said, “The sheds were blown away around midnight. However, no loss of life was reported.” “We were already struggling due to the pandemic and the windstorm has worsened the situation,” said mill owner Rajesh Kumar.An insurance company’s senior official, on condition of anonymity, said, “We have received intimations from different rice mill owners in Jalalabad area about severe loss to their properties following last night’s windstorm.”“The exact value of loss can be revealed only after an assessment is conducted,” he said.Repeated attempts to contact the Jalalabad sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) proved futile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/windstorm-wrecks-havoc-in-fazilka-s-jalalabad-rice-mills-destroyed/story-duVhwH7rHT3pfg4KnxN4TO.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s peak power demand crosses 6,000 MW-mark||Amid a sultry weather, the peak power demand of Delhi crossed the 6,000 MW-mark for the first time this summer on Thursday night.The peak demand soared to 6,193 MW at 10.43pm on Thursday and the previous high of the season was 5,895 MW on Wednesday, said discom officials.“In just 24 hours, Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by over 3 per cent,” said a spokesperson of BSES discom.The BSES discoms BRPL and BYPL successfully met the peak power demand, he said.Last year, Delhi’s peak power demand clocked 7,409 MW in July. This year Delhi’s peak power demand is expected to cross 7,500 MW-mark.Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by around 50 per cent since easing of lockdown restrictions on May 18. Also, since June 1, the peak power demand has increased by over 62 per cent, the spokesperson said.Ensuring reliable supply in any season is as much the function of proper power arrangements as also accurate demand forecast and robust distribution network, he said.The BSES discoms are fully geared to ensure adequate power availability during the summer months. Arrangements have been firmed up to source adequate electricity to meet the demand of over 44 lakh consumers, he said.These arrangements include long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) and banking arrangements of up to 800 MW with other states. In case of unforeseen contingencies because of low generation and outages in power plants, the discoms will purchase short-term power from the exchange, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-peak-power-demand-crosses-6-000-mw-mark/story-hK37j8L953D48bye0NahQK.html
19-06-2020||Lucknow||Agra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 1,100-mark as UP registers record one-day spike||Uttar Pradesh recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, with 604 people testing positive for the disease in the last 24 hours, state health department officials said.The state officials said that the total number of cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 15,785 on Thursday and the fatalities stood at 488. However, the data released by the Union health ministry on Friday said that Uttar Pradesh has 15,181 cases and 465 fatalities.Twenty three fresh cases were reported from across the state in the last 24 hours, the state officials said. Out of these, four are from Agra, three each from Meerut and Ghaziabad, two each from Lucknow, Etawah and Kanpur and one each from Firozabad, Varanasi, Bulandshahr, Prayagraj, Gonda, Bareilly and Jhansi.Agra has already been the worst-hit district where the number of Covid-19 cases stand at 1,116, news agency IANS quoted state health officials as saying.The state also reported two more deaths on Thursday, taking the death toll due to the disease to 72, it further reported. “908 people have been discharged after recovery. Agra now has 137 active cases,” Agra District Magistrate P N Singh said on Thursday.On Thursday, a staffer of the Central Institute of Hindi in Agra tested Covid-19 positive. The campus, with a dozen of foreign students still to leave, has been sealed with all senior officials quarantined. More than 70 students from over a score countries, left in batches last month.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to prepare a plan for setting up Covid-19 testing laboratories in all the districts of the state.The chief minister gave the instructions during a meeting with nodal officers of 11 coronavirus-hit districts late on Thursday night, an official release said on Friday.He held a video conferencing with nodal officers of 11 districts including Meerut, Agra, Firozabad, Kanpur Nagar, Aligarh, Moradabad, Bulandshahar, Jhansi and Basti besides Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad and reviewed the situation there, the release said.Adityanath had appointed the nodal officers to better evaluate the situation in each of the districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-1-100-mark-as-up-registers-record-one-day-spike/story-sOXhZfW0CD30JADS7As9wK.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gumma government school superintendent commits suicide in Shimla||The superintendent of Government Senior Secondary School, Gumma, hung himself from a ceiling fan in his office on Thursday. The 48-year-old was a resident of Chebri village, Sunni. His body was discovered by other staff members.He was rushed to the Community Health Centre in Sunni where he was declared brought dead.The body will be handed over to his relatives for cremation after conducting a postmortem.Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Omapati Jamwal confirmed the report and said the reason behind the suicide was being ascertained and school staff, local residents and family members have been interrogated.Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. You can reach Mental Health and Rehabilitation Centre, Boileauganj, Shimla, at 0177-2633601 or visit www.hhmhrshimla.org.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gumma-government-school-superintendent-commits-suicide-in-shimla/story-1EDXi1wDZwxqLiHjU0A4wL.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Barnala man succumbs to Covid-19 in Ludhiana hospital||A 33-year-old Barnala resident succumbed to Covid-19 at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Model Town area on Thursday, confirmed hospital authorities.The victim was rushed to the hospital in a critical condition on Wednesday and tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday morning.He was suffering from strong symptoms of an influenza-like illness (ILI).Eleven people from other districts and states have died due to the virus in city hospitals, while 13 persons from the district have succumbed to the deadly illness.As many as 480 people have tested positive in Ludhiana so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/barnala-man-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana-hospital/story-JCNLOMhROMcqQIak2v3yIK.html
19-06-2020||Lucknow||‘Minor improvement’ in MP Guv Lalji Tandon’s condition, says hospital||There is a slight improvement in the condition of Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon but he is still on the ventilator, hospital officials said on Friday.“There has been a very minor improvement in the condition of the Madhya Pradesh governor but he is still on the ventilator. His condition continues to be serious but under control,” Medanta Hospital Director, Rakesh Kapoor told PTI.  A team of specialist doctors is continuously keeping a watch on him, Kapoor said. The director of Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) R K Dhiman, specialist doctors of the King George’s Medical University are being consulted for the treatment of Tandon, Kapoor said.Tandon (85), was admitted to the Medanta Hospital here on June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/minor-improvement-in-mp-guv-lalji-tandon-s-condition-says-hospital/story-NGKfRScSRupK2rvRwNedeP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Family of migrant workers among six to test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Muktsar district||Six people, including a family of migrant workers, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Muktsar district on Friday.Epidemiologist Dr Vikram Kumar said a family of migrant labourers, comprising four members, including a four-year-old child had tested positive. The family had come to Punjab from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh. Two other patients had a travelled from Delhi. The patients were admitted at an isolation facility in Muktsar city.In Bathinda, three fresh cases of coronavirus cases, including a woman, were reported on Friday. A spokesperson of the district administration said two of the patients had come from Uttar Pradesh while one had travelled from Gurugram.The three patients had been under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/family-of-migrant-workers-among-six-to-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-muktsar-district/story-ZKH4iM2nDJ1ZIKDw8PkR0H.html
19-06-2020||Bhopal||Congress will win one RS seat from Madhya Pradesh, says former CM Kamal Nath||Congress leader and former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Kamal Nath on Friday said that the party will win a seat to Rajya Sabha from the state.The comments came after he cast his vote at the state Assembly in Bhopal. “It is very clear that we will win one seat in the Rajya Sabha Election,” he said. Voting for the elections to fill the vacant 18 seats in Rajya Sabha began today. The polls to the Upper House seats from seven states were earlier scheduled to be held on March 26. However, they were deferred in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.The polling is being held for the states of Andhra Pradesh (four seats), Gujarat (four seats), Jharkhand (two seats), Madhya Pradesh (three seats), Manipur (one seat), Meghalaya (one seat) and Rajasthan (three seats).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/congress-will-win-one-rs-seat-from-madhya-pradesh-says-former-cm-kamal-nath/story-Y0tyoa6DbS1cWQvc7IO08N.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hour-long rain springs pleasant surprise in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali||Chandigarh: Residents of the tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali were in for a pleasant surprise on Friday morning when it rained hard for about an hour, providing relief from the heat for a while. The sun was shining back by 10.30am, making it humid again.According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the tricity received 23.4mm of rainfall in 50 minutes between 8.50am and 9.40am. The outlook for the day is clear now but more rain is forecast on Saturday.“These were not pre-monsoon showers. Today’s rain was the result of a western disturbance active in the region. More rain can be expected over the weekend. Stations on the foothills of the Himalayas, including Chandigarh, received a good amount of rain,” IMD, Chandigarh, director Surender Paul said.Winds up to 55 km per hour blew along with the rain. The temperature went down from 32.2 degrees Celsius at 8.30am to 31.4 degrees at 11.30 am. In comparison, it was 35.8 degrees Celsius in Chandigarh at 11.30am on Thursday.“Pre-monsoon is ideally declared three days before the start of monsoon. However, this year the pre-monsoon showers can start around five days before the onset of monsoon,” he said, adding that the pre-monsoon showers were expected in the region around next Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hour-long-rain-springs-pleasant-surprise-in-chandigarh-panchkula-and-mohali/story-bz6QpAYLBFAmOv6bq5YLRK.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Monsoon likely to arrive in Delhi around June 25, says IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said conditions may become favourable for the advancement of southwest monsoon in Delhi and Haryana around June 25 even though it is unlikely to progress further till June 21.The conditions may also become favourable for its advance into Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and parts of the western Himalayan region between June 22 and 24, according to the weather department.“The monsoon is likely to come around Jharkhand between 22 to 24. The conditions are becoming favourable between June 22 and June 24, during which the monsoon will arrive in parts of Uttar Pradesh and the mountainous regions of the Himalayas. Monsoon is expected to arrive in Delhi-NCR around June 25,” Anand Sharma, IMD’s deputy director general, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The national capital sweltered under the stifling heat with the mercury crossing the 46 degrees Celsius-mark in some parts on Thursday. The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 42.5 degree Celsius, three notches above normal.The weather station at Ayanagar recorded the maximum temperature in the city at 46.4 degree Celsius. The Pusa observatory recorded a high of 45.1 degree Celsius.IMD has predicted a partly cloudy sky on Friday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 43 degree and 30 degree Celsius, respectively.The weather bureau has forecast widespread rain/thundershowers with isolated heavy rainfall likely over North-East, east and adjoining central India, along the west coast and islands.“Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall likely over rest parts of the country except over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, West Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat state where isolated rainfall is likely,” the IMD has said, according to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/monsoon-likely-to-arrive-in-delhi-around-june-25-says-imd/story-tgFW3Owlm6e6wpU2jMzzhK.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Western Railway pays tribute to corona warriors through murals||Western Railway in collaboration with St+art India Foundation and a paint company has undertaken a beautification drive at Mahim railway station, where artists have covered the walls with ‘Heroes of Mumbai’ murals dedicated to corona warriors.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The paintings are of frontline warriors. We salute them for their services at such times, and they are our heroes. We have been painting from the past 10-12 days,” said Atif, an artist.“This is a tribute to the corona warriors, and we are very grateful to them as they risked their lives to save ours. We have to take proper precautions in order to stay safe, as the virus will be with us for long,” said Rahul Maurya, another artist.Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike with 3,752 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the total number of cases stands at 1,20,504, said State Health Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railway-pays-tribute-to-corona-warriors-through-murals/story-3RvOyY3I6tEKciuOBe4UNP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab raises ex gratia for martyrs’ kin five times from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh||The Punjab government has decided to raise the ex-gratia payment to families of soldiers killed in action from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh.The state government took the decision on Thursday night saying “this is the least we can do for our brave” soldiers.“Punjab Government has decided to increase the ex gratia for our soldiers killed in action from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh, along with a job to the next of kin,” Chief Minister Amarinder Singh tweeted.“This is the least we can do for our brave servicemen who make the supreme sacrifice for our motherland,” he said.The state government gives Rs 10 to Rs 12 lakh to the families of fallen soldiers. Besides, it also offers a government job to the next of kin of the martyr hailing from Punjab.The decision of giving ex gratia of Rs 10 to 12 lakh to the family of a martyr was last taken in 1999.On Wednesday, the CM had announced an ex gratia compensation of Rs 12 lakh each for the families of naib subedars Satnam Singh and Mandeep Singh and Rs 10 lakh each for sepoys Gurtej Singh and Gurbinder Singh.Besides, a government job to a next of kin of the deceased was also announced.Four soldiers from Punjab were among the 20 soldiers killed in a clash with the Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh.Naib subedar Satnam Singh was from Gurdaspur, naib subedar Mandeep Singh from Patiala, sepoy Gurbinder Singh from Sangrur and sepoy Gurtej Singh from Mansa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-raises-ex-gratia-for-martyrs-kin-five-times-from-rs-10-lakh-to-rs-50-lakh/story-zbn9PnMUjsoWdVGIoGWY1L.html
19-06-2020||Pune||472 new coronavirus cases found in Pune city; 6 more die||Pune city reported 472 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the count to 11,115 on Thursday, a health official said.The death toll increased to 487 with 6 more patients succumbing to the novel coronavirus infection during the same period, he said.As many as 193 patients were discharged from hospitals following their recovery from the disease, the official said.Pune is the second worst-hit due to coronavirus after Mumbai in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/472-new-coronavirus-cases-found-in-pune-city-6-more-die/story-4wd1rY7kTkYHt1w4UXNf3L.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Couple dies by suicide after killing minor children in Pune: Police||A couple died after allegedly committing suicide after killing their two minor children in Maharashtra’s Pune city, police said on Friday.Four members of the family were found hanging from the ceiling of their home in Sukhsagar Nagar area late on Thursday night, an official from the Pune police said. The police suspect that it was a suicide pact, wherein Atul Shinde (33) and his wife Jaya (32) had first killed their children Rugved (6) daughter Antara (3) and then hung themselves, he said. “Shinde ran a small business of making identity cards for schools and it seems like the family might have been facing financial crisis, as the business may have suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” the official said. The deceased had not responded to repeated phone calls from family and friends on Thursday, after which the were police were alerted, he said, adding that further probe was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-couple-commits-suicide-after-killing-minor-children/story-0a1McL5L75qh8gcmWJoIEO.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Racism row: Trudeau supports Canada’s NDP leader Jagmeet Singh||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Thursday stood behind the leader of an opposition party who had been temporarily thrown out of Parliament for accusing another member of racism. Head of the New Democratic Party (NDP) Jagmeet Singh, a Sikh, is the first member of a minority to lead a federal political party in Canada. On Wednesday, he clashed with a member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois party who refused to sign onto an NDP motion to recognise systemic racism in the federal police force. “It is disappointing that the Bloc Quebecois continues to refuse to accept that systemic discrimination, systemic racism exists within our country, in every part of our country and in all our institutions,” Trudeau said during his daily press conference. “Recognising systemic discrimination is the important first step towards being able to address it.”“There are conversations that have to happen if we want to move forward as a country,” he said, claiming it was not his place to criticise a racial minority’s expression of a “lived reality” of racism. The Bloc Quebecois’s Alain Therrien had refused to sign onto the NDP motion, and after a heated exchange, Singh accused Therrien of being racist. Singh refused to apologise and was temporarily removed from the chamber. Bloc Quebecois party head Yves-Francois Blanchet defended Therrien and demanded sanctions against Singh. “I hope that the leader of the NDP will apologise sincerely, and if not, I hope the president of the House of Commons will be quite severe,” he said. “Because if the only penalty is not being allowed to be in the room for one day or to not be allowed to speak for one day, everybody will feel entitled to do the same.”The NPD is the fourth-biggest political party in the country with 24 seats out of the 338 in the House of Commons, while the Bloc Quebecois has 32. The feud comes as Canadians have joined worldwide protests against systemic racism and police violence following the police killing of black American man George Floyd last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/racism-row-trudeau-supports-canada-s-ndp-leader-jagmeet-singh/story-DxWruwTqPaX4QrLGsyjpQM.html
19-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 17 coronavirus deaths, 315 fresh cases||Seventeen people succumbed to Covid-19 in Rajasthan on Thursday while 315 more tested positive for the infection, taking the death toll to 330 and number of cases to 13,857 in the state, according to an official report. A maximum of six deaths were reported from Bharatpur; two each from Barmer, Bikaner, Jaipur and Jodhpur; and one each from Chittorgarh, Kota and Churu, the report said. Of the fresh cases, Bharatpur reported 92, followed by Jaipur (46); Pali (33); Jodhpur (29); Sikar (14); Sirohi (11); Jhunjhunu and Alwar (10 each); Dausa and Barmer (7 each); Jalore and Bikaner (6 each); Ajmer and Jhalawar (5 each); Churu, Dungarpur, Nagaur and Udaipur (4 each); Bhilwara and Kota (3 each); Banswara, Rajsamand, Sawaimadhopur, Tonk (2 each) and one each from Dholpur, Ganganagar. Two patients from other states also tested positive for Covid-19, according to the report. On the brighter side, 10,742 patients have recovered from the infection and 10,484 have been discharged from hospitals so far. The state now has 2,785 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-17-coronavirus-deaths-315-fresh-cases/story-iJ56rKPHo8DkA0bidmWBfK.html
19-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid-19 awareness posters mandatory at entrance of offices||All the workplaces, government, private offices and business establishments in Rajasthan shall have to display specific posters on precautions related to Covid-19 at the entrance of the premises.A gazette notification to this effect was issued here on Thursday.The poster contains messages on wearing masks, social distancing, hand washing etc.“Every head of office/workplace like government, private, educational institutions, factories, shopping malls, banks, showrooms etc. and every shopkeeper shall display poster (in either Hindi or English) at the entry point of their premises,” the notification said.Every business association and mandi association shall also display poster in the market at the prominent place in the market/mandi concerned.The format of the poster was also issued with the notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-covid-19-awareness-posters-mandatory-at-entrance-of-offices/story-Y4fOiuu7VO2Px2l79nwdZK.html
19-06-2020||Kolkata||Galwan Valley clash: People in 2 Bengal villages wait patiently for their fallen heroes||Grief and anger marked the mood in the villages of two soldiers from West Bengal who were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, as the villagers waited for the mortal remains to arrive on Thursday.An Army spokesperson said the mortal remains of Sepoy Rajesh Orang and Havildar Bipul Roy would be kept in the mortuary of the military hospitals at Panagarh and Hasimara respectively for the day and taken to their homes on Friday morning by road.Amid a pall of gloom in the rain-soaked Bindipara village in Alipurduar, the kitchen in every household was closed as the women stayed away from cooking in remembrance of their beloved Bipul, whom they had seen grow up from childhood.A stage was hurriedly built by Roy’s friends and other villagers for laying the casket when it arrives in this north Bengal hamlet amid forests and tea gardens.Hundreds of kilometres away at Belgoria village in Birbhum district, relatives, friends and those who knew him a little or not, came over to Orang’s small hutment to pay their last respects, while calling for a befitting reply to China for the brutal attack on Indian Army personnel.Members of Orang’s family were too grief-stricken to say much as a minister of the Mamata Banerjee government, Ashish Banerjee, visited their house in the morning.The casket carrying Orang’s body reached Panagarh by a military aircraft on Thursday. The mortal remains would be taken to his home in Belgoria by road on Friday, the Army spokesperson said.Roy’s mortal remains would also be transported to his native village from Hasimara on Friday, he added.Hansda and Roy were among the 20 Indian Army personnel killed in a clash with China’s People’s Liberation Army in the daunting heights of Galwan Valley on Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/galwan-valley-clash-people-in-2-bengal-villages-wait-patiently-for-their-fallen-heroes/story-6Z74oXkAnN4st49BWdxrZL.html
19-06-2020||Kolkata||12 more Covid-19 deaths in West Bengal, 435 new cases||West Bengal reported 12 more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll in the state to 518, a state health bulletin said. All of the 12 deaths “were due to the comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental”, the bulletin said. Of the fresh fatalities, eight were reported from Kolkata, two from Howrah and one each from Hooghly and South 24 Parganas districts, it said. A total of 435 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 12,735. Kolkata reported the highest single-day spike of 180 infections. North 24 Parganas district registered 61 new cases, Howrah 57, South 24 Parganas 29, Darjeeling 18, 17 cases each were reported from Nadia and Malda and 13 from Jalpaiguri, the bulletin said. Eleven cases each were reported from Hooghly, Purba Medinipur, five from Birbhum, three each from Paschim and Purba Burdwan districts, and two each from Coochbehar and Murshidabad districts, it said. At least 468 patients were discharged from hospitals after they tested negative for Covid-19, taking the rate of recovery to 54.97 per cent. So far, 7,001 people have recovered from the disease in West Bengal, it added. In the last 24 hours, 9,315 samples have been tested in West Bengal. Till Thursday 3,70, 291 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state. At least five patients at the Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital tested positive for the disease on Thursday and were shifted to different Covid-19 hospitals, health department sources said. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) conducted sanitisation drive at a market place in Muchipara area where five traders have tested positive for the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/12-more-covid-19-deaths-in-west-bengal-435-new-cases/story-yji8WZq0MCYyhLoy35pJvJ.html
19-06-2020||Bangalore||Hariprasad, Ahmed given tickets to strengthen Congress party: DK Shivakumar||Congress leaders BK Hariprasad and Naseer Ahmed filed their nominations as party candidates for Legislative Council elections in Bengaluru and KPCC chief DK Shivakumar said that the two leaders have been given ticket to strengthen the party with their guidance.“The Legislative Council means the Upper House and the Elders House. We have unanimously agreed to select and send these two senior leaders to discuss the party organization and various issues of the state in Legislative Council. There were plenty of aspirants to enter the Upper House. But it is decided to elect these two leaders and they will contest the election,” Shivakumar said.“We need seniority to guide us... That’s the reason we are selecting these leaders... The high command has given these senior leaders the opportunity to discuss with all our leaders about strengthening the party,” he added.The elections are scheduled to be held on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/hariprasad-ahmed-given-tickets-to-strengthen-congress-party-dk-shivakumar/story-ZEr2CmeiEebCHtHogvJbEK.html
19-06-2020||City||2.3 magnitude earthquake hits Haryana||An earthquake of magnitude 2.3 on the Richter scale, hit 15 km east-southeast of Rohtak, Haryana on Friday morning.“Earthquake of Magnitude: 2.3, Occurred on 19-06-2020, 05:37:40 IST, Latitude: 28.84 and Longitude: 76.75, Depth: 5 Km, Location: 15km ESE of Rohtak, Haryana,” National Centre for Seismology stated.Further, details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-3-magnitude-earthquake-hits-haryana/story-kCNKlecs9NMaRAdBLMhSKI.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||3,884 Covid-19 patients cured in Delhi, recovery rate stand at 42.69%||A record 3,884 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were cured in Delhi on Thursday, taking the number of people who have recovered in the national capital to 21,341 so far, according to the data released by the health department.The recovery rate in the Capital is 42.69% now. According to the health department, Delhi now has 26,669 active cases of Covid-19.On Thursday, Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike of 2,877 Covid-19 cases to take the tally to 49,979. There were 65 fatalities that pushed the death toll to 1,969.Also read: Positivity rate rises nationwide, pointing to faster spread of Covid-19Out of the 26,669 Covid-19 patients on Thursday, 5,448 are admitted in various hospitals in Delhi—140 are admitted to medical care centres, 1,155 in care centres and 8,480 are in isolation in their homes. So far, 321,302 tests have been conducted in Delhi, and according to the report, there were 8,726 investigations done in the Capital in 24 hours.The number of hotspots has increased to 243.Also read: As bodies pile up, private firms transport dead for last ritesDelhi has seen a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks. The national capital is now on the course to become the second city in the country after Mumbai with more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3-884-covid-19-patients-cured-in-delhi-recovery-rate-stand-at-42-69/story-rBnlfZ5OPe8nmUG8RKsUnO.html
19-06-2020||Lucknow||UP caps virus test rate at Rs 2,500||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday capped the rate of a coronavirus test by private laboratories at Rs 2,500.  “A maximum Rs 2,500 has been fixed as a charge for a single-step test for coronavirus by private labs,” an official statement issued here said. “For quality audit, private labs will have to provide samples, whenever demanded for referral labs of medical colleges,” it said.  “Charging above Rs 2,500 will be considered a violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-caps-virus-test-rate-at-rs-2-500/story-SlBXEM8OtGmPkJ0czHsRaI.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi records maximum temperature of 46.4°C on Thursday||A maximum temperature of 46.4°C was recorded in the national capital on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Last night at 11:12 pm, Delhi’s peak power demand clocked 5985 MW, the season’s highest. It crossed the season’s previous high of 5899 MW recorded on June 16, 2020,” said BSES Delhi on Thursday.According to IMD, the above-normal temperatures in Delhi-NCR region and northwest India will continue till June 20, after which it is likely to dip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-maximum-temperature-of-46-4-c-on-thursday/story-B45f36b1TsOZ1Ap6EPcezM.html
19-06-2020||Lucknow||UP: Man held for convincing youths to join terrorist organisations||A man was arrested in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly district for allegedly trying to convince youths to join terrorist organisations, officials said here on Thursday.Acting on a tip-off, the UP Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) arrested Muhammad Inamul, a resident of Bareilly, a spokesperson said.The scrutiny of Inamul’s Facebook, WhatsApp and Telegram accounts revealed that he was convincing youths to join terrorist outfits in the name of ‘jihad’, the ATS spokesperson alleged.He also said some files saved on Inamul’s mobile phone allegedly contained literature on Al-Qaeda.The suspect was produced before a court and sent to 10-day police remand, the spokesperson said.The UP ATS also claimed that during initial interrogation, Inamul had accepted that he used to convince youths to join terrorist organisations. A detailed investigation is underway to trace Inamul’s accomplices, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-man-held-for-convincing-youths-to-join-terrorist-organisations/story-WdSKeXGHejkYhbommI8OKO.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||HC seeks police report in Safoora’s bail plea||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the city police to file a status report on a plea by Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) member Safoora Zargar, who has been charged with the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for her alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots, seeking bail in the case.Justice Rajiv Shakdher issued a notice to the police and asked it to file a status report on the bail plea. Zargar, an M Phil student of Jamia Millia Islamia University, is more than four months pregnant. She had challenged the June 4 order of the trial court which had rejected her bail plea.She was arrested on April 10 by the Special Cell and is currently lodged in the Tihar jail. On June 4, the city court had dismissed her bail plea. The court will hear the matter on June 22.Meanwhile, Justice C Hari Shankar issued a notice to Tihar jail seeking its response on a plea by Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal who was arrested in the same case as Zargar and charged under UAPA for her role in instigating riots. The matter will now be heard on June 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-police-report-in-safoora-s-bail-plea/story-d2PYahfa51VqmiWGCYPAlL.html
19-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt to give plot free of cost to kin of deceased soldiers of Galwan clash||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Governor Draupadi Murmu on Thursday paid tributes to Sepoy Ganesh Hansda who lost his life in Galwan Valley face-off.He stated that in addition to the compensation, the state government will give a plot of land free of cost to the bereaved families.“In addition to compensation, we will give a plot of land anywhere in the state free of cost to bereaved families and request the Centre to allot petrol pump to them,” said Soren.“I salute all the bravehearts who demonstrated their strength and made the supreme sacrifice while protecting the border. We are proud but sad today. We are standing with their families,” he added.Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a Colonel rank officer, had lost their lives in a violent face-off that happened in the Galwan Valley, as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to unilaterally change the status quo during de-escalation in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-govt-to-give-plot-free-of-cost-to-kin-of-deceased-soldiers-of-galwan-clash/story-YsJYdNjaFfhXkICehdsVeO.html
19-06-2020||Ranchi||One more Covid-19 death in Jharkhand, toll rises to 11||Jharkhand reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Thursday, taking the coronavirus death toll in the state to 11, a government bulletin said.This is the second death in the last two days with the mortality rate of the state standing at 0.57 per cent compared to the national rate of 3.33 per cent, it said.Twenty-three fresh Covid-19 cases were detected during the day taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,919, the bulletin said.With 47 people recovering from the disease, the total number of cured patients now stands at 1,198.Jharkhand now has 710 active cases, it said.Of the total coronavirus positive cases, 1,588 were migrant workers, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/one-more-covid-19-death-in-jharkhand-toll-rises-to-11/story-G1ysV23LHAJnJMJ10hF0tI.html
19-06-2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 death toll in Bihar rises to 44, total cases climb to 7,040||The Covid-19 death toll in Bihar rose to 44 on Thursday with five fatalities being reported in 24 hours while the total tally of cases breached the 7,000-mark as 100 people tested positive for the dreaded disease, a top health department official said.A 63-year-old man from Gaya who breathed his last earlier on Thursday became the first Covid-19 fatality in the central Bihar district. Besides, a 70-year-old man from Darbhanga and a 53-year-old patient in Nalanda, both suffering from co-morbidities, died on Wednesday night, state Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said.The state health department, in its daily bulletin, confirmed one death each in West Champaran and Saran districts.Of the 44 deaths across the state, Begusarai, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Saran and Vaishali have reported the highest three fatalities each. Bhojpur, Jehanabad, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Patna, Sitamarhi and Siwan districts reported two deaths each.The districts which accounted for one casualty each are Araria, Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Jamui, Katihar, Madhepura, Madhubani, Munger, Nawada, West Champaran, East Champaran, Rohtas, Samastipur and Sheohar.The total Covid-19 caseload in Bihar rose to 7,040 on Thursday.Patna has reported the highest 347 coronavirus cases, followed by Bhagalpur with 342 instances of the disease, Begusarai 335, Madhubani 325 and Rohtas 307.All the 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases and 34 of these have their tallies in double digits. The number of active cases was more than 100 in Madhubani, Patna and Siwan while in the remaining 35 districts it was in double digits.The number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered from the disease stood at 4,961, the health department said. The number of swab samples tested till date was 1.39 lakh. A heavy influx of migrants returning to Bihar during the lockdown has contributed significantly to the spike that the state has witnessed in the past one-and-a-half months.According to the health secretary, the number of people who tested positive after travelling from out of the state since May 3 was 4,687.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-covid-19-death-toll-in-bihar-rises-to-44-total-cases-climb-to-7-040/story-g4Xb0hVl5XrShzggmmTQ0I.html
19-06-2020||Patna||Bihar: Nitish Kumar announces ex-gratia, job to kin of 5 soldiers killed in Ladakh face-off||Condoling the loss of lives of five Indian soldiers from Bihar in face-off with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday announced an ex-gratia of Rs 36 lakhs each and a job to the next of kin of the deceased.The families of the five soldiers - Chandan Kumar, Kundan Kumar, Aman Kumar, Jaikishore and Sunil Kumar - will be given Rs 11 lakhs each from the state government, while Rs 25 lakhs each will be given from Chief Minister Relief Fund.At least 20 Indian Army personnel, including a Colonel rank officer, had lost their lives in the violent face-off in the Galwan valley area of Ladakh on June 15.The violent face-off happened in Galwan valley as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to “unilaterally change” the status quo during de-escalation in Eastern Ladakh and the situation could have been avoided if the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side, India said on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-nitish-kumar-announces-ex-gratia-job-to-kin-of-5-soldiers-killed-in-ladakh-face-off/story-69PNyziCLjEDr08HHSRUEL.html
19-06-2020||Noida||Noida: Two more persons dead as Covid-19 toll rises to 16; cases reach 1,171||Two more Covid-19 positive persons died in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar, taking the death toll in the district to 16 on Thursday, officials said. Also, 74 more people tested positive for Covid-19 as the number of cases grew to 1,171, they said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOne of the deceased was 26-years-old and a resident of Sector 73 in Noida, while the other was an 87-year-old man from Jewar in Greater Noida, District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.  Two patients, who tested positive for Covid-19, died on Thursday in Gautam Buddh Nagar. One of them was a 51-year-old man from Ghaziabad, while the other was a 69-year-old man from Delhi, the officer said. Since they were non-locals, their cases have been sent to their districts for inclusion in the data, he added. Separately, two more deaths, both females aged 53 and 65 years, were recorded in the district, but their death audit is pending which will ascertain if these too are Covid-19 fatalities, Dohare said. He said 28 people were discharged on Thursday after they recovered from novel coronavirus.  “On Thursday, 74 people were found positive for Covid-19 and total positive cases till date stand at 1,171. A total of 606 patients have recovered so far. There are 551 active cases now,” Dohare said.The recovery rate of patients stood at 52.52 per cent, according to official statistics. Among the 74 new patients, 24 were tested by private laboratories and 50 by government facilities, according to a statement.Also, 34 of the new patients are ILI (influenza-like illness), while one is SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) case, it said.Three of the new patients are healthcare workers, while 35 cases are contacts of people who have previously tested positive for Covid-19, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-more-persons-dead-as-covid-19-toll-rises-to-16-cases-reach-1-171/story-o6eHuMLhJ5PTCxXmoL8UQK.html
19-06-2020||Noida||Woman raped on moving UP bus, dozen passengers were onboard: Police||The Gautam Buddh Nagar police on Thursday arrested one more person in connection with the rape of a woman in a moving passenger bus, officials said.  The police had on Wednesday arrested one of the two accused drivers, while a search is on for two more persons in connection with the case, the officials said.A 25-year-old woman who was travelling from Pratapgarh to Noida was allegedly raped at around 2 am on Wednesday in a privately-operated AC sleeper bus, according to the police.“One more accused, identified as Amit alias Mayuri who is a native of Bijnore district, has been arrested by Sector 20 police team. Search is on for two more persons in connection with the case,” a police spokesperson said on Thursday night.More details about the arrested person or the other accused could not be gathered immediately.  The woman, who was travelling with her two children to Noida where her husband works as a vegetable vendor, was allegedly raped by one of the two drivers of the long-route bus on a road stretch between Lucknow and Mathura, the police said.There were around a dozen more passengers on board the bus at the time of the incident when the woman was allegedly raped on the last seat and threatened with dire consequences if she tried to raise an alarm, according to officials.  An FIR was registered at the Sector 20 police station in Noida under IPC sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 212 (harbouring offender), it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-more-arrested-for-woman-s-rape-in-moving-bus-in-up/story-IWsVHALhxs6osehMF0Tw2M.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: His good old school days||That grownups shall feel nostalgic about their school days in nothing out of the ordinary. But it sure is bizarre when this happens to be the sentiment of a 12-year-old boy.Such is the extent of the upside-down state of the world, during the coronavirus pandemic it is currently struggling with.“I’m missing my school, I’m missing my friends,” says Om Kumar Yadav, a fifth standard student in a primary school. He is surprised that he never realised before that he could ever miss going to school. Talking on WhatsApp video from his home in Gurugram’s Sector 14, Mr Yadav excitedly shows—through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter—his textbooks and the basta (book bag) that he would carry daily to his classes.But that was another time.He hasn’t been to school since it was closed in late April, as part of the national lockdown plan.“I so much want to wear my uniform of sky blue shirt, dark blue pants and black shoes and walk to the school again.” Mr Yadav now studies alone at home, but in the school he used to sit in a crowded room of 40 classmates. “Three of them are very close friends,” he says. “Atul’s papa is a policeman, Sadab’s papa is a salesman in a shop, and Manish’s papa is a worker who builds houses.”Mr Yadav’s father is a tea seller. They live together, along with young Mr Yadav’s younger brother. The mother lives in their native village in Bihar.The young man hasn’t met his “best friends” since the start of the lockdown. “But I keep in touch with them on WhatsApp.” He uses his father’s phone for the purpose.WhatsApp has more solemn uses, too. School teachers send him lesson works through WhatsApp.Sitting by his study desk, placed just beside the TV, Mr Yadav logs on to his desktop computer and talks about missing his beloved teacher. “Neelam ma’am is very serious but very nice... and when we are being naughty, she tells us stories from her own childhood, when she also used to be naughty — but within limits.”Mr Yadav describes himself to be a very obedient school student, who likes to sit on the front bench. A moment later, he confesses “sometimes I also sit on the back benches, when my friends urge me to.” And then, far from the teacher’s eye, they would whisper about the movies they had watched the previous night on TV.“I also miss my school desk... my table is covered with drawings and messages that I would sometimes make with pencil and sometimes with the compass.”But now there is no knowing when the school will open. Apart from the work given by the teachers, Mr Yadav also has downloaded an app on his “tablet” that helps him with assignments in Maths and English.“I’ve now gotten used to online studies.”And yet, “I still want to return to the school. Right now I’m seeing everything in apps and videos, but in school I see all of that in reality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-good-old-school-days/story-77E7RZJSs8RaOMH872v34J.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Chickenwale is no more||In most places these days, the news of a death spreads through WhatsApp and Facebook. But in Old Delhi, plastering a handwritten note on a public wall continues to be a preferred practice to circulate this kind of sad occurrence.On Wednesday morning the meat shop near Rangrez Wali Masjid didn’t open. Instead, the passersby found a piece of paper taped on the metal shutters. It was handwritten in blue ink and in Urdu, and it read: “Bhai Aijaz Chickenwale passed away last evening and his final journey will begin at 11 am today.”Muhammed Aijaz ‘Chickenwale’ died of heart failure, aged 56. He was an integral feature of this corner of the Walled City. Every morning he would be seen sitting cross-legged in his little shop, beside his chopping block and butcher’s knife, with chickens cooped up in metal cages. His son, Muhammed Shariq, would be perched quietly behind him. And atop the stacks of chicken cages would stand in all its dignity his immortal “murga”, his one animal that could never die—a giant wooden rooster that he had received as a gift from a friend some years ago.Like many other shopkeepers in the area, Mr Aijaz was a friendly man, and locals on their way to Turkman Gate or Dilli Gate would often stop by to gossip with him for a few minutes. Mr Aijaz would remain seated in his shop, and the acquaintance would continue to stand on the narrow street during this brief chitchat—while the rest of the crowd would circulate about them like a motion blur.One would also come across such small town scenes in the pages of an RK Narayan novel.Mr Aijaz had been running a paan shop for about three decades but turned it into a chicken meat shop five years ago, on the urgings of his ambitious son who saw no future in paan. Since then he came to be known as Bhai Aijaz Chickenwale.On Tuesday evening, some time after the Isha prayers, Mr Aijaz closed the shop at its usual hour and started walking home, in Ganj Meer Khan neighbourhood behind Delite Cinema. By the time he reached Gali Sooiwallan, he was feeling uneasy enough to decide to stop at his brother’s home there. Soon afterwards, he collapsed. Doctor Mukhtar, the area’s popular medical practitioner, pronounced him dead. His family quickly took him to a nearby hospital that gave the same verdict.The following afternoon Mr Aijaz was buried at his father’s grave in Dili Gate Qabristan. This sprawling cemetry, near ITO crossing, is the final home of many Old Delhi dwellers, including many people with distinct professions who came to be known as ‘wale’ such as Vaseem Hornwale and Jameel Ahmed Fishwale. The funeral procession consisted of twenty mourners who dutifully exercised the precepts of physical distancing to minimise the risks of catching coronavirus.Mr Aijaz is survived by his wife, Rukhsana Begum, and the aforementioned son, Muhammed Shaqir. In his early 20s, he was seen in his masked face walking the market lanes the morning after his father’s death, stopping acquaintances to inform them of the news. He says he will reopen the chicken shop on Sunday. It will then be his turn to to be known as “Chickenwale”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-chickenwale-is-no-more/story-VMOPzGn835uZIrW0eK7Y8O.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||7-day quarantine for health workers now||Modifying the quarantine norms for health care workers attending to Covid-19 cases, the Union health ministry on Thursday said any worker who had a high-risk exposure to a Covid-19 patient, without adequate protection, would need to quarantine herself for just a week. Earlier, the quarantine period was 14 days.The nodal officer or head of the department will form a sub-committee to assess the level of exposure and the risk, as per the assessment format issued by the health ministry.After a week, the worker shall be tested for Covid-19, actively monitored for development of symptoms and managed as per the laid down protocol. “If they test positive but remain asymptomatic they will follow protocol for very mild/mild/presymptomatic cases… If they test negative and remain asymptomatic, complete 14 day quarantine and return to work. Should symptoms develop, person will be isolated,” the advisory says.“Those who test negative, will be managed in non-Covid areas as per their clinical diagnosis. Their resuming work will be based on the clinical diagnosis and the medical certification by the treating doctor.” The step was taken in view of the shortage of health care workers at many hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/7-day-quarantine-for-health-workers-now/story-zj3rJOimjEwpGGhtJQMAwO.html
19-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka maps vulnerable groups||Karnataka has become the first state to map its population that is most vulnerable to Covd-19, including the aged and those with comorbidities. These groups are currently being tracked on a daily basis with a view to prevent the onset of a severe Covid-19 infection. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the state’s strategy on Wednesday during a meeting of all CMs to assess the pandemic situation.Of the 16.8 million households in the state, the government has already surveyed about 15 million households in the past three months. The survey identified the aged population as well as those with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease and cancer. These two groups are the most susceptible to the virus, officials said.The ongoing survey has so far identified about 6 million families with comorbidities and/or old age. According to officials, Karnataka is the first major state to map citizens in such a manner so the local administrations can track them easily.“These susceptible families are monitored daily. Twice a day, they receive a phone call enquiring after their health. The state government has informed the Centre that it has employed an IT firm to track people, apart from the usual data from government departments,” said a senior official.The Centre had earlier asked states to use technology, such as tracking the phones numbers, to keep a tab on vulnerable people.Along with Tamil Nadu, Karnataka was the first to cap the Covid treatment costs in private hospitals—a move that is now being considered by other states.The state now has 72 Covid-19 testing labs which can carry out 15,000 tests daily, a state official said. On average, 7,500 people per million are being tested, Yediyurappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-maps-vulnerable-groups/story-jbBS8H47BJg2IrsPc8JrsL.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education department plans to hold admission process for 2020-21 online||The Chandigarh education department is planning to conduct admissions to the academic year of 2020-2021 for all classes completely online.The decision was taken in order to ensure social distancing amid the rising cases of coronavirus in the city, not to mention the fact that schools are still closed.There are 114 government schools in Chandigarh in which over 1 lakh students are already enrolled.Confirming the development, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, said a proposal regarding the same was on the table and will be finalised within a day or so. “We are planning to hold the admissions process online this time. We will display the total number of seats that are vacant in each class, and the parents will have to fill in an online form, after which counseling will be held,” he said.“We might release a circular tomorrow or day after as and when it’s finalised,” he added.Brar also informed that for the parents who cannot access online forms, the admission forms will also be available at various government schools.A teacher of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, said, “We have been instructed that if any parent comes to the school to get the child admitted, we have to provide them admission forms ensuring social distancing. In schools, 25% of staff is already present, along with principals. All of us are working to ensure the admission process goes smoothly.”Under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, the government schools cannot deny admission to any child between the age of 6 to 14 till class 8. However, there are certain regulations. Children can seek admission in only those schools that are in their neighborhood as per the neighbourhood policy under the RTE.Moreover, multiple parents of children studying in the city’s private schools have approached the education department regarding switching of schools amid job losses and high fee of private schools. Sources have said the department, too, has decided to hold a special admission campaign for all such parents. The same would be advertised in the month of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-plans-to-hold-admission-process-for-2020-21-online/story-jfp3JByi9jUDbKcNn7XaBK.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to spend ₹86 lakh to ramp up infra ahead of reopening of OPDs||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has decided to spend an amount of ₹86 lakh for ramping up the infrastructure required to ensure social distancing once the out-patient departments (OPDs) open.Kumar Gaurav Dhawan, deputy director of institute administration, said patient-holding areas will be created ahead of reopening OPDs. “The work entails providing and fixing aluminum partitions, providing toilets, utility shops, electrical, biomedical, and HVAC (heating, ventilation and air-conditioning) works. Changes have also been proposed in the main lobby area. The estimated expenditure is ₹86 lakh. The aim is to ensure social distancing and enable proper screening of the OPD patients,” Dhawan said.As per plans, two holding and screening areas will be established outside and inside the New OPD building. The ground floor of the multi-level parking will be converted into a holding and screening area at an estimated amount of ₹25 lakh.Three shops and two blocks of washrooms, besides installation of air circulator and HVAC system, will be constructed. The facility will be able to cater to more than 400 patients at a time.Inside the OPD building, only two blocks on level 3 require modification and will include aluminum partitions. For additional furniture, CCTV cameras, public address systems and related works, ₹15.7 lakh has been earmarked.Though the administration is yet to make public the dates of re-opening of the OPDs, the officials have already hinted at the changes in the way OPDs will now be run. Tele-consultation services are likely to become a permanent feature and only those requiring physical examination and critical medical care will be called in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-spend-86-lakh-to-ramp-up-infra-ahead-of-reopening-of-opds/story-RM0VMfqGxDwWU9nn2s4R0I.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh property fraud: Former AAP leader’s bail plea dismissed||The bail plea of Panchkula-based former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Yogeshwar Sharma was dismissed by a Chandigarh court on Thursday.Sharma was booked for allegedly duping former IAS officer Harjeet Singh of ₹2.05 crore in a case of property fraud. The economic offences wing of the Chandigarh Police on 14 June had arrested Sharma after a case was registered against him at Sector 11 police station.The court observed that the nature and magnitude of allegations against Sharma were grave and he was not entitled for concession of bail.Complainant Harjeet Singh, a retired IAS officer from Punjab government, who is a resident of Sector 40, had alleged that Sharma had duped him of ₹2.05 crore by selling 50% share comprising basement and ground floor of an SCO in Sector 46.Sharma had unsuccessfully contested assembly polls from Panchkula in 2019 on AAP ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-property-fraud-former-aap-leader-s-bail-plea-dismissed/story-bpOEsBXI12gejaS7OXUxwN.html
19-06-2020||City||Two men killed in bike-SUV collision in Mohali||Two men were killed and their friend was seriously injured after a speeding SUV rammed into their motorcycle on the Sector 78/79 dividing road on Wednesday night. Police said Sunil Kumar, 23, and Rinkle, both from Jalalabad, Punjab, and Shubham Kumar, 24, of Jammu were triple riding the bike when a speeding Jeep Compass driven by Abhishek, 30, of Hoshiarpur, collided with their two-wheeler. The impact of the crash killed Sunil and Shubam on the spot, while Rinkle suffered fractures in both legs. The trio worked in film production and lived in a rented house at Sambhalki village. Abhishek was arrested on the spot. The autopsies were conducted at the Phase-6 civil hospital on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-killed-in-bike-suv-collision-in-mohali/story-zB84cfCp4sgFpr8DPnol6O.html
19-06-2020||City||Maharashtra CM reiterates stand over scrapping final-year exams||Despite objections raised by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over the state’s decision to scrap final-year exams for non-professional courses for academic year 2019-20, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray is unlikely to go back on the announcement. In a meeting presided over by him on matters pertaining to the exams pending due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, the CM reiterated his decision to not hold final-year exams in the state. The state government is also likely to suggest all the central councils for professional courses to take a decision on similar lines, as Maharashtra is currently not in a position to conduct exams, officials said. A final decision on the matter is likely to be announced soon.“During the meeting, the CM said we can’t play with the lives of the students by conducting exams. Final-year exams for non-professional courses must not be held,” said a senior official, who attended the meet. Thackeray also directed the officials to hold a meeting with vice-chancellors of universities to decide on what can be done for ATKT (allowed to keep terms) students. On Wednesday, in a meeting via video conferencing, CM had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue uniform guidelines for holding exams for professional and non-professional courses governed by central councils. He had also informed PM that the state has decided to promote students from non-professional courses on the basis of their grades in the previous terms, as conducting exams in the near future was not possible.The development may escalate the ongoing tussle between the Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Governor. On June 2, Koshyari had said the CM’s May 31 announcement to scrap exams was made “without any profound thinking” on legal repercussions. He had also asserted that he is the chancellor of all universities, and so the decision over exams will be taken in consonance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act. On May 22, the Governor had written to CM to resolve the issue of university exams, while objecting to a recommendation made by higher and technical education minister Uday Samant to the University Grants Commission (UGC) to cancel final-year exams. However, officials are of the view that as the state has invoked Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, which supersede all other acts, a decision taken by the Maharashtra government will be considered final. The state unit of the Opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as well as students’ organisation Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) have demanded the state to conduct examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-reiterates-stand-over-scrapping-final-year-exams/story-jnd7h4XzkbGrsV4TC8C8PM.html
19-06-2020||City||16% students in Maharashtra have no access to radio, TV or mobile phone: State education department data||A total of 15.88% students from the state have no access to any medium of communication (radio, TV or mobile phone) for online education, according to the data obtained from the state education department. Also, 26.33% students don’t have access to even a non-android mobile phone. The department collected the data from select clusters of 35 districts of the state to understand the access to various means of communication for students, with schools not being able to reopen in most parts owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. HT has a copy of the report. The department is yet to come up with a final report. At 37.48%, Palghar tops the list of students with no access to any medium of communication, followed by Gadchiroli (36.23%) and Nandurbar (29.87%). Even in Mumbai, which has the highest penetration of WhatsApp (70.33%), 3.58% students do not have access to a mobile phone, TV or radio. The number is 16.29% in neighbouring Thane and 10.88% in Pune. Across the state, 43.64% students have access to WhatsApp. With a large number of students still not having access to mediums required for online communication, the department has decided to follow a hybrid method of online and offline learning to reach out to every student. “We are exploring all possible options. Those who do not have internet and phones would get textbooks delivered home and we have asked teachers to speak to such students over the phone. The local administration and schools will have to reach those without access to any mode of communication,” state education minister Varsha Gaikwad had said in a meeting with the media on June 15. Hemangi Joshi, city-based Right to Education activist, said in such a scenario, the state government should start schools in remote areas as soon as possible. “At least in places where cases haven’t been reported in the past few days, schools can start operations to ensure students do not miss out on learning. If online learning is only for a few days, it is okay. But if it is going to continue for longer, the government would have to draw up a detailed plan for students with no access to any mode of communication,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-students-in-maharashtra-have-no-access-to-radio-tv-or-mobile-phone-state-education-department-data/story-Imik9X4zomdPW6hBYWcU2O.html
19-06-2020||City||Bhiwandi records 33 new Covid-19 deaths||Bhiwandi reported 33 new deaths on Thursday. As per district records, this is the highest number of single-day Covid deaths reported from any city in Thane district so far. However, authorities claim that these are pending reports of those who died outside the city in the last two weeks. The city has also recorded 727 positive cases of Covid-19.Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) commissioner Pravin Ashthikar said, “We can only record the deaths once we received the death summary of the patients. Several such summaries were pending, as they had to be acquired and then added to the list of deaths. Most of these patients took treatment in hospitals in the nearby cities.”The city is under a complete lockdown for the next 15 days, owing to the increasing cases.The first day of lockdown in Bhiwandi saw a good response from the residents on Thursday, with no public gathering or crowding on the streets or markets. The shops in the city were shut throughout the day, barring the exceptions of those selling essential items such as groceries and milk. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Kalyan and Dombivli, the total number of Covid-19 cases has surged to 2,779, after 212 new cases, including two new deaths were reported on Thursday. Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) epidemic officer Pratibha Panpatil said, “The increase in cases is owing to the high-risk contacts of asymptomatic patients, who are mostly home quarantined, testing positive. Out of the cases reported till now 80 percent are asymptomatic.”KDMC will close down its headquarters in Dombivli near Indira Gandhi Chowk after one worker in this building was tested Covid positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-records-33-new-covid-19-deaths/story-NGatS7BGpQS5x3za6M8r2N.html
19-06-2020||City||Ruckus in Thane as locals stop civic staff from tracing contacts of Covid patient||More than 60 local residents of Gokul Nagar slum in Thane stopped Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) staff from tracing contacts of a patient on Wednesday, claiming the patient had tested positive more than two weeks ago. On June 4, two residents of Gokul Nagar, aged 48 and 62, tested positive. The 62-year-old patient died on Wednesday night, while the 48-year-old recovered. As another 67-year-old man tested positive on Tuesday, TMC officials arrived on Wednesday to take his family and neighbours to a quarantine centre.Local residents, however, created a ruckus, thinking the officials were tracing contacts of the patient who had recovered. Even though TMC officials clarified that the survey was for the other patient, the residents refused to give in.Shankar Patole, assistant civic commissioner of the ward, said, “We reached the area to take the high-risk contacts to a quarantine centre on Wednesday. Coincidentally, one of the patients who had tested positive a fortnight ago had returned home after recovering. Locals thought we had visited the slums to quarantine his contacts, but we had come for another patient. As people refused to cooperate, we had to return without quarantining any of the residents who were at high risk.”Satish Bane, 34, a resident of Gokul Nagar, said, “The officials came with a bus to take away our neighbours to quarantine centres as they were high-risk contact of those who tested positive 15 days ago. Such lackadaisical behaviour by the corporation was unexpected. They had come to quarantine the family and neighbours of a patient who has already recovered. We started asking them for details but they were confused and backed off. There was no major ruckus.”Local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Krishna Patil said that there were no more positive cases in their lane apart from those who tested positive in the first week of June. “Why was there a delay in quarantining the high-risk contacts? There is no point in quarantining contacts after the patients have recovered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ruckus-in-thane-as-locals-stop-civic-staff-from-tracing-contacts/story-3FEy232sRpzNfTukjjsunO.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Vehicular pollution 60% up in Mumbai after lockdown curbs relaxed: SAFAR||Since lockdown restrictions were relaxed on June 1, the city has recorded a sharper rise in levels of traffic pollution than other major cities in India.System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) compared pollution levels between June 1 and June 14 with those recorded between May 18 and May 31, for Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad and Delhi. Mumbai witnessed a 60% increase in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels (from vehicular emissions and fossil fuel burning) compared to levels recorded during the fourth phase of the lockdown, according to an analysis released by SAFAR on Thursday. Pune and Ahmedabad witnessed less than 10% rise in NO2 levels while Delhi recorded 6% decline in NO2 even after restrictions were relaxed. “The sudden increase in vehicular traffic combined with rising industrial production may have contributed to the sudden surge in NO2 concentration over Mumbai. Also, it shows the role played by the transport sector as a major source of air pollution in the financial capital,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR.Between March 25 and April 14, Mumbai had recorded the sharpest decline in NO2 levels (72%) as compared with levels recorded during the same period in 2019 as well as concentration during the months prior to lockdown. From April 15 to May 3, the percentage reduction fell marginally but a 64% decline was recorded. The percentage reduction from May 4 to May 17 was 59% and from May 18 to May 31, it was 49%.“However, even after an increase in NO2, the concentration of the pollutant was well within permissible limits in all four cities where SAFAR monitors air quality,” said Beig.Mumbai witnessed 10 rainy days during the study period while Delhi, Ahmedabad, and Pune had eight rainy days each. This led to the reduction in PM 2.5 — breathable particulate matter of 2.5 micron size or smaller that can cause health ailments — in all four cities. Pune recorded the highest decline (40%), followed by Mumbai (35%), Ahmedabad (20%) and Delhi (5%). “The first two weeks of the unlock period were marked by rainy days which washed away particulate pollutants. However, the prolonged lockdown also helps in reducing background levels (when human-induced sources are minimal), which will take some time to return to earlier levels,” said Beig.On Thursday, the air quality index (AQI) for Mumbai was 18 during the day and fell to 17 in the evening, which is the lowest of this year, said SAFAR. “Intermittent showers will allow PM levels to fall to record low levels in coming days unless there is a prolonged dry spell. Overall, good to satisfactory category is expected to continue during monsoon for all four cities,” said Beig.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vehicular-pollution-60-up-in-mumbai-after-lockdown-curbs-relaxed-safar/story-3zO3fq1HfdTyKshgO8gTBJ.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Tiff over not wearing mask turns ugly, man shot at twice in Mumbai||A 35-year-old man from PL Lokhande Marg in Chembur was injured after being shot at twice by a group of four men over a past rivalry on Wednesday around 3am. The injured man, identified as Sadiq Inayat Khan, was helping a relative get a bail after he was arrested for attacking a man who assaulted him not wearing a face mask in a public place.According to police, a few days prior to the shooting, Khan’s relative Salim Siddiqui had got into an altercation with one Bunty Rana outside a public toilet. “Rana had confronted Siddiqui for not wearing a face mask. After a heated argument, Rana had slapped Siddiqui. Later, Siddiqui, along with his accomplices, attacked Rana with swords and knives, leaving him severely injured. Siddiqui was later arrested by the police,” said an officer from Tilak Nagar police station.“Rana’s brother Navneet wanted to exact revenge and decided to attack Khan who was helping Siddiqui with the bail procedure,” said Sushil Kamble, senior inspector of Tilak Nagar police station.Around 4am on Thursday, Navneet and three of his associates, Samed Tolkar, Yasin Ansari and one Rounak went to Khan’s house and challenged him to come out and face them. After Khan’s wife Mehrunissa opened the door, Navneet fired two bullets at him from a country-made revolver, police said.One bullet pierced Khan’s left palm while another hit him in the back. He was rushed to Sion hospital where he is undergoing treatment.The police arrested Navneet, Ansari and Tolkar later in the day. “They have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act for attempt to murder and illegal use of a firearm,” said Kamble.11 crime branch cops quarantined after a colleague tests positiveEleven policemen of the Mumbai crime branch have been home quarantined after a 40-year-old police constable from their unit tested positive for Covid-19. Senior inspector of unit-9, Mahesh Desai is among the officers quarantined. The constable, who worked as a police driver from Desai’s unit, was suffering from fever and cough for the past five days. He underwent a Covid test on Tuesday and the next day his report came back positive.Crime branch sources said that the driver’s 16-year-old son also tested positive. Both are receiving treatment at a hospital in Bandra.Following their reports, five police officers including Desai, and six constables were immediately home quarantined. They have not shown any symptoms yet and are all healthy.Man arrested for posing as MCGM official to extort businessmanSantacruz police arrested a man for allegedly posing as an officer of the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) and extorting ₹50,000 from a Santacruz businessman. According to police, during the lockdown, the accused would travel between Khar and Andheri in his car and whenever he found any shop open illegally, he would visit it, posing as MCGM official and extort money in exchange for not taking any action.The accused had threatened the Santacruz businessman of coercive action for violating lockdown orders and extorted ₹50,000 from him. On Thursday, the Santacruz police arrested the accused from Chembur. Police confirmed that the man is a habitual criminal as last year, had posed as a Mathadi kamgar union member, and extorted a businessman.(With inputs from Manish K Pathak and Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiff-over-not-wearing-mask-turns-ugly-man-shot-at-twice-in-mumbai/story-925NUhmNTV1ZhWELyqB2MJ.html
19-06-2020||City||Three deaths, 118 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Thursday reported three deaths and 118 positive cases, taking the state’s tally to 3,615. The state has reported 83 deaths so far. A 62-year-old man died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Amritsar, health officials said. “The woman, a resident of Jaspal Nagar on Sultanwind Road, was admitted to a private hospital and complained of breathlessness. He was also suffering from co-morbidities and was tested positive for Covid-19, recently,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.Besides, 34 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Amritsar district of which 26 are fresh community transmission cases and eight are contacts of Covid-19 patients. Eight fresh cases were reported in Sangrur on Thursday. According to health department officials these patients included police personnel, doctors, shopkeepers and locals. Most of new victims were contacts of old patients.Besides, a 65-year-old woman, Jagjit Kaur of Dolowal village in the district, died during treatment in Ludhiana. Meanwhile, the district administration also declared three areas of Malerkotla town containment zones and deployed 15 teams to conduct a door to door survey in Malerkotla which recorded four deaths so far. Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said Araiyan Wala Mohalla, Sirhindi Gate and Uchi Masjid areas have been covered under containment zone 1; Grewal Chowk, Uttam factory and defence colony are in zone 2 and Bhumsi Mohalla and other areas under zone 3.Eight persons tested positive in Barnala. Of these, six are migrant labourers who came back to the state recently.7 FRESH CASES IN PATIALA Seven persons tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said three members of a family residing in DMW Colony have contracted infection, while two members of another family in Gurbaksh colony were found positive. In Samana, two other persons contracted the infections. FOUR COPS AMONG 5 TEST POSITIVE IN JALANDHARA 30-year-old woman, Rita, a resident of Panchranga village near Bhogpur town in Jalandhar, died of the virus on Thursday. Besides, four cops among five persons tested positive of the coronavirus. Meanwhile, two women in the age group 39-80 years, tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Hoshiarpur on Thursday. 24 INFECTED IN LUDHIANATwenty-nine people tested positive for coronavirus in Ludhiana of which 24 belong to Ludhiana district, while the others belong to Delhi, Mansa, Pathankot, Sangrur and Barnala. The fresh cases include a 20-year-old pregnant woman and five kids. Also nine cases have been detected from a labour quarter (vehra) situated at Bhamiyan road. 4 INMATES OF PATTI SUB-JAIL CONTRACT INFECTION Tarn Taran on Thursday reported nine fresh cases. Four of the nine cases are of those who were recently sent to Patti-sub jail, which has already been declared as a quarantine jail for those undertrials who are being held in various cases by the police of Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts. Besides, two people were found positive for coronavirus in Kapurthala. Pathankot deputy commissioner GS Khaira said: “Eight more people of the district were tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The active cases in the district are now 55.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-deaths-118-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-ly17xVhecimDGOcjXSKj6J.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admnistration mulls imposing mandatory home-quarantine on incoming visitors||With rising instances of people with travel history testing positive for coronavirus, the UT administration is mulling enforcing mandatory home-quarantine for visitors coming to the city, along with penalty for violators not following the directions.In the last 10 days, nearly 50% of the positive cases were people with travel history or their contacts.Expressing concern on the issue, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in the daily review meeting directed the principal secretary health to examine the proposal of making home-quarantine mandatory, instead of simply asking people to self-quarantine. This will discourage the visitors coming from outside from roaming around in different parts of the city unnecessarily, he said.In line with the central guidelines, the current advisory issued by the administration only asks for self-quarantine, without specifying the location. Only international fliers have to mandatorily quarantine for a specific period at a specific location.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said the possibility of sending violators into institutional quarantine will be explored. “With open inter-state movement of people, there is a concern that Covid-19 cases from high incidence areas like Delhi will scatter to areas with less number of cases like Chandigarh. In the past week, an increasing number of visitors have tested positive. The aim of introducing self-home-quarantine is to confine them to their homes and restrict their movement.”NOT ENOUGH TESTING IN UTWhile Punjab has made quarantine mandatory for domestic fliers, no such mandatory condition applies on domestic fliers coming into Chandigarh. Similarly, unlike in Panchkula where all visitors from high-incidence areas like Delhi are being tested, in Chandigarh only those entering the city through cars are being screened, that too randomly.In this regard, Badnore directed the director general of police (DGP) to ensure greater checking at border points, and to check that only authorised persons, who have registered themselves online for entry into Chandigarh, are allowed to enter.UT has made it mandatory for visitors to register themselves on the UT’s official website before entering the city. The self-generated form has to be kept with oneself for the police to check.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admnistration-mulls-imposing-mandatory-home-quarantine-on-incoming-visitors/story-v3KvTbcZ8xzn5POCfBGA4N.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Law student from Mumbai writes to HC chief justice seeking clarity over exams||A fourth-year student of Government Law College, Churchgate, approached the chief justice of the Bombay high court (HC), seeking clarity over the status of exams for law students. The student, Samarvir Singh, said he approached the chief justice because the directives by the Maharashtra government and the Bar Council of India (BCI) over the exams are contradictory. Last month, Maharashtra minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that all students, except those pursuing their final-year courses, will be promoted to the next class on the basis of their performance in the previous semester as well as in the internal exams of the current semester. However, BCI in a circular dated June 9, announced that all promoted students will be declared ‘pass’ only if they appear for their final exam of the current semester in the next semester and directed colleges to hold an exam for the current semester in the next academic year.“It is clarified that after reopening of colleges/universities, the universities shall conduct the end semester examination with respect to the year from which they have been promoted, within a reasonable period of time...in case they are unable to pass/clear any paper from the end semester, they shall have to clear the same before they are granted the degree,” stated the BCI release.Students are now worried that even if the state allows them to clear the current academic year based on gradation formula, BCI will not accept their degree.“Experimenting with online examinations with final-year students may impact their grades adversely. Online examinations will act against the interest of underprivileged students. We, therefore, stand by the decision of the state government to cancel examinations and demand the scrapping of exams for final-year students also. BCI conducts a qualifying examination [AIBE[ for registration, and hence missing out on one the end-semester examination won’t degrade the quality of the profession. We want a decision to be taken immediately as many students might lose out on their jobs or a full academic year while applying for further studies,” said Singh, adding that by approaching the judiciary, he hopes to bring clarity to all law students across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/law-student-from-mumbai-writes-to-hc-chief-justice-seeking-clarity-over-exams/story-9yqKnJuKJKuJbp8CSPjACP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Women farmers come together to make 30,000 masks||Mohali : Self-help groups (SHGs) of women farmers from Mohali district have made 30,000 face masks as part of the Prerna Project under Mahindra and Mahindra’s Swaraj Division.SHGs from Abrawan and Hulka villages came together as part of the initiative to help women farmers. Around 20 women joined hands to stitch face masks and procured an order from the management of the Swaraj Division of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. They stitched three-layered cotton masks (made of knitted fabric) at home.Apart from training the women, material for masks were arranged for by the representatives of Skill Upgradation Training Services, a Ludhiana based NGO. Each women member earned around ₹3,000 per month to support her family during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/women-farmers-come-together-to-make-30-000-masks/story-c82lGLzCQFUwTiw3QzkyCJ.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fitness from home: Students and teachers of govt schools asked to practice asanas to mark International Yoga Day||The Punjab School Education Board (Sports branch) has directed students and teachers of government school to celebrate International Yoga Day, which falls on June 21, at their homes with family members amid the Covid-19 pandemic. To motivate students to stay fit and healthy, authorities are uploading videos related to various asanas daily and have asked students to send videos or pictures of them performing the poses on their schools’ WhatsApp groups.On Thursday, a two-minute video was uploaded on the activities school education Punjab Facebook page in which 12 asanas, including Virabhadrasna -I, Virabhadrasna-II, Virabhadrasna-III, Utthita Hasta, Padangusthasana, Dandayamana Janu Sirsasana, Trikonasana-III, Bharmanasana, Vasisthasana, Eka Pada Bakasana, Shirshasana, Adho Mukha Vrksasana (Hand Stand) and Urdhva Upavistha Konasana were performed.Akash Kumar, a Class 12 student of government senior secondary school, multipurpose, said, “I started performing yoga asanas on Monday and feel energetic already. I have also asked my parents to practice them as yoga stretches our muscles and increases range of motion. With regular practice, I can improve my flexibility.”The yoga sessions were started daily by the board under the Fit India Mission with the aim to help students stay fit and adopt a sustainable and active lifestyle at a young age.Ajit Pal Singh, district level in-charge (sports), said, “We have received an overwhelming response from students as majority of them are practising the asanas everyday. I am receiving 40 to 50 videos and pictures from students daily which are shared with the board’s sports branch.”District education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, said, “The state education board’s initiative has motivated young students to take care of their health and perform yoga asanas at home. We have received great response for online classes and videos shared on the Facebook page have encouraged students and teachers to stay fit and active during these tough times.”CBSE ASKS AFFILIATED SCHOOLS TO PARTICIPATE IN ONLINE NATIONAL LEVEL QUIZ ON YOGA The NCERT is organising an online national quiz competition on yoga on the theme “Yoga for health and harmony”. The quiz will be open for one month, starting from June 21, and will close on July 20. This online quiz competition will provide flexibility to students to respond at their own convenience.Students of Classes 6 to 12 are eligible to participate in the quiz which will be based on the NCERT syllabus developed for yoga for upper primary and secondary stages.‘MY LIFE MY YOGA’ VIDEO BLOGGING COMPETITIONAn online competition for posting three-minute videos on yoga poses is being organised on the My Gov platform by the ministry of AYUSH. The last date for submission of entries is June 21. The board has requested schools to encourage students to participate in online competitions and post videos/photos of online yoga classes of on the ASAR (Affiliated Schools Activity Report) app available on Playstore for Android Phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fitness-from-home-students-and-teachers-of-govt-schools-asked-to-practice-asanas-to-mark-international-yoga-day/story-eTPMmTCE0GWgQHiR77OvcL.html
19-06-2020||City||Police yet to trace men involved in PNB robbery||A day after the broad daylight robbery at a women’s branch in Punjab National Bank, Phase 3A, police have yet to trace the men who took away ₹4.8 lakh at gunpoint in just two minutes.Superintendent of police (city), Harwinder Singh Virk said, “teams had been set up to carry out investigations, and we are hopeful that we will crack the case soon.”The robbers walked into the bank at around 1.40 pm with their faces and hands covered and quickly collected the cash.CCTV cameras in the bank recorded the incident. Footage showed the handkerchief covering the face of one man falling off while he was fleeing. No security guard was present inside the branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-yet-to-trace-men-involved-in-pnb-robbery/story-S3i9nXo3fZfX3ShjBC861J.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||4 arrested for assaulting Hallomajra youth||Four men were arrested in Hallomajra on Thursday for assaulting another man named Mosin Khan because of old enmity. An attempt to murder case was registered and weapons used in the crime recovered.Sandeep alias Vicky (23), Manoj (19), Rohan alias Putti (19) and Rahul alias Mochhi (19) were arrested after Vicky had an altercation with Khan and called his associates to attack him.Sandeep and Khan had often picked up fights earlier.In a statement to the police, Khan’s friend Mika said Khan had called him to say that he had an argument with Sandeep and his brothers asked him to come over at the Hallomajra light point to pick him. As he arrived to take Khan back home on his scooter, Mika said he noticed Khan’s clothes were torn and as soon as they moved on Sandeep and Manoj carrying sharp-edged weapons, accompanied by eight to 10 other men armed with stones, bricks, sticks and broken bottles attacked Khan.Mika said he managed to escape and hid in his friend Sonu’s house, only to return later to the scene to take an injured Khan to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.Police were informed about the incident by a doctor at the hospital and as Khan was unable to give a statement Mika lodged the complaint.A case under sections 147,148,149,307,341 of the IPC was registered. The accused, who are school dropouts and unemployed, were produced before the court and sent to judicial custody. Sandeep and Manoj have two previous cases of assault lodged against them at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-arrested-for-assaulting-hallomajra-youth/story-8ylxl528wEDUUWed5sWXgM.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government asks housing societies not to impose unnecessary restrictions||The state has appealed to cooperative housing societies asking them not to impose unnecessary restrictions in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.State minister for cooperation Balasaheb Patil said managing committees of housing societies should not impose curbs on the entry of maids in the homes of elderly residents or restrict the movement of residents who go to work. He also said that those supplying milk and vegetables to the societies should be given easy access. Patil said all societies need to adhere to the guidelines issued by the state and Centre. During the Covid-19 lockdown, many societies had stopped their domestic helps from entering the premises and imposed curbs on the entry of outside articles as well as on the movement of their residents. Despite many restrictions being lifted, several societies have continued to impose restrictions, owing to which residents are finding it difficult to go to offices and for other work. Many society federations have asked the government to intervene and rein in the management committee members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-asks-housing-societies-not-to-impose-unnecessary-restrictions/story-ZkQ8XdiAST2lOC5QJWpznN.html
19-06-2020||City||202 new cases in Navi Mumbai, 9 deaths||The highest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases was reported in Navi Mumbai on Thursday, with 202 new cases, taking the total count to 4,391. The city also reported the highest one-day death toll of nine, bringing the total to 138. On the same day, 62 patients were discharged, bringing the recovery rate down from 60% to 57%.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) commissioner on Wednesday stated that the increase in cases was due to an increase in contact tracing in slums and containment areas.“Of the 202 cases, 46 were detected in Airoli, 37 in Ghansoli, and 33 in Kopar Khairane. There are 15 children, including a three-year-old girl from Sector 10 in Airoli and another three-year-old girl from Sector 12 D in Kopar Khairane amongst the positive patients on Thursday,” said an NMMC official.Along with NMMC, a surge of cases was witnessed in Panvel, where 51 Covid-19 cases reported. The total case count in Panvel is now 1,129, with two new deaths reported on Thursday, taking the toll to 52.The two deaths include a 44-year-old resident of Sector 5 in Kalamboli who suffered from high blood pressure and diabetes. The second victim, from Kalamboli’s Sector 11 was a 69-year-old diabetes patient.After testing positive earlier, 32 patients tested negative in subsequent tests and were discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/202-new-cases-in-navi-mumbai-9-deaths/story-t2fEXflTFK6giMhSijBMRP.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Builder gives BMC newly-constructed building for Covid centre||A city-based builder has handed over his newly-constructed building at Malad to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to be used as a Covid-19 care centre. Shreeji Sharan Developers has given its 130-apartment building located at S V Road to the civic body.The builder contended that the step has been taken since Malad is a Covid-19 hotspot.Both, quarantine as well as medical facilities have been made available at the premises. More than 300 Covid patients have already been shifted to the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/builder-gives-bmc-newly-constructed-building-for-covid-centre/story-bfoEz5B3QCA6z4xaxBmDgL.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Hold simple celebrations for Ganesh festival, no processions: CM to mandals||This year, Ganeshotsav – one of Mumbai’s biggest and most popular festivals – will be a low-key event, with chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray urging all Ganpati mandals to keep celebrations simple, in light of the Covid-19 outbreak.At a video conference with mandals from Mumbai and Pune, Thackeray said that this year, the Ganpati festival should be celebrated keeping safety in mind. The CM also urged mandals not to organise processions and gatherings. The chief minister’s office said that mandals have agreed to comply with the state’s request.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh, state cabinet ministers Satej Patil and Shambhuraj Desai, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, municipal commissioner IS Chahal, Maharashtra’s director general of police Subodh Jaiswal, Mumbai Police commissioner Parambir Singh, and representatives of Ganesh mandals and idol makers across Maharashtra were present for the video meeting.CM told representatives of mandals to decide the guidelines for a simple and safe celebration. “We are restarting Maharashtra and taking each step very carefully. We will not compromise on tradition, but we have to keep our social responsibility in mind,” said Thackeray, according to a press note from the CM’s office.Sudhir Salvi, secretary of Lalbaugcha Raja Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal, one of the biggest mandals in the city, said, “We have received instructions from the chief minister. Now we will define the guidelines after a meeting with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). We are a big mandal and see huge crowds every year, so we will have to strictly define crowd management and control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hold-simple-celebrations-for-ganesh-festival-no-processions-cm-to-mandals/story-HJkXE3G4nGB9T17oV8DsBO.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Over 150 Covid-19 patients underwent dialysis at Nair Hospital||BYL Nair Hospital at Mumbai Central has created a record of sorts by providing dialysis to 160 patients infected with the novel coronavirus, since April 18. The dedicated Covid-19 hospital has run over 1,000 dialysis sessions on Covid-19 patients with kidney ailments daily.Dialysis is a life-saving procedure through which excess water, solutes, and toxins are removed artificially from the blood of patients whose kidneys can no longer perform these functions naturally. This is referred to as renal replacement therapy. A patient with kidney ailments needs to undergo dialysis thrice a week. Due to low immunity, these patients are most vulnerable to Sars-Cov-2— the virus that causes Covid-19.“From the time of the admission, Covid-19 patients with kidney ailments undergo dialysis on alternate days until they get discharged. We have nine machines that run round-the-clock in three shifts,” said Dr Kalpana Mehta, head of department (nephrology), at the hospital.The hospital performs around 1,083 dialysis sessions on Covid-19 patients daily.The dialysis unit functions as a part of the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU), which is being monitored regularly. “After every patient undergoes his/her dialysis, we have to sanitise the surfaces of the chairs, tables, and floor before starting the next session,” said Mehta. “All medicos including class-IV employees are given safety gear,” she added.To date, three staffers, including two resident doctors from the dialysis unit, have contracted Covid-19. Having recovered, they have resumed work. The hospital’s nephrology department is also assisting the dialysis unit at SevenHills Hospital, Marol, another dedicated Covid-19 hospital.Dr Mohan Joshi, in-charge of SevenHills Hospital, said, “Covid-19 infected patients need specific dialysis machines to avoid any possible spread of infection to other uninfected people. On a daily basis, more than 50 patients undergo dialysis at our hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-150-covid-19-patients-underwent-dialysis-at-nair-hospital/story-rXuhIK9kQv3hAbNXxijjFM.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid treatment: BMC using dexamethasone||While initial results from a clinical study conducted in the United Kingdom (UK) has shown the steroid dexamethasone reduces mortality in patients severely afflicted by Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has recorded faster recovery by administering the drug along with another alternative steroid, methylprednisolone. However, doctors have cautioned there could be side effects to this treatment for those with comorbodity.“We are already administering methylprednisolone to Covid-19 patients since April and the response is quite promising. Along with it, we have recently started using dexamethasone but are yet to decide if we want to include it in the treatment protocol as mandatory medication,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC.Earlier this week, dexamethasone emerged as a potentially effective treatment for critically-ill patients of Covid-19 after a group of scientists from the UK reported that a trial conducted among 2,100 Covid-19 patients had shown the steroid reduced deaths of patients on ventilators by one-third and of patients on oxygen by one-fifth. On Wednesday, the World Health Organisation acknowledged these findings.Some civic-run hospitals have already been administering steroids as treatment to Covid-19 patients. Dexamethasone belongs to the same group of steroids as methylprednisolone, which doctors at BYL Nair Hospital are using to treat to their Covid-19 patients. “We have around 1,000 patients and we administer around 2,000 injections every day. The result has been quite promising,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, in-charge of the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital. “Both drugs [dexamethasone and methylprednisolone] are effective in treating patients. But as the study has shown that dexamethasone is more effective, we will suggest that the steroid be included in treating critical patients,” he said.Steroids have shown to be effective medication to tackle Covid-19 and reduce complications and severity in critically-ill patients. “We already have methylprednisolone in the Covid-19 treatment guidelines. The drugs are readily usable and cheap. In India, we use them in pneumonia cases. Dexamethasone may be a good choice as it is supported by a large trial and is a cost-effective drug,” said Dr Avinash Supe, former dean of King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital and part of BMC’s Covid-19 death committee.However, doctors have warned against unregulated usage of steroids among patients with Covid-19, especially those who are diabetic. Dexamethasone and methylprednisolone come under the type of steroids that significantly increase blood glucose levels in those with diabetes. “Patients should never consume these steroids without the supervision of doctors. It can be life threatening and cause severe damage,” said Dr Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-treatment-bmc-using-dexamethasone/story-tq5UffFoUcZzo0ynMYns4J.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC rule that private labs can’t inform patients about positive test reports irks IMA||Days after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) changed the rules of testing for Covid-19, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has criticised the civic body for confusing doctors and delaying treatment of coronavirus patients.On June 13, BMC issued a circular which stated that no positive test report will be shared by the laboratory directly with the patient. “Laboratory will share the report with MCGM (Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai) and MCGM in return will share it with the patients,” the circular mentioned.This has created dissatisfaction among doctors as they alleged that it is leading to delays in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “Earlier, private labs used to inform BMC along with patients on the phone. But now, as the civic body is responsible for informing positive patients, it often takes two to three days, which delays their treatment time,” said a senior doctor from BYL Nair Hospital.“Due to the wait without treatment, oxygen saturation among patients is falling drastically, leading to their death within a few hours of admission,” said the doctor.Highlighting the same complaint, IMA on Thursday issued a letter stating, “Because of the new rule, the patients come to know about the result of the test after three to four days, and during this time their symptoms may aggravate and may become serious.”IMA has also criticised BMC for repeatedly changing their testing rules, which is confusing doctors. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra, said, “Doctors are living in fear. Every week, the rules are being changed. And it is very troublesome to regularly keep updated with the changing protocols with fake documents circulating on social media. If unknowingly they violate any rule, BMC will take action against them.”Despite repeated calls, additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani did not respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-rule-that-private-labs-can-t-inform-patients-about-positive-test-reports-irks-ima/story-tMyKOCXwxn3QlmCvtc3y1O.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||After Mumbai, Delhi set to become second city with 50K plus Covid-19 cases||Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike of 2,877 Covid-19 cases to the tally close to 50,000, the Delhi health department said.The total number of cases in the national capital now stands at 49,979.There were 65 casualties on Thursday that pushed the death toll to 1,969.A total of 3,884 people were declared cured on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 21,341. Delhi now has 26,669 active cases of Covid-19.Delhi has been buffeted by a surge of Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks. The national capital is now on course to become the second city in the country after Mumbai with more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who is being treated in a hospital for Covid-19, showed some improvement on Thursday but his fever has not yet subsided, senior officials said.The 55-year-old minister is getting oxygen support on and off as per requirement, PTI reportedJain had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, a day after he was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) after running high fever and suffering sudden drop in oxygen levels.Sources in Delhi government on Wednesday said contact tracing of people who interacted with him in the last couple of days has started, and they will be quarantined as per the advice of doctors.Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday fixed rates of Covid-19 RT-PCR test in Delhi at Rs 2,400 per test inclusive of GST with immediate effect.On Wednesday, a high-level committee formed on Sunday after Union home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvinf Kejriwal and Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to look into testing rates in Delhi had decided to fix the price at Rs 2,400 and forwarded the suggestions to the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-mumbai-delhi-set-to-become-second-city-with-50k-plus-covid-19-cases/story-vlF5BilM9oKZ0O7fER1fhM.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Over 15,000 migrant workers coming back to state daily, says state home minister Deshmukh||More than 15,000 migrant workers are returning to the state daily after leaving it during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown and the number is expected to rise, said Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday.“As a lockdown was imposed to fight the coronavirus outbreak, a large number of migrant workers went back to their respective states. Since the state government has eased restrictions, following which business and industrial units have started their operations, migrant workers have also started returning. 15,000-16,000 workers are coming back to the state daily,” Deshmukh said.He further said the state government gets a list of workers who are coming back from their respective states. “Based on that, we make a list along with their address, screen them with thermal devices and asked them to stay at home for 14 days after inking them with ‘home quarantine’ stamps,” Deshmukh said.Till the first week of June, the state government had sent around 18 lakh migrant workers back to their respective states, such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Karnataka, Chhatisgarh, Assam, Jammu, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Manipur, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Tripura and Mizoram. Of them, around 12 lakh workers returned to their home states through 826 Shramik trains and around 5.38 lakh workers were sent back with the help of 44,106 trips of State Transport (ST) buses.Maharashtra has so far reopened over 60,000 industries since relaxations from lockdown were granted and have employed close to 15 lakh people in these units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-15-000-migrant-workers-coming-back-to-state-daily-says-state-home-minister-deshmukh/story-9CBOCY0Dz6D9nMsrY71K9H.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees sharpest 1-day spike of 3,752 Covid cases||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 3,752 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day jump, taking the tally to 1,20,504, including 62,875 in Mumbai.With the addition of 100 deaths, the state toll has reached 5,751, including 3,311 fatalities in Mumbai.Of the 100 deaths reported on Thursday, 99 are from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including 67 in Mumbai, 27 Bhiwandi and four in Thane. One death each was registered in Vasai-Virar and Nagpur city. Maharashtra saw more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases a day for the past 31 days, accounting for 70.91% of its total, as state authorities and experts attribute the rise to the easing of lockdown restrictions. A total of 75,108 cases or 65.44% of the state’s tally have been reported after most areas were exempted from lockdown curbs from May 22. Under its Mission Begin Again — a staggered plan to lift curbs — the state government started to roll out major relaxations, even in red zones. After allowing physical activities such as running, jogging and cycling from June 3, shops and commercial establishments were allowed to be open on alternate days from June 5. From June 8, private offices opened with 10% (or 10 persons, whichever is greater) of the capacity. The two weeks of unlocking have seen 48,204 cases.Before these relaxations, the state had exempted major part of its population from red-zone restrictions from May 22. From 14 districts with a population of 6.56 crore, the restrictions were lowered to just 3.15 crore in 19 municipal corporations covering only urban parts.The state’s projection of the case curve reaching a plateau and then flattening has failed time and again with the authorities now expecting the middle of monsoon to see the beginning of a downward trend. “The surge in cases after the relaxations of lockdown curbs was expected and we were prepared for it. Although the number of cases is rising across the state, we have been able to keep the containment well below various projections for Mumbai and even for the state. Our projections related to the plateau and flattening of the curve have not been met. We have been able to stabilise the curve in Mumbai and other cities with high infection, but it spread rapidly in a few other districts of the state,” said a state official, who is privy to the brainstorming and strategies chalked out combat the virus.After a sudden jump of 1,328 fatalities, as a result of reconciliation of data on Tuesday, the state case fatality rate has risen to 4.77%, much above the national rate. The state government, however, said that its recovery rate improved to 50.49% after 60,838 patients recovered. The state health department has also said that the doubling rate of cases has improved to 25.9 days on June 16, from 3.5 days on March 31 and 10.2 days on April 30 and 20.1 days on May 31. The weekly growth rate of cases has been 3% on June 16, from 12%, 7% and 4% on March 31, April 30 and May 31 respectively. State has so far conducted 717, 683 tests with a positivity rate of 16.93%. State has 101 testing laboratories, including 43 from private sector. 5,81,650 people are home quarantine in the state. State authorities are wary of a rise in cases in the next two-three weeks owing to monsoon- related ailments and increased risk of infection. “We have been concentrating on new hotspots that have come up elsewhere in the state. Tracing , testing and treatment have been the key formula to contain the spread of the virus. It is being implemented in these districts too. The figures in Mumbai have been stabilised and we now expect to reach the plateau at the state level by mid-July, ” said state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant, said that the opening up of activities has led to a rise in cases and striking a balance between the lockdown and unlocking was inevitable. “The rise after the restarting of activities was expected, but it is now for people to understand how to live with the virus without getting infected. People have been following the norms of social distancing and physical contacts; it should be rigorously followed even in future. With the density of population in India, we need to take extra precautions than any other country,” he said.Mumbai accounted for 63.73% of the daily state cases on May 14, 56.47% on May 28, which dropped to 41.1% on June 17. However, a few districts such as Aurangabad, Jalagaon and Solapur saw a surge in cases and even in the case fatality rate (CFR). Against the state’s mortality rate of 4.84%, Solapur, Jalgaon and Aurangabad have reported 9.25%, 10.12% and 5.68% respectively, as per the deaths recorded till Wednesday. The recovery rate in these districts was 35.28%, 45.45% and 55.88%, against the state rate of 50.68% till Monday evening.Bhushan Gagarani, principal secretary, state government, said the districts with high fatality rate have been asked to do better case management. “One of the reasons for the high mortality rate in Solapur is the high number of beedi workers who suffer from lung ailments. In Jalgaon, we have issues with health infrastructure. These districts have been asked for better case management to reduce the fatality rate,” he said.Jalgaon collector Avinash Dhakne, who was transferred on Thursday, said that the death rate in the district was high because of fewer tests in the district. “While the state rate of tests is 4,800 per million, it is just 2,000 per million in Jalgaon. We have no facility for testing, which forced us to send our samples to private labs. We conducted more than 50 lakh tests in private laboratories. We have changed our strategy and started focusing on the vulnerable groups of citizens, especially in densely populated areas,” he said. Dhakne said that even the surveys conducted by ICMR have found the fatality rate was not too high, compared to the population of the district. He also added that the spread of the virus was owing to people coming in from other cities like Mumbai, Pune and due to the high footfall of migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-sharpest-1-day-spike-of-3-752-covid-cases/story-N0yqv7pwND180LwOWC1fwO.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||CM installed, Uddhav to address cadre on Sena’s new challenges||In a packed hall at the Nesco exhibition centre in Goregaon on June 19, 2018, the 52nd foundation day event of the Shiv Sena, party chief Uddhav Thackeray had told party workers that the next chief minister would be from the Shiv Sena. In 2019, on the 53rd foundation day, an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana reiterated the statement. A few months later, after a big political shift in Maharashtra, it came true – not just a Sena leader, but Uddhav Thackeray took over the reins of the state government.While the party has cancelled its annual celebration in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, Thackeray is expected to address the cadre via video conference on the 54th foundation day of the Sena on Friday. Even as the Sena has come to power by forming an alliance with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) out, political observers feel the real test for the Thackeray-led party would be the Mumbai civic polls, strengthening the party cadre and redefining the political identity.Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said the Sena cadre, which is known to be on the ground, is not seen much during the Covid-19 situation. “The Sena needs to strengthen the cadre. Usually, a party takes a back seat once it is in power. In the past few months, after it snapped ties and formed the government with the Congress-NCP, the Sena is not visible on the ground. The goodwill that Thackeray earned while handling Covid-19 will not help in future elections,” Jondhale said.Sena leaders said these are their early days in the government and they have not got a chance to work for people. Besides, the Sena is actively helping families of patients during the pandemic in Mumbai, they said.Political observers feel the Sena, which has allied with parties with different ideologies, could stand to lose its follower base. “The Sena needs to redefine its politics and programme. By joining hands with the Congress and NCP, the Sena will not be able to go back to its old agendas. It can’t get complacent after coming to power, because the BJP will get more aggressive once Covid-19 situation ends,” said Jondhale.However, Sena Lok Sabha MP Arvind Sawant dismissed the notion. “What is wrong with Hindutva ideology? Our Hindutva is far more secular than people who talk about secularism. Besides, we don’t have political programmes; we only have social goals. Power is an instrument to achieve these social goals,” he said.Sawant, who resigned as the Union minister last year, said the Sena had no “greed for power” and it snapped the alliance with the BJP to teach them a “lesson”. “If you look at it [the MVA government] as a political realignment, it is a lesson for the other states as well. If a party is behaving arrogantly, the Opposition can come together to form the government. Almost in all elections, no party gets 51% votes. The Opposition is always in majority. They are not in power only because they are not united. They [the BJP] use all regional parties, not just us, as a ladder. The moment they climb it, they throw it out. We believe in Hindutva, but we are not slaves. The Sena was more than equal in that partnership. We kept sacrificing for the sake of the country and Hindutva. It didn’t mean they could finish us,” Sawant said.Jondhale said the next three months would be crucial for the Sena within the government and outside. The government, under Uddhav Thackeray, will have to take key policy decisions for the economy, education and health of the state. According to him, the party will be able to take credit for these decisions. It would otherwise face a tough competition from the NCP, which is skilled at milking situations for political advantage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-installed-uddhav-to-address-cadre-on-sena-s-new-challenges/story-vPT6A7WvvBui6c0gJqrQAL.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai receives heavy rain and plaints of waterlogging||There were intermittent spells of intense showers across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on Thursday, which led to temperatures dropping to normal and reports of waterlogging in the city. Mumbai and its suburbs can expect intermittent rain with heavy showers in isolated areas over the next 24 hours, and moderate rain over 48 hours.Between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Thursday, Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 39.2 millimetres (mm) while Colaba, representing south Mumbai, recorded 38.6mm of rain. Thane recorded 64mm in the same duration. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) classifies 35.6mm to 64.4mm as rather heavy rain, and 64.5mm to 124.4mm as heavy rain.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recorded average rainfall of 37.43mm in the island city, 34.04mm in the western suburbs and 52.6mm in the eastern suburbs between 8am to 6pm on Thursday. As per BMC’s monsoon report, 18 tree collapses and five incidents of short circuit were reported in the city. No injuries were reported in any of them.BMC’s disaster management cell said there was no waterlogging and no traffic had to be diverted because of the rain. However, citizens reported waterlogging in a number of areas across MMR, including Chembur’s Amar Mahal, parts of Sion Koliwada, some areas in Thane and near APMC market of Vashi in Navi Mumbai.Three people sustained minor injuries when ground-plus-two storey structure collapsed in a chawl in Jogeshwari. Sakira Shaikh (22), Tauseef Shaikh (28) and Fatima Qureshi (60) were taken to RN Cooper Hospital, where they were treated and later discharged. Another ground-plus-three storey house collapsed in Kurla (West). No injury was reported.On social media, there were videos claiming leakage from the walls of a Covid-19 care facility in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) because of rainfall, but BMC clarified in a press statement that the leakage was caused by a faulty tap, which has been fixed.According to IMD, heavy rain is predicted for MMR over the next 24 hours. “A cloud patch near Mumbai over the Arabian Sea is likely to pave the way for overnight rain with intermittent heavy spells between Thursday night and early Friday morning. Lower level westerly winds from sea to land will help the cloud patch move over the city,” said KS Hosalikar deputy director general, western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-heavy-rain-and-plaints-of-waterlogging/story-dCIH6ndYEDO2m4f14dFqnK.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Cost of all Covid tests in Delhi capped at Rs 2,400||Basing on the report by a Central government committee that recommended reducing the price of only government collected Covid-19 test samples to Rs 2,400, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday went a step ahead and approved lowering the rates for all Covid-19 tests, including by private firms. In effect, all Covid-19 tests, whether from a government or private centre in Delhi, will now cost Rs 2,400. The decision, which came into effect on Thursday itself, was taken in a DDMA meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, and attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot and other top officials from the Delhi Police, administration and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Documents presented in the meeting, seen by HT, showed that the expert panel constituted by Union home minister Amit Shah on June 14 under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog member Dr Vinod K Paul did not recommend revising the prices for tests conducted solely by private labs in Delhi. The panel only recommended reducing the rates of for the samples collected by the government for private labs.Until now, the cost of a Covid-19 test was Rs 4,500 if the private labs collected the sample and used their own kits, Rs 3,500 if the government collected the samples and the private labs used their kits to test it; and Rs 2,200 if the government collected the sample and provided the test kit as well. While the government paid these charges to the private labs, residents across Delhi were charged a flat rate of Rs 4,500.The Central government panel’s recommendation was limited to the second category.“After detailed discussions and taking all factors into account, it was decided to fix a rate of Rs 2,400 for each RT-PCR test applicable to specimens provided by the government (panel). The specimens will be collected by the government facility on its own. The cost is all-inclusive of: a) the cost involved in pick-up and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting b) includes GST/Taxes is any,” read the document that was presented in the DDMA meeting on Thursday. Later in the evening, Delhi’s principal health secretary issued the order revising the testing rates with immediate effect. The order stated that the rates recommended are the maximum chargeable for samples collected by any facility, whether government or private.Members of the committee could not be reached for comment on Thursday.In a press statement issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on Thursday, the ministry said, “The expert committee under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog Member Dr V.K Paul has fixed a price of Rs. 2,400 for COVID-19 tests.”Senior government officials present in the DDMA meeting said key members of the authority were of the opinion that the committee’s recommendations be accepted as it is.“With the DDMA’s decision, now even those who get Covid tests done on their own from private labs will be charged Rs 2,400 instead of Rs 4,500 — a point the Central government panel stayed silent on. In the meeting, the chief minister insisted that tests from private labs are very expensive for the common person. While there was some reluctance among a few members initially, a price of Rs 2,800 per test was proposed in the discussions,” said an official present in the meeting.However, on the CM’s insistence and with the L-G’s approval, it was decided that the price will be reduced to Rs 2,400 for all categories,” the official saidIn the meeting, the L-G directed the Delhi health department to ensure that the labs adhere to general quality standards and provide robust patient feedback. He also asked that a grievance redressal system be set up for those who get tested as well as those seeking a test.“It was also informed that antigen detection tests have commenced with effect from today at about 169 locations with 341 teams. ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] has already conducted training for the concerned health professionals. During the antigen detection tests, all social distancing norms will be observed. The medical teams at the centres will ensure that all Covid positive cases should be followed up for treatment as per the guidelines and protocol issued by the ICMR,” read a statement issued by the L-G’s office later in the day.Delhi divisional commissioner Sanjiv Khirwar said, till 3pm on Thursday, 4,500 antigen tests were conducted across the city. “The DDMA also approved the format of the Covid-free certificates to be issued by hospitals for patients who have recovered,” Khirwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cost-of-all-covid-tests-in-capital-capped-at-2-400/story-1SK3mhFKdIwc0EQOSU9KMI.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal inspects 10k-bed Chhatarpur Covid-19 facility||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday visited the Radhasoami Satsang Beas in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, where the government is setting up a makeshift Covid-19 health care facility with 10,000 beds over an area big enough to cover 20 football fields.For this facility, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has urged the central government to allow the Army and central security forces to provide around 2,000 health care officials, largely including doctors and nurses, said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.“This 10,000-bed facility should be ready for admission of Covid patients by the first week of July. It will primarily cater to patients with mild or no symptoms who cannot be assigned home quarantine for some reason and may need medical intervention. It will be our biggest dedicated Covid health centre,” Kejriwal said during his visit to the premises, where he was accompanied by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.He said, “By June 30, we shall have 15,000 hospital beds available and the number will go up to 30,000 by July 15. The progress in the health care augmentation exercise is at par with what was planned. Right now, we are focussing more on augmenting ICU beds in hospitals for the coming days.”On Sunday, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who heads the DDMA, had visited the site and directed the district administration to file a feasibility report.A senior official in the revenue department said, the facility – set up on a field that measures around 11.90 lakh square feet — would operate in two shifts and it would need at least 600 doctors and 1,200 nurses, other than workers engaged in waste management, sanitation employees, guards, workers involved in help desks and other back-end operations.The government is also working on a centralised air conditioning system for the facility, which will be treated like 20 hospitals of 500 bed each, having enclosures that accommodate 100 beds each, said a senior revenue department official, citing the feasibility report filed by the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-inspects-10-000-bed-facility-at-satsang-premises/story-5EcSnmVxixp0p03n9NmZUP.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Day after Jain tests Covid +ve, Sisodia oversees health ministry affairs||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday took temporary charge of the health ministry and other departments that cabinet minister Satyendar Jain was in charge of, a day after Jain tested positive for Covid-19.Jain was first tested for the disease on Tuesday, and the samples at the time returned negative. But a second test was conducted on Wednesday to rule out a false negative, after which Jain tested positive.Senior government officials on Thursday said Jain is still on oxygen support at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital — a dedicated Covid-19 facility under the Delhi government.Sisodia, who is already in charge of the finance, education and tourism and culture portfolios among others, will now take additional charge of ministries currently under Jain — such as health and industries, till he recovers and rejoins office, a senior official in the chief minister’s office said.Health department officials said Jain’s contacts are being traced, health department officials said.Jain had on Sunday morning attended the meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah along with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-takes-addl-charge-of-jain-s-portfolios-including-health/story-FAxTDHM4r0lGyS8eDewVGN.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Private labs not being used optimally: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said that it is “most unacceptable” that the testing facilities of the private laboratories are not being used to their optimum capacity for diagnosing Covid-19, though they have not expressed any hesitation in ramping up the number of testing.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad also said that with the cases rising up to 47,102 as of Wednesday, the committee constituted by the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal to advise and assist the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), should immediately look into the concerns raised by the various private labs and also ramp up testing in the national capital.The court’s remarks came while hearing a plea by advocate Sanjeev Sharma who contended that there have been several instances where non-Covid patients needing surgery or other procedures were asked to undergo testing before that, but the hospital concerned did not conduct the Covid test since they don’t have the government permission.Advocate Satyakam, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, informed the court that the number of public laboratories equipped to undertake COVID-19 tests has been increased from 17 to 18 and for the private laboratories, from 23 to 25 in number. He also said that both public and private sector laboratories have now been ramped up to collectively undertake 10,700 tests per day, as against the previous capacity of 8,600 tests per day.“Besides, as recommended by the ICMR, on June 14, Delhi is going to undertake point of care rapid antigen detection test that will quickly augment testing capacity in various containment zones and health facilities,” the Delhi government said.However, on a specific enquiry from the court, as to whether the number of increased testing mentioned in the affidavit filed in the court, the counsel said that he does not have the exact numbers.Following this, the court said that as per the updated information on the website of Delhi government, only a maximum of 7,000 tests are being conducted daily, which means that the available capacity of 3,700 is not being utilised, “which is most unacceptable”.“The conclusion is that the testing facilities of the private laboratories are not being used to their optimum capacity, though they have not expressed any hesitation in ramping up the number of testing,” it said.The submissions by the Delhi government show that the testing capacity in Delhi has gone up by 2,100 tests a day. The government had planned to double Covid-19 testing in the city within two days after a meeting with the Union home minister Amit Shah of Monday. It also rolled out antigen testing in 169 centres across the city on Thursday in an effort to ramp up testing for the viral infection. On Thursday, advocate Rakesh Malhotra, counsel for the petitioner, informed the court that out of 23 private labs authorized for the testing of Covid-19, 12 have filed replies with some of them highlighting the problems faced by them in conducting tests.One of the issues flagged by the private laboratories is that they are being made to undertake a cumbersome process of contemporaneously uploading patient registration forms on the various apps and portals. They stated that these require engaging several data entry operators so that the information can be provided to multiple government agencies on a daily basis, thereby wasting valuable time and diverting their energies from the testing process. The labs also said that they are being told to define patient categories through the phlebotomists who are required to go on-site to collect the samples when they are not equipped or trained for it. They also contended that for being authorized to collect samples, all the phlebotomists are required to be registered in the given districts and there is a duplication in the said process thereby hindering the work of collecting the samples and curtailing the number of Phlebotomists who would otherwise be available to collect the samples. It had also said that the number of the testing kits vendors identified by the Delhi Government, may be increased in proportion to the tests required to be undertaken.Following this, the court said that the committee constituted by the L-G to advise the DDMA can look into the grievances and directed the Delhi government to file the report by the next date of hearing.The matter would be now heard on June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/testing-capacity-of-pvt-labs-should-be-used-to-the-optimum-hc-tells-delhi-govt/story-1czH9DEbtSRTRGnlqRwleN.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Private labs say lower test price may reduce testing capacity, lead to losses||The capping of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing price at Rs 2,400 may lead to fewer samples being tested at private labs because it does not cover the costs, owners of private labs said on Thursday, requesting anonymity. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday approved capping of the rates for all Covid-19 tests, including by private firms at Rs 2,400. An expert panel constituted by Union home minister Amit Shah on June 14 did not recommend revising the prices for tests conducted by private labs in Delhi. It only recommended reducing the rates of for the samples collected by the government for private labs.Until now, the cost of a Covid-19 test was Rs 4,500 if the private labs collected the sample and used their own kits, Rs 3,500 if the government collected the samples and the private labs used their kits to test it; and Rs 2,200 if the government collected the sample and provided the test kit as well. “Two important things happened today. Covid-19 testing rates in Delhi have been reduced to Rs 2,400 and rapid-antigen testing has started. I hope people won’t face any problem in getting themselves tested now,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet.Owners of the private laboratories said that the price fixed by the government would not cover their money spent on collection of samples from door-to-door, transportation and the protective gear, etc. “It is not just the cost of the process of testing, lifting samples from door-to-door incurs ancillary costs that inflates the overall testing price. We could have managed the tests for government collected samples in Rs 2,400, since we won’t have to spend on a personal protection equipment, viral transport medium, swab sticks and transportation. But going home-to-home for collecting samples, spending on manpower and transport and providing protective gear cannot be managed for the same price,” said one of the private lab representatives, requesting anonymity. “These are costs that the government does not seem to have considered while fixing the price. It will be difficult for a lot of us to sustain this price structure, which would obviously affect the number of samples lifted per day for testing in the long run, especially those from home,” the person added.Another laboratory representative agreed that home collection of samples cannot be done for such a low price. He said the will have to consider differential pricing, like the one currently in place in Delhi.“The cost for testing a sample collected by Delhi government is low but for the ones that we collect from the homes we charge Rs 4,500. Going below that will hurt our pocket. Plus, if the government wants us to expand our testing capacity, we need to be able to recover money for the additional machines and manpower,” said the second lab representative.Private hospitals testing Covid samples shared similar concerns.“We are not talking about making profit but we cannot suffer losses. The way prices stand as of now, we are staring at losses. How are we supposed to enhance the testing capacity that everyone seems to be looking at; where is the ability to invest in expensive machinery if there are mounting losses. A gene expert machine testing kit, which is a quicker alternative to RT-PCR testing, costs about Rs 2,350 on discount, then how do you expect the test to be conducted at Rs 2,400. There is a turnaround deadline of 48 hours so at the end we will be forced to drop the number of samples being tested per day,” said a representative for a prominent hospital, requesting anonymity. The Delhi government said the decision was taken to help people who had to pay “exorbitant sums of money for tests and treatment”. “The Delhi government reduced the prices because the people have to pay exorbitant sums to get Covid tests done. Also, when other states have capped it, nothing stops Delhi from doing the same. It is what the Centre and the ICMR also have recommended,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday recommended use of antigen based testing kits for diagnosis that is likely to bring down the cost of testing. However, hospitals say the kit is not readily available in market yet. “Where are the kits, and what is the price for testing using antigen based kits. There is no clarity even on serology (antibody) test that ICMR also recently recommended. Are we allowed to do those tests? There is utter confusion over it,” said another representative of a prominent hospital in the Capital.“Nobody is going to make losses, so a lot more thought needs to be put into this. You cannot just randomly quote a price. At least allow flexibility in prices for home collection samples so that those who can pay should be allowed to pay. On one hand you want to enhance testing capacity but the prices that are being fixed by the government could actually lead to reduction in capacity,” said representative of a third laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-labs-say-lower-test-price-may-reduce-testing-capacity-lead-to-losses/story-HvHXaKFDkKZGyflNJtNvwI.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Booked by CBI for graft, three Chandigarh cops suspended||Three constables posted at the Maloya police station, including the driver of the station house officer (SHO), were suspended on Thursday after being booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for corruption for attempting to implicate Maloya resident Deepak Shani in a false case.CBI also arrested Rajat of Maloya who acted as a ‘middleman’ and demanded money from Shani on behalf of the constables Nasib Khan, Krishan Malik and Shiv, the SHO’s driver, all from the Maloya police station. “On allegations of corruption and registration of corruption case by CBI, all three constables posted at Maloya, have been placed under suspension and sent to Police Lines, Sector 26, Chandigarh,” read a Chandigarh police statement.In his complaint on June 16, Shani accused the three of demanding a bribe of ₹20,000 from him through Rajat and threatened to implicate him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) if he did not pay up.Shani said initial demand was ₹20,000 on June 15 but later it was settled at ₹14,000.Shani told the CBI that on June 15 he was on an outing with his friends when two policemen approached them. As they carried sticks he panicked and ran home but a little later, an acquaintance, Rajat, came over and took him to the police beat box close by.Assaulted, threats issuedKhan and Malik then allegedly assaulted him in the beat box and accused him of selling drugs. Rajat then asked Shani to pay ₹20,000 to the policemen if he did not want to be implicated and after some negotiations a deal was struck at ₹14,000. Shani alleged that Khan forcibly took ₹4,300 from him, returned ₹300 and directed him to arrange for the rest of the money. On June 16, Shani informed the CBI, which registered an FIR against Rajat with the three constables under section 120 IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act.Bribe referred to as shoesIn recordings provided to CBI which Shani claimed included conversations between the accused, Rajat and Shiv can be heard referring to the bribe amount as jootey (shoes) and Shani as jootey wala ladka (boy with the shoes).Rajat had allegedly told Shiv that Shani had arranged for five pairs of shoes and that other pairs would be handed over later (five pairs being equivalent to ₹5,000).Rajat had previously given CBI the slipThough the CBI had laid a trap on Wednesday night to nab Rajat while Shani handed over ₹5,000 to him, he (Rajat) had, however, managed to escape. He was not so lucky on Thursday, when the law finally caught up with him.Rajat, who also sustained injuries while fleeing, was also tested for Covid-19. He will be presented before the court on Friday.BOX Taint on khakiCases in which men who enforce law broke the rulesNovember 27, 2019 CBI court awarded four-year jail term to former UT sub-inspector Kulwaranjit Singh Cheema, and a three-year sentence to his aide Subhash Chand Dhiman in a 2012 graft caseSeptember 11, 2019 Chandigarh police dismissed a home guard and initiated a probe against two traffic policemen for allegedly seeking ₹500 a bribe for a from man who violated traffic rules near the Hallomajra light point.June 18, 2019 CBI arrested assistant sub inspector Bhupinder Singh, the driver of an assistant transport officer (ATO) of Punjab, for allegedly taking a bribe of ₹20,000 from a truck cleaner.June 11, 2019 CBI had arrested head constable Dalbir Singh, deputed with the proclaimed offender (PO) and summons branch of the UT police in Sarangpur, for taking ₹2,000 from a man facing PO proceedings. On November 29, the CBI Court framed charges against Dalbir Singh under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.January 2019 Sub-Inspector Rajbir Singh, who surrendered in January in court, was arrested for taking a bribe from a meat shop employee and a few others after threatening to implicate them in a case of theft. He was suspended after the case came to light.January 28 2019 CBI arrested the SHO of Mauli Jagran police station, inspector Baljeet Singh, and a constable for allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹45,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-books-3-constables-for-corruption/story-oOKsyPwH8njtr0STG3FeDJ.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||As bodies pile up, private firms transport dead for last rites||Standing under a tree on a hot Thursday afternoon at the Delhi Gate graveyard near ITO in Central Delhi, Ravi Kumar Kashyap, 24, is removing his personal protective equipment (PPE) suit, the fourth he had worn since morning. In similar suits, a group of people nearby were lowering a man’s body about 12 feet deep into the grave. “Thank god the relatives came for the final rites in this case. We can rest for some time. Many times, when people die of Covid-19, their families refuse to touch their bodies. We then have to perform the final rites,” Kashyap said. Kashyap’s employers are contracted by city hospitals to shift bodies from the mortuaries to crematoriums and burial grounds. Since the pandemic intensified in Delhi, bodies had begun piling up and the firms on an average move around six bodies a day, as against three earlier.These workers are required to wear PPE kits at all times while handling the bodies, to prevent infection. Each time they are done handling a body, they would have to dispose it of.But sometimes they would have additional obligations. When relatives shy away from touching the Covid-19 infected body, they would sit with it and perform the final rites according to the dead person’s religion.“The priest tells us to keep some religious items on top of the body, or pour water next to it. Initially, it was weird. You do such things only if your relative or a close one dies, but now we are used to it,” said Rajesh Kishore, 36, who works with an ambulance service in central Delhi.Kashyap said he is glad to have a “dangerous” job at a time when there are not many jobs around and many companies are deducting salaries. Besides him, 10 more people were hired by the firm he is working for in the past month alone.The past few days had been the busiest. Following media reports of bodies piling up in the city’s mortuaries due to delay in Covid-19 test results, relatives refusing to take custody of the body, among others, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday directed hospitals to dispose of them. On Monday and Tuesday, at least 380 funerals of Covid-19 suspected and confirmed cases were held at different crematoriums and burial grounds, reconciling the backlog of bodies waiting at the city mortuaries. Although the government is yet to document cases when families refused bodies, workers say that in the last four days there were at least 30 such cases. “Yesterday, we buried a body from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital that was kept there for 19 days. The family had left for West Bengal after leaving the body in the mortuary. We tell people that it is safe to handle the bodies after wearing PPE, but they do not want to take a chance. And here we are taking the risk because we have to earn a living. We are happy to work. We hope the government recognises this and helps us with some incentives,” said Tamim, 25, another worker who handles bodies. Handlers at big hospitals and employed by big logistical firms earn about ₹22,000 a month on the job. The others get as little as ₹10,000 a month. As the cases rise in Delhi, these workers say they will demand life insurance cover. According to Delhi government protocols, trained health care workers will have to handle and pack the body and provide a hearse van to carry the body to cremation or burial ground. After burial or cremation, the hearse van has to be properly disinfected. “Ours is the most dangerous job at the moment. If we take a day off, we lose a day’s pay. We handle bodies from 7am to 10pm. The bigger firms have air-conditioned hearse vans while smaller ones, such as the one where I work for, do not. We are told that one company has also given life insurance to their employees. We will also ask for insurance too,” a man, who works with a private hospital in South Delhi, said while wishing not to be identified.Danish S, 34, who works for an ambulance service at RML Hospital said his job was emotionally and physically draining. “We wear this suit from head to toe and stand in the sun the whole day. It is not comfortable at all, “ he said. Most workers who HT spoke to said that in April many of their colleagues had left the job fearing they too would get the virus if they continued. “People need work. With many deaths, the demand for people like us has increased. My friend’s company hired 10 such mortuary workers. Some of our friends who had initially left have also returned now. They have realised that we have to learn to live and work with the virus,” said Danish.Until Thursday afternoon, according to the government, Delhi reported XX cases and XX confirmed deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/helping-the-dead-to-the-other-world/story-rnfxptc6cFucWOApYQCTCM.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three men who acquired weapons for Sector 33 firing arrested||Chandigarh Police in true Bollywood thriller style on Thursday arrested three persons who provided logistical support to gunmen who opened fire at the Sector 33 bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla to target his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla on May 31.In a dramatic face-off and surrender, Shiva Veeran alias Shiva and Param Dutt alias Lucky were rounded up after police were given a tip-off that two men involved in the case would meet Rajinder Singh, a municipal corporation employee at Maloya to discuss a case of bail. After a naka was set up near the Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Maloya, two men on a motorcycle came from the dumping ground area but on spotting the police tried to flee and skidded. Brandished pistolsThey then brandished pistols but after a heated exchange of words with the policemen put down their weapons on the road and surrendered.One pistol with two magazines, each with seven live cartridges of .32 bore were recovered from Shiva and one pistol with two magazines each with seven live cartridges from Lucky.Apart from acquiring weapons Shiva had also provided shelter to Karan, one of the gunmen who had been arrested. Lucky’s role so far is not clear.Five persons had fired around 17 shots at Singla’s bungalow and police had recovered shells of .9mm and .32 bore pistols from the spot.“The firing was done on instructions of Deepu Banur alias Deepak from Ambala jail. He was making calls on WhatsApp to gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and shooters who committed the crime in Sector-33 Chandigarh,” Nilambari Jagadale, senior superintendent of police (SSP), had said earlier. Deepak’s disclosure led to Sahab’s arrestDeepak, who was brought on production warrants from Ambala to Chandigarh, told police during interrogation that he had provided weapons to the gunmen for the Sector 33 shootout.Speaking to the media on Thursday, Jagadale said, “Deepu had arranged for the weapons for the shooters. He had asked two of his men, Gurpreet alias Goldy and Sunny Ghumana, to take the weapons from one Sahab Singh alias Sabha and provide the same to the shooters.”Police then raided various spots in Banur on Thursday and arrested Sahab who said he had hidden a pistol and ammunition in the forest area in Sector 50 and in front of the Gaushala in Sector 45, Chandigarh. Two pistols and some cartridges had been given to Gurpreet alias Goldy and Sunny Ghumana.Till reports last came in, police had recovered one pistol along with two magazine and 14 live cartridges of .9mm.More details of how the crime were committed will emerge once all three are interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-men-who-acquired-weapons-for-sec-33-firing-arrested/story-S3sQG5vrb0JfRdijHyJ38N.html
19-06-2020||City||Union Home Minister favours unified Delhi-NCR to deal with Coronavirus||Ghaziabad:  According to Ghaziabad officials who attended the meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, via video, along with senior officials of Delhi and areas of the National Capital Region (NCR) for a review of the fight against Covid-19 in the region, the minister did not favour restricting borders movement between states across the NCR“The home minister said that NCR should be treated as a single unit due to inter connectivity. He further said that interstate border regulation is not practical and he sort of discouraged border restrictions,” said an officer from Ghaziabad district administration, asking not to be identified.The Ghaziabad administration on April 22 had imposed restrictions at its borders citing rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, in wake of people travelling to and from DelhiAdditional restrictions were put in place on May 27. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 1 also announced closure of borders of the National Capital for a week and lifted restrictions on June 7.Similar restrictions are in place at the Noida-Delhi borders.In June, a three-Judge bench of the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to convene a meeting of officials from the three states across which national capital region spans – Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh – within a week and come up with a common portal to facilitate interstate travel such as the one between Delhi and Noida or Delhi and Gurugram.The UP government on Friday, during hearing on a petition, informed the apex court restrictions between UP and Delhi will continue. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday had also suggested a uniform policy for the NCR to effectively check Covid-19 , although he batted for sealing borders for the time being. The CM had made these suggestions in a video conference during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual meeting with chief ministers on Wednesday. “The Union home minister also said rates have been decided if any private hospital wishes to operate as a Covid treatment facility in NCR and that state governments should consider this. A committee has decided the rates and these will be circulated to all. He also asked that assessment of all hospitals in different districts be submitted to the Centre,” the officer said.“Regarding home isolation, he said in order to control Covid cases, they can consider home isolation or quarantine facilities,” he added.At present, UP, unlike Delhi, is admitting Covid-19 positive patients, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, to dedicated Covid hospitals. According to sources, Shah also suggested that NCR districts can consider adopting the price limit of Rs 2,400 fixed for Covid-19 testing in Delhi.On Thursday, the UP health officials in an order directed that the rate of Covid samples (single step) sent to private laboratories by government or private hospitals will be ₹20000 while rate of ₹2,500 will be applicable for samples collected on their own by private laboratories.These directions were given by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).There were 39 more positive cases in Ghaziabad on Thursday while four more deaths were reported. With this addition, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad stands at 757 while the total deaths stand at 36 till June 18.“Three of four deaths took place in Ghaziabad while one took place in Meerut,” Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/union-home-minister-favours-unified-delhi-ncr-to-deal-with-coronavirus/story-NgbhnhEaarKaNHnZnniJIN.html
19-06-2020||Gurugram||Pandemic evokes interest in home schooling in Gurugram||Schools in the district became one of the first casualties of Covid-19, with most of them shutting down in March under orders from the district administration.Eager to continue the learning process for their kids, parents in the city are exploring home schooling as a possible option. Home-schooling networks and organisations have seen an increase in queries from parents, who either don’t see much merit in paying for online classes or plan to explore home schooling till the time the pandemic continues to prevail. The current situation has invigorated the conversation around home schooling, especially with children staying at home, at least for the near future, say home schoolers.Sheetal, a Faridabad-parent who switched to home schooling for her daughter in March, said that while she had been thinking about home schooling for the past two years, the pandemic just helped hasten her decision. When schools across the country shut down due to a lockdown put in place to check the spread of the Covid-19 virus in March, Sheetal said, her child’s school started sending assignments through WhatsApp initially and followed it up with online classes, which started with the beginning of the new session.“I attended online classes with my 8-year-old daughter on the first day of the new session. During the class, my husband and I realised that my daughter was attending classes from 8am till 4pm. In the past as well, I have often corrected teachers and shared feedback with them, but these online classes helped us to witness first-hand the quality of learning that was taking place. We felt that the teaching was not up to the mark and focus was mostly on getting children to stay online all the time,” said Sheetal, who withdrew her daughter from the school in March itself.She said that growing up, she was never stressed about school or education. “One has to be careful with what happens in schools these days. Incidents of negligence take place all the time and now with the pandemic, I am not at all confident about sending my daughter back to a school. I want her to study in a stress-free environment at home,” said Sheetal, who plans to continue teaching her child at home even after the pandemic.Neha Anand, a member of the home schooling community in Gurugram, said that she had been receiving many queries from parents who wanted to explore home schooling. “Children are not going to school due to the pandemic and parents are seeing it as a good opportunity to give a shot at home schooling. People don’t easily take up home schooling in India but they are giving it a try under the current circumstances. I have been getting many queries from parents who want to at least try out home schooling now that they have time on their hands,” said Anand. Anand is among a group of 250 parents who are a part of a small but fledging community of home-schoolers in the city who are connected via a WhatsApp group. Prior to the lockdown, the group used to have regular meetings. Anand said that both parents with older children in senior classes and those with younger children were eagerly taking up home schooling. “I know parents who have already informed schools that they’d no longer be sending children to school at least for this year. They have shifted to home schooling completely,” said Anand.Anand, who has been home schooling her children for the past three years, calls it one of the best decisions of her life. “It is possible that people might stay with home schooling after the pandemic or some might shift back to traditional schooling. But nevertheless, a conversation around home schooling has at least started, which is a start,” she said.Saurav Dutta, who runs the Facebook group Homeschooling India, said that requests from people seeking to join the groups have shot up in the past few months. Dutta said that prior to the lockdown, the group used to receive 20-30 requests in a week whereas now, over a hundred requests are received in a week. While the spike in people joining the group doesn’t necessarily mean that all people were switching to home schooling, they were curious and wanted to know more about the concept, explained Dutta. He also said that many parents were considering opting for home schooling for a few months or years which was a matter of concern. “We have received a number of queries on the group that I moderate. But many parents are yet to understand that home schooling is more than just learning at home. Some parents are confused and switching to home schooling without knowing what it entails might be dangerous in the long run,” said Dutta, a Mumbai resident. He also runs an initiative that documents all kinds of alternative education programs taking place across the country.He said that in the near future, marks would no longer be the criteria for adjudging a person’s capabilities and the focus will increasingly be on skills and life experiences, something that home schooling focused on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pandemic-evokes-interest-in-home-schooling-in-gurugram/story-haVevQxXjLmsBWdaAN458N.html
19-06-2020||Gurugram||With 129 new Covid-19 cases, Gurugram inches towards 4,000 mark||Gurugram added 129 new cases to its count of people infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking its tally to 3,991. This is the lowest number of cases reported in a single day since June 6. On Thursday, at 2164 the number of patients in the district who have recovered from Covid-19 so far also surpassed Gurugram’s active cases now resting at 1,775 (down from 1861 on Wednesday). One person succumbed to the infection on Thursday taking the death toll to 52.Of the total active cases, 521 patients are currently hospitalised, either at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals or health care centers, while 1,201 have been put under home isolation. As many as 53 patients are under observation at district Covid care centers.Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram’s chief medical officer, said, “A total of 251 patients were found to have recovered today. This is always a good sign. Flattening the curve means a reduction in active cases, which frees up health care resources for other patients who may need it.” Officials said testing numbers would be increasing in the coming days, as was the case on Thursday, when the district conducted 686 tests (its highest in a day so far), up from 365 tests on Wednesday. The district’s test-positivity rate was 18.8%, the lowest since May 28, with 557 samples testing negative.According to the district health department data, Gururgram’s recovery rate on Thursday stood at 54.2%, up from 50.05% on June 16. Experts said while this may seem like a positive development, Gurugram’s requires an increase in testing to prevent the curve from veering upward in the coming days. An analysis of health bulletin data shows that till June 17, there has been a 28 percent decline in testing numbers since June 12. While the daily average number of samples tested from June 1 to June 12 stood at 403 samples per day, this number has fallen to just 288 samples per day, on average, in the past one week (till June 17). During this same period, the test-positivity rate rose by 21 percent, from 44 percent till June 12, to 65 percent. “Rising positivity rate with reduced testing means you are not testing enough. If you test less, then naturally you will find fewer cases,” said Rajesh Kumar, an epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMS Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-129-new-covid-cases-gurugram-inches-towards-4-000-mark/story-nrQI3O5wHoiytnnHAvtJoJ.html
19-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram to conduct antigen detection test||To expedite the process of Covid-19 testing in Haryana, especially in the districts adjoining the national Capital, the state government will use an antigen detection test, which can deliver results within 15-30 minutes. In a review meeting with Union home affairs minister Amit Shah on Thursday regarding Covid-19 management in Delhi-NCR, Haryana has been directed to widely use the antigen detection tests to cover more people. The RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) will continue to remain gold standard front-line test for Covid-19. But with the new testing strategy in place, the state health department has capped the prices of RT-PCR at ₹2,400 in Haryana, said a state government official. The state health department has already placed an order of 100,000 kits with a South Korean company based in Manesar. Approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), these kits will help in identifying the substance that induces an immune response in the body after SARS -CoV-2 virus enters the body.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “The antigen test is different from the antibody test. The antigen tests detect the substance that leads to the immune response in the body against the virus. If the antigen test shows a positive result, it should be considered as a true positive. In case, the test is negative, then the sample will be collected for the RT-PCR.” Notably, the antibody test shows the past infection due to the coronavirus.The test can detect true negatives in at least 99% cases and positives in up to 84% of the cases. Any test result is considered reliable if it has a higher ability to detect true negatives. said state health department officials. The company in Manesar has got the approval to manufacture kits for the antigen test. The kit comes with a Covid-19 antigen test device, swab for a sample collection from the nose, and viral extraction tube with viral lysis buffer that makes the virus inactive.Arora said that the price of the kit has been fixed at ₹450. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said, “The health department has initially received kits to conduct 200 tests. The plan on who all will be tested is yet to be made as we have received the kits on Thursday itself. An area-wise plan will be prepared based on which we will target the population who will be tested with these kits.” As per the ICMR guidelines, the test has to be conducted in the containment zones, including symptomatic, asymptomatic or those with co-morbidities. The test can also be conducted in hospitals. According to a statement issued by the district administration, Shah, in the meeting, said that a testing campaign will be carried out to identify the persons infected with the SARS -CoV-2 virus in the Delhi-NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-to-conduct-antigen-detection-test/story-Hv8lbxVlty6u7L947ldUlM.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||In two days, over 2.7k fined for flouting mask, distancing rules in Delhi||The Delhi Police have fined over 2,700 people for offences such as not wearing masks, flouting social distancing rules and spitting in public. These are among five offences for which the Delhi government last week announced penalties amounting to Rs 500 for the first offence and Rs 1,000 for subsequent offences.The fines were imposed on the violators from Monday until 5 pm on Wednesday. The south-west district police issued the most fines— 401—on the first three days of the order being implemented in the national capital. The outer north district collected the fewest fines and penalised a little less than three dozen people. Apart from not wearing masks, flouting social distancing norms and spitting in public places, other offences which draw this penalty are disobeying quarantine rules and consuming chewable tobacco products in public places.The police said that while they are yet to ascertain whether the monetary fines are a better deterrent than registering FIRs against the violators, the response to the penalties is encouraging.“Issuing fines has been 100% effective so far. It is serving as a deterrent to people, many of who were gathering at public places without wearing masks. The fact that subsequent offences invite a fine of Rs 1,000 will make it even more effective,” Mandeep Singh Randhawa, Delhi Police’s spokesperson, said.Until this order came in, the Delhi Police had been going about booking offenders under the Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to an order promulgated by a public servant) which could cause a convict to be jailed for up to a month or be fined Rs 200, or both.Until the end of May, the police had booked nearly 25,000 such people, apart from detaining another 3.7 lakh and letting them off.While reserving FIRs only for those who refuse to pay a fine, police officers on the ground said that the monetary penalties have been a better deterrent than FIRs.“These fines are having the same impact that traffic fines have. Violators who thought getting booked was a far-fetched idea are afraid because this has an immediate financial impact on them,” PK Mishra, the deputy commissioner of police of Rohini district, where 212 people were penalised over two days, said.The police are using the new law to crack down on offenders, but Vikram Singh, the former director-general of police of Uttar Pradesh, said that the authorities need to be “cautious and compassionate” while dealing with offenders during the “warlike” situation that the pandemic is.“These are habits that die hard. And the people committing these offences are not really criminals. The police would do well to first educate them, then warm them and impose fines on only those who are hell-bent on not obeying the orders,” Singh said.While the government order has provision for an FIR against those not paying the fine, the police said they are choosing to offer masks and educate poor people who may not have the money to pay the fines. Over the three days, the police said they distributed 8,724 masks to the needy.“The police teams are armed with masks for violators who may not have the means to pay fines. The priority ultimately is to create awareness,” said DCP Mishra, adding that while most of the checking is taking place at pickets, there are also special police teams taking rounds of neighbourhoods to spot violators.“Civilians are pointing out violators to us,” the DCP said.A vast majority (66%) of the penalties were for not wearing masks, followed by social distancing violations (13%). Fines for spitting and consuming tobacco products (0.84%) amounted to a tiny percentage of the penalties.Deepak Yadav, an additional deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), said that police personnel are visiting tobacco shops to tell the shopkeepers to warn their customers.The New Delhi district has seen 165 violators getting caught in the act in two days.The police said that keeping a tab on repeat offenders was the task assigned to local police teams. “They maintain a register of the offenders. They know who has repeated an offence,” said Vijayanta Arya, DCP (north-west), whose district has fined 177 people.The government order which came into effect from Saturday is valid for one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-two-days-over-2-7k-fined-for-flouting-mask-distancing-rules-in-delhi/story-BOyyn9WODTz8UxF9YeOKnL.html
19-06-2020||Delhi||Only 6 of 10 students in Delhi govt schools joined online classes during lockdown, shows govt data||Less than six out of 10 government school students in Delhi could access virtual learning--- either through online classes or WhatsApp and interactive voice response (IVR) technology--- during the first two months of the lockdown enforced to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, data collated by the government from its 1,030 schools shows. The Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE) had last month asked all its schools to provide details of students with whom they were in regular touch during the lockdown, how many of them accessed virtual learning and how many could not be contacted at all. The data was sought along with other inputs to draw “micro plans” for each school whenever the situation favours reopening them for students, officials with direct knowledge of the matter said. A senior government official, requesting anonymity, said, “It’s been found that 77% of the around 1,500,000 students, or 1,155,000, enrolled in Delhi government schools remained in contact with the schools during the lockdown. But only 76% of these 1,155,000 students or 877,800 accessed virtual learning either through online classes or WhatsApp and IVR technology during this period. This effectively means 58.5% of total students enrolled in 1,030 government schools had accessed virtual learning.”According to the data from the months of April and May, 23% of 1,500,000 students or 345,000 could not be contacted during this period. Officials at schools cited reverse migration and economic challenges faced by people during the lockdown as a major reason behind it. Classes were suspended in Delhi schools on March 13 due to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in the city. The classes continued to remain suspended when the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 23 to contain the viral disease. The Delhi government started conducting online classes for class 12 students from April 6 and sending e-learning material or activities to those enrolled in classes nursery to eighth over WhatsApp or SMS. The directorate of education last month began online mathematics classes for students of classes ninth and 10th in collaboration with Khan Academy, a non-profit educational organisation.The Delhi government had also provided a subsidy of Rs 200 for internet packages to all its class 12 students who had registered for the online classes.Several principals of government schools said the lack of devices and internet facilities remained a challenge for their students to access virtual education. “Despite the internet package, many of our students do not have smartphones or devices. Many students who had initially registered for the online classes but did not attend regularly. When we contacted them, they told us they do not get proper internet connection at homes or the mobile phones were not working properly. Many young students did not respond to the activities sent over WhatsApp or SMS’,” said the principal of a government boys’ senior secondary school in Karawal Nagar on condition of anonymity.Among those who could not access e-learning amid the lockdown were two daughters of Ayyub, a mason. “My daughters (11 and 13 years) study in classes sixth and eighth in a government school in Jahangirpuri. They could not check the work sent by their school to students over WhatsApp as we do not have a smartphone. Their teachers had called many times and told them what to do at home over the call. They could not even complete that work also since our family has been struggling to make ends meet amid the lockdown. There is no work even now as well,” he said.Explaining the reasons why 23% students could not be contacted during the lockdown, AK Jha, principal of a government co-ed school in Rohini, said, “Majority of the students who could not be contacted have left the city with their families amid the lockdown. When we could not contact them, we sought help from the students living in their neighbourhood and we were told that their houses were locked. Majority of these students are in primary classes. Also, many families did not update their contact numbers due to which they cannot be contacted now.”Binay Bhusan, Director of the DoE, said the government schools will particularly focus on students who could not attend online classes or access online learning once the schools reopen. “We have asked all our schools to keep a track on students who cannot access e-learning so that we can draw our post lockdown school plans accordingly. Extra classes will be conducted for these students. Also, the government is working on how to track the students who are completely out of contact now to bring them back to the classes. Many of these students have left the city with their families amid the lockdown,” he said.Education expert Shyama Chona said the only alternative in such a situation when so many students don’t have access to devices and internet is to run classes on television. “Majority of the households in India have televisions and the government can broadcast classes on television in case the situation does not improve in near future.The government should properly track all these students who were out of contact during the lockdown once the schools reopen. They will have to come out with ways for it,” she said.The Delhi government had in April requested the union human resource development ministry to provide them slots on Doordarshan and air time on All India Radio (AIR) to broadcast classes for their students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-6-of-10-students-in-delhi-govt-schools-joined-online-classes-during-lockdown-shows-govt-data/story-t8uCLHbiAy0PUWrUOn5BJI.html
19-06-2020||Mumbai||80,000 Covid-19 cases by June-end? BMC says can’t predict peak yet||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is anticipating 80,000 Covid-19 cases in the city by the end of June, if the current pace of growth continues over the next 12 days. The civic body expects the impact of relaxations announced on June 3, as part of the Maharashtra government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’, to be seen in a week. Under ‘Mission Begin Again’, the state relaxed several restrictions even in red zones such as Mumbai, allowing non-essential shops, private offices (10% of its strength) to open, besides permitting Mumbaiites to step out for physical exercise by opening public gardens and beaches.Last week, HT had reported the civic body was preparing for the “worst case scenario of Mumbai breaching the one-lakh-case mark by June-end” by ramping up crucial medical infrastructure such as beds and ventilators. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “We have stabilised the number of cases since May 16 or 17, when we started getting over 1,000 cases daily. In the past one month, our one-day tally did not cross 1,700 or 1,800. The numbers have stabilised for now, but we can’t estimate the peak or saturation point. We will have to wait for one more week.”Senior civic officials said assuming 1,500 cases are reported in the city daily for another 12 days, there will be 19,500 additional cases by the end of the month. This brings the estimated total to around 81,000 cases. If this pace continues, Mumbai could breach the one lakh mark by July. However, Kakani said: “Although two weeks have passed since June 3, when we announced relaxations, there was rainfall and high alert advisory issued owing to cyclone Nisarga in the initial period, due to which people were home. Assuming people started venturing out from June 8, we have crossed the 10-day period of relaxation. We will have to wait for another one week to understand the impact of relaxation or to make any further estimation.”BMC had last week claimed it was boosting medical facilities to handle around one lakh cases, of which over 58,000 were expected to be active, by June-end. According to BMC’s data, the occupancy rate as of Wednesday is 69% for beds, 96% for ICU beds, and 97% for ventilators.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “In the past one month, the capacity of our medical infrastructure has doubled, and the cases have risen from around 15,000-20,000 to 60,000. However, we will have to scale it up at a much faster rate, if we are of the belief that the peak has yet not arrived.”Paliwal said, “On any given day, the occupancy rate for ICU beds and ventilators is above 90%. This is a good sign, considering earlier there were a lot of complaints of non-availability of beds. To handle one lakh cases, our health infrastructure will have to be scaled up by around 60-80%.”BMC has so far conducted 2.69 lakh tests and is conducting 4,500-5,000 tests daily, said Kakani. “In the past one week, we have touched the 5,000 mark twice, on June 12 and June 16. We have the capacity to conduct around 7,000-8,000 tests daily,” he said. The civic body has also set up 412 clinics and screened 25,000 people, of which around 10,000 were screened in 90 fever clinics that were set up in the past one month. BMC officials said they have concentrated on areas with high growth rate in the western suburbs, instead of just focusing on hotspots such as Dharavi, Worli, Mankhurd and Govandi.Dharavi, one of the critical hotspots in Mumbai which is showing signs of improvement, reported only 17 cases and one death on Wednesday, taking the total to 2,106 cases and 78 deaths. Kiran Dighavkar, additional municipal commissioner of G-North ward, which covers Dharavi, said, “We have screened over six lakh citizens in Dharavi until now and are continuing with it. We have set up several fever clinics in Dharavi and also taken help of private clinics.”BMC, in a statement on Thursday, said it was making arrangements of 2.08 lakh litres of oxygen across 20 hospitals to treat patients with respiratory issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/80k-covid-cases-by-june-end-bmc-says-can-t-predict-peak-yet/story-PrZ60n81sIxX12pbdqUvBL.html
19-06-2020||City||Mohali crosses 200 mark in 90 days||Three months after Mohali confirmed its first Covid-19 case on March 20, the number of cases crossed the 200 mark on Thursday with 11 new patients.The latest cases include nine patients from Dera Bassi sub-division and two from Kurali that have raised the district tally to 204.Among the Dera Bassi patients is a 34-year-old staff nurse who works at the Manimajra civil hospital. She is a resident of Bhankarpur village.Four patients are from Mubarakpur village, including two females, aged 75 and 55, and two males, aged 27 and 25.Besides, two patients are from Dera Bassi’s Focal Point area, a 35-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman. Two men from Lalru, aged 66 and 25, were also found infected. They are contacts of a positive patient.The Kurali patients are a 40-year-old man and a 14-year-old girl, also contacts of a positive person, who had recently returned from Uttar Pradesh. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the staff nurse had attended to some patients from Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony at work. All patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, he said.Meanwhile, two patients were discharged from the hospital on Thursday.With this, of the 204 cases in Mohali, 134 have recovered and three have died, leaving 67 active cases. RANDOM SAMPLING BEGINS AT BHANKHARPUR BEER PLANT, 41 SAMPLES TAKENAfter four Covid-19 cases cropped up at a beer plant at Bhankharpur village, the health department on Thursday started random sampling of the employees. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the plant had about 350 employees and the sampling will be completed in five days. On Thursday, Dr Preet Mohan Singh collected 41 samples, he added. On Wednesday, the civil surgeon, along with senior health officials, had visited the plant to assess the situation and spoke to the workers. The health department has already sealed the administrative block of the factory, as the four positive employees were employed there. The rest of the staff of the department have been instructed to quarantine themselves at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-crosses-200-mark-in-90-days/story-fhpidm1NbxELwqxwFjtrcO.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC asks Jaypee to hand over waste processing plant today||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has made a final push to control the city’s controversial waste management project, asking Jaypee, the firm controlling the city’s Dadumajra garbage processing plant, to hand over the plant by Friday evening.After the MC general house terminated Jaypee’s contract the civic body issued a termination notice on March 5 asking the firm to hand over the plant within a week.The district courts, however, after being approached by Jaypee, stayed the order on March 12, following which MC initiated the action.“The interim stay granted by the court was from March 12 to June 12. Since the order passed was for definite period, which has expired and there is no order of stay by any court of law, now, the impugned order dated March 5 passed by MC stands active,” read a letter issued by MC commissioner KK Yadav on Thursday.Jaypee had been given time in between to appoint an arbitrator, he said.“After consulting with the legal team we have decided to take over. We have given the firm time till 5pm on Friday to hand it over. In case the firm fails (to do so), MC will take over the plant on its own and entertain no further claims by the firm,” Yadav added.MC has also deployed a surveillance team at the plant to thwart any attempts by the firm’s officials to remove anything from the premises.National Green Tribunal orderAccording to the March termination notice, MC signed an agreement with Jaypee in 2005 for setting up a garbage processing plant, which over the years was not operated to its optimum capacity.The plant was only processing 120 metric tonnes (MT) of waste against a requirement of 450 MT, with the remaining waste being illegally dumped in the open ground near the plant. Despite several notices from the MC to rectify the defects, Jaypee did not make any changes.The termination notice quoted a February 12 decision of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in which MC was directed to make alternative arrangements within a month if it was no longer viable to work with Jaypee. The tribunal had in the same month rejected the firm’s plea for a tipping fee for running the plant and slammed Jaypee for not running the plant efficiently.MC officials have also blamed the firm for garbage accumulating in the dumping ground which the civic body had to clear after spending crores of rupees.Group’s local manager NK Vohra didn’t respond to repeated calls and messages.No need for such letters, says Congress Meanwhile, the latest MC letter to the firm elicited sharp criticism from the Congress party. “It is just a formality. They are writing letters to the firm for nearly three years now with no effect. There is no need for such letters, the agreement with the firm allows for immediate takeover. The firm will now get the opportunity to move court,” said Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor.The plant’s working has always been an issue of dispute between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party.Welcoming the move, Arun Sood, city BJP chief and councillor, said, “Now, Congress is showing urgency but it is responsible for the current situation. It signed the contract with the firm with the agreement having no exit clause. Proper procedures have to followed by the MC, and we are now ensuring that proper waste management can take place in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-asks-jaypee-to-hand-over-waste-processing-plant-today/story-qvUzlEGFKt93AuUrAO6KaK.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pedestrian’s mobile phone snatched in Chandigarh’s Sector 33||A motorcyclist snatched the mobile phone of a woman in Sector 33 on Wednesday evening. Police said the victim, Neha, resident of Sector 45, was walking back home. When she reached near the Sector 33 petrol pump around 6.30pm, a motorcyclist snatched her mobile phone and drove away.She managed to note down the vehicle’s registration number. Police are scanning nearby CCTV footage for more clues.A case under Sections 379A (snatching) and 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pedestrian-s-mobile-phone-snatched-in-chandigarh-s-sector-33/story-zdGGkDKEYufuO4ZVW2eciP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||70 morning walkers at Sukhna Lake detained for not wearing masks||As many as 70 morning walkers were detained by the police for not wearing masks at the Sukhna Lake on Thursday morning. Police said these people were taken to the Sector 3 police station in the back of a police truck while maintaining proper social distancing. “They were detained for two hours before being released with a warning,” they said.Sukhna Lake has become a major attraction for residents during the lockdown with nearly 2,000 walkers coming here daily on an average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/70-morning-walkers-at-sukhna-lake-detained-for-not-wearing-masks/story-t8RXKzuPnHN48mOuRxXIvN.html
19-06-2020||City||Woman’s gold chain snatched in Zirakpur||Two masked men on a motorcycle snatched a woman’s gold chain metres away from her residence at Surender Enclave in Zirakpur on Thursday morning.The complainant, Shashi Bala, resident of Surender Enclave, told the police that she was driving back home on a scooter after night duty when two motorcycle-borne men snatched her gold chain and fled around 7.30am. Though she raised the alarm, the accused managed to flee.The incident was captured on nearby CCTV cameras. A case under Section 379-A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-s-gold-chain-snatched-in-zirakpur/story-BC9imEPPqEkYFcnfh3cHdL.html
19-06-2020||Pune||No immersion procession during Ganesh festival this year: Pune mandals assure CM||Ganesh mandals in Pune will not carry out immersion procession during the 10-day Ganesh festival to be held in August in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday held a meeting with prominent mandals from Pune and Mumbai via video conferencing, where he appealed to the organisers to refrain from carrying out processions as it would not be possible to allow large crowds thronging the Ganeshotsav marquees and advised low-key celebrations with minimum turnout. Thackeray said that the threat of coronavirus is not yet over and therefore, it will not be possible to celebrate the Ganesh festival with the usual pomp and gaiety. The 10-day festival begins on ‘Ganesh Chaturthi’, which falls on August 22 this year and is a popular festival in Pune and Maharashtra. The pandals set up by various mandals attract thousands of devotees during the 10-day festivities. Responding to Thackeray’s call, Ganesh mandals from Pune decided to cooperate with the state government and cancel the last day’s immersion procession which attracts around five lakh people to the city. During the immersion procession, thousands of devotees walk miles across narrow city lanes and hence, maintaining social distancing and other safety precautions will be an issue. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh; deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Pune’s Dagdusheth Halwai Ganesh Trust’s president Ashok Godse; Akhil Mandai Mandal’s president Anna Thorat; Kasba Ganesh mandal’s Shrikant Shete were part of the meeting organised to discuss law and order situation ahead of the Ganesh festival. Most Ganesh mandals in Pune have already decided that the celebrations will be low-key. Godse said, “The chief minister appealed to us to celebrate Ganesh festival in a way that tradition is not broken and all rules are also followed. The administration took a stand considering the Covid-19 pandemic that festivals need to be celebrated in a simple manner.”During the meeting, Thackeray pointed out that because of the pandemic, giving permission for the immersion procession will not be possible. “It is not possible to give permission for the Ganesh processions. We should avoid crowds during such times. A separate meeting will be organised with the ganesh mandals and the administration to decide the do’s and don’ts of the festival,” said Thackeray.Ajit Pawar said, “We have the dual challenge of Covid-19 and the rainy season now. Keeping the festival tradition intact, we need to make a few changes to the way we celebrate it. Festivals should be celebrated at homes.”Ganesh mandals representatives from Pune assured the government that they will follow the guidelines given by the state government. “After Holi, no festival has been celebrated on a large scale this year due to Covid-19. Even the wari, which has a long tradition of 700 years has been forced to change its course. Ganesh festivals have been a part of the social progress and will adhere to norms this year as well.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we had already decided to celebrate it at a low-level which was appreciated by the government. Now we are awaiting instructions from the state about the do’s and don’ts,” added Godse.Shrikant Shete of the Kasba Ganpati mandal, said, “Ajit Pawar has promised to organise a separate meeting for Pune mandals. We are going to follow all the rules and regulations framed by the state government. This year’s festival will follow all traditional norms and mandals will avoid attracting crowds.Anand Saraf, a pandal worker, said, “Ganesh festival played an important role in various movements, whether it was the independence movement or any other social reform. It has kept traditions alive since it was started in 1892 by Lokmanya Tilak. We will maintain the same spirit this year as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-immersion-procession-during-ganesh-festival-this-year-pune-mandals-assure-cm/story-ifkA6gfprBz7xw4ufTABgO.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Recovered cops help boost morale of infected colleagues in Pimpri-Chinchwad||The officials of Pimpri-Chinchwad police who have recovered from Covid-19 are becoming an inspiration for colleagues infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus. According to the Pimpri-Chinchwad police, its eight officials have recovered from the virus infection and two are undergoing treatment.“The ones who have recovered call, inquire and advice the infected colleagues. They are helping each other,” said Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Pimpri-Chinchwad.“The physical discomfort is nothing compared to the mental distress caused by the virus. It is important to have a connect with someone you can trust,” said a 51-year-old police inspector who recently recovered and rejoined the force.The cured official is in touch with the two police staff members who are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.“When I was under treatment, even the doctors did not dare come near us. Only a few nurses were allowed to come and administer injections. It was the daily calls by DCP sir and seniors that boosted my mental strength,” the inspector said.The inspector and his five colleagues were housed in the hospital’s ward. While all of them were asymptomatic, one of them suffered from breathing problems.“A kind word of concern during the isolation period means a lot. The thought of our family members getting positive and the uncertainty about the infection is frightening,” said the inspector.He narrated an incident about news spreading to the house of his 73-year-old father staying separately and caring for his grandson during lockdown.“I had deliberately not shared the infection news with him, but one of our neighbours told my son. My father had to be hospitalised. It was a stressful moment for me,” he said.The reaction of neighbourhood who came to know about his infection was an eye-opener, according to him. In Pune city, the number of positive cases among police officers has crossed 480, including three deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recovered-cops-help-boost-morale-of-infected-colleagues-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-3NvtL93Cd29JFGvGc3RygJ.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Pune not high on alcohol home delivery; 80pc of liquor stores do not deliver||Just 20 per cent of Pune’s 165 liquor stores are offering home delivery, according to the Pune District Wine Merchant’s Association.Ajay Deshmukh, secretary of the association, said, “There is a shortage of manpower and many housing societies, even today, don’t allow outsiders to enter. We also have to deliver at no extra cost.” The Maharashtra government allowed liquor stores to open in Pune, and in the state, on May 4.The State excise department, on May 15, allowed home delivery of liquor.Since then, 12 lakh home deliveries of alcohol have been reported in the state, according to figures available with the Pune excise department.Deshmukh believes, in Pune, the biggest obstacle to home deliveries is that the stores have to ensure each of the delivery agents has a medical certificate stating s/he is Covid-free.“Mumbai, has 550 wine shops and 3,000 permit rooms. The government was losing huge revenue. Hence, they wanted to start delivery in Mumbai, but began it across Maharashtra,” Deshmukh adds.According to statistics shared by the state excise department on Wednesday, there are between 60,000 and 65,000 liquor orders being home delivered per day in Maharashtra; but, Pune district is recording not more than five home delivery orders in June. “Home delivery has received maximum response from Mumbai, while Pune still has people preferring off the counter sales,” is state excise commissioner Kantilal Umap’s view.“Sale of liquor, in volume terms, has gone down, though the business has managed to stay afloat,” Umap added.“Since the crowds at wine shops have subsided, people find it easy to purchase liquor across the counter. The home delivery orders are coming from specific areas, and on weekends,” said Santosh Zagade, state excise superintendent.“The trend of drinking and buying liquor in Pune has changed as demand for beer and country liquor has gone down, due to migrants returning and lower-income groups witnessing a fall in income,” said Raju Bagiya, owner of GSP Wines in Aundh.“Those asking for home deliveries are mostly senior citizens, women and premium customers, who don’t want to risk coming to the shop,” said Bagiya. Microbreweries have deliveries on tapOn June 15, the state government brought allowed 25 microbreweries to sell craft beer through growlers. “Growlers are one-five litre glass containers in which beer can be home delivered,” said Umap. Elder statesman for craft brewers in Pune, Manu Gulati, also owner and founder of the Effingut microbrewery and restaurant, estimates his brewery division has suffered a Rs 30 lakh/month loss since the lockdown was imposed in Pune in March.“Pune is a craft beer capital in India. The state government took a very proactive approach and enabled us to get our beer to consumers through way of growlers. The sale of the same has commenced for us since the last two days and we have seen an overwhelming response to our home delivery option,” Gulati says.Effingut currently has 150 home delivery orders per day, across Pune, according to Gulati.Customer speakSarthak Saxena, an IT consultant who lives in Baner, said, “I have not tried the home delivery since Aundh-Baner was a green Zone and when the government gave the OK for wine shops to open, we got alcohol without any problem. I bought enough to last for two weeks.” ”I had ordered using the WhatsApp number of my local wine shop, who was prompt with the delivery; the only problem was that I had to wait near the society gate as no one allowed to come in. It felt a little awkward waiting for delivery of liquor,” said Ravindra P, a resident of Kothrud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-not-high-on-alcohol-home-delivery-80pc-of-liquor-stores-do-not-deliver/story-8upc1F1SDKJlTmUuf1VreL.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Chinese firm in Pune quarantines 130 staff after seven test Covid-19 positive||A Chinese multinational firm in Chakan, 75 km from Chakan, quarantines 130 employees after one of its nationals and six other staff test positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, according to state health officials.The staff under isolation also includes nine Chinese nationals.State health officials said that the foreign nationals had visited the Chakan firm that is into manufacturing heavy construction machinery before the coronavirus lockdown was declared. Hence, they got stuck.Dr Baliram Gadawe, Khed tehsil health officer, said that the firm’s staff have been quarantined. “They are employees of a multinational company engaged in mining and machinery equipment with a dedicated unit in Chakan. It was during the last week that one of the employees tested positive. We tested the high-risk contact list and six, including a Chinese national, turned positive. The infected staff are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.”Out of the 130 staff in isolation, 70 are housed in a campus hostel and rest home quarantined. Health officials and doctors monitoring the situation said that the infected patients are recovering well. The staff under isolation have been advised to follow preventive measures and are monitored round-the-clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chinese-firm-in-pune-quarantine-130-staff-after-seven-test-covid-19-positive/story-lma69uw7vDMrBvTogpCbEM.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong leader’s son booked for firing at friend||Sohana police on Thursday booked Davinder Singh alias Damni, the son of a Congress leader, for firing at a 22-year-old man believed to be his friend on June 16 .The injured man, Jagdeep Singh from Siao village in Mohali district, was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh.Damni, who lives in Manauli village, is the son of Congress leader and block samiti member Gurdeep Singh.  Jagdeep Singh was at home watching television when Damni, reportedly under the influence of alcohol, came to his house and asked him to go out with him. When he refused, Damni threatened to shoot Jagdeep, but said he was joking and drove away with the latter in his car. However, soon Damni stopped the car and started arguing with Jagdeep over an issue, shooting him on the back and chest with his father’s licenced 12-bore gun, said Mohan Singh, the victim’s father, in his police complaint.The injured man somehow managed to muster up the strength to phone his brother, Gurwinder Singh, and his family members reached the spot and took him to GMCH-32.His condition was said to be out of danger.Police also recovered a licensed gun from the Congress leader’s house. It was also learnt that the police were allegedly trying to suppress the case as the accused was the son of a ruling party member, but a case was registered when angry villagers gathered at the Sohana police stationDamni’s father Gurdeep Singh attempted to pass off the case as accidental firing as his son was under the influence of alcoholHe said his son and the Jagdeep were good friends and used to be spend time together.Sources said Damni was arrested on Thursday from Naina village near Rajpura after he was found hiding in his aunt’s house.Police, however, did not confirm the arrest.A case was registered under Section 307 of the IPC and the relevant Sections of the Arms Act at the Sohana police station on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-leader-s-son-booked-for-firing-at-friend/story-Ya67agAcc85C8E3e9wUCuN.html
19-06-2020||Pune||Will decline NCP’s offer of seat on MLC, says Raju Shetti||Raju Shetti, leader of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, on Thursday stated that he will decline the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) offer of one seat on the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC).Shetti said he was doing this to prevent a possible split in the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana.Shetti had, on Tuesday, visited NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s house in Baramati and accepted the offer of the MLC seat for himself.The move disappointed two SSS leaders, who themselves were hoping to gain a berth in the legislative council. “If someone is getting hurt because of my accepting the council offer, then I better reject it. After all, for me, keeping the SSS intact is more important,” Shetti said.Earlier, Jalinder Patil, SSS state unit president, expressed his displeasure that Shetti chose to keep the NCP’s council seat offer for himself. There are currently 12 seats vacant from the governor’s quota. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is plans to fill these as soon as possible.For Shetti, a former two-time MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur, accepting a seat from the NCP quota comes after he had joined hands with the Congress-NCP alliance just before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, after breaking away from BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-decline-ncp-s-offer-of-seat-on-mlc-raju-shetti/story-gUBLppeL2Dd6HZBPU7etGM.html
19-06-2020||City||Punjab local bodies cancels Mohali MC’s order of tree pruning machine||Acting on the inquiry report of retired additional district and sessions judge BR Bansal, indicting four officials of Mohali municipal corporation for discrepancies in the purchase of a tree pruning machine, the Punjab local bodies department on Thursday terminated the order with M/s Cosmic Healers for the purchase of the machine. The local bodies department also blacklisted the company, barring it from participating in any tendering process of the Mohali MC for three years.The department further asked the company to deposit the advance amount of ₹89 lakh paid by the civic body with 12% annual interest within 21 days from now.Bansal’s inquiry report found several discrepancies in the tendering process of issuing purchase orders to a particular company for the machines.The four former MC officials, who were indicted in the report, are executive engineer Naresh Batta, now in Hoshiarpur; deputy controller finance and accounts (DCFA) Vinayak Kumar, now in Ludhiana; assistant corporation engineer Mohinder Pal, now sub-divisional engineer (SDO) posted at the head office of the local bodies department in Sector 35, Chandigarh; and junior engineer Surinder Goel, now retired.They will appear before the additional chief secretary of local bodies, Sanjay Kumar on June 19, where the further course of action will be decided.Tenders were floated on September 26, 2016, for Rs 1.80 crore after Mohali MC decided to buy the machine. Interestingly, the machine was not delivered to the civic body, prompting some councillors to allege corruption in the deal, following which BR Bansal was appointed to investigate the matter.The cancellation report further reads that the vetting report by chief vigilance officer (trust) opined that the work order was issued by Mohali MC in violation of the rules, and gross irregularities and other serious deficiencies have been found on part of the firm in connivance with MC officials. There is no record with MC proving that proper advertisement or public notice was made and how the company came to know about the requirement of a tree pruning machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-local-bodies-cancels-order-of-tree-pruning-machine/story-QENHPtPEuOi3iHGpuSAvTJ.html
19-06-2020||Pune||PMC looks at ‘healthy ageing’ initiative for elderly in 40 slums through SCHOOL as part of Covid response||Seven volunteers of School (Society of Community Health Oriented Operational Links) worked tirelessly to help 515 senior citizens, of the Kasturba Vasahat and Indira Vasahat in Aundh, manage their daily chores and health needs during the lockdown. Endorsing the reach of the organisation and its volunteers, which has been working to establish a ‘senior citizens’ community centre’, Pune Municipal Corporation commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, mandated them to expand their work across slums in Pune city to help at least 40,000 senior citizens.“In April, PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad endorsed the work we have been doing in the Aundh slums and mandated us to expand our work across all slums of Pune city. So, we have started micro-planning for 40 slums with the help of the World Health Organisation (WHO),” said Benazir Patil, chief executive officer (CEO) of the organisation.Over the past year, School volunteers have been taking various initiatives related to the health, mental well-being and entertainment of senior citizens in the Aundh slums. During the lockdown, seven volunteers of the organisation, three from outside and four within the community, under the technical guidance of the WHO, took care of the elderly. Now, it will be a part of the Covid-19 response and will be extended to 40 other slums among the eight big slum clusters of Pune city.Dr Kalpana Baliwant, assistant medical officer at PMC, said, “School organisation is doing good work in two of the slums in Aundh ward. They presented their work to us in April, specifically regarding care for elderly people during Covid-19. So, we have asked them to expand their ‘Healthy Ageing’ initiative to 40 densely-populated slums in eight slum clusters namely Yerawada, Aundh, Ghole road, Bibwewadi, Bhavani peth, Sahakarnagar, Warje-Karvenagar and Hadapsar. For this initiative we are also getting support from the WHO Maharashtra office.” Giving the details of the daily timetable of the volunteers, Patil, said, “There are currently two types of volunteers working with the centre, two of them are our community officials who live at the centre and four volunteers are from the slums itself who work on a voluntary basis. They come to the centre in the morning at 10am and pack food packets, then deliver the packets to elderly. They also visit those who are not keeping well and see if they need support and inform them of their next check-up. Our community officers, if needed, check blood pressure, sugar or oxygen levels with the pulse oximeter. Volunteers also help the community officers in distribution of raw ration, hygiene kits, masks, medicines and adult diapers.”“We had a good meeting with the representatives of the organisation and soon, I will be personally visiting both the slums to understand their work properly. We will be taking up the initiative in 40 other slums under PMC, so that we can save more lives of our senior citizens during this crisis situation,” said the civic chief Gaikwad.For 63-year-old Gorakh Dada Gaikwad, School volunteers are nothing short of miracle for the elderly. “When the lockdown was announced, we were worried as to how we will manage our daily food and ration for the house. But when the organisation helped us by providing ration kits, it provided a great relief to my entire family. The volunteers regularly visit our home and check if we need supplies, medical and otherwise.” Kanta Joma Waghmare, a 70-year-old who lives in the Aundh slums, said, “It is God’s grace that School volunteers are working for us and look after us. This is the greatest service they could have done. Both ration and medicines were provided to me at a time when I needed them the most.” Akash Ashok Adhav, 25, a student, who works as a volunteer and also lives in the slums, said, “I had been going to collect adult diapers for my grandmother earlier and when the lockdown started, they asked if I wanted to volunteer with them. So, I started working and initially provided ration kits, distributed food packets, multi-vitamin tablets and then, they taught me how to check blood pressure, test sugar levels and collect information from critical patients who are bound to their homes. All the safety equipment like face masks, sanitisers and hand gloves were given to me. My friends also helped me when they saw me work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-looks-at-healthy-ageing-initiative-for-elderly-in-40-slums-through-school-as-part-of-covid-response/story-ejzekPNGMSm3xtTjDPl7rJ.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Special Shramik train to leave from Chandigarh for Patna on June 19||A Shramik Special Train for different stations in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar will leave from the Chandigarh railway station at 1pm on Friday. The train will stop at Saharanpur, Moradabad, Bareilly, Hardoi, Lucknow, Raebareli, Amethi, Pratapgarh, Varanasi, Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayaya Junction (Mugal Sarai), Buxar and Ara stations, before concluding its journey at the Patna station.It will ferry nearly 1,600 passengers shortlisted from among the people who had registered for special trains through the helpline or website of the Chandigarh administration. The shortlisted passengers have been informed to reach the Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET), Sector 26, by 8am. After screening, they will be taken to the railway station on in CTU buses.Since May 8, as many as 38,749 migrants have been sent to their home states through trains, while an additional 4,633 have been transported through buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/special-shramik-train-to-leave-from-chandigarh-for-patna-on-june-19/story-tcXmSwhWazjkFUlC4q8DLI.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man’s body found in Mohali’s Dussehra Ground||The body of a man aged around 50 years was found in the open Dussehra Ground at Phase 8 here on Friday.Preliminary investigations revealed that the man had consumed alcohol before he died, said inspector Rajnish Choudhary, Phase 8 Station House Officer.The body, which has not been identified as yet, has been sent to the Phase 6 Civil Hospital for postmortem, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-s-body-found-in-mohali-s-dussehra-ground/story-8YeKMdFHTYX4DwgrxnXmYP.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula records biggest spike in a day with 23 new Covid-19 cases||The district saw its biggest Covid-19 spike in a day on Thursday with 23 people, including three employees of the Panchkula civil hospital, testing positive for the virus.Twelve patients are from Kalka and Pinjore, a mother-son duo from Sector 9, one each from Sectors 6, 7, 16, 26, Abhaypur village in Sector 19, Buddanpur and Raipur Rani, while the location of two persons has not been shared by the authorities.Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the district now had 72 positive cases, of which 33 had been discharged, leaving 39 active cases.Health officials said two of the 23 patients are contacts of positive persons, while 10 had travel history.Notably, Chandigarh reported its maximum cases (29) on May 24, while Mohali saw its highest number of cases (16) on June 13.12 CASES FROM KALKAKalka SDM Rakesh Sindhu said among the patients from Kalka and Pinjore, two each were from Parade Mohalla, Shaktinagar, Sharma Colony, while one each was from Murari Ahata, Ram Nagar, Dhaduwal, near Gandhi Library, Bitna Colony, Pinjore, and Kaushalya Hut, Pinjore.“Residents should not step out unless in case of an emergency and always wear a face mask in public,” he added.“The people coming from outstation should voluntarily get themselves screened, and should remain in isolation till their report arrives to avoid spread of the virus,” the SDM said.FATHER, TWO SONS POSITIVEThe three civil hospital employees found positive are a 47-year-old man and his two sons, who are both in their early 20s.While the man works in the post-mortem department of the hospital, his sons are contractual Class 4 employees.The trio was found infected two days after the man’s 45-year-old wife had tested positive. She had recently attended a cremation at Rajpura. “We have already got the areas where they worked sanitised. While their house has been sealed, all their workplace contacts are currently asymptomatic,” said Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.She added that all patients found infected on Thursday had been admitted to the isolation ward at the civil hospital in Sector 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-hospital-employees-among-23-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-panchkula/story-bZQ7XAsBUOOseTDALCE98K.html
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||₹7.6 lakh stolen from ATM at Chandigarh’s Kishangarh village||A masked man stole Rs 7.6 lakh from a Union Bank of India (Andhra Bank) ATM in Kishangarh village on Wednesday night.Police said as per the CCTV footage, a masked man entered the ATM around 8.30pm and headed straight for the machine’s backside. And as he sat down to open the machine, the CCTV camera footage faded away, which the police suspect may have been caused due to a power outage. The theft was discovered on Thursday morning when the bank manager learnt that customers were unable to withdraw money from the ATM though it was loaded with cash. Bank officials alerted the police after they found that the ATM machine had been opened from the backside and all the cash was missing. In his complaint, branch manager Parveen Kumar Aggarwal reported a loss of Rs 7.64 lakh, but said there was no damage to the ATM.On his complaint, a case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the IT Park police station.The theft came close on the heels of a robbery at PNB’s all-women branch in Phase-3A, Mohali, where Rs 5 lakh were stolen. INSIDER JOB SUSPECTED According to a bank official, the ATM’s cash is loaded in its strong room, which is locked with a password. Even if one is able to break open the ATM, the cash cannot be removed without inputting the password. Police said their preliminary investigation indicated that the crime was the handiwork of someone familiar with this secret code. Branch manager Parveen Kumar Aggarwal told the police that only two bank employees knew the password, including him and another person. NO GUARD ON DUTY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-7-6-lakh-looted-from-atm-in-chandigarh-s-kishangarh-village/story-mpISVVdz8kogajRkPCoRLP.html
