20-06-2020||Delhi||School principal granted bail in Delhi riots case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to Faisal Farooq, the principal of Rajdhani Public School, who was earlier charged with hatching a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots in and around his school. The court observed that the CCTV camera footage did not show his presence at the place where the riots had broken out. Duty Judge Vinod Yadav said that one witness, Roop Singh, stated on March 8 that he had seen Farooq at the spot of the incident. Singh had also claimed to have heard him asking the guard of the school to permit Muslim persons inside the school.However, later in his statement recorded before the magistrate on March 11, he did not say a word about having seen the accused man at the scene or having heard him say anything to the guard of the school.The court, while granting bail, said that to “cover up” the deficiency in the statement of the witness, the Investigating Officer (IO) recorded a supplementary statement by Singh, claiming that he had got scared before the magistrate which is why he could not state the correct facts. The IO had moved an application before the court to get this additional fact added to his statement. However, it was dismissed by the judge, the court noted in its order.“It is clearly apparent that there are contradictions in the various statements of this witness about the applicant,” the court said. It also noted that Farooq kept on calling the police to report about damage to his school (Rajdhani Public School) from February 24, but the FIR in his case was not recorded then. It was ultimately recorded on March 5.“I have gone through the statements of PWs Roop Singh, Geeta, Manoj and Ashok Kumar and have also gone through the recorded statement of Prosecution Witness (PW) Roop Singh. Admittedly, the applicant is not seen in any of the CCTV camera footage.”The court also said that Geeta another witness, incidentally the wife of Roop Singh, also did not say a word about having seen the accused man at the spot on the date of the incident. It said that another witness Manoj, who was the guard at the Rajdhani school, has merely stated that Farooq had come to the school’s main gate and spoken to some persons outside the school.“From the aforesaid statements, it is prima facie not established that the applicant was present at the spot at the time of the incident. It is an admitted position that several CCTV cameras were lying installed at Rajdhani Public School at various places, the footages whereof have been thoroughly scrutinised by the Investigating Agency but the presence of the applicant therein is not there. If the applicant (Farooq) was not present at the scene of occurrence, then his involvement in the offences cannot be made out,” the judge stated in his order.The court also noted that “except a bald allegation,” there is no material to substantiate that Farooq had spoken to several people involved with the communal riots.“When the IO was confronted he stated that further investigation on the aspect of terror funding is underway...,” the court said.The court, while stating that the accused man had made a good case for bail, also noted, “It is made clear that nothing in this order shall be construed an expression on the merits of evidence to be adduced in the matter.”The police also chargesheeted 18 people in connection to the riots that broke out at the Rajdhani Public School, while naming its principal Faisal Farooq for hatching a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots in and around Rajdhani School. According to the police, it was on his directions that the adjacent and rival convent school, two parking lots run by the other party and the building of one Anil Sweets was systematically destroyed by the mob.The police said in the charge sheet that the call detail analysis of Farooq’s phone suggested that he had links with prominent members of the Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group, Jamia Coordination Committee, Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz and some fundamental Muslim clerics, including those from Deoband, indicating the depth of the conspiracy.The charge sheet stated that the rioters had camped inside and fired bullets from the terrace of Rajdhani School. They also threw petrol bombs, acid, bricks, stones and other missiles using an improvised large iron catapult, specially installed for the purpose, from the terrace of Rajdhani School. Police had also said that on the day of the riots, many children from Muslim families had left the school early during the half-time recess. HT contacted the police’s crime branch chief, Praveer Ranjan and police spokesperson Mandeep Randhawa, but despite many calls and text message, there was no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/school-principal-granted-bail-in-delhi-riots-case/story-v7T3aWASw6JbiNh2XHsJVI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board staffer held for duping businessman of ₹22 lakh||A senior assistant working in Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) was arrested for duping a businessman of ₹22 lakh on the pretext of getting his son a job in CHB and sending another son overseas, the police said on Saturday.Kuldeep Kumar Luthra of Modern Housing complex (MHC), Manimajra, had lodged a complaint in this regard four years ago on the public window at the Chandigarh police headquarters after which an inquiry was marked. In his complaint, Luthra had named one Surinder Kumar, 53, of Sector 27, Chandigarh, alleging that he had duped him of ₹22,25,000.The police registered a case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code on Friday, after obtaining legal opinion.Luthra told the police that he was looking to settle his sons, and the accused who claimed to be an employee of CHB had offered him help in lieu of money. Luthra said he has known Surinder for a decade now.Surinder had assured him that one of his sons will get a job in CHB and the other will be sent overseas. After receiving the money, however, Surinder failed to honor his commitment or return the money, Luthra told the police.Surinder was produced before the court and remanded to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-staffer-held-for-duping-businessman-of-22-lakh/story-4oD2fRyrqixC4Fwj3PREKK.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||BEHBAL KALAN FIRING: Car dealer arrested for aiding cops in fabricating evidence||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing on people protesting the Bargari sacrilege in Faridkot on Saturday arrested a car dealer for allegedly aiding accused cops in making fabricated bullet marks on the escort vehicle of Charanjit Singh Sharma, former Moga senior superintendent of police, and an accused in the Behbal Kalan case, to construct a fake self-defence theory.This is the second arrest by the SIT in Behbal Kalan firing case in a week. On June 16, a Faridkot-based lawyer, Sohali Singh Brar, was arrested by SIT for his alleged role in fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan police firing. He was sent in four-day police custody (till Sunday). Three accused has been arrested so far in the case, including former Moga SSP, who is on interim bail on health grounds. Inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who is a senior member of the SIT, said Pankaj Bansal, owner of Pankaj Motors, Moga, then having automobile workshop in Faridkot, has been arrested for aiding accused on fabricating false self-defence theory. “We will produce him in the court along with Brar and seek police custody of both,” he added. Two youths had died in police firing on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari on October 12. Police had also opened fire on protesters at Kotkapura, leaving many injured, the same day.In its probe, the SIT found that Charanjit Sharma conspired with three other police officers — Fazilka superintendent of police Bikramjit Singh, inspector Pardip Singh and sub-inspector Amarjit Singh Kular — to cover up facts related to the Behbal Kalan firing.The SIT has claimed that to fabricate false evidence against the peaceful protesters, Charanjit’s escort Maruti Gypsy was taken to the advocate’s house, where Bikramjit and a car dealer had fired on it to make bullet marks. The same day, Kular, who was the Bajakhana station house officer, recorded the statements of Sharma, Bikramjit and Pardip Singh among others, in which they claimed that police fired in self-defence after protestors attacked them.The SIT probe found that Bansal played key role in the facilitating the accused cops for creating the fake evidence in the case after the police firing incident. However, in its chargesheet filed in the court in April last year, the SIT had claimed the weapon used to make fabricated bullet marks was provided by Bansal, but now SIT has changed the theory and claim Brar’s weapon was used in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/behbal-kalan-firing-car-dealer-arrested-for-aiding-cops-in-fabricating-evidence/story-8MYC6kOAGDWTIYFyvhADwM.html
20-06-2020||City||Demolition drive carried out in illegal colonies in Bhondsi||Gurugram: An enforcement team of department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Saturday carried out a demolition drive in three unauthorized colonies coming up in Bhondsi. The colonies were being illegally developed over 20 acres of land, officials said, adding that they demolished 20 plinths in a developing colony, a long road network and major structure being used as an office by a property dealer. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that the demolition drive was conducted after it was revealed in a survey that constructions were coming up in the unauthorised colony. “We have asked our officials to visit all the areas where such colonies are coming up. Concerned residents also report violations with regard to new constructions,” he said.Bhath further said that plot owners in the area were also told not to start construction as the colonies were not authorised and legal action would be taken against them if they continue construction in violation of rules. “We have also decided to demolish the complete structure built by owners instead of just removing the boundary walls as it has been observed that owners resumed construction after some time,” he said.The DTCP officials were supported by a team of 100 police personnel, who ensured that there was no untoward incident during the demolition drive. On Friday, the enforcement team had sealed a number of houses in Sushant Lok 1 for violating the building plans after obtaining occupation certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demolition-drive-carried-out-in-illegal-colonies-in-bhondsi/story-Ia2Vnrik9Esl712RZGR0OJ.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man beaten to death by brother, his family over land dispute in Tarn Taran||A 55-year-old man was beaten to death allegedly by his elder brother and other family members over a land dispute in Rooriwala village in Goindwal Sahib sub-division of Tarn Taran district on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Major Singh while the accused are his elder brother Tarsem Singh (60), his son Sukhjinder Singh, wife Simarjit Kaur, daughter Kuljit Kaur, besides Varinder and Baljinder Singh of the same village.The incident took place at 1pm when the victim was in working his fields. Police said the accused were carrying sticks and sharp-edged weapons.“Major was tilling his land when the accused attacked him. Major died on the spot,” said the victim’s cousin brother Dilbagh Singh (40) of Chirian village.He said, “Recently, Major had dismantled a causeway touching Tarsem’s land. The accused was nursing a grudge against him.”The deceased is survived by his wife and a son, who is working in Holland.Chohla Sahib police station in-charge Sonamdeep Kaur said they have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) against the accused. “All the accused are absconding,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-beaten-to-death-by-brother-his-family-over-land-dispute-in-tarn-taran/story-Uqzreat9jRiYiQ89WMdxgP.html
20-06-2020||Gurugram||Officials asked to prepare for monsoon, MLA visits key locations||To ensure that waterlogging, which has become a perennial feature during the monsoon, does not cause a deluge this year, Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla on Saturday asked officials of various civic agencies to ensure that the city’s drains are clean, pump-sets functional, and a list of emergency personnel is ready so that work takes place in a coordinated manner when it rains. Singla also inspected several key locations in the city and on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway along with officials of the NHAI, PWD, MCG, GMDA and the fire department to take stock of the preparations on the ground. In 2016, heavy rains in the city had caused a 20-hour jam, bringing the city to a standstill; since then the authorities have been trying to ensure that a similar situation does not arise during the monsoon. Keeping this in mind, Singla said that he had decided to take weekly updates from officials of different departments concerning the prevailing situation. “I will be visiting these spots regularly so that the system remains on its toes,” he said, adding that though officials have assured him that there would be no problems this year, the result would be clear when it starts raining.During the inspection at Hero Honda Chowk, which is one of the worst-affected areas during the monsoon, the Gurugram MLA told NHAI and MCG officials to ensure that the height of the breaker used to prevent water from entering the underpass was adequate. “Ensure that pumps are functional, operators are deployed 24/7 and clean drains immediately. Ensure that there is no reverse flow of water which can flood the area,” Singla told NHAI officials.At Rajiv Chowk, where a part of the surface crossing gets waterlogged towards the mini-secretariat, the GMDA and NHAI officials were asked to either raise the depression or install a pump to ensure water does not collect. Taking into account the waterlogging at Rajiv Chowk underpass in front of Medanta hospital, Singla went to check the water-breaker and the two pumps installed inside the Tau Devi Lal stadium. “Ensure that these pumps deliver during the critical situation and increase the height of the breaker if needed,” he told officials.Referring to waterlogging at underpasses, Pradip Kumar, GMDA chief engineer, said that all agencies are working in unison to ensure that it doesn’t take place this year.At Signature Tower crossing and Iffco Chowk L-shaped underpass, officials assured the MLA that drains have been cleaned and connections with the master lines checked. “We have conducted the drill for pumps and installed eight booster pumps. A drill has also been conducted and a list of operators will be made available to the authorities and the MLA in next couple of days,” Vikas Mittal, manager, NHAI, said.At Atul Kataria chowk, PWD officials were asked to ensure that the earth spread around the crossing was covered within the next five days. “I have asked officials to ensure that drains constructed here are made functional at the earliest,” he said.Rajeev Yadav, superintendent engineer, PWD, who was present, said that they would finish the work in the next few days and ensure that there is no waterlogging.At Mahavir Chowk near Sadar Bazar, PWD officials told Singla that the construction of the flyover and underpass has been delayed due to the lockdown, but they will ensure that the work is completed by May 2021, though the project deadline was December 2020. The officials said that they have taken measures to ensure that there is no waterlogging at the chowk, and drains are properly cleaned.GMDA executive engineer Rajesh Bansal, MCG chief engineer ND Vashisht, Bharat Bhushan Jindal from NHAI and fire official Sunil Kumar were present during the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/officials-asked-to-prepare-for-monsoon-mla-visits-key-locations/story-Gx8uRLIIzHH1XJUkqpHgyO.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Follow rules or face action for contracting virus, Patiala hospital doctors told||Doctors and other staffers of Government Rajindra Hospital will face disciplinary action if they contract coronavirus ‘due to their negligence’. The move comes days after 13 staffers of the hospital were found positive for Covid-19. The doctors are demanding that order should be withdrawn.The order reads: “If anyone gets infected due to his or her own negligence, he/she should be personally responsible for this. Disciplinary action will be taken against him/her under the Disaster Management Act.”Civil surgeon had said some staffers don’t use protective gear and ignore social distancing. Doctors took up the issue with Government Medical College principal on Friday.Medical superintendent Dr Paras Pandove said, “It is just an alert for the safety of doctors and employees. We have provided safety gear to all. Those not using them and get infected, it’s their fault.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/follow-rules-or-face-action-for-contracting-virus-patiala-hospital-doctors-told/story-JeDRHeQwuYbOrlyqwKEQXI.html
20-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG looks for CSR funds as stock of protective gears nears depletion||The municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is fast running out of protective equipment needed to fight the coronavirus disease, which has been surging in the city in the last few weeks.Among the items are gloves, head covers, vitamin-C tablets (to boost immunity), sanitisers and biscuits. Since March 25, the MCG stored these items at its central store in sector 42 for distribution to government hospitals, health care workers and police personnel who are on the front lines of fighting the pandemic in the district.On April 22, the civic body had around 386,000 gloves, 36,000 vitamin C tablets, 74,000 packets of biscuits, 15,000 bottles of sanitizers, 16,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and 900 headcovers. Almost 98% of the items were procured through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds.By June 18, this had reduced to 14,000 gloves, 312 packets of biscuits, and 11,000 hand sanitizers; while vitamin C tablets and head covers were exhausted.The MCG is now appealing for large-scale donations from corporate companies to re-stock, else health care workers will be left in a lurch.“Prima facie, our current stocks may appear extremely low against the one which we had two months ago. The reason is mainly due to the fact that all such supplies have been distributed to the health department and Gurugram police on multiple occasions, over the last two months, in bulk. We have now reached out to several corporate companies and are expecting big donations from them to fill up our stock soon,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG, who is the nodal officer of the central store.Another official from the MCG, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that if the civic body isn’t able to get any new donations within the next three weeks, they could be facing a complete absence of all the protective gear that they were responsible for procuring, barring face masks. “In March and April we were regularly getting large donations through CSR funds from various companies. However, such donations have come down significantly since. With the cases of coronavirus rising this month and simultaneously items being distributed to the health department at a swifter rate, the once-fully stocked store is now running low on resources as items are being distributed much faster than it can be replenished,” said an MCG official privy to the matter.He further said that last week the stock of masks at the central store had reduced to just 65,000. However, a donation of 500,000 masks from an automobile company saved them.“We are in talks with a real estate company that has verbally agreed to donate but has not committed to any timeline. If we don’t get supplies within three weeks, then all items, barring masks, will be over,” the official said.On April 22, there were 41 coronavirus cases in the city. On June 18, the total number of cases has risen to 3991. HT had reported on April 23, the well-stocked MCG that had enough protective equipment that it had started donating to nearby cities such as Faridabad and Mewat as well.On Saturday, Haryana reported 10,223 cases (480 fresh cases) and 149 deaths (5 new deaths), resulting in a mortality rate of 1.45%. At 4,307 (171 new) Gurugram has 37% of the total case load in the state, and 59 deaths.Despite multiple attempts, Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mcg-looks-for-csr-funds-as-stock-of-protective-gears-nears-depletion/story-gUjMXMECQ7Dcel4YQ934KN.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Raid chemists, manufactures to check overpricing, poor quality of sanitisers, masks: Punjab& Haryana HC||The high court has directed governments of Punjab and Haryana and Chandigarh administration to conduct raids at chemist shops and drug manufacturers to ascertain quality of sanitisers and masks being sold in view of Covid-19 outbreak and also whether their pricing is as per the notification of the central government.The high court bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh issued these suo motu directions while hearing a petition from a Hisar medical firm booked under the Essential Commodities Act for allegedly cheating people by selling a disinfectant as sanitiser for which it did not have licence. The March 21 notification of the Centre stipulates that all hand sanitisers shall not be priced at more than ₹100 per 200 ml. The court observed that most companies manufacturing and selling hand sanitisers, even after March 21, 2020, are showing the maximum retail price of such products to be far above fixed by the government. Hence, court directed additional chief secretaries/ principal secretaries/secretaries of the departments of health, and food and supplies of both the states and Chandigarh, to have ‘raids’ conducted at chemist shops and manufacturing units, to obtain samples of hand sanitisers/hand disinfectants and wherever those are manufactured after March 2020, showing a maximum retail price above beyond fixed by government action be initiated against the manufacturer or chemist, whosoever is violating the notification.The court also observed that a large number of brands of facial masks are being found of highly sub-standard quality. “Where even while tying the masks, the strings attached break off immediately, thereby making the masks unusable. Consequently, in the ‘raids’ to be conducted, boxes of masks/individual masks shall also be collected by those of the ‘raiding party’, with the masks to be tested as regards this basic issue of breaking of strings, and if such breaking is found, or the masks are otherwise found to be of sub-standard quality, proceedings as per law shall be taken against all concerned,” the court ordered. The officers have been asked to file personal affidavits on July 6 on the raids conducted and the results. Further, the court also directed the lawyers associated with the case to immediately inform chief secretaries of both the states and UT adviser so that compliance is ensured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/raid-chemists-manufactures-to-check-overpricing-poor-quality-of-sanitisers-masks-punjab-haryana-hc/story-XboQko6ETDVaBOeZa7CC2L.html
20-06-2020||City||15kg heroin seized along Pak border, 4 held||Joint teams of the Border Security Force (BSF) and the state police have seized 15kg of heroin in the last 24 hours from Ferozepur district and arrested four persons. During a search operation along the India-Pakistan border area under the Abohar sector of the BSF, 8kg of contraband was recovered on Friday evening. No one held in the case.Ferozepur SSP Bhupinder Singh said that a police party raided Khilchian Qadim village and recovered 150gram of heroin from an SUV.The police arrested Gurmit Singh, Rukmandeep Singh, Rajinder Singh, and Arshdeep Singh of Muktsar district and ₹2.6 lakh were recovered their possession. A case under NDPS Act was registered against them.Following the information provided the accused, the joint team searched an area across the barbed wire under Barre Kee border outpost and recovered 6.92 kg heroin smuggled from Pakistan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15kg-heroin-seized-along-pak-border-4-held/story-2JQO05fkWKupj1bba2v77I.html
20-06-2020||City||Greater Noida: Fringe group members protest outside mobile factory, booked||Greater Noida: Members of a fringe group on Saturday afternoon protested outside a manufacturing plant of Oppo mobile phone firm demanding closure of operations, days after at least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Ladakh’s Galwan valley in a stand-off with Chinese troops. The protesters were booked by the district police.There was no response from Oppo to an email by HT by the time this story was published. Volunteers and members of the Hindu Raksha Dal protested outside the plant for more than two hours. “We even requested the government to shut down all Chinese companies in the country which should be a lesson to China who will think before any attacks on our country,” said Pinky Chaudhary, president, Hindu Raksha Dal. The volunteers claimed that the protest was conducted while maintaining norms of social distancing. They put on symbolic locks on the company’s gates. A police team was later rushed. “There were many people. Local cops rushed to maintain public order. The group gave their memorandum to ACP after which they left,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, DCP, zone 3. Taking suo-motu cognizance of the matter, Ecotech 1 police registered a case against the protesters under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC as the protest was in violation of IPC Section 144 imposed till June 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-fringe-group-members-protest-outside-mobile-factory-booked/story-NqERi1rlxSF1cD8POltNcK.html
20-06-2020||City||Greater Noida: Builders fined for not taking dust control measures||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Saturday slapped a fine of ₹5 lakh on a builder developing a group housing project in Greater Noida for not taking adequate anti-pollution measures during construction. This is the second time in the past two days that the UPPCB has slapped a fine on entities over irresponsible construction activities leading to air pollution.On Thursday, another builder was imposed a penalty of ₹5 lakh over the same reason. Officials said Thursday’s fine was the first in the district after construction was allowed to restart from May 4, following weeks of lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.“We had received a complaint through social media that construction activities in a Greater Noida sector were creating inconvenience and generating a lot of dust. Upon inspection, it was found construction was leading to dust. Construction materials like sand were also not covered. There were no dust controlling measures taken by the builder, that’s why an environmental compensation of ₹5 lakh was imposed,” said Archana Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB.“An official letter has been sent to the city magistrate to collect the fine of ₹5 lakh each from both builders,” Dwivedi added.As construction activities restarted in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district has been seeing a slight drop in air quality. The air quality index (AQI) during the national lockdown had come down to the ‘satisfactory’ category (AQI of 50 to 100). However, the current trend of air quality is under the ‘moderate’ category, which is an AQI of 100 to 200.“The air quality in the region is a cause of concern again as it’s deteriorating slowly with construction activities resuming in the region. At some places in NCR, the air quality is back to the ‘poor’ category and the volume of both PM2.5 and PM10 is increasing. Also, during summers, dust from construction activities contributes to PM2.5 levels. It is highly advised to ensure that C&D (construction and demolition) and dust mitigation guidelines are adhered to,”said Shambhavi Shukla, programme officer (air quality), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Earlier this month, it was revealed in an RTI that only 10 out of 45 major construction sites and industries have installed anti-smog guns -- a major pollution control measure. The anti-smog gun, as directed by the Supreme Court in January, should be used in the NCR at project sites dealing with excavation, material handling and other dust-generating activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-builders-fined-for-not-taking-dust-control-measures/story-FE2JyyqiqjbmqeD3ylvvqO.html
20-06-2020||City||Polythene returns to Noida markets as admin attention shifts to Covid||Noida: While authorities are busy dealing with the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the old menace of plastic bags has returned to the city even as the ban on single-use plastic continues.Banned by the state government in 2018, which was reinstated in 2019 by the Noida authority, single-use plastics – especially polythene bags – are now being used uninhibited across markets in Noida, especially by vegetable vendors and even some super-markets.“Many customers do bring their own bags but if they don’t, many often quarrel over the bags that we provide, as they don’t want to pay ₹10 to ₹20 extra for a bag. So we had to supply the polythene bags which we give free of cost. Everyone is using it and we have to cater to the demand of the customers as well. So far we have seen no objection,” said a grocery store owner in Sector-76, who did not wish to be named.Vegetable vendors reiterated the sentiment, saying customers often don’t bring their own bags and that the jute or cloth bags are expensive.“Due to the lockdown, sales have dropped a lot. We used to set up a shop at a local vegetable market in Sector 77 but that has been closed due to the ongoing crisis. At such a time, all we care about is getting our business back on track. Almost everyone is using polythene bags now and there are no issues with supply either,” said a roadside fruit and vegetable vendor at the Sector 50 market.Last year in a massive drive held in October, a total 30 tonnes of different forms of single-use plastics, most of which were polythene bags, were collected by the Noida authority, which was later disposed as fuel in cement factories. An additional two tonnes was confiscated by the authority and administration from different shops, restaurants and road side vendors. The state government’s ban came on July 15, 2018. The Uttar Pradesh Plastic and Other Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Regulation of Use and Disposal) Act, 2000, was amended and an ordinance was issued for this.According to the ordinance, punishment for violations for the first conviction can result in a month prison term or a fine of a minimum of ₹1,000 and a maximum of ₹10,000. The second or subsequent conviction can incur a prison term of six months or a fine of a minimum of ₹5,000 and a maximum of ₹25,000.Officials of the Noida authority said while the ban is still under effect, a lot could have slipped due to the lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The current status is that plastic is still banned, however, during the lockdown, obviously the priorities were entirely different and thus there could be issues with compliances. But now as markets are reopening, we will soon restart vigilance. Single use plastics will not be tolerated in the city,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, health, Noida Authority.“Last year we seized and punctured 1.5 to two tonnes of single use plastics from different shops and they are yet to be disposed of,” Tripathi added.Officials also pointed out that during the lockdown, some volunteers also distributed food packets in polythene bags, who were later requested to switch to non-plastic alternatives. According to environmentalists, though the helplessness of authorities during the lockdown is understood as a lot of people wanted to use disposable carry bags and other items, the authorities should now, however, start taking the menace seriously. “During lockdown there were certain compulsions, but now the unlocking has started. Shops are reusing plastic bags and since we have to live with Covid-19 now, it is better we not get used to plastic again, which is nothing less than a pandemic itself. The authority should start looking into it,” said Vikrant Tongad, city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/polythene-returns-to-noida-markets-as-admin-attention-shifts-to-covid/story-PzZAYFHvgB3ZJvLa8dppHN.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||10-day police remand for two Khalistani operatives||A local court on Saturday sent two alleged Khalistani operatives, arrested by the Jandiala police of Amritsar rural district on Friday, to 10-day police remand. Gurmeet Singh and Vikram Singh of Amritsar were preparing to carry out a series of terror attacks and targeted killings at the behest of their Pakistani mentors and handlers, said the police.A German-made MP5 sub-machine gun, a 9-mm pistol with four magazines, and two mobile phones with a host of incriminatory conversations, messages, and photographs were seized from the duo.They were produced before duty magistrate Nirmla Devi by a team led by station house officer (SHO) of Jandiala police station Upkar Singh.“The duty magistrate has granted 10-day police remand. During the remand, we will ascertain how the duo accused had come into the contact of the Pakistan-based elements. What kind of attacks they had been preparing at the behest of their handlers will also be ascertained during the interrogation,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP-rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-day-police-remand-for-two-khalistani-operatives/story-QWsmPAtQ5qAfahitFuyzuJ.html
20-06-2020||City||Office of Ghaziabad CMO sealed after two staff test positive, Covid-19 cases cross 850||Ghaziabad: The office of chief medical officer (CMO) of the district was sealed on Saturday for two days after two staff members tested positive for Covid-19. The office will now be sanitized as per protocols, CMO Dr NK Gupta said, adding that he has directed for sampling of all the staff members.“One of the two staff members is a clerk while the other is a driver. They showed symptoms and their test reports came positive for the infection. As a result, we have sealed the office for two days and sanitization is being taken up,” Gupta said.The office of the CMO is located inside the premises of the Combined District Hospital in Sanjay Nagar, which is now a dedicated L2 hospital. Earlier, the district women’s hospital had to shut on June 17 after Covid-19 patients were found. Later, tests of five doctors, including chief medical superintendent, and six nurses and four other staff members were conducted. The hospital was also closed for the same reason on May 25. “The sampling of doctors, staff nurses and other employees was done on June 18. These employees had attended the OPD, where patients were found positive. However, we are yet to get the reports,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, chief medical superintendent of the hospital.Meanwhile, the health department is now focussing on more sampling through the surveillance teams and has deployed a team each at Vaishali, Khoda, IMS college Dasna and Sanjay Nagar hospital.“The surveillance teams have been asked to focus more on people who have symptoms of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI). The teams will check up patients with such symptoms and send them to the nearest sampling centre. The idea is to detect such cases at the earliest and get them medical treatment before the cases get into a critical state,” CMO said.On Saturday, the tally of Covid-19 cases crossed 800 with addition of 56 new cases. This is the biggest single day spike in number of Covid-19 positive cases in Ghaziabad, health officials said.The total positive cases stood at 853, while the number of deaths was 42 which included Saturday’s two deaths. The total number of patients discharged so far stands at 504.“Till Saturday we have 42 deaths, of which 16 have taken place in Ghaziabad, 14 at Meerut and two each in Delhi and Noida,” CMO added.Out of 56 new cases, three were from Modinagar, five from delta colonies of Surya Nagar, Brij Vihar and Ramprastha, five from Shalimar Garden, seven from Indirapuram, two from Vasundhara and one from Vaishali, among others.In a period of 20 days since June 1, 548 positive cases and 38 deaths have been added to the overall tally, the officials said.“Since the number of cases is on the rise, the CM has directed for better work plan for NCR areas of the state. He has also directed to strengthen health care infrastructure, surveillance system and also laid stress on increasing the random sampling in these areas,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).The UP CM had also sent special officers to 11 sensitive districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, to assess the Covid-19 situation. The two nodal officers sent to Ghaziabad have also completed their week-long visit on Saturday.“The officers will be sending a confidential report to the state government and the report is likely to highlight the shortcomings they observed in Ghaziabad and corrective measures which are needed to be taken up to tackle the Covid-19 spread,” said an officer from the Ghaziabad administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/office-of-ghaziabad-cmo-sealed-after-two-staff-test-positive-covid-19-cases-cross-850/story-lYA1SsOnEb4hVYOEB3R8WK.html
20-06-2020||City||With new discharge guidelines, Ghaziabad hopes for more vacant beds, better recovery rate||The health department officials said they are going to defer the opening of 200-bed Covid L1 hospital ( to treat non-critical cases) in Niwari as they expect more beds to be vacated in the operational L1 hospitals in the wake of the government revising the discharge policy on June 19. This is for the second time in the past one month that the government has revised guidelines for discharge of Covid-19 patients. At present, the Ghaziabad district has two operational L1 hospitals at Sahibabad (76 beds) and Nandgram (60 beds) while L2 hospital (100 beds) at Sanjay Nagar besides 400-bedded L3 category hospital of Santosh Hospital.According to the new guidelines, an asymptomatic patient can be discharged, without having to undergo any test, on the 10th day from the date of admission. But, such persons will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after discharge.Currently, all symptomatic and asymptomatic patients are to be admitted to dedicated Covid hospitals in the state. Earlier, asymptomatic patients were discharged only if their test report came negative for Covid-19. “We are expecting that more patients will get discharged from our L1 hospitals as the discharge guidelines have been changed. So we will delay the opening of our new L1 hospital in Niwari,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.For discharge of patients with mild symptoms, the new guidelines state that they will have to be without symptoms for three consecutive days.“Such patients will then undergo a test on the Tru-Net machine, either three days after showing no symptoms or on the 12th day from the date of admission, whichever is later. If their report is negative, they can be discharged. All patients showing moderate to severe symptoms will be referred to L2 or L3 hospitals, which are dedicated to treating more critical Covid-19 cases,” the CMO said.The officials said until now, patients with mild/moderate or severe Covid-19 symptoms such as fever, cough, etc were also being discharged after a single negative test report. “The revised guidelines will help us discharge more active cases in the coming days and this will reduce the burden on us to open new L1 hospitals. As a general observation, we have about 75-80% cases which are asymptomatic. So, there is a need to open more L1 hospitals. During the recent interactions will government appointed nodal officers, we have been asked to create bigger L1 hospitals will 200-400 bed capacity,” Dr Gupta said.“With revised guidelines, we expect that our recovery rate will also go up,” he said.As of now, the district health department had planned L1 hospitals at 13 different colleges with a combined capacity of about 4,000 beds in order to deal with any future surge in number of Covid-19 cases.With the rising number of cases, especially in the month of June, the discharge rate of Ghaziabad district stands at 53.82% at present. On May 31, the recovery rate was 76.39%.On the other hand, the current fatality rate is 5.01% (till June 19), while it was 1.31% on May 31.“The government appointed nodal officers have stressed on reducing the death rate and increasing surveillance activities. For early detection of cases, we have come with help desk facilities where the general public will be scanned with infrared thermometers and pulse oxymeters. These help desks are at primary health centres, community health centres and government offices,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, said.Till June 19, Ghaziabad has a total of 797 Covid-19 cases,with 328 of them till active, while 429 have been discharged so far. The death from the disease is 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-new-discharge-guidelines-ghaziabad-hopes-for-more-vacant-beds-better-recovery-rate/story-nlMAUxcFivSHwm6uN1AuPM.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||South Malwa districts lead in govt school enrollments||South Malwa districts have witnessed a higher rate of enrollment in government schools than the state average this year.State education department officials attribute it to the strengthened infrastructure at the government schools. Also, since the pandemic outbreak that has affected household incomes, parents are shifting their wards from private schools to the nearest government-run schools.According to the state education department data compiled early this week, Ferozepur saw a surge of nearly 13% in enrollment for classes 9 and 10 when compared with the 2019-20 academic session. The district education authorities have already registered 14,698 students for the high school section only. In 2019-20, the district had 13,028 students. The admissions for the current session are still on across the state.Last year, the government high schools in the state had a total enrolment of 3.91 lakh whereas in the 2020-21 session, 4.13 lakh students have registered in government schools.This year, the state average of student intake in the high school classes is 5.59% higher than the previous year. Muktsar registered seen an increase of 9.34%, Mansa (8.69%) and Fazilka (7.07%) in high school classes.Similarly, in the senior secondary classes (11 and 12), Ferozepur is leading with 10,203 students this year with an increase of 22.56% followed by Bathinda (21.16%) and Mansa (19.89%).The state average in these classes has also improved by 18.11%.In 2019-20 session, the government schools had 31,2534 whereas this year schools have enrolled 36,9121 students for the senior secondary classes.In the primary wing (classes 1-5), against the state average of 4.36% of this increase, Bathinda and Ferozepur have topped the total tally.With 47,992 students already enrolled, Bathinda has registered a jump of 5.96% followed by Ferozepur an increase of 4.74% with 42,734 students than 2019-20.In the middle section (classes 6-8), Fazilka, Ferozepur and Bathinda have gained top slots and they have registered higher than the state average improvement of 3.87% students.Mansa district education officer (secondary education) Surjit Singh Sidhu said, “Government schools have qualified staff and the infrastructure has improved significantly. It is after four years that government schools have once again started becoming a preferred choice of parents belonging to the lower middle class and farmers.”Government Senior Secondary School Bathinda, principal Saveen Kiran said the enrollment in the urban areas has seen an upward trend. “But students switching over to the government schools are not from established private institutes,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/south-malwa-districts-lead-in-govt-school-enrollments/story-0mPofqydW9RXX2b6XWIuYM.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Covid-19 management, Tribune flyover project put on the back burner||With the UT administration scrambling to stem the spread of Covid-19, the controversial Tribune flyover project has been relegated to the background.The ₹183-crore project—flyover, underpass and elevated rotary—was approved by the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) in February 2019 to decongest the Tribune rotary on the Dakshin Marg.But in November last year, the Punjab and Haryana high court, while staying the removal of trees for the project’s construction, had asked the UT adviser to seek public views on alternatives for the project. UT is yet to submit the report with the HC, further leading to uncertainty over the much-hyped project.REPORT TO BE SUBMITTED SOON: PARIDAUT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said that the UT will soon submit the report with the HC. It was delayed because senior UT officials had recommended taking the views of the administrator’s advisory council on the issue, he said, adding, in the current circumstances, the administration is unlikely to take the council’s views.“As uncertainty continues to prevail over the project, the delay will cause price escalation of construction. An early decision on the matter should be pursued so that if the flyover is constructed, even with changed design, its cost shouldn’t become too high,” said a UT engineering department official.On December 23, comments from the public were invited on the flyover project. Of the total 78 persons/groups that came forward, 53 were against the project. Later, the administration also took views of Punjab and Haryana governments. Earlier this year, the MC had passed a resolution in favour of the administration’s plan to construct the flyover.TECHNICAL PANEL CONSTITUTEDAfter the hearing, the UT adviser, last year, had constituted a technical committee headed by the UT finance secretary to examine the technical suggestions on alternatives to the project.The committee comprising senior UT officials and chief engineers from Punjab, Haryana and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had termed the alternatives as unviable. In the report, the committee analysed each of the seven alternatives and gave conclusions on each, individually. The reasons for rejection of each project were also given.Rejecting all alternatives, the committee had recommended that the opinion of MoRTH on the issue should also be taken. But the UT had rejected this recommendation, and instead is mulling to take the MC’s advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-covid-19-management-tribune-flyover-project-put-on-the-back-burner/story-XhlXzn1GxOcAxmJKACD0VL.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||21-year-old commits suicide in Faridkot, wife, in-laws arrested||Police on Saturday arrested the wife and in-laws of a 21-year-old youth who committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance in the Machaki Kalan area of the Faridkot district.After a complaint lodged by the deceased’ farther, the police have booked wife and five members of her family under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. All the accused has been arrested, police said.Sub-inspector Kulwinder Singh said that deceased was reportedly under pressure as his in-laws were intimidating him over some personal issue. He consumed poison after having an argument with in-laws on Tuesday. He was declared brought dead by doctors at the civil hospital.In another incident, an 18-year-old boy committed suicide by jumping in the Rajasthan feeder canal in the Faridkot town on Saturday. Citing witnesses, police said the boy jumped drowned in the canal and the body was yet to be recovered. “An inquest proceeding under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was initiated. The reason behind the suicide could not be ascertained,” a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/21-year-old-commits-suicide-in-faridkot-wife-in-laws-arrested/story-Vu0nrIMwLNMJQBdJt5bvnN.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Will find amicable solution to Sikh settlers’ issue, Adityanath tells SAD delegation||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday assured a three-member delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) that no Sikh farmer will be displaced in the state. Disclosing this after a meeting with the UP chief minister, former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra said the Adityanath also announced that his government will earmark an alternative site for the armed forces centre which was earlier proposed to be built on the land which Sikh farmers are settled on in Bijnore’s Champatpur Chakla.Besides Champatpur Chakla settlers, Sikhs in Lakhimpur Kheri of Swar tehsil in Rampur and Pilibhit were also fearing displacement.The SAD delegation visited UP on the directions of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.Chandumajra said Adityanath had also formed four separate teams to conduct surveys at all four places where Sikhs feared displacement to find out ways and means to give them rights to the land they were tilling.Chandumajra was accompanied by former ministers Sikander Singh Maluka and Daljit Singh Cheema.They said in the meeting, Adityanath summoned top officers, including revenue secretary to find an amicable solution to the problems being faced by the Sikh farmers. He said local BJP legislators Sushant Singh and Pardeep Singh also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-find-amicable-solution-to-sikh-settlers-issue-adityanath-tells-sad-delegation/story-TVElxv16ZggaKX6HeZBKlJ.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Six deaths, 120 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Saturday reported six deaths and 120 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 3,952. The death toll due to the infection in the state has reached 98, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. Ludhiana reported two deaths and 31 fresh cases. Those dead include a resident of Gopalpur village in Delhon, while the other was a resident of Talwandi Bhai in Ferozepur. Of the 31 fresh cases, 24 belong to Ludhiana, three from Jalandhar, two from Moga, one each from Ferozepur and Haryana. MALERKOTLA MAN DIES OF CORONAVIRUSA 55-year-old man died of coronavirus on Friday evening at his residence in Malerkotla town of Sangrur. Abdul Majid was also suffering from hypertension and diabetes. 78-YEAR-OLD MAN DIES IN AMRITSARA 78-year-old man died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar. “The patient, a resident of Katra Dullo, was admitted at GMCH on June 8 and was found suffering from severe acute respiratory illness and diabetes. Two persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in Tarn Taran on Saturday. With this, the district has now total 19 active cases.Also, 16 more cases were reported in Pathankot district.45 CONTRACT INFECTION IN JALANDHARForty-five people, including 22 police officials, tested positive for the virus in Jalandhar. Officials said 11 migrant workers, six domestic travellers, 22 police officials and their local contacts of previous cases found positive for the virus.Meanwhile, six more coronavirus cases have been reported in Hoshiarpur. Three of them had recently returned from Delhi and two from Bihar. The tally of positive cases has reached 162.SHO, GUNMAN AMONG 4 TEST +VE A station house officer and his gunman were among four people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Phagwara while nine people contracted infection in Kapurthala on Saturday.Kapurthala superintendent of police Manpreet Singh said the SHO and his team members had been home quarantined and cops were being screening for Covid-19.Ten more people, including five women and a seven-year-old girl, tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mohali on Saturday, taking the district’s count to 218. Rupnagar reported five fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-deaths-120-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-Xpdp7H2K1zlu1S25skkC7K.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Implement SC order, give Covid test reports directly to patients: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Saturday directed the state and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to implement the Supreme Court (SC) order to hand over Covid-positive reports directly to patients. The court, while hearing the plea filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Vinod Mishra from Malad, was informed by BMC that the petition was not maintainable and should have been a public interest litigation (PIL). The court, however, said that in light of the Apex Court order, it would not interfere, and issued the said directions.The division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Nitin Borkar, while hearing the petition filed by Mishra, challenging a circular issued by BMC on June 13 regarding the revised test reports rule, was informed by advocates Amogh Singh and Jeet Gandhi that SC on Friday had directed the state government to give the reports directly to the patients. In light of their grievance being addressed, they sought the petition to be disposed of.Senior counsel for the BMC, however, challenged the maintainability of the petition, stating that the issue was of general public well-being and should have been filed as a PIL. He further submitted a reply by BMC authorities that was not accepted by the bench as it was not an affirmed copy.In light of the above and the fact that the Apex Court had already issued an order, the high court directed the state and civic authorities to implement the Supreme Court order and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/implement-sc-order-give-covid-test-reports-directly-to-patients-hc/story-z1XR1EvXXBV9fhwsCKfhJL.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Harsimrat urges MEA to facilitate return of youth stuck in Malaysia||Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday urged the external affairs minister S Jaishankar to take up the issue of repatriation of more than 350 Punjabi youths, who are languishing in Malaysia even after completion of their jail sentences for illegal stay, with the Malaysian government.Families of the affected youth met Harsimrat at Badal village in Muktsar at the instance of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders. The family members told the minister that their kin are currently detained in camps in Malaysia after completion of their prison sentences for illegal stay. The youth had been duped by travel agents who had taken them to Malaysia on the pretext of employment but they had to fend for themselves and in the process, they overstayed in Malaysia.After listening to them, the Union minister called up the Indian high commissioner in Malaysia and asked him to help the youth in every possible way and ensure their safety and security.She also requested the high commissioner to depute an officer from the embassy to visit the youth and facilitate their communication with their families in Punjab.YAD president Parambans Romana said feedback states that some of the stranded youth did not have any funds to purchase a return ticket. “The YAD will bear the travel expenses of such youths,” he said in a statement issued by the office of the Union minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/harsimrat-urges-mea-to-facilitate-return-of-youth-stuck-in-malaysia/story-3DkuhBMBrmLFbbNyLQQ2eN.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Holding final-year exams will delay new academic year: Colleges||A day after the Maharashtra education department decided that final-year exams for non-professional courses across 14 state universities will be made optional, colleges and universities are looking at a Herculean task ahead.As per the government’s directive, each of the 7.3 lakh final-year students, studying across state universities, will have to submit a written undertaking to their respective universities and state whether they wish to write the exam.University of Mumbai (MU), with 2.8 lakh final-year students alone, will depend on its affiliated colleges to collect the written undertakings and submit them to the university.“The government resolution (GR) is applicable to everyone, and students will soon be informed of the deadline for submitting written undertakings. As of now, we are focusing on putting together a system to ensure exams are conducted for interested students,” said Vinod Patil, controller of examinations, MU.Colleges affiliated to MU feel that most students will opt out of the examinations, since they have been provided the option of appearing for a re-examination in the next academic year, to better their score. “Holding examinations so late in the year will be very unproductive. We hope the admissions process begins soon so that we can start work on the next academic year,” said the principal of a college in south Mumbai.The government resolution released on Friday had also highlighted that holding examinations will involve several tasks, including setting of question papers, arrangement of answer booklets, assessment of papers, as well as announcement of results. The resolution pointed out that if a single person involved in this process tests positive for Covid-19, there will be a possibility of the virus spreading to a large number of people.It further stated that the entire process will take time, eating into the schedule of the next academic year.Through a Facebook Live session on Friday evening, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that while a decision on final-year exams of professional courses will be taken based on the decision of individual exam councils, the state government will hold exams for only those students from non-professional courses who are ready to give a written undertaking about the same. “Exams will be held in the near future, keeping social distancing norms in mind,” said Samant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/holding-final-year-exams-will-delay-new-academic-year-colleges/story-3FUE5oxD2yaGhjtMoBS4rJ.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Phagwara admn withdraws order of deputing teachers to check illegal mining||Facing flack from the opposition, the Phagwara administration on Saturday withdrew its order for deploying teachers to check illegal mining.Phagwara sub-divisional magistrate Pavitar Singh, in an order issued on June 11, deputed government schoolteachers to check illegal mining in the area during the night. The state government has faced flack from the opposition parties including SAD after the HT highlighted the matter.In a fresh circular issued on Saturday, the SDM withdrew the order, in which he directed teachers to keep a check on trucks and tractor-trailers (carrying sand or mud) coming from other areas, on the various checkpoints in Phagwara.Teachers, along with the cops, asked to remain at checkpoints and submit their daily report of truck or tractor-trailers checked to the SDM office. The administration has appointed around 30 teachers to perform the duty between 9pm to 1am in Phagwara.Earlier in May this year, Gurdaspur deputy commissioner’s office posted teachers outside four distilleries to keep an eye on smuggling. The orders were later withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/phagwara-admn-withdraws-order-of-deputing-teachers-to-check-illegal-mining/story-s4INoJx4meeqcogTyuaEFK.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||83 community transmission cases in Amritsar in 5 days||The district administration and the health department are on toes as the Covid-19 spread in the community is increasing rapidly in Amritsar, with 83 cases being reported in five days where the patient had no travel history or been in proximity to an infected person from outside the state.After relaxations in the lockdown were announced on May 19, it took 17 days (till June 5) for the district to record 100 community transmission cases and next 10 days (till June 15) to reach 200-mark of community transmission cases. However, the community transmission cases showed a sudden spike in the last five days as 83 more cases got added to the list. To date, the district, which has been put in the ‘red-zone’ category, has recorded 752 Covid-19 cases, of which 499 patients have recovered and 31 had succumbed to the disease.Since May 19, over 445 Covid-19 cases were reported in the district of which 283, approximately 63%, are community transmission cases. Sixty-six such cases surfaced on Thursday, Friday and Saturday alone.“These community transmission patients were tested in flu corners after they showed symptoms of the disease. Their source of infection could not be traced yet but the administration and health department have made three containment and two micro-containment zones in the district, to further contain the spread of the disease. The cases are being increased rapidly as the lockdown was uplifted and people are community in the market without taking precautionary measures,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“Also, to control its spread and to find out how much the community has been infected, we are taking over 1,000 swab samples daily from the district, which is being tested at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The recovery rate in Amritsar is high and the active patients will soon get recovered,” he said. ESI HOSPITAL CLOSED AFTER PHARMACIST TESTS POSITIVEA day after a pharmacist of ESI Hospital, Amritsar, tested positive for Covid-19 the hospital has been temporarily closed.“A team of the health department visited the ESI Hospital where a pharmacist was found infected. The swab samples of the entire staff have been taken for testing and disinfectants were sprayed. Till the reports of all the staff members are awaited, the hospital will be closed. The close contacts of the pharmacist have been quarantined,” said Dr Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/83-community-transmission-cases-in-amritsar-in-5-days/story-MkK19yFYr36OMGWvKAsJ2N.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 makes yoga popular in Chandigarh, but hits instructors, institutes badly||The coronavirus pandemic has motivated residents to adopt a healthy lifestyle and boost their immune systems, and yoga is turning out to be one of the favourite fitness routines.Followers of this ancient practice have increased manyfold in the last two to three months, but in spite of that, the pandemic has hit professional yoga instructors and training institutes badly. Due to fears of spread, residents are avoiding engaging instructors, thus costing them their monthly incomes. Training institutes across the region are the worst hit. With no footfall and heavy rentals to pay, many of the centres have closed down or are at the verge of doing so. “Yoga industry is one of the worst hit sectors,” says yoga expert Harimindra Singh, 30, who is the co-founder of Rishikesh Yoga Association, a training institute located in the Yoga Capital of the World, Rishikesh, in Uttarakhand.“There are over 100 institutes here, catering annually to over 20,000-25,000 enthusiasts, 80% of them foreigners. But for the last three months, there hasn’t been a single admission, and with monthly rentals to pay, institutes are finding it hard to survive,” adds Harimindra.The yoga industry of Rishikesh provides lucrative job opportunities to many yoga instructors from Chandigarh.INCOMES HALVED WITH ONLINE CLASSESAt a time when physical classes have become obsolete, many instructors are turning to the alternative of offering classes online. But that is not nearly enough as regards the number of clients they used to have before the lockdown.“During the lockdown our first motive was to engage our old clients, so we started online classes. But we are charging only half the usual amount,” says yoga instructor Mandeep Lal, who works in Chandigarh. “Earlier, on an average, a yoga instructor would earn somewhere between ₹30,000 to ₹40,000 monthly. This has been reduced to half or less,” he adds.Many instructors from India got the opportunity to work overseas, and had been earning decent money. “In Vietnam, people have started visiting the centres, but right now I am earning one-fourth what I used to earn before Covid,” says Chandigarh-based yoga expert Munish Kumar, who runs four centres under the name of Shine Yoga School in Vietnam. “Before lockdown, I had 11 students training to become teachers. Now, only five of them want to continue saying they can’t afford the course anymore,” he adds. The course fee is $1,500 (₹1.14 lakh).With a hike in the number of people practising yoga daily, the demand for yoga accessories has also gone up. To keep yoga institutes afloat, some equipment companies are extending them financial help. “My friend, who is a distributor of famous yoga equipment company Manduka in Singapore and Vietnam, tells me that there has been a decent increase in the sale of yoga accessories now. The top yoga equipment companies have also come up with schemes to extend some financial help to the institutes,” says Munish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-makes-yoga-popular-in-chandigarh-but-hits-instructors-institutes-badly/story-eZOwRNtX2mCyhVuD0YeVXP.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown delays truck scanner project at Attari-Wagah border||The coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown has hit the operation of the full-body truck scanner installed at the integrated checkpost (ICP) Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Afghanistan and Pakistan through the Attari-Wagah border. Officials of the Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI), which manages the ICP’s affairs, said they are waiting certification from the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) as a team of experts could not visit the ICP for conducting the scanner’s trial due to lockdown. The truck scanner project costing Rs 23 crore was announced in March 2017 by then Union minister of state for home affairs Kiran Rijiju. Of the five truck scanners imported from the US, the first one has been installed at the ICP, Attari, to scan concealed narcotics and weapons being smuggled from Pakistan.The Centre had sanctioned five FBTS for Attari–Wagha in Punjab, Poonch–Chakkandabad and Uri–Salamabad in Jammu & Kashmir on the India-Pakistan border, Petrapole in Kolkata at India–Bangladesh border and Raxaul in Bihar on India–Nepal border.Since the foundation stone of the ICP was laid in 2010, there has been a demand for a scanner as manual checking of vehicles by customs officials with the help of sniffer dogs is not 100% errorfree, and has sometimes led to clearing of the contraband.“The construction and installation works of the scanner have been completed. We are now waiting the AERB team’s visit. The team couldn’t reach here due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The scanner emits radiation. Once we get certification from the AERB, the scanner will be made operational. We have already put forward our request to the AERB to conduct the scanner’s trial,” said the ICP’s in-charge Sukhdev Singh. “In November last year, an AERB team had visited and during the trial of the scanner, a technical glitch was detected. The glitch was repaired by an US-based engineer. Now, the scanner is all set to be operational.”With the imposition of the nationwide lockdown, the movement of trade with Afghanistan thorough the ICP was also suspended for at least two months. The cross-border trade resumed from May 28, but only a few trucks have been importing goods from Afghanistan. However, trade with Pakistan is at a standstill since the New Delhi’s action of revoking the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The project, which commenced in March 2018, has so far missed several deadlines. In July last year, the special cell of Delhi Police seized 50kg heroin evaluated at ₹200 crore from a cold storage located in Haryana’s Sonepat. The consignment had reportedly entered India through Attari ICP in a truck. In June, the customs department seized 532kg of heroin and 52kg of mixed narcotics concealed in the consignment of rock salt imported in a truck. The accused of the 532 kg heroin smuggling racket, as per the police and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), had already cleared five such consignments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-delays-truck-scanner-project-at-attari-wagah-border/story-6L4Y9gtmzLH3aLaZmfumOM.html
20-06-2020||City||Man booked for sexually assaulting 14-year-old cousin in Badlapur||Badlapur police on Saturday booked a 21-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting and attempting murder of his 14-year-old cousin.The man tried to sexually assault and strangulate the girl with her dupatta in Badlapur East on Friday morning when he was alone at home with her. The police have booked him under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and attempt to murder. The accused, however, is absconding.Senior police inspector, DV Deshmukh said, “The girl’s father in his complaint informed us that the girl was found unconscious in the house and the neighbours saw her cousin running away. The girl was rushed to a hospital in Ulhasnagar and was later shifted to Mumbai hospital. We are looking out for the accused.”The girl’s mother said, “He was with my daughter for over 30 minutes, after which the neighbours tried to call her. He opened the door and ran out. The girl she was unconscious and there were bloodstains on the bedsheet. He wanted to marry my daughter, but we refused since he was related.”Deputy commissioner of police, P Shewale, said, “We have registered a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 452 (house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code and under sections 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (doing of an act with ‘sexual intent’) of Pocso Act. The case was registered after investigating all angles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-14-year-old-cousin-in-badlapur/story-12KyGoJ0gpKVbwAN1fvkyI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt calls all-party meet on farm sector ordinances||ChandigarhChief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called an all-party meeting on June 24 over the issue of three ordinances related to the agriculture sector, recently passed by the Centre, state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said on Saturday.“Views of all the parties will be taken to arrive at the consensus that these ordinances were against the interest of the farming community and we should approach the Centre and the prime minister over this issue,” Jakhar said.He said farming communities were up against this ‘kala kanoon’ (black law) and they have vehemently opposed these ordinances.“Under these laws, the efforts are being made to hand over the rights of farmers to the multinationals and big corporates,” he alleged and expressed fear that the Narendra Modi government had decided to “disband” the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism with these ordinances under a “planned move”.The Centre recently passed three ordinances, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance.The Centre had said these would transform the farm sector and help raise farmers’ income.However, the Congress government in Punjab had said these ordinances were completely against farmers and would badly hit the agrarian state.The amendment to the Essential Commodities Act was meant to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-calls-all-party-meet-on-farm-sector-ordinances/story-k0Mfsl4aAumV4ZexKQt5xI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab basmati sees revival in export market as orders grow||Exporters of Punjab’s premium aromatic basmati rice are ecstatic as they have started getting orders from international buyers again even as they suffered a setback in 2018 when hundreds of consignments were returned by the European Union (EU) and countries in the Middle East due to traces of fungicide in the grain.The advance orders are mainly for the 1,121 and 1,718 varieties of the aromatic rice.The turnaround is being attributed to the fact that the state’s basmati growers have been able to control the use of fungicides and pesticides in the crop. Besides, amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the rice distributors in the destination countries are keen on piling up stocks, it is learnt.This time, basmati traders have started bookings even before the sowing of the crop. July 31 is the deadline to transplant basmati saplings. The exporters are targeting a sale over ₹36,000 crore after the harvest that will begin in October-November, an increase of 10-12% over the previous year.“Of the 40 lakh tonnes India exports every year, nearly 20 lakh tonne is exported from Punjab. The state’s border belt comprising Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts are main producers of the rice. Though Sangrur, Moga and Fazilka districts also grow the rice, the quality of rice cultivated there is not that fine,” said Ashok Sethi, director of the Basmati Exports Association.“This year, the exports from the state are expected to touch 23-24 lakh tonnes,” he added.“The basmati growers in Punjab are expected to make good profits this kharif season as prices of the produce are expected to touch ₹3,500 per quintal,” said state secretary (agriculture) Kahan Singh Pannu.Harpreet Singh, a farmer from Sarwali village in Batala, said, “If the exporters are claiming to be flush with orders, they should disclose what rate they will offer if our produce is as per the benchmark. The price of basmati per quintal has not gone beyond ₹3,000 for many years, with a minor fluctuation of ₹200-300.” THE 2018 EU CURBSIn 2018, when the European Union (EU) slapped new import restrictions on the issue of fungicide traces, at least 100 containers were sent back by Norway, Sweden, England and Finland, leading to huge losses to the local basmati exporters.The hardest hit from the decision were farmers in Punjab and Haryana, who have been using the fungicide for decades to protect their produce from the ‘rice blast disease’. The EU order in June 2018 had said the level of tricyclazole must be cut from 1.0 mg per kg to 0.01 mg.“We had assured the basmati importers that the fungicide traces will be reduced. Now, it has come down to permissible limits,” said Pannu.“We are motivating the farmers to expand the area under basmati cultivation and use minimum fungicide,” Sethi added.Saudi Arabia, Dubai, Syria, Kuwait, the European Union, and the North American countries are major basmati importers.Until 2018, Iran was a major importer of basmati as it would order 14 lakh tonnes of the rice every year.But last year, India became party to the trade sanctions imposed by the US on Iran, leading to halt on the basmati exports to the country. Even as Iran has no direct trade with India, it is expected to buy basmati from Dubai-based traders who import the aromatic rice from Punjab and elsewhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-basmati-sees-revival-in-export-market-as-orders-grow/story-6ZT8WKpKhkeaXoPDs7p1pJ.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||One arrested for robbing Andheri courier firm of ₹9.25 lakh at gun point||A 31-year-old man was arrested for robbing a courier firm of ₹9.25 lakh at gun point in Andheri (East) on Friday afternoon. The complainant, Dharmendra Patel, 45, manager of the firm said that the accused, Jatin Lalji Patel, along with an accomplice, threatened the staff with his gun and robbed the money kept in the locker. According to the manager, the money was kept for the carpenter who had renovated the office in the month of March. They had decided to keep the money in the office due to the lockdown. Soon after the complaint, a team of police officials scanned through CCTV images and through technical intelligence narrowed down on the accused, and arrested Patel from Mira Road. VIjay Belge, senior police inspector at Andheri police station, said, “We recovered ₹6.75 lakh from him, and are searching for his accomplice.”The accused has been booked under sections 397, 342, 34 of Indian Penal Code and sections 3,25 of Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-arrested-for-robbing-andheri-courier-firm-of-9-25-lakh-at-gun-point/story-zpGz4TZPI154uI57YrCf0I.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jaypee moves court for restoration of possession, MC put on notice for June 24||Jaypee group on Saturday moved court against municipal corporation’s takeover of the Dadumajra garbage processing plant, and sought restoration of the possession.Taking note of the plea, the court has put the civic body on notice, demanding a response by June 24.Meanwhile, on Friday, as MC took possession of the controversial plant, the court earlier in the day had already stayed the takeover for a month. However, the order could not be conveyed to the civic body in time.NK Vohra, local head, Jaypee, claimed, “MC’s counsel was present during the proceedings. We communicated the court’s decision to MC officials as well, but they still took possession forcibly. Our staff was also pushed out of the plant.”With the plant running much below its full capacity and resulting in dumping of garbage in the open in Dadumajra, the MC General House had terminated the contract with the firm and directed MC officials to take its possession in March this year. The civic body had issued a termination notice on March 5, asking the firm to hand over the plant within a week. On this, the firm moved court that ordered a stay for three months on March 12.After its elapse on June 12, MC after issuing a 24-hour notice on Thursday, took over the plant on Friday. “The stay order becomes infructuous with MC already taking over the plant,” said a senior MC official.On Saturday, the firm approached the court again for restoring the possession and ensure status quo ante (previously existing state of affairs). “We have also filed a contempt plea against MC, and it has been issued a notice by the court for June 24. The March 12 stay order had asked for arbitration proceedings to be started. We approached the arbitrator in May, but MC took possession of the plant in violation of the court order,” said Vohra.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “We will be taking legal view on Monday, and then proceed accordingly.”Poor solid waste management remains a key reason for Chandigarh slipping in Swachh Survekshan rankings over the past couple of years.On its part, Jaypee has maintained that MC is responsible for the current performance of the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jaypee-moves-court-for-restoration-of-possession-mc-put-on-notice-for-june-24/story-2zD7zRlobfH2YELW0xD1nK.html
20-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 172 cases on Saturday||Navi Mumbai registered its highest one-day death toll on Saturday with 10 deaths reported in 24 hours. The city also registered 172 new cases on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases to 4,687. The total deaths reported so far is 157. Eighty patients have recovered on Saturday.An NMMC officer said, “Of 172 cases, 32 cases were reported from Nerul ward, followed by 29 in Kopar Khairane and 28 in Ghansoli. Fourteen children have tested positive including a six- year-old girl from Sector 36 in Seawoods and nine-year-old boy from Sector 26 in Belapur.”Panvel on the other hand witnessed highest one day spike in cases with 73 new cases on Saturday. Two people have also died while the total positive cases are now 1,267, while the death toll has increased to 55.In Panvel City Municipal Corporation limits, 37 patients tested negative and were discharged on the day. The two deaths are of a 25-year-old resident of Khidukpada in Kalamboli and a 50 year old resident of Navde in Kalamboli. Out of the 73 positive cases, Kamothe has the highest number of 14 positive cases.Of the total 55 deaths, there have been 16 deaths in Kalamboli, 17 in Kamothe, 8 in Kharghar, 7 in New Panvel, 2 in Panvel and 5 in Taloja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-172-cases-on-saturday/story-xEIVeqRuKp49A17wZ0p05L.html
20-06-2020||City||Man booked for posting obscene content on social media||The Turbhe police on Friday booked an unknown man for creating and posting obscene images of Hindu mythological figures on social media. The case was registered following the complaint by a journalist.The complainant wrote to the Navi Mumbai crime branch and the cyber cell in April after coming across the account on social media.“The account has been taken down and a case has been registered under section 295A of the Indian Penal Code,” said an officer from Turbhe police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-posting-obscene-content-on-social-media/story-P95J5EkCjzUFUFwpWCIhaJ.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Thanks to internet, 94-year-old woman who disappeared 40 years ago, reunites with family||Thanks to the Internet, a 94- year-old woman from Maharashtra who had gone missing four decades ago has been reunited with her family.Unfortunately, when Panchubai, the woman, reached her grandson’s house in Nagpur three days ago, she could not meet her son. He had died three years ago.Sometime in 1979-80, a truck driver spotted a woman, clueless and in a pitiable condition, walking along a road in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh district.“She had been stung by honeybees and could not speak coherently,” Israr Khan, the truck driver’s son, told PTI.Khan’s father took the woman home and she began to live with his family. Israr himself was a baby then.“We called her Achchhan Mausi. She was mentally unstable and used to mutter in Marathi which we could not understand,” he said.“I sometimes asked her about her family, but she could not tell anything,” he said.Khan also wrote about her on Facebook, but it did not lead to anywhere.“She used to talk about a place called `Khanjma Nagar’. Google search of the name yielded no result. Then on May 4 this year, as we were at home amid lockdown, I again asked her about her hometown,” he said.“This time she spoke about a place called Parsapur. We googled it and found that there is one Paraspur in Maharashtra,” Khan said.On May 7, he contacted a man called Abhishek who runs a shop in Paraspur and told him about the woman.Abhishek, who belongs to the Kirar community, told him that there is a village called Khanjma Nagar near the town.“I sent him Mausi’s video at 8:30 pm on May 7, which he shared on a WhatsApp group of the Kirar community. I received a phone call from Abhishek around midnight, saying the woman had been identified and her relatives traced,” Khan said.A video of the old woman was sent to Prithvi Bhaiyalal Shingane, Panchubais grandson who lives in Nagpur. The Shingane family was astounded. They were eager to bring her home, but the wait was not yet over as lockdown was in force.Finally, on June 17, Shingane took his grandmother -- whose full name is Panchfulabai Tejpalsingh Shingane -- home.“We are natives of Khanjma Nagar in Achalpur tehsil in Amravati district of Maharashtra, but the family shifted to Nagpur about five decades ago,” he told PTI.“In 1979, my father brought my grandmother to Nagpur for treatment of her mental ailment from Khanjma Nagar. The doctors were optimistic about curing her. But one day she left home in the evening, telling neighbours that she was going to her father’s place, and disappeared for ever,” he said.“My father searched for her for years without success.He died in 2017. It would have been so much better if I had found her three years ago,” Shingane added. “At the age of 94, my grandmother is still in good health thanks to the Khan family who looked after her for such a long time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thanks-to-internet-94-year-old-woman-who-disappeared-40-years-ago-reunites-with-family/story-XJ4HCvnGoUwDkjoSRgnjMI.html
20-06-2020||City||Plastics factory goes up in flames in Mohali||Parts of a factory manufacturing plastic products were gutted in the Industrial Area, Phase 9, Mohali, on Saturday evening. No injury or casualty was reported as all workers had left the premises at 5pm, an hour before the fire erupted at Accutex Sales and Services situated on plot number 165.Fire officer Karam Chand Sood said though the exact reason is yet is ascertained, it seemed the fire broke out due to a short-circuit. “As a lot of inflammable items were stocked on the premises, the fire spread very fast. However, three fire tenders were rushed to the spot and took half an hour to douse the flames,” he said. “Though losses can’t be ascertained yet, we were able to save offices and some parts of the factory. However, furniture and other items were damaged.”Sources said further damage was controlled as firemen were able to take out domestic gas cylinders from the premises.The factory is engaged in manufacturing and exporting industrial components, including chrome-plated bars, broaching tools, burnishing tools, ceramic-coated pulleys, dies and moulds. The owners claimed they have suffered around ₹70 lakh losses.Electronics shop gutted in ZirakpurAn electronics shop was damaged after a short-circuit triggered fire in the basement of a shopping complex in Zirakpur on Friday night. Shop owner Saurav said he was present in the shop located in the basement of Peer Muchalla City Centre, when he saw smoke around 11pm. Soon the fire spread, gutting the electronics goods worth ₹90 lakhs, he said. He had started the business just a month ago.Fire officer Rajiv Kumar said seven fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames.In the first-ever audit held after the Surat coaching centre fire tragedy almost a year back, the Mohali fire department had found several safety violations in most commercial establishments in the district. The fire department even submitted a report to the concerned authorities and issued around 200 notices to commercial establishments in June 2019, but no action has been taken so far. Past incidentsMarch 1, 2020: Fire broke out in the basement of a retail store in Phase 5, gutting the entire building December 5, 2019: A cafe was gutted at the busy Phase 3B2 market, damaging a major portion of the buildingAugust 27: Two employees of a rubber parts manufacturing unit at Kuranwala village in Dera Bassi were injured after fire broke out in the factoryAugust 25: A pharma unit in Saidpura village was razed to the ground, injuring 16, as fire broke out following a chemical reactor blast||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plastics-factory-goes-up-in-flames-in-mohali/story-mNMFs4KZy7STQUFB5SmKnI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally reaches 404||Twenty-three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Saturday, taking the tally in the Union Territory to 404, officials said.Two girls aged five and seven years, and a nine-year-old boy are among the new patients, according to a medical bulletin.It said 316 of the infected have been cured and the city now has 82 active Covid-19 cases. The virus has claimed six lives here.So far, 6,578 samples have been tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-404/story-9QgEjeEEbGiKqH2gIWT7HI.html
20-06-2020||City||29 test positive for Covid-19 in Himchal; tally rises to 656||Twenty-nine more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in state to 656.Eleven cases were reported in Hamirpur district, four each in Kangra, Shimla and Solan, three in Una, two in Sirmaur, and one in Kullu.Hamirpur deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said that the new cases have been reported from Hamirpur, Barsar and Sujanpur subdivisions. These include two women, two children and seven men. Seven people had returned from Delhi and one from Jhansi, while three are primary contacts of a covid patient.In Kangra, four people – three women and a man – have tested positive. Two Delhi returned persons, a woman and a man from Indora and Jawali subdivision were tested positive. Two women, both primary contacts of a covid patient, were tested positive in Jaisingpur subdivision, said Kangra DC Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.In Solan, three primary contacts of a covid positive including the ex-pradhan of Gullerwala panchayat, have tested positive. One case has been reported from Nalagarh area.Four cases reported were in Shimla including an Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) jawan, who had returned from Rajasthan. One case was detected late on Saturday evening.A Delhi-returned man and a woman with travel history to Gurugram were also tested positive. Sirmaur cases include an employee of a private company and a primary contact of a covid patient. One case was reported in Kullu. The 26-year-old man had returned from Delhi and was under institutional quarantine. Three cases were reported in Una and one in Bilaspur late on Saturday evening.232 ACTIVE CASES IN STATEAt present, there are 232 active cases in state; 405 have recovered; eleven migrated, and six have succumbed to the disease.Till date, Himachal has recorded 656 cases. As many as 326 cases have been recorded in June.Kangra is worst-hit district with 170 cases followed by Hamirpur with 166 cases. Una has recorded a total of 80 cases; Solan 74 cases, Chamba 43, Bilaspur 31, Sirmaur and Shimla 30 each, Mandi 23, Kullu five and Kinnaur three cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/29-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himchal-tally-rises-to-656/story-hwhdXFfg9DemfE9tU1aa3M.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||ROUNDABOUT No one embraces death the way you did: Kaifi Azmi||The year was 1964 and I was but nine when I heard my mother, aunts and older cousins talk in pained tones of the death of actor-filmmaker Guru Dutt, the rare talent who changed the landscape and mood of Hindi cinema even when he was making crime thrillers. Of course, his work of genius, Pyaasa, was rated one of the best 100 films of all times by Time Magazine. Yet at 39, after the box office failure of his autobiographical film Kagaz ke Phool, about the sad end of a great film director, he took his life with a deadly cocktail of alcohol and sleeping pills alone in his rented flat at Pedder Road as he and his wife had parted ways because of his fascination with his heroine Waheeda Rehman.The death left Mumbai of those days desolate as Guru Dutt was a much-loved person and artiste. It was poet Kaifi Azmi, lyricist of the famous Kagaz ke Phool song: Waqt ne kiya kya hasin sitam (time has done such charming injustice), who summed up his tragedy in a haunting ghazal that was on every lip in those sad times: Rehne ko sadaa dahar mein aata nahin koi, Tum jaise gaye aise bhi jaata nahin koi, Ik baar toh khud maut bhi ghabra gayi hogi, Yun maut ko seene se lagaata nahin koi! (No one comes to live on this earth forever, Yet no one goes the way you did, Even Death must have been taken aback, For no one embraces her the way you did).Season of sadnessIt was this ghazal by late Kaifi Azmi that was came to mind in this cruel month of June in the depressing days of Covid -9 when a young star, with everything going for him, chose to end his life. This is what popular actor Sushant Singh Rajput (34) did in his dream flat from where he looked out at the sea and watched the stars through a telescope. His suicide left his family friends and fans shocked by the intensity of his depression and loneliness in the cut-throat world of Mumbai films where an outsider, who is not from a film clan, is suspect and bullied. Here, talent is not seen as an asset but competition by many to be nipped in the bud.Saif Ali Khan who did a cameo role in Sushant’s yet to be released film Dil Bechara said thus of the young actor: “I think he had very refined looks. He was a good-looking guy. He was very talented, he was a little edgy… When I met him, I thought he was a little on the edge. And he was a little, I don’t know - I think he was looking for something. He was interested in the same things as me in some ways, like he liked astronomy, and he liked, you know, discussing some of this philosophy and talking about some stuff, which, you know, one dabbles in as an amateur.” Saif also described the outpouring of love by bigwigs of the cine game as ultimate hypocrisy, adding that silence would have been more appropriate.Copycat suicidesWhen a star adulated by many dies along with him die the dreams and aspirations of her/his admirers. There have been reports from different parts of the country including Nayagaon in the tricity of young fans killing themselves as they could not reconcile with their hero’s death. He leaves behind friends who will regret always that they missed his call and a love who will wonder for a long time of what could have been and of course a family shattered behind a stoic exterior.Commenting on the young following their hero to a sad end, psychiatrist Anirudh Kala says: “Copycat suicides are a known side effect of such callous media coverage of a celebrity’s death!” Indeed, regrets are many and those who lose someone they care for live with it for a lifetime. The mind goes back Guru Dutt and the sad lot of his immensely talented wife, singer Geeta Dutt, whose songs are alive even now and who became a victim of depression in the unhappy triangle, finally dying of cirrhosis of the liver.Some actors are more open about sharing their blues as Deepika Padukone did a few years ago and as Deepti Naval did many years ago. Bemoaning the loss of a talented actor like Sushant, Naval said: “The fight must go on, we have to fight the black wind with work!” So while bidding adieu to this young actor who made great strides in a year from teleserials to some of the best films, let’s remember him with love and think of his film Chhichhore, which had a strong message of struggling against all odds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-no-one-embraces-death-the-way-you-did-kaifi-azmi/story-S1zmLFQfWBLZLzkMcwHujO.html
20-06-2020||City||J&K reports six deaths, 154 new infections||Six people succumbed to Covid-19 infection in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, while 154 fresh cases were reported in the region.This has taken the total fatalities in J&K to 81.As per an official spokesperson, the new Covid-19 cases include 19 security forces personnel whose samples were tested at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) here.Among these fresh infections, 28 pertained to Srinagar district, which currently has the highest positive cases (396) and 19 deaths. With 21 testing positive on Saturday, Baramulla now has 302 cases and 13 deaths.Of the six fatalities, most were old and suffering from other diseases.On Saturday, 142 patients recovered and were discharged from different hospitals across J&K. So far, 3,336 patients have recovered and 2,417 are active cases in the Union territory.A senior health officer said not only the death ratio is low, the number of recovered patients is higher than the active cases in the UT. “For us, the situation is well under control despite cases being reported on a regular basis,” the officer said.So far, officials said, 3,01,209 samples have been tested in J&K and 2,51,788 have been enlisted for observation in 20 districts of the UT.A SKIMS spokesperson said 1,936 samples were tested at the hospital lab on Saturday and 55 tested positive. While at SKIMS Bemina Covid-19 centre, 24 tested positive out of the 538 samples collected from Budgam and Srinagar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-six-deaths-154-new-infections/story-rXOzBYgpZY1gjUBsOINxXK.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Subsidised rates for Covid-19 beds in Delhi’s private hospitals approved by DDMA||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday approved the recommendations of the High-Level Expert Committee to fix subsidised for rates of beds for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals of the national capital.The rates for isolation beds have been fixed between Rs 8,000 – 10,000 a day; for a bed at an ICU between Rs 13,000-15,000 a day and for ICUs with ventilator between Rs 15,000-18,000.The high-level committee had been formed last week by Union home minister Amit Shah with an aim to fix the rates of isolation beds, ICUs and testing kits in Delhi. The rates would be applicable to all Covid-19 beds up to the upper limit of 60% of the total bed capacity of private hospitals. DDMA approved recommendations of High Level Expert Committee for fixing subsidised rates for Covid treatment in private hospitals Delhi.#IndiaFightsCoronaThe Delhi government had also said that beds for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals will be subsidised. “100 per cent Covid beds in private hospitals shall be subsidised up to upper limit of 60 per cent of total hospital capacity,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said in a tweet. केंद्र की समिति ने प्राइवेट अस्पतालों में 60% कोविड बेड्ज़ कम रेट पर सलाह दी थी. उससे बहुत कम बेड्ज़ कम दाम पर उपलब्ध हो रहे थे. अब 100% बेड्ज़ कम दाम पर उपलब्ध रहेंगे. Decision -100% COVID beds shall be subsidized upto an upper limit of 60% of total hospital capacity.3/NThe day also saw the L-G revoking the mandatory five-day institutional quarantine order for every Covid-19 case in the national capital, a day after issuing it. The AAP government had opposed the order saying it would “seriously harm” Delhi and people would avoid getting tested for coronavirus fearing they would be sent off to institutional facility for five days.As per the Union health ministry dashboard at 8 AM on Saturday, the national capital had 53,116 confirmed cases, out of which 2,035 have succumbed to the deadly disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/subsidised-rates-for-covid-19-beds-in-delhi-s-private-hospitals-approved-by-ddma/story-f1LmlCIlXpWlgHBjWMdPTN.html
20-06-2020||City||Punjab to cap covid treatment cost in pvt hospitals||Chandigarh The Punjab government will cap the hospitalisation and treatment cost in private hospitals for Covid patients and those not adhering to it will be shut down, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said on Saturday.The rate for private hospitals and clinics is expected to be finalised by Monday, the CM said during his #AskCaptain session on Facebook.Taking strict view of complaints of exorbitant fee being charged by private hospitals, the CM termed such actions as ‘anti-people and anti-national’ and warned that the private institutions will not be allowed to indulge in such shameless profiteering at the cost of the lives of people. “If these hospitals do not agree to the government rates, we will close them down,” he added.Expressing concern over the spike in Covid cases in the state, the CM said he had sought from the Centre permission to allow the state to make Covid test certificates mandatory for all those crossing the border, adding that with 87,000 cars having entered Punjab from Delhi alone in recent days, the threat of the pandemic spiralling further was acute.Even as he reiterated the state’s full preparedness for handling the Covid crisis, with no shortage of equipment and supplies, the CM said the battle had to be fought collectively by all, while appealing to people to wear masks and maintain social distancing.For the first time, there had been an increase in the number of people on oxygen and ventilator, he said, adding that the situation was explosive, with cases rising around the world. With easing of restrictions and more testing, the numbers would continue to spike, he warned, adding that timely intervention and adherence to protocols was imperative to save lives.On a question regarding some industrialist wanting to bring back labourers to the state at their own expense, the CM said they were most welcome to do so but would need to ensure strict home quarantine for 14 days.On a concern expressed by a Hoshiarpur resident on sending students of a professional institute for exams to Jalandhar, the CM clarified that Jalandhar was no longer a containment zone and the state government was following a micro-containment strategy. Hence, there was no bar on students travelling to Jalandhar, except to the micro containment zones, to take their exam, he added.On the issue of Sikhs in Uttar Pradesh being relocated, Amarinder said he had spoken to his counterpart Yogi Adityanath and was hopeful that the latter will stop the move. “If that does not happen, he will take up the matter with the Prime Minister,” Capt said.Quote:Private institutions will not be allowed to indulge in such shameless profiteering at the cost of the lives of people. If these hospitals do not agree to the government rates, we will close them down.Capt Amarinder Singh, chief minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-cap-covid-treatment-cost-in-pvt-hospitals/story-xAKpneBVndYnyrtBLEmsUK.html
20-06-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Bow wow welcome at Chandigarh airportA pack of about 20 stray dogs have made the high-security Chandigarh International Airport their home. People landing from flights are greeted first by the canines and then their relatives as they walk out of the arrival gate. A security man deployed at the airport admits that the number of dogs went up during the two-month lockdown when the airport remained closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The airport was re-opened for domestic flights on May 25.MC employees see red over no space to parkWith the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation authorities denying them free parking in the city’s paid parking areas, MC employees are a disappointed lot. “It is for the first time that we have been denied this facility. There is hardly any parking space for employees within the MC office premises in Sector 17. Employees using cars are worst hit. Officers and councillors park their cars on the premises, leaving little space for employees. We will have to pay Rs 10 daily to use paid parking. Earlier, we would simply show our identity card and were allowed to park free of cost,” said an employee, requesting anonymity.Children playing without mask, parents fined Rs 500With Covid-19 cases on the rise in Panchkula, the district authorities are strictly implementing the guidelines and fining residents without mask in public places. However, residents of a society in Amravati Enclave in Panchkula were in for shock the other day when they were fined Rs 500 each after their children were found playing without masks.Showers catch weatherman unawaresWhen the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast rain last week, there was none but this Friday, just the opposite happened. While the IMD predicted cloudy weather, everyone was in for a pleasant surprise as it rained heavily for almost an hour in the morning. After 23.4 mm of rainfall, the rest of the day went as per the weather man’s prediction and remained sunny and humid with the temperature climbing to 37.8 degrees Celsius by afternoon. The MeT office has forecast pre-monsoon showers next week. Hope it is on track this time.When UT health authorities leave journalists guessingWhen it comes to communicating the source of Covid-19 infection in the city, the UT health authorities have different yardsticks. For instance, when the probable source of infection in a case is outside Chandigarh, it gets mentioned in the medical bulletin. However, when the person testing positive has no contact and travel history, the UT health department does not mention the probable source, leaving journalists guessing. After the restriction on movement was lifted recently, there have been a number of cases from unaffected areas of the city.PU prepares to take exam next month, students in a fixThese are testing times. Panjab University is going ahead with preparations for conducting exams in July, but the confusion among students is increasing with each passing day. With Covid-19 cases on the rise, students are in a fix. The university plans to take the exams for the exit semester in July but students are wondering how it proposes to allot centres near their residences. It is learnt that the university will conduct the exams only after final directions from the government.Mehta or Anand? Schools have no idea who’s in chargeWho is the district education officer (DEO) of Chandigarh? Last week, the UT education department replaced Alka Mehta as DEO with Harbir Anand. However, the orders come into effect from July 1. But many school authorities are not aware about this vital detail. As a result, principals address Anand for every other issue when it’s Mehta who holds the charge.(Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh Salyal, Dar Ovais and Srishti Jaswal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-K7US4OF68HGULLPZX4Mn2H.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||RANDOM FORAYS: Young achievers need care and counselling||Sushant Singh Rajput walked into my sarkari office twelve years ago accompanied by his brother-in-law, a senior colleague. A strapping young lad, with stars in his eyes and that inimitably unique playful smile upon his lips, he sat shyly as we sipped some coffee. He had been chaperoned into my ambit for the hour-long rendezvous to receive some career counselling which every 22-year-old inevitably needs. I advised him to give his acting dreams the full throttle and if success came his way, well and good. Otherwise there would still be time to change course.The fact that Sushant shone like a beacon on the precarious and dicey firmament of Bollywood is common knowledge. The fact that he was a philosopher at heart was little known but is now the stuff of a million social media posts. What ultimately led him to commit the unthinkable will perhaps never be known. What is certain is that young achievers like him need care and counselling along their journey.The sheer loneliness which comes from having scaled high peaks is perhaps the most telling factor of all. Even if friends and colleagues provide succour along the way, intermittently, such dazzling achievers ultimately have to ply a lonely course. And the glaring spotlight, coupled with oceans of adulation, necessarily make a young star live in a world all his own. It is implausible that one who achieves so much so rapidly and is the craze of millions can even think clearly, unless he makes a monumental effort to do so.A young Indian cricketer provides another case in point. Having debuted successfully for the country or even merely for an IPL team, the youngster will accrue a large fan base and humongous social media following, within no time. The media would begin hankering for interviews and people in malls would already be queuing up for selfies with the star. Fame and fortune would have sprung forth in gushes, seemingly from out of the blue.Hardik Pandya and KL Rahul, two of India’s most talented young cricketers, blundered majorly on Karan Johar’s widely watched show, when they made flippant, even pathetic, comments about the fairer sex. But then no one had apparently taught them the basics of handling the media or the manner in which to conduct themselves when on television. There have been several other instances when young players have erred while handling the public at large. And this, despite the fact that an Indian cricketer, whether male or female, actually represents a much more structured organisation, in this case, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), than does a Bollywood actor. The same is true of sportspersons from other fields.Each young achiever, even a suddenly successful entrepreneur, finds it extremely tough to temper the razzle-dazzle of his success with gravitas and calmness. The tendency to succumb to the lure of bewitching distractions is a natural outcome for many. The enhanced frequency of moodiness and several spurts of anger could also afflict the young achiever in his early years unless he makes a determined effort to maintain his composure. Once he has attained a high goal, nothing short of those dizzying heights gives him satisfaction any more.Psychology Today magazine lists some indicators that can help others notice if young achievers have developed a ‘perfectionistic mindset’. These include the perceived need to top every exam as well as the tendency to consider themselves as failures if they ever find themselves placed even second or third in a ranking list. Severe depression and even suicidal tendencies have arisen in youngsters who constantly aspire for nothing less than numero-uno. They have not learnt to take the rough with the smooth.Even superstars with superhuman auras are, at the end of the day, normal human beings. They are liable to feel the same sense of anxiety and anguish that a common person will. Whether on top of the world or down in the dumps, they need people to talk to.Most people are in dire need of conversations, anyway. We, the people of the world, need to talk more and listen a lot more. And we need to stare at screens, a lot less.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-young-achievers-need-care-and-counselling/story-MCpfcrkN9gaIqSdYenb1iN.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Parota powers doughs & don’ts of Lollita and Lalitaa reunion||As India Quarantining limped into a live-in with Unlock 1.0, #WorkFromHome too settled into its sequel script. Quite like the cast and crew of the “Housefull” franchise sauntering back to the sets with the same old faces, but new costumes or cosmetic changes.Cosmetic changes, yes, because a post-Lockdown narrative mirrors not just downsized vanities, but also downgraded vanity boxes. With the Mask as the new Half Burqa or Reverse Ghunghat, Unlock 1.0’s dilemma is: to do or not to do ... cosmetics. Of poor Parotas & Pricey atta-makers Interestingly, the sub-narrative of the Return of Bai - Lalitaas, Lajjos & Co – comes riding not just cosmetic changes, but also ego massages. And how! Remember the re-validation recently dished out to reinstated Lalitaas & Co? Re-validation One, by blokes bestowing tax slabs hard to swallow – 18 per cent GST on frozen food peculiarly spelt “Parota” (popular among us Punjabis as the more mouthful and ‘stuffed’ word “parantha”). Re-validation Two, courtesy curious contraptions called Atta Makers from brand Kent, whose promos got an unceremonious burial following a Twitter outcry about “classist’ and “casteist” content, cashing in on the Corona-induced phobia – to let or not to let dough be kneaded by maids, whose “hands may be infected”. The Lollita-Lalitaa reunion in “Houseful Returns” thus comes (em)powered by not just Unlock’s masked narrative, but also “unmasked” glee. Unmasked glee at Lalitaa & Co’s revalidation. Unmasked glee that, ironically, comes riding Death – of the Atta Maker, whose death-knell was scripted thanks to some chit of a copywriter who may have been more preoccupied presumably plodding through Netflix than political correctness whilst penning copy; and of the frozen “Parota” that was last heard gasping for breath under GST and is dying an untimely death upon the return of home-made Parotas rolling out from reinstated Bais.The curious case of Marie Antoinette’s “let them eat cake” facing stiff, oops “stuffed”, competition from frozen Parota.Of Merits & Multipurpose Masks What’s exciting is that New Normal’s mask may be manifesting multi-purposeness. Benefit One: The mask is to Social Distancing what filters are to Photoshopping and Instagramming.For one, the mask mercifully muffles the muttering of the Lalitaas from landing on the cochlear compartments of the Lollitas, when the former are chided for not practising social distancing even from the pets – Chihuahuas or Labradors – lolling around the living rooms of Lollitas, Lalits & Co.Cats can’t care two hoots for the migrant policy of NaMo, but care only for the fact that when they’re chasing mops ‘migrating’ from one room to the other they don’t like Lalitaas caterwauling “No Meow”. Social distancing be damned!Benefit Two: The Lalitaas now need to take a call – to remove or not to remove the mask whilst taking all those calls from their “gaon” or “homaro desh” that have the uncanny timing of landing bang in the middle of their labouring at Lollitas’ household chores. Pre-lockdown saw the Lalitaas spending ages on chattering, chopping knife in one hand and cellphone in the other – a Lalitaa meets Lasith moment – wherein Lalitaa looked like a Malinga undecided whether to bowl or bat. In those pre-masked narratives, the Lalitaas mouthed into their smartphones a smattering of Bihari or Bangla that the Lollitas could scarce decode, sounding as unintelligible as the ululations of the Chinese Premier, were he to call up Donald Trump minus a translator. Alas, now the mask makes this cross-country cellphone bonding during chores a Catch-22 crisis for the Lalitaas. Either the Lalitaas have to unmask, exposing themselves not only to viruses but also stares from Lollitas as frosty as the frozen Parota. (Remember, the Lollitas mayn’t be in the mood for interruptions in the rolling out of Parotas, since the generous GST on the frozen variants may have pushed up the consumption of Bai-prepared Parotas perceived as New Normal’s “forbidden fruit”).And if the Lalitaas don’t unmask, their masked mumblings to Malda or Midnapore may sound as muffled as Himesh Reshammiya rapping right through the throes of laryngitis.Advantage, Lollitas.The curious case of vanishing Atta Makers (em)powering the Revalidation of Bai.Of flawed narratives & face masks Masks, as New Normal’s Reverse Ghunghats and sartorial statements symbolising anonymous-isation and de-personalisation, may not spell well for the Khannajis and Khullarjis (K&Ks) of the neighbourhood. Remember, even pre-Lockdown, the Glad Eye of the Khanna jis and Khullar jis didn’t quite adhere to the #StayHome protocol and possessed the propensity to travel to Lollitas as much as Lalitaas lolling on neighbouring terraces. Post Lockdown 4.0, however, the K&Ks are facing tad tough time gazing at Unlock 1.0’s masked Bais plodding at pochaa-jharoo, swinging not just broomsticks but also their booty. Simply because their Glad Eye can’t make out whether behind the masks the recipient of their ogling is a Lollita, Lalitaa or Lata or ... Lava waiting to explode.The curious case of New Normal’s hottest occupational hazard – mistaken identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-parota-powers-doughs-don-ts-of-lollita-and-lalitaa-reunion/story-8OzHo3vNNAPbSr3Uo5vNzH.html
20-06-2020||City||Corona battle: IVRI in the forefront, testing both human and animal samples||Lucknow: A week before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced lockdown across the country to fight Covid-19 outbreak, a meeting was hastily called at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Bareilly to discuss testing, the most essential element in the fight against corona virus.“The meeting was called after we got the go ahead from director-general Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) Trilochan Mohapatra to begin Covid-19 testing in our lab,” recalled RK Singh, director general, IVRI. The meeting ended briefly with directions to experts who were tasked to begin preparations for testing.Now three months later, the entire health infrastructure of Covid-19 management in districts of Rohilkhand region depends on tests done at IVRI. The deemed institute for veterinary sciences is one of the 33 designated testing centres in the state and the only place where Covid-19 samples of both animals and humans are tested. It is the only Covid-19 testing facility for Bareilly, Badaun, Pilibhit and other adjoining districts of the region.After making arrangements for sample handling, testing protocols and training the required staff, IVRI began testing on April 16. Only five samples were tested on the first day. At that time, the number of cases across the country was in double digit. “We have successfully tested 10761 samples of various district of the region till now. We are trying to test close to 300 samples every day. We have also tested 43 Covid-19 samples from wild animals,” said VK Gupta, joint director of Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnosis (CADRAD) at IVRI which is handling Covid-19 testing. Covid-19 is found to infect some species of wild animals who can act as its carrier. So the Institute is also testing samples of animals sent from various parts of the country.The Covid-19 testing for animals began on April 6 and so far 43 samples collected from tigers, leopards , lions, black bears, bats, monkeys, elephants, wild boars and bisons from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Delhi have been tested. All these samples were found negative except that of a tiger and lion sent from Jaipur zoo. The results of both these samples are awaited.The testing of samples of both animals and humans is part of the push for the idea of ‘one health’ which believes that human and animal health is closely interlinked. The idea has been an integral part of IVRI since its inception. In 1889 when the Institute was established to look for cure of animal diseases, Dr Alfred Lingard, a physician, was made its first director. “Covid-19 pandemic has proved again that we need to work in the direction of one health,” said Singh. The institute has also begun research to develop a Covid-19 vaccine for animals and hopes that it may pave the way for human vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-battle-ivri-in-the-forefront-testing-both-human-and-animal-samples/story-ou4IYD6vXm4fpvNugigaaO.html
20-06-2020||City||Zadoo brothers cremated, Jammu DC announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for kin||The mortal remains of Vimal Zadoo and Vipin Zadoo, the two Kashmiri Pandits who died at a cremation site near Tawi riverbed two days ago, were consigned to flames at Shastri Nagar here on Saturday.Vimal (38), a travel agent, is survived by his wife and two minor daughters, while Vipin (35) was unmarried, but had a 75-year-old father to look after.On Thursday, they had gone to cremate their 64-year-old uncle, who had died of Covid-19, in Sidhra area where they fainted and eventually died, allegedly due to the apathy of the officials present at the site, who didn’t even provide them water amid the scorching heat.Sub-divisional police officer (south) Ram Singh Charak said, “After pacifying the families, relatives and friends, the bodies were cremated at Shastri Nagar cremation ground. They demanded certain assurances like hike in compensation and change of the inquiry officer.”DIFFERENT ADC APPOINTED FOR PROBECharak informed that now ADC Tahir Firdous has been appointed to conduct the probe. The ADC also confirmed the same.Jammu district commissioner (DC) Sushma Chauhan had earlier appointed ADC law and order Ghanshyam Singh to conduct the magisterial probe. Singh was the one deputed for the cremation of the Covid-19 victim, during which the two men had died on Thursday.Sub-divisional magistrate (south) Shrikant Balasaheb Suse also visited the cremation ground and assured all possible help to the families.DC Chauhan has already ordered a time-bound magisterial probe into the Zadoo brothers’ deaths.On Saturday morning, the district administration announced an ex-gratia relief of ₹2 lakh each on humanitarian grounds to the next of kin of the deceased.PROTESTERS BLOCK HIGHWAYEarlier, protesters had blocked the Jammu-Pathankot highway in Gangyal, demanding a judicial probe into the two men’s death due to the alleged negligence of the district administration.“The death of our young men was the direct result of administration’s negligence. They were taken from place to place in search of a cremation site amid heat wave and were not even provided water,” said one of the protesters, claiming that they died of dehydration and it cannot be dismissed as a natural death and should instead be treated as “murder”.Another protestor said, “The administration now has announced ₹2 lakh each to get away with their murders. We demand judicial probe, suitable compensation and government job for their kin.”Senior BJP leader and former legislator Vikram Randhawa, who also joined the protest, said those responsible for failing to protect their lives should be taken to task.Local corporator Baldev Singh Billawaria said it is unfortunate that the administration has failed to identify a suitable place for the cremation of the Covid-19 victims till date despite witnessing unpleasant situations due to it in the past.Senior police and civil officers rushed to the scene and managed to clear the highway after a few several hours, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zadoo-brothers-cremated-jammu-dc-announces-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin/story-9iDRTwZ5S9MpI9FjBvX2vL.html
20-06-2020||City||Thane, Kalyan civic schools uncertain on conducting online classes||While online education is possible for most private schools in the new academic year, the civic schools in Thane and Kalyan are still struggling to set up a system. While many civic school teachers in Thane are occupied with conducting Covid-19 surveys; the teachers in Kalyan are unable to reach out to the students as many belong to migrant families, and have left the city.“We cannot make online classes compulsory; hence we are ensuring that textbooks are made available to students so that they can prepare for the next academic year. Teachers are putting in efforts, but we are not able to reach out to all students,” said E Tadvi, education officer, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).In the current situation, many are unable to recharge their phone, while some do not have a compatible phone. “We are unable to trace all the students, however, we do send them weekly assignments on phone. Many students who do not have access to the internet are asked to do their revision through the week and share the answers with us on messaging platforms,” said a 45-year-old KDMC school teacher.Most teachers under Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) are occupied with Covid-19 health surveys. “Most of our teachers are busy with health surveys, so we have not made it compulsory for them to conduct classes. Some teachers who are conducting online classes, we have provided them with common online revision links,” said Rajesh Kankal, education officer, TMC. A few teachers from TMC have also received training for technology-driven teaching modules for the next academic year. However, the parents complain that they cannot afford internet services for their children. Hence, most of the students will miss out on academics this year.Sidhi Mahale, 32, parent of two boys, eight and 10 years old, studying in civic school at Lokmanya Nagar, Thane, said, “We are staying in a containment zone. Getting basic groceries has become difficult for us. We cannot pay for internet services and have only one smartphone in the family. It is difficult to teach the children in such circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-kalyan-civic-schools-uncertain-on-conducting-online-classes/story-V2muxfGHmlPgOwabplfkuM.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Cash and gutka worth ₹54 lakh seized in a raid||The Mumbai crime branch’s unit 6 recovered ₹49.15 lakh cash and seized gutka and tobacco products worth ₹5.53 lakh in a raid, on Saturday morning.The police arrested an accused, Rakesh Rajkumar Gupta, 28, a wholesaler supplier of gutka and tobacco products in Mankhurd and Govandi area for more than five years. Police said Gupta has six cases against him for selling banned gutka, said crime branch officer.Gutka is banned in Maharashtra, but the accused brought the products from Gujarat and sold them here at a higher price. The demand for the product was higher in Maharashtra during the lockdown. Gupta confessed that he kept the cash in the godown and wanted to send it to his native place, said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch.“The consignment was brought in the truck that had a letter of carrying essential products,” said crime branch officer. The officers acted on a tip-off and laid a trap with FDA officials in Gandhinagar area, Mankhurd and conducted a search in Gupta’s godown. Gupta produced in court on Saturday and was sent to judicial custody. Police are investigating the main supplier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cash-and-gutka-worth-54-lakh-seized-in-a-raid/story-FAnC9jiSLAzWxkkSEtrxIN.html
20-06-2020||City||10 fresh cases reported from Mohali, taking the count to 218||Ten more people, including five women and a seven-year-old girl, tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mohali on Saturday, taking the district’s count to 218. There are 77 active cases in the district, as 138 patients have recovered and three people have succumbed to the disease so far. Three of the patients are direct contacts of patients from the hotpost Bapu Dham Colony in neighbouring Chandigarh: two women, aged 18 and 25, and a youth, aged 20, of Baltana, Zirakpur. A 53-year-old man of Lalru and a 54-year-old woman of Kharar are also contacts of positive cases. Three have travel history: a 57-year-old man of Chanalo in Kurali, who had returned from Delhi, and a 35-year-old woman and seven-year-old girl, also of Kurali, who had recently travelled to Uttar Pradesh.The remaining two are a 52-year-old man of Sector 91, who is suffering from influenza like illness, and a 67-year-old woman of Mundi Kharar, who is a heart patient and now admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said besides keeping track of people returning from outside, especially Delhi, the health department has another challenging task to trace contacts of those residing in Bapu Dham Colony, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-fresh-cases-reported-from-mohali-taking-the-count-to-218/story-CZJYM3XgSxPV7uOwsc0pVL.html
20-06-2020||City||Jammu: 3 months on, district authorities yet to identify proper site for cremating Covid-19 victims||The district administration has failed to identify a proper cremation site for Covid-19 victims even after three months of the pandemic outbreak.The issue sparked public outrage in the district as two men died on Thursday due to heat and dehydration during the cremation of their relative, a Covid-19 victim, after they were made to shuttled for over two hours in an ambulance in search of suitable spot in the Tawi riverbed. The two cousins were cremated on Saturday at Shastri Nagar here.“Jammu district administration has utterly failed to identify a proper cremation site for covid victims. The death of two Kashmiri Pandit cousins is a serious lapse by the administration. Earlier, the family members of two Covid-19 victims were compelled by mobs to take away the dead, one of them half-burnt, to other places for cremation,” said Dr Mahesh Kaul, a prominent author.“The administration has indulged in genocide on the eve of World Refugee Day. PM Modi must intervene in the matter. It is a national shame,” he added.Senior journalist Mohit Kandhari wrote on his Facebook page, “Sitting inside their ivory towers, inside air conditioned offices, no bureaucrat can ever evaluate the cost of a human life, of a loved one. By announcing a sum of ₹2 lakh, the district authorities and J&K administration cannot walk free. They need to first identity the culprits who failed to discharge their duty and didn’t save precious lives.”Kandhari reminded the administration that under the “healing touch” policy of the Mufti government, the compensation to militants surrendering their arms and returning to mainstream was more than what the administration announced for the two KPs, who died of sheer negligence by the administration.On June 2, a mob had disrupted the cremation of a 72-year-old Covid-19 victim, while another in Domana had compelled a family to take the half-burnt body of their relative off the pyre. It was then cremated at Belicharana in Tawi river. ADC Ghanshyam Singh had then said, “The administration is already in the process of identifying land in three to four places for cremating Covid-19 vitims to avoid problems.”On May 14, kin of a former special bureau officer had to shuttle from pillar to post for his cremation in Jammu. He had also died of Covid-19. Administrative inertia coupled with resistance by locals led by two councillors of ward number 6 and 7 had aggravated the miseries of this family as it had to take the body back to the hospital mortuary from Jogi Gate cremation ground. The cremation was done at Shastri Nagar the next day.Jammu district commissioner didn’t respond to messages despite attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-3-months-on-district-authorities-yet-to-identify-proper-site-for-cremating-covid-19-victims/story-1CJr3MIpU11L5Q5uSsSiMJ.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||WILDBUZZ: O! To be a wagtail, skipping stones on the blue Indus||As summer deepens in the tricity, many of our wonderful migratory birds disappear from our lives. Birds like the debonair Bar-headed goose or the proverbial golden girl, the Citrine wagtail, are no longer to be seen at the Sukhna lake and other wetlands. We wonder where our feathered friends have gone leaving us to the heat, sweat and dust of May and June. The wagtail, one of the prettiest of birds to observe, flies up to summer spots as enchanting as the Indus river marshes in Ladakh and beyond for breeding. From many parts of India starved of water and facing drought, the people there may wish to turn into wagtails in summer and fly to the blue waters of the Indus, settle there for a few months, skip on stones, chatter like schoolchildren on a picnic, and stare at the sheer abundance of water, the nectar of life! Such is the charmed life of the wagtail, whose breeding spots on the Indus in summer has been magically captured by a Spituk village-based birder, Choldan Gasha. The wagtail, like a happy dog, is prone to perpetually wagging its tail. While tourists have not flocked to Ladakh this summer due to Covid-19, Gasha reports that the Indus marshes near the Spituk Monastery not too far from Leh are hosting a larger number of wagtails as compared to last year. When wagtails winter in the tricity region, they are not seen in large flocks. But Gasha, who otherwise works for the civil supplies department, is fortunate enough to have seen flocks of 200 wagtails on the Indus. Just imagine the riot of golden feathers ducking and weaving across blue waters and against the backdrop of Ladakh’s matchless skies, whose beauty needs no photoshopping. To conclude this Ladakhi vignette, I turn to the description offered by the legendary birdman of India, Dr Salim Ali, of the Citrine wagtail: “Essentially a water wagtail, inseparable from marshland and grassy jheels. Numbers often seen on floating lotus leaves and vegetation on a tank, tripping along lightly in search of tiny insects, sometimes springing up into the air, and launching sprightly sallies in pursuit of escaping midges and other quarry.” No wonder, the sweet wagtail has been bestowed a dainty and aqueous vernacular name, Pani-ka-pilkya!KAMAL KA FOOLWalkers and tourists at the Sukhna lake would revel in the spectacle of brimming waters. But the regulator-end is besieged with the recurrent growth of lotus weed, which is spreading like an epidemic of chicken pox. The lotus has undertaken a further incursion to the rowing canal at the backwaters of the lake, which is earmarked as a migratory bird hotspot in winter and hosts the forest and wildlife department’s bird viewing post with binoculars, books and a spotting scope. But in recent winters, deep sheets of bird-less waters and galloping lotus is what the binoculars mostly pick up, much to the disappointment of avian lovers. The lotus shrivels up in winter leading to a round of self-congratulation in the UT engineering department, which hires the manual labour to prune the weed from the top. Since the weed is not uprooted, the lotus blooms and spreads with a vengeance with the onset of summer. Manual removal is merely an exercise in window-dressing though lakhs of rupees drawn unquestioned from the public exchequer are expended in the annual exercise to “remove” the weed. Manual de-weeding is currently underway at the Sukhna in continuance of the practise for the past several years. The lotus is not a favoured spot for most bird species as it tends to clog the wetland. Wetland birds are anyways missing at the Sukhna this summer because there are no shallow waters, marshes and sand banks for birds such as Black-winged stilts to breed. The lake seems a vast, solemn graveyard for bird life missing the cheery twitter. However, in those summers when the lake tends to dry up and silt is exposed harbouring enclaves of shallow water, the profusion of bird life is astounding. Most walkers, though, may pine for blank sheets of deep water! If the Sukhna is to play a gracious host to birds and afford walkers their daily dose of rippling sheets of aqua blue, the lotus must go from its root, forever.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-o-to-be-a-wagtail-skipping-stones-on-the-blue-indus/story-oWY75cAgXmF04INYdCGWJP.html
20-06-2020||City||Driver held for carrying 100 migrants on bus, in violation of distancing norms||New Delhi: In a violation of social distancing norms, more than 100 migrant workers who wanted to return home to Bihar were found travelling in a private bus that had a maximum capacity of 59 passengers, police said after the vehicle was found in outer Delhi’s Narela Industrial Area. The driver of the bus was arrested, and his vehicle seized.The passengers were all labour workers employed in Narela Industrial Area who were headed for their villages in , Bihar’s Darbhanga.A Delhi government official, on whose complaint the FIR was registered, said in his police statement that there were no arrangements for social distancing aboard the bus.“There was no arrangement for sanitiser inside or outside the bus. Most were not wearing masks,” said the complaint, adding that the bus violated guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Delhi government.The authorities had received a tip-off about the private bus leaving from Narela. The officials intercepted the bus around 4.45pm on Thursday.“The passengers were asked to their return to their homes in Delhi and then go their home towns by trains arranged by the government,” said Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north district).The driver told the police that he was paid an advance of ₹90,000 to ferry the migrants to Bihar.“We have registered a case under sections pertaining to disobedience of an order by a government servant and of negligent act likely to spread infection of diseases,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/driver-held-for-carrying-100-migrants-on-bus-in-violation-of-distancing-norms/story-vTW21ysIewYfOlWv6wsERI.html
20-06-2020||City||Kashmiri woman athlete alleges army harassment after exposing drug mafia, police refute claims||A young woman athlete has accused some Indian Army personnel of allegedly harassing her and her family after she took on the drug mafia in her hometown of Sopore in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district. However, army and police officials have refuted the allegations.Nighat Bashir, a national level karate player from Seelu Sopore, said that since the day she raised a voice against the drug mafia in Sopore, she has been facing a lot of problems.“When I heard that my brother is getting involved in drugs, I raised a voice against the drug mafia which also led to the arrest of one person. After that, the racket was busted by police in Sopore. But following the arrests, the army raided the area and assaulted my cousins saying they were looking for my father,” she alleged.The alleged incident had happened on the night of June 16.She alleged that an army major entered her home and harassed her brother-in-law because of his long beard. “When I raised a voice, the major threatened me saying that he will pump all his bullets into my body,” she said.“They ransacked our home and broke the almirahs. What mistake did I commit by raising a voice against drug peddlers? They told me they had orders to cordon off my home,” she alleged.“I want answers for why I was threatened. Is this the treatment one gets for representing India? When athletes are treated as such, what would be the fate of commoners,” she asked.She had also shared a video of her ransacked home and belongings on the social media.On Saturday, she alleged that she was again harassed by army personnel at Tappar Pattan when she was taking her brother to a hospital in Srinagar.“They harassed us and the officer concerned told me that whosoever goes against the Indian Army, would face the same fate. They have managed to restrict my accounts and I am not able to post anything,” she said.She complained of not feeling safe. “I appeal to the administration to provide protection to me and my family. We are facing trauma, and nobody is inquiring the matter. We want justice,” she demanded.The army has denied the allegations. “No army personnel is involved in ransacking or damaging any civilian property. These allegations are baseless,” said army spokesperson Rajesh Kalia.Sopore senior superintendent of police Javaid Iqbal said an FIR was registered against a drug addict Man Palla and six others on the complaint of Nighat Bashir’s family after her brother had sold a mobile phone to Palla in lieu of drugs.He said Nighat’s claims on social media that her cousins were beaten by the army and her house was cordoned off because she had raised a voice against drug peddlers were “not true”.“The searches were of general nature in Seelu and it was a joint operation by the army and police. Her home didn’t come under the search area, but one of her cousins’ did. Also, her cousin has refuted her claims in a video saying that he was not beaten,” he said.“Her allegations against an army major are also not true,” Iqbal said. “It seems she has some vested interest,” the SSP alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-woman-athlete-alleges-army-harassment-after-exposing-drug-mafia-police-refute-claims/story-PJwGkfdhfsEpUODfEL2MLN.html
20-06-2020||City||Delhi: 50-yr-old stabbed, wife, son injured over vegetable cart parking||New Delhi: A 50-year-old man was stabbed and his wife and son were injured, allegedly by six men, during a quarrel over parking a vegetable cart in North Delhi’s Wazirpur Industrial Area Thursday night, the police said.Of the six suspects involved in the attack, the police have so far arrested two men, said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west).The officer identified the victim as Ramesh Chand, his wife as Beena Devi and his son as Yuvraj. Ramesh earned his living by selling vegetables on a cart in the Wazirpur Industrial Area, where he lived with his family. Police said they suspect a family feud as the reason behind the incident. Ramesh’s step brother, 54-year-old Jaggu Chand, lived next door with his four sons. He too earned his living by selling goods off carts, said the police.“The two families had been quarrelling frequently over parking their carts outside their homes,” said the DCP.Around 11pm on Thursday, one of Jaggu’s sons returned home with his cart and parked it outside Ramesh’s house, the DCP said. “When Ramesh and his family objected to it, it again led to a quarrel,” said the DCP.While the elders of the families were trying to quell the matter, the younger ones allegedly assaulted each other. “A neighbour fighting from Jaggu’s side brought out a knife and soon, that party began stabbing Ramesh’s family,” said another police officer.In the assault, Ramesh, his wife and his son received severe stab wounds. They were first taken to a nearby police post on carts, before being rushed to the Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital where Ramesh was declared brought dead.His wife and son too have suffered serious injuries, but they are expected to survive, said the officer.While Jaggu and his three sons remain on the run, Jaggu’s eldest son Abhishek and their neighbour Roshan, who allegedly brought out the knife, have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-50-yr-old-stabbed-wife-son-injured-over-vegetable-cart-parking/story-t2GtNg5tiZWzZMwlkPKM1I.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Cop kills himself in south Delhi||A 34-year-old Delhi Police constable allegedly shot himself dead with his service gun on Friday night in the police building in South Delhi where he was posted, senior police officers said. The incident took place around 10.30pm in one of the barracks within the police station premises. The other police personnel present in the building rushed him to a nearby hospital but he was declared dead on arrival. The police did not recover a suicide note from the spot, the police said.Senior police officers said the reason behind the constable’s death was not known yet. His colleagues said the constable had take leave following his nephew’s death and had joined duties on Friday. “All the protocols related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak have been followed while handling the constable’s body and handing it over to his family members for cremation,” deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Devender Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cop-kills-himself-in-south-delhi/story-xkS6sN6Z1HkJbmtGZXvplJ.html
20-06-2020||City||Delhi: Conmen who targeted the elderly arrested||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Saturday said they have arrested three conmen who duped people, especially elderly persons or women, of their cash, jewellery and other valuables after entering their homes, either impersonating as police officers or their well-wishers.The alleged conmen would convince the victims that being their well-wishers they had come to alert them about raids at their house by different law enforcement agencies and help them shift the unaccounted money, jewellery, and costly valuables to a safer place from their houses, to avoid getting them seized by the raiding teams. They used to collect information about the names of the members of the family they planned to target from their neighbours, said senior police officers associated with the operation to arrest the suspects.In less than two months, the gang targeted more than two dozen families across the city and made away with cash, jewellery and valuables worth several lakhs of rupees. The gang’s kingpin, Lakhvinder Singh,25, has been previously involved in 17 similar fraud, robbery, burglary and other crimes, 16 of which were reported in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh and another in west Delhi’s Naraina, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.“While Lakhvinder operated on a white Apache motorcycle, which is commonly used by Delhi Police personnel, his two arrested accomplices – Sonu Kumar,38, and Sunny,38 – used to give him security cover in a Fortuner SUV or other cars. The Fortuner, a Honda Civic and Ertiga cars were seized along with the motorcycle, a fake police ID card, and stolen jewellery and R30,000 in cash were seized from them,” DCP Thakur said.DCP Thakur said that the on May 27, Lakhvinder duped a 70-year-old woman of cash and jewellery worth R5 lakh by entering her Chhattarpur Enclave home impersonating as a police officer and friend of her son. “Lakhvinder entered the house calling out the name of the woman’s son and daughter-in-law who had stepped out some minutes ago. He tricked the elderly woman into believing that a police team was coming to raid the house. He convinced her to put all the cash and jewellery in a bag and then fled with it,” said Thakur.Police had then registered a case. The DCP said that multiple investigating teams were formed to trace the suspects. The teams scanned CCTV footage and established the routes the suspects frequently used.“We found that the suspects used to park the motorcycle in the parking lot of Arjan Garh metro station after committing the crime. They further travelled toward Gurugram in the cars. We also installed a tracker device in the parked bike to trace its movements in case the suspects managed to slip,” said a police officer, associated with the probe.On Friday, Lakhvinder was caught when he came to the parking lot to get the bike for another crime. His interrogation led police to his two aides who were staying in a luxury hotel in Gurugram, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-conmen-who-targeted-the-elderly-arrested/story-5YBUSFWPieBXXkg5hm0FiP.html
20-06-2020||Patna||4 days on, Bihar cops still waiting to quiz Navjot Sidhu in Amritsar||A police team from Katihar in Bihar has been camping in Amritsar for the last four days, waiting to quiz former Punjab minister and Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu in a case filed against him during the 2019 Lok Sabha poll campaign when he allegedly exhorted Muslims to unite and vote for Congress to dislodge Prime Minister Narenrda Modi.Sources said the Katihar police team was planning to stay for another few days to be able to question Sidhu.On Wednesday, a team led by sub-inspectors Janardhan Ram and Javed Alam reached Amritsar and visited Sidhu’s residence along with local police, but he was not available, according to Katihar’s superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar.Assembly elections in Bihar are due later this year and the Election Commission has ordered disposal of cases related to violations of model code of conduct. Nearly 50 such cases, including that of Sidhu’s, have been pending since the 2019 LS polls.The case against Sidhu was lodged with Barsoi police station in Katihar on April 16, 2019, under sections of 123 (iii) (Concealing with intent to facilitate design to wage war) and 125 (Waging war against any Asiatic Power which is in alliance with the Government of India) of the Indian Penal Code.Separately, Bihar BJP vice-president Devesh Kumar had moved Election Commission against the cricketer-turned-politician.Sidhu has so far not been granted bail by the court of additional chief judicial magistrate in Katihar, which has been hearing the case.While campaigning for Congress candidate Tariq Anwar in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Sidhu had allegedly said, “Muslims should unite and vote in favour of Congress... If you people unite and vote unitedly, everything will overturn and Modi will be finished,” he had told a gathering while warning them not to vote for Asasuddin Owaisi’s party (AIMIM), which was also in the fray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/4-days-on-bihar-cops-still-waiting-to-quiz-navjot-sidhu-in-amritsar/story-AU9b41fd9YHnch5bvDPHEN.html
20-06-2020||City||Ban on entry of widow: Haryana women commission asks DC to suspend Fatehabad village sarpanch||A day after the panchayat of Fatehabad’s Dhani Bhojraj issued a diktat banning the entry of a widow to her in-laws village for the next 15 years, the Haryana State Commission For Women chairperson Pratibha Suman on Saturday met the woman, Bala Devi, at her parental home and later visited her in-laws village.Suman said, “We met the widow at her parental home where she narrated the entire incident. Afterwards, we accompanied her to the in-laws village. We had issued a summon to the panchayat to clarify their stand on the incident and ordered police to register a First Information report (FIR) against them.”“The women commission has asked Fatehabad deputy commissioner to suspend sarpanch Sadu Ram, who had passed the diktat. We will ensure that the woman gets her rights,” she added.As per sources, the widow’s father said they had submitted a copy of the panchayat’s decision to the police but no action was taken against the culprits.Suman said she will initiate a strong action if any police official is found involved in the entire case. “We are investigating whether the woman’s father had filed any complaint with the police or not,” she added.On Friday, Bala Devi had said that after her husband’s demise, the panchayat told her to not step foot in the village till her son turned 18. Sarpanch Sadhu Ram had also agreed that the panchayat did pass an order to such effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ban-on-entry-of-widow-haryana-women-commission-asks-dc-to-suspend-fatehabad-village-sarpanch/story-nHGwfb4TiDpnNJzIV7EbPL.html
20-06-2020||City||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur consoles martyr’s family||While consoling the family of sepoy Ankush Thakur at their Karohta residence, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the sacrifices made by the jawans will not go waste and the nation under the leadership of PM Modi will give a befitting reply to the nefarious designs of the enemy.It was the CM’s first visit to Hamirpur after the coronavirus pandemic broke out. He paid floral tributes to the martyr who had died during the face-off between India and China at Galwan valley in Ladakh.Thakur announced Rs 20 lakh ex gratia grant to the family and said that the state government is with them in this hour of distress. He also announced that a gate will be erected at Karohta in honour of the martyr.He said that the primary health centre in Karohta will also be upgraded to provide better healthcare facilities to the residents. He said that the road leading to the village will be improved.Rural development and panchayati raj minister Virender Kanwar, forests minister Govind Thakur, MP Ramswaroop Sharma, MLAs Kamlesh Kumari, Col Inder Singh, Narinder Thakur, Rakesh Jamwal and Rajinder Garg, organisation secretary Pawan Rana, HRTC vice-chairman Vijay Agnihotri, and deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-consoles-martyr-s-family/story-vh8GyzZ0bNQawkp2h4QqHP.html
20-06-2020||City||HP to receive heavy rainfall, yellow warning issued for June 22-24||Himachal Pradesh to receive heavy rainfall along with thunderstorm, hailstorm, lightning and gusty winds as the state metrological department has issued a yellow warning for Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur districts for June 22, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur districts for June 23, and all 12 districts in state for June 24.State metrological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said that due to a fresh western disturbance, heavy rain, hail and thunderstorm are likely to continue throughout state from June 22 to 26 after which weather will be dry.Rain occurred at isolated places in state in the last 24 hours and weather was mostly sunny throughout state on Saturday. Minimum temperature was one to two degrees below normal and maximum was normal.Maximum temperature in Shimla was 27.4°C and in Kufri was 19.9°C. Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 27.6°C, 30.2°C and 22.8°C maximum temperatures. Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan in Sirmaur recorded 34.2°C, 36.5°C, 36.2°C and 31.0°C maximum temperatures, respectively. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 24.2°C maximum temperature.With 5.4°C minimum temperature, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti was the coldest place in state while Una recorded 39.0°C maximum temperature and was the hottest place in state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-yellow-warning-issued-for-june-22-24/story-NaBGII1cjsRovpQ0KmvfbN.html
20-06-2020||City||Cow sets record by yielding 76.61kg milk in 24 hours||A Holstein Friesian cow Jogan in Karnal has yielded 76.61kg milk in 24 hours, which is the highest milk production by a cross-bred cow, said scientists at the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) here. Principal scientist (animal breeding) Vikas Vohra, said earlier records of highest milk production by a cross-bred cow are set at 72kg in Punjab and 65kg in Karnal.The cow owner, Baldev Singh of Galib Kheri village in Karnal’s Nilokheri block, said Jogan was born by using Pannymaker ABS USA Imported semen. He said the four-year-old cow had yielded 42kg milk in a day in 2014. Singh added that she is the best cow in his cattle yard that has 70 animals and she has bagged several awards.“In her second and third lactation, she had yielded 54kg and 62kg milk respectively. She has earlier produced 66.20kg milk in National Livestock Championship and Agri Expo-2020 in Batala of Punjab,” he said, adding that the cow had also won 10th PDFA International Dairy and Agri Expo-2015 held in Ludhiana and National Dairy Mela at NDRI. On Saturday, scientists at the NDRI honoured Baldev Singh and his brother Amandeep Singh during a felicitation ceremony.NDRI director MS Chauhan said Baldev Singh and his brother had taken part in a training on management of dairy animals at the organisation in 2010 and 2011. “The training helped them learn about scientific breeding and feeding of animals for higher yields,” Chauhan said. He urged all dairy farmers and rural youth to take up dairy farming as entrepreneurship and participate in the skill development programme introduced by the NDRI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cow-sets-record-by-yielding-76-61kg-milk-in-24-hours/story-P5vF1eQ9UfGB5zGUH8VWnK.html
20-06-2020||City||‘Need to setup training centres for natural farming in Himachal’||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Saturday stressed on the need to set up training centres for extension of natural farming in the hill-state and streamline marketing for green products.He was interacting with officials of Subhash Palekar Natural Farming Project on implementation strategy and targets. “To encourage natural farming, it is vital to train educated and unemployed rural youth, who will pass on the knowledge acquired to farmers”, he said.He said that trained youth may also be provided incentives. Dattatreya added that such villages and panchayats should be identified where each family has adopted natural agriculture.The governor was delighted to know that around 55,000 farmers were practising natural farming in Himachal, and an area of 2,579 hectare has been brought under green farming.He said that during the coronavirus pandemic people have become more aware of their health and food habits. “The market for natural products may spike in near future,” he said and asked the agriculture and horticulture departments to work together in this direction, which will help in doubling the income of farmers.Subhash Palekar Natural Farming Project director Rakesh Kanwar gave detailed information about the action plan to promote natural farming in state. He said that so far 72,000 farmers have been trained in natural farming. Executive director of the project, Rajeshwar Chandel, was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-to-setup-training-centres-for-natural-farming-in-himachal/story-ftMDXNWHvoc0ItPplXym3O.html
20-06-2020||Lucknow||MP Governor Lalji Tandon is recovering, his condition stable, says hospital||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon, admitted at a private hospital here, is recovering slowly and is in stable condition, according to a hospital bulletin on Saturday. In the bulletin, Medanta Hospital Director Rakesh Kapoor said, “There is some improvement in the condition of Governor of Madhya Pradesh Lalji Tandon. His liver and kidney functions are improving. However, he is still on supportive ventilation.” He added that a team of medical experts is constantly providing the best medical treatment to him. Tandon (85) was admitted to the Medanta Hospital on June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mp-governor-lalji-tandon-is-recovering-his-condition-stable-says-hospital/story-qX2I8axUxWTupBQL4MXTpI.html
20-06-2020||Kolkata||Amazon, BigBasket get nod for liquor delivery in West Bengal: Report||E-commerce giant Amazon and Alibaba-backed BigBasket have got approval to deliver liquor in West Bengal, according to a document.Online grocery platform BigBasket said this will be the company’s first foray into the country’s liquor delivery segment. The clearance also signals Amazon’s entry into the space, likely for the first in India.State-owned West Bengal State Beverages Corporation Ltd (BevCo) invited the two companies to sign the agreements for empanelment for home delivery after finding them eligible, as per a notice dated June 19.BevCo, the sole wholesaler of liquor in West Bengal, also invited two Kolkata-based companies -- Senrysa Technologies Pvt Ltd and Golden Goenka Commerce Pvt Ltd for the signing of agreements.Asked when BigBasket would start operations, its CEO Hari Menon told PTI, “I cannot confirm now how soon we will start, but yes it will be the first for the company.” Amazon did not comment on the approval.Food ordering platforms Zomato and Swiggy have already started delivering alcohol in West Bengal with Kolkata and Siliguri after getting the required approvals, followed by the signing of agreements.Retailer Spencer’s and HipBar have also joined the fray as the government allowed home delivery of alcohol to reduce footfall at stores amid the coronavirus outbreak.Another eight lesser-known companies, who expressed interest in alcohol delivery, have been asked by BevCo to demonstrate the capabilities of their platforms in executing online orders.Jharkhand was the first state in the country to allow home delivery of liquor by online platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/amazon-bigbasket-get-nod-for-liquor-delivery-in-west-bengal-report/story-LLkbuFBi61cOIO6UyvZacI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, 50% staff to attend work in Chandigarh colleges||The Chandigarh higher education department has directed government and aided colleges to ask 50% of their teaching and non-teaching staff to report to work till June 30.The order comes days after Panjab University suspended teaching till June 30 and directed its administrative offices to run with 33% staff.“Colleges have to prepare for examinations and the next academic session. Principals have been told to ask 50% staff to attend work,” said Rubinderjeet Singh Brar, director of higher education. The order further states that from July, 100% staff may be put on duty, subject to review of the central guidelines, if any. Meanwhile, no employee is allowed to leave headquarters without permission.Colleges have also been directed to identify course content in each subject that can be delivered online and also acquire necessary infrastructure, including smart and virtual classrooms, and arrange for master trainers for the staff.College principals have been directed to ensure all staff members reporting on duty strictly follow Covid-19 safety precautions and to avoid crowding. Teams of teachers are to be constituted to ensure that colleges have adequate number of infrared temperature scanners and sanitiser stations installed near entry points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-50-staff-to-attend-work-in-chandigarh-colleges/story-o2eiFZBQa6gtFIzXy70u9J.html
20-06-2020||Education||IIT Kharagpur to start virtual lecture series on innovation, entrepreneurship in post-COVID world||IIT Kharagpur’s Rajendra Mishra School of Engineering Entrepreneurship is set to start a virtual lecture series dealing with crucial aspects of innovation and entrepreneurship in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic.The series titled ‘Innovation and Entrepreneurship in a Post-COVID World’ will be divided into 16 parts and conducted on the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL) platform, the institute said in a statement.The opening sessions shall discuss the macro-economic impacts of COVID-19 and expound on the significance of innovation and entrepreneurship in various sectors to address the related challenges.Young college students, who are start-up enthusiasts, working professionals, entrepreneurs, innovators, thinkers and strategists will find the lectures useful in “re-strategising their stance in the ‘new- normal’ world”, the statement said.The series will be conducted from June 22 to 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-kharagpur-to-start-virtual-lecture-series-on-innovation-entrepreneurship-in-post-covid-world/story-L1tD1pfBQl3VvuacrYn8RP.html
20-06-2020||City||Five of a family killed in road accident on Agra-Lucknow Expressway||Five members of a family were killed and another injured when the driver of the car in which they were travelling lost control and rammed into a truck on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Firozabad district early on Saturday, police said. “Those in the car were coming from Delhi and heading towards Prayagraj when the mishap occurred under Naseerpur police station of Firozabad district,” said Rajesh Singh, superintendent of police (rural), Firozabad.“A rear number plate of the truck was found from the spot and with number detail, the truck was stopped later and the driver was arrested,” he added.The deceased have been identified as Ravinesh Pandey (40), his wife Ruby (35), and three children Keshav (17), Lakshya (7), and Nandini (5). They all died on the spot. Another person, identified as Priyanka Pandey, was severely injured and had been hospitalised, said the SP (rural). The bodies had been sent for postmortem examination, he said.The impact of the accident was such that the vehicle was completely mangled, a cop said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-of-a-family-killed-in-road-accident-on-agra-lucknow-expressway/story-QozHWVAasZgX5k4JGD3pWJ.html
20-06-2020||Pune||RTE admission process to commence from June 24||The process of admissions under Right to Education (RTE) for the academic year 2020-21 will begin from June 24, according to state primary education department.According to officials the verification of documents submitted by students selected under RTE online lottery will be carried out by the schools. Once the document verification is complete the admission will be confirmed.Dattatray Jagtap, director, state primary education department, has issued the orders in this regards on June 18. “In the current situation, it is not possible for parents to go to the verification centres and get their documents verified. So it instructed that applicants should get their documents verified from the schools and later on after the department verification admission will be confirmed,” said Jagtap.“The schools will be provided with the online system requirement for the admissions process from June 24. After this the actual RTE admission process will start,” said Jagtap.The first RTE lottery for 25 per cent RTE admissions this year was taken out on March 17 in which a total of 1,00,920 students were selected and 75,465 students were in waiting list this year. Later on due to Covid-19 pandemic the further admission process was delayed.The applicants who have been selected under RTE admission will get SMS on their registered mobile number. On the given date the parent should go to the school along with the documents and get it verified.“We had filled the online form for our son for Class 3 under RTE this year and got selected in the first lottery. Last year also we had applied but were not selected. The admission process is tedious and officials point out small mistakes in the forms. I hope this year we do not have to go through the same hassle,” said Pralhad Khade, a parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rte-admission-process-to-commence-from-june-24/story-2jzdkaOCUtVQYRQVK7N8GN.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four Punjab govt schools named after Galwan Valley bravehearts||In a tribute to four soldiers from Punjab who laid down their lives in Ladakh’s Galwan valley recently, the education department has decided to name government schools in their native villages after them.An order in this regard has been sent to district education officers of the respective districts. Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, Naib Subedar Satnam Singh, Sepoy Gurtej Singh, and Sepoy Gurbinder Singh were among the 20 soldiers killed Galwan valley.As per the order, the name of primary school at Seel village will now be Shaheed Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh Government Primary School; middle school at Bhojraj village in Gurdaspur will be Shaheed Naib Subedar Satnam Singh Government School and middle school of Berowal Dogra Mansa will now be Shaheed Gurtej Singh Government Middle School. The name of high school at Tolawal village in Sangrur has been renamed as Shaheed Sepoy Gurbinder Singh High School.Amarjeet Singh, district education officer, primary education, said, “It is good decision of education department to name schools after the soldiers. The department had sought details of the schools on Friday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-punjab-government-schools-to-be-renamed-after-galwan-valley-bravehearts/story-bvR4osqi2oJrPJpvK29VjJ.html
20-06-2020||Pune||Paan shops outside Hijewadi IT campus defy Covid-19 restrictions||The 33 per cent of employees working from offices at IT firms in Hinjewadi have easy access to the paan shops located outside the campus, in spite of restrictions.According to state government norms, paan shops have not been permitted to operate the business.Although shopkeepers charge Rs10 extra for a cigarette, employees don’t mind paying it.“Getting cigarettes in the city is near to impossible these days, but since I am coming to office, I don’t have to worry,” said an employee from phase 3, Hinjewadi IT company.Yashwant Gawari, senior police inspector, Hinjewadi police has ensured that action will be initiated based on visual proof provided by HT.Employee abide by traffic rules, residents don’t“Employees from IT firms follow traffic rules and wear a mask while commuting, but residents in the area are not abiding by laws,” said Suvarna Thevurkar, traffic police. “Our work is to guide people. Following social distance norm is important no pillion riders are permitted on two-wheelers, but people flout the rules,” added Thevurkar.Baba Pawaskar, traffic police, said, “Some people do not follow norms and we have to fine them not only for not wearing a mask but also for not wearing a helmet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/paan-shops-outside-hijewadi-it-campus-defy-covid-19-restrictions/story-Ovvph76MgXdWqxWrp1icFL.html
20-06-2020||City||Census work: Ambala admn, private schools at loggerheads||Even as the tussle between private schools and the state government over fees and examinations continues, a new order by the Ambala administration has again pitted the two against each other.In an order issued by Ambala deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma, the district education officer has been asked to send the names of teachers of recognised private schools in Ambala City for the 2020-21 census work.The copy of the order, accessed by HT, says the list of such teachers is to be submitted within two days, considering the order “most essential”.The Integrated Private School Welfare Society has strongly opposed the government’s orders to conduct a census amid the Covid-19 pandemic .“Coronavirus cases are constantly rising in the district and the government is repeatedly asking people to stay at their homes. Due to this, it is not at all safe to conduct census work by the staff of private schools, who may have to walk from door to door,” said the society’s president Saurabh Kapoor. Kapoor said because of the closure of schools and colleges for the past three months, parents did not deposit the fee even after the government order, and private schools have not been able to pay salaries to the staff. “If the order isn’t rolled back, teachers might resign out of fear,” he said. District education officer Uma Sharma said details will be submitted as required, and that no school or teacher had approached the departments with any concerns. The deputy commissioner couldn’t be reached for a comment despite calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/census-work-ambala-admn-private-schools-at-loggerheads/story-eDJfr1kghX596SovCXonVM.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Compulsory 5-day institutional quarantine order for all Covid-19 cases in Delhi withdrawn||The mandatory five-day institutional quarantine order, issued by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, for every Covid-19 case in Delhi was withdrawn on Saturday evening, a day after it blew up into a controversy and demands of rollback from the Arvind Kejriwal government.Senior ministers of the Delhi government had met lieutenant governor Anil Baijal for the second time on Saturday at 5 pm. The meeting was held after the state government and the L-G failed to agree on the issue during their meeting in the afternoon.“Regarding institutional isolation, only those COVID positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment & do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation,” Baijal tweeted after the meeting. The chief minister’s office also confirmed the development. During the day, news agency ANI quoted union minister of state for home affairs G Kishen Reddy saying that he expected a new order by evening.“Delhi L-G might have ordered institutional quarantine for the benefit of those who do not have space in their homes. But I think that he will issue another piece of information by today evening for people who can create an isolated separate room in their homes,” Reddy was quoted as sayingThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority, headed by Baijal, had said in its earlier order that it fears “home isolation without physical contact to monitor the patients may be a reason for the increase in the spread of Covid-19 infections in Delhi”.An official who was part of Saturday’s meeting between Baijal and Kejriwal, confirmed that chief minister Kejriwal said that if Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is allowing home-isolation for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic cases across the country, “why were different rules being implemented in Delhi?”The chief minister is learnt to have told the L-G that people would avoid getting tested for the disease fearing they would be sent off to an institutional quarantine facility for five days.The officials also said that Kejriwal mentioned the shortage of health care staff and the difficulties in getting doctors and nurses at such a short notice for thousands of patients at the quarantine centres.AAP MLA Raghav Chadha too had opposed the order. He told reporters in the morning, “We had estimated that we would need 15,000 beds by June 30. However, following this order, we would need 90,000 beds in Delhi by that time. How are we going to arrange for so many beds?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/compulsory-5-day-institutional-quarantine-order-for-all-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-withdrawn/story-bBTTCOyEEHcBxZik3cMtEM.html
20-06-2020||Pune||Firms in Pune’s Hinjewadi make a cautious start- with safety in mind||With 33 per cent employees working from offices, IT company offices are back in action, but following all safety norms in regards to Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government and local civic bodies.According to the Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) spokesperson, their primary focus is on safeguarding the health and well-being of our associates. “We are resuming operations in a phased manner in select offices with minimal capacity after careful consideration and taking into account civic authority and state government orders,” he said.“We have rolled out guidelines in our campuses which includes awareness sessions for employees and vendors, self-declaration forms, alteration of workspace layout and virtual collaboration tools for meetings,” he added.Vishal Kolekar, manager and HR and administration, NORD Drivesystems, a manufacturing firm located in Hinjewadi phase 2, said, “Social distance of at least 6 feet will be maintained at every point - assembly area, logistic area, meeting in the conference room, canteen/cafeteria, assembly area, security checking point among others.”“We have nominated one supervisor in each floor/section, who will act as a volunteer and check whether our company SOP has been strictly followed by employees. If anyone is found not following SOP then they will initially warn them if again the same person is found, then the volunteer will escalate to a higher authority for necessary action,” said Koleakar.“Companies are strictly following work from home. Only employees from IT support team and BPO are coming to the office while rest of people which includes coders, developers and testing teams are working from home,” said an employee who is working in IT sector as a team leader since last 25 years.“Social distance norms are followed by all in the companies here. Special care is taken in cafeteria and washrooms,” an employee from Phase 1 of Hinjewadi said.“Social distance norms are followed right from the security gate when we enter the campus,” said an employee from a company located in phase 2.“There is no traffic on the roads and it becomes easy to commute,” said added another employee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/firms-in-pune-s-hinjewadi-make-a-cautious-start-with-safety-in-mind/story-UCpKlzpQaTiSKvKutZu84H.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Suicide cases jump by 60% in Himachal during lockdown||A 36-year-old debt-ridden shopkeeper committed suicide by hanging himself in Kullu district on Thursday. He had incurred losses as his cloth shop in Bhuntar had been closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. It is learnt that he was unable to repay the loan taken from banks and individuals, which led him to take the extreme step.On Friday, a school superintendent committed suicide at his workplace in Shimla. Though the reason behind his ending his life is still being ascertained, depression during the lockdown is emerging as a concern.In April and May this year, 122 people have committed suicide in Himachal Pradesh due to various reasons, according to police records.This is a spike of 60% in the monthly average.A total of 115 suicide cases were reported in the hill state from January 1 to March 31 before coronavirus pandemic struck. This year’s total tally of suicides till May 31 was 237.Data shows that on an average 38 people committed suicide every month during the first quarter. However, the average saw a jump of 61 suicides a month in April and May.Police sources said that most of the victims were youngsters. Some had lost their jobs or businesses or were in emotional distress.MORE CASES IN MAY THAN IN APRILWith 81 cases, suicide incidents were almost double in May compared to 41 in April when the lockdown was harsher. Seventy-five of the victims were male and 41 female.Mandi district recorded a maximum 23 cases, followed by 21 in Kangra; Una 18; Sirmaur 14; Shimla 13; Solan 10; six each in Bilaspur and Kullu; Hamirpur five; three each in Chamba and Kinnaur.No suicide was reported in Lahaul-Spiti district.‘SHRINKING SOCIAL CIRCLE AMONG CAUSES’Assistant director, Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL), Dharamshala, Dr Surender Kumar Pal said that the peculiar situation of the lockdown may have weighed heavy on the psychology of people.The fear of coronavirus and stress due to job and business losses may be the reason behind the increased suicide cases, he says.“The shrinking social circle due to distancing guidelines is another reason. Besides, during the lockdown, domestic conflicts increased,” said Dr Pal.GOVT TO ASCERTAIN REASON: CMWhen asked, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that it was hard to ascertain if the suicides were the result of lockdown woes. “Still, the government will ascertain the reasons in these cases,” he said.Thakur said that the government has launched schemes to provide employment to those who returned to the state due to job loss amid the lockdown.Besides, we have also asked banks to defer loan instalments to provide relief to the traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suicide-cases-jump-by-60-in-himachal-during-lockdown/story-BSLho4iAor89P5dwa1mM8H.html
20-06-2020||Pune||Cops file case against man in Pune for violating quarantine norms||The Pune district administration, on Friday, filed a police case against a resident of the city who returned from London, UK, and did not go into quarantine – institutional, or private, as mandate by the central and state government.Deputy collector Sarang Kodalkar said, “Ashwin Kumar Singh returned from London on June 16. He landed in Mumbai and directly went to his residence at Handewadi in Pune district. Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) nodal officer Ajit Sanas went to his home and tried to convince him to move into quarantine, but he refused. Considering this, the district administration filed a police case.”The PMC has tied up with private hotels, where a foreign returnee can stay individually in quarantine, or s/he can then stay at the common quarantine facilities erected by the civic body in the city.Kodalkar, in a public statement issued on Friday, said, “As per the Government of India’s guideline, it is mandatory for all foreign-returned persons to stay in an institutional quarantine for a week. Despite informing Singh, he did not follow it.”API Swapnil Lokhande, investigation officer in the case, said, “A case has been registered on Thursday under IPC 188 ( Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant ) and 270 ( Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Maharashtra Covid-19 Act 2020 Section 11. Currently, the said person is home quarantined ,” he said. The case has been lodged at Loni Kalbhor police station.A press statement issued by the district administration said: Considering this background, Pune Zilla Parishad’s Block Development officer (BDO) has been instructed to file the a police case as per Indian Penal Code 1860, Article 188. The case had been filed under the Epidemic Act. A police case has been registered at Loni Kalbhor police station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cops-file-case-against-man-in-pune-for-violating-quarantine-norms/story-sUatV4ZVTTQvOHYIjOOPRM.html
20-06-2020||Pune||Corporator from Chinchwad, 8 family members test positive for Covid-19||A BJP corporator from Chinchwad and eight family members tested positive for Covid-19, Pimpri Chinchad municipal corporation commissioner Shravan Hardikar confirmed on Friday.The test results came in on Thursday night and Hardikar said, “The treatment of the corporator is on in a private hospital. There is no need to seal the PCMC building and we have quarantined members who came into contact with the corporator.”The BJP corporator had visited the second and third floors of the PCMC corporation building on Wednesday, prior to testing positive.According to Hardikar, 15 corporators who came into contact with the Covid-positive elected member are also currently in quarantine with test reports awaited.As per information available with the PCMC, the corporator’s spouse first tested positive and since, the corporator and six family members are also positive.A BJP leader on condition of anonymity, said, “The party has taken all the precautionary measures and there is nothing to panic. Our corporator and her family members will recover soon.”Hardikar also confirmed that six family members of a corporator in Dapodi have tested positive and there is one deputy engineer from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal corporation who is also Covid-positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/corporator-from-chinchwad-8-family-members-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-GdkJ8yLtgymAvzstTzHM0H.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Need of the times must be incorporated in education system: Sonam Wangchuk||Sonam Wangchuk, the man who inspired Vidhu Vinod Chopra’s 3 Idiots spoke at Chitkara University’s Explore series on Saturday. Wangchuk, an academician, education reformist and founder and advisor for SECMOL (Students’ Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh ) spoke about the ‘economics of giving’ in his live session with students at Chitkara University.Wangchuk said that any education system must address to the real needs of time: “If our country and planet is facing a challenge due to industrial production then we should change what we teach our children,” he said.“We need to start talking about healing the planet rather than fuelling its destruction and the need of the time must be incorporated in the education system,” he said. Asked about his take on innovation, Wangchuk said, “Most of the innovation that we see around us these days does not take local factors and India-specific solutions into consideration. For instance, we see glass buildings in Delhi inspired by the architecture of western cities with sub-zero temperatures. This type of architecture helps keep those places warm but the same architecture in Indians cities like Delhi that are already hot leads to increased use of air conditioning causing increased electricity bills and health and environment issues.”On his recent views on the boycott China movement, Wangchuk said, “More products should be manufactured locally, which will generate employment and gradually wean off Indians’ addiction and dependency on Chinese goods and products. The world is looking forward to exploring India for setting up big ventures. We must build our capacities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/need-of-the-times-must-be-incorporated-in-education-system-sonam-wangchuk/story-RMg1zIuCq3iSBjKcLd04RI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Judge cites ’70s Bollywood hit Bobby to express concern over failing love marriages||Chandigarh: All is fair in love and war but judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court beg to differ.In the past week, two judges have expressed concern over the rise in the number of love marriages falling apart these days and the high court being burdened by such cases that can otherwise be dealt by subordinate judiciary.While granting bail to a youngster from Yamunanagar who faces kidnap charges and offence of exploitation under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, the bench of justice Arun Monga even cited the example of the ’70s Bollywood hit, Bobby, starring Rishi Kapoor and Dimple Kapadia, to drive home its point.The judge observed that runaway couples are falling out even before falling in love. “Adolescents take a liking for each other, resulting in affection beyond social limits. Next starts their scheming for a fairytale dreamland. But real life is different from reel. When the happy ending is not the script, the same intimacy and affection turns into hostility,” he said.‘DEMEANING CHILDLIKE WORK’His observations come close on the heels of another high court judge, justice RN Raina, suggesting an alternative mechanism be evolved to hear petitions of runaway couples seeking protection.He termed the task of hearing pleas for protection to such couples as “the most demeaning childlike work” high court judges have been entrusted with. “This work should be given to the subordinate judiciary,” the judge suggested. Even during the Covid-19 lockdown, the high court took up between 30 and 40 such petitions. Lawyers admit that the number of such petitions goes beyond 100 on normal days.Justice Monga said that daily, the court hears bail petitions by youngsters on their so-called love turning sour with allegations of rape or on the other hand while still in their wedding gear, couples seek protection for fear of being hounded by hostile family members.PARENTAL PRESSUREThe court granted bail to the Yamunanagar youngster as it prime facie appeared to be a case of teenaged love not meeting the approval of the 17-year-old girl’s parents. The case was registered on the complaint of the girl’s parents.The youngster told the court that they were in love and the fact is established from the statement he gave to a judicial officer that the girl had willingly married him. The girl declined to undergo medico-legal examination, stating no wrong was committed and whatever happened was with her consent. The government counsel said the claims are as per the probe records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/judge-cites-70s-bollywood-hit-bobby-to-express-concern-over-failing-love-marriages/story-DZj2cqquRo4DA3sPfpUfLN.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Leaves of Delhi govt hospital employees cancelled as Covid cases rise||The Delhi government’s health department has directed all hospitals and medical institutions under it to recall their employees, who are currently on leave, and report for duty immediately. The order was issued by the special secretary of the health department, SM Ali on Friday. The official in his order said that leave of any kind would only be granted under “most compelling circumstances”.A shortage of staff in the hospitals was reported as one of the main reasons by the medical directors of bigger Delhi government hospitals for their inability to expand intensive care unit services for Covid-19 patients. To combat the challenges in the hospitals, the government on Thursday ordered that the final year student pursuing their MD/MS/ DNB (post graduate medical training) and final year students of undergraduate and post graduate nursing would be hired for the next six months.The shortage of staff is likely to be more acute if the five-day institutional isolation is mandated for everybody who tests positive, including those with mild or no symptoms of the infection.Currently, at least 10,000 patients are under home isolation in the city.Earlier this week, the health department had also issued another order, which stated that action would be taken against health department staff not reporting to work. Only those who had tested positive for Covid-19 were allowed to remain in home isolation. This came at a time when the city’s health minister tested positive for the infection. Prior to this order, the director general of health services also had to undergo quarantine for fever.Until Thursday night, Delhi recorded 53116 Covid-19 cases. At least 2035 have died of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/leaves-of-delhi-govt-hospital-employees-cancelled-as-covid-cases-rise/story-hyUQknGezXtbRmAaH5Uw6I.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Civil hospital medical staff goes on strike to protest sacking of 22 surplus lab technicians in Amritsar||Medical staff at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital, Amritsar, went on an indefinite strike on Saturday to protest against the state government’s move of sacking 22 surplus lab technicians.Patients were left in a lurch as health services, including the outpatient department (OPD), emergency department and Covid-19 related services, were affected as around 300 doctors, nurses, para-medical staff and lab technicians, staged a protest at the hospital and raised slogans against the government and health department.Punjab health and family welfare department additional chief secretary Anurag Agarwal on Friday issued a notice to the civil surgeon and said that there were around 27 lab technicians working at the district hospital against the sanctioned five posts.“I had requested the hospital to rationalise and send the surplus lab technicians to their respective postings on multiple occasions but they continued to work at the Amritsar civil hospital. Almost all surplus lab technicians were influential and had got the posts unfairly,” he said. Employees’ Welfare Association chairperson Rakesh Sharma said, “All the lab technicians were working as frontline warriors during the Covid-19 outbreak as assigned by the civil surgeon and the health department. The government, which had hired them and was using their services in the management of the hospital, has now sacked them illegally. Instead of sacking them, the government should have posted them at other hospitals or health care centres.”‘ROLL BACK TERMINATION ORDERS’Association president Deepak Devgan said, “The hospital, which runs 24x7 and has a high footfall, cannot function smoothly with just five lab technicians. Also, the lab technicians had been told to collect swab samples from suspected Covid-19 patients and they performed their duties well. The government must roll back its termination orders.” The protesters said Covid-related duties and emergency duties will re-start from Saturday evening but OPD and other services will remain suspended till their demands were met. “A written request asking the authorities to roll back the orders has been submitted to the civil surgeon and he has assured us that he will take up the matter with ministers”, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/civil-hospital-medical-staff-goes-on-strike-to-protest-sacking-of-22-surplus-lab-technicians-in-amritsar/story-vFRlwKTVnaTPELA7pr0l8N.html
20-06-2020||Lucknow||6 people working in UP-112 helpline test positive for Covid-19||Six people working in the Uttar Pradesh Helpline 112 have tested positive for Covid-19, following which the office has been closed for sanitisation till Monday, a police officer said.They are of the technical team and work in the server area, he said, adding that all of them are asymptomatic.“After one of the personnel working in UP-112 tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, samples of 30 people were taken. Five of them have tested positive for Covid-19,” ADG, UP-112, Asim Kumar Arun said in a statement.The ADG said the building has been closed for the next 48 hours for sanitisation. All employees will work from home and the Prayagraj centre will take calls till the office here is closed, he said “The contact tracing of these people is going on,” Arun said, adding that the Lucknow Municipal Corporation is fumigating and sanitising the building. “People have been informed that if their calls to 112 do not get connected then complaints can be registered through the social media handle and 1073 number, which will connect with the control room of the respective district,” the officer said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/6-people-working-in-up-112-helpline-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-ZEWByOrkb5ksk1tGPtOP9H.html
20-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand moves SC against Centre’s decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining||The Jharkhand government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the Central government’s decision to unveil the process for the virtual auction of coal blocks for commercial mining.Jharkhand Advocate General Rajiv Ranjan said that the state government moved a writ petition in the apex court on Friday contending that the decision to auction the coal blocks, some of which are in Jharkhand, will not benefit the state in the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.The state will incur a loss as it would not fetch the market price, says the plea, according to Ranjan. He said that a proper assessment related to the adverse impact on a huge tribal population and forests has not been done and added that a detailed study covering all aspects of the decision is required.Earlier this week, Prime Minister Modi had launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and reiterated his call for India to become self-reliant in energy by reducing imports.This comes as despite having the world’s fourth-largest coal reserves and being the second-largest producer, the country is the second-largest importer of coal.The rollout of commercial coal mining is part of the series of announcements made by the Centre under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. It is expected to boost private sector participation which will, in turn, lead to higher production and enhance competition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-moves-sc-against-centre-s-decision-to-auction-coal-blocks-for-commercial-mining/story-lK1ljWZYtFboJAKiDV2i6I.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers struggle to sow paddy in absence of farm labourers||Farmers are struggling to sow paddy in the absence of migrant labourers who had returned to their native places amid the coronavirus pandemic.Farmers said the cost of labour had increased from Rs 2,200 to Rs 4,000 per acre. They say labourers are also demanding free meals and advance payment as migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand had returned to their native places after the Central government had imposed a nationwide lockdown to contain the coronavirus.FARMERS REACH OUT TO UP-BASED CONTRACTOR A farmer, Jaibir Singh of Rohtak’s Karor village, said, “Four of us enlisted a contractor in western Uttar Pradesh. He asked us to provide transportation facility for the labourers. We brought eight labourers in two cars to our village. We are providing three meals a day, accommodation and Rs 4,000 to each labourer,” he said.The state government is encouraging paddy farmers to shift maize and pulse cultivation under the ambitious Mera Pani Meri Virasat scheme but most farmers are unwilling to sow other crops. Under this scheme, farmers switching over to an alternate crop instead of paddy this season will be given an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre. Farmers of 19 blocks where water the depth is around 40 metres are included in this scheme.A farmer from Sonepat’s Bhainswal village, Vijay Pal, said his fields were ready for sowing paddy but he had been unable to find labour.“Most local labourers are already engaged in construction and paddy plantation activities and the migrant workers are unwilling to return. The absence of migrant workers has hit us hard. Contractors are demanding Rs 15,000 for bringing labour from Uttar Pradesh along with Rs 4,200 per acre for paddy sowing and free meals for workers,” Pal said.LOCAL LABOURERS IN DEMAND Local labourers in villages of Rohtak , Jhajjar and Sonepat say they were employed in the absence of migrant labourers.Sakuntla Devi, a labourer from Jhajjar’s Dighal village, said she was glad to have found work in her village.“This time farmers are preferring local labourers. We are being paid Rs 4,100 to Rs 4,300 per acre for paddy sowing in advance. This time we will not have to leave the village to earn money”, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-struggle-to-sow-paddy-in-absence-of-farm-labourers/story-f95HjaKR5ottR0QRdwJq3K.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Take action against private hospital if found to have derogated in its duty: Delhi HC||NeThe Delhi High Court has directed the Delhi government to carry out an investigation against the Primus Super Speciality Hospital after hearing a petition alleging serious carelessness by the hospital in the treatment of a patient.A bench of Justice Navin Chawla, after hearing the petition, observed that the allegations made by the petitioner against Primus Super Speciality Hospital in Chankyapuri are of a grave nature.“The Delhi government is directed to carry out an investigation into the same and in case the hospital is found to have derogated in its duty in any manner, take appropriate action in this regard,” the bench said in its order on Friday.The court, however, clarified that it has not expressed any opinion on the allegations.The plea was moved by Prem Singh, whose wife died due to Covid-19 on June 14. His 34-year-old daughter, who is 85 per cent permanently disabled, also started suffering from fever and breathlessness and as her condition aggravated, she was admitted to the Primus Super Speciality Hospital on June 18.“It was suspected that the daughter was also suffering from Covid-19 virus but the hospital did not carry out any test on her and in fact, taking an excuse that there was non-availability of beds, asked the petitioner to shift her to another hospital,” the plea said.“In fact, she was almost thrown out of the hospital. It is submitted that this was in spite of the fact that the website of the Delhi Government shows the availability of the beds in the said hospital for the Covid-19 patients,” it added.It said that after the filing of the present petition, the petitioner has been able to secure the admission of his daughter to Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket, New Delhi.Advocate Hemant Gulati, for the petitioner, submitted that though the daughter of the petitioner has been admitted to another hospital, it is yet to carry out the tests of the petitioner and his son as they had also come into the contact of the wife and daughter.It is apprehended that they may have also contacted the Covid-19 virus, the plea said.Advocate Anjum Javed, counsel for the Delhi government, had submitted that he will request the authority concerned to immediately carry out the tests of the petitioner and also his son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/take-action-against-private-hospital-if-found-to-have-derogated-in-its-duty-delhi-hc/story-azCrJDjau0TJ231eM83mkK.html
20-06-2020||Bangalore||Unlock 1: Karnataka govt authorises local bodies to fix timings to open parks||Continuing with easing of restrictions under ‘Unlock 1.0’, the Karnataka government on Saturday authorised local bodies to fix timing for opening of public parks other than those in the containment zones between 5 am to 9 pm.It has also mandated adhering to all the national directives issued to contain the spread of Covid-19 and the guidelines issued by the state government in this connection.Noting that the government has been relaxing conditions under unlock 1.0, Principal Secretary Revenue N Manjunath Prasad, who is also the member secretary of the state disaster management authority in an order said, local bodies have been asked to set timing between 5am to 9pm to open all parks that come under them and the government.It said, this would be applicable to only those parks that come outside the containment zones.Earlier in May, while relaxing the lockdown norms, the government had set 7 am to 9 am and from 5 pm to 7 pm for opening of parks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/unlock-1-karnataka-govt-authorises-local-bodies-to-fix-timings-to-open-parks/story-2BMQtBbt1WId9DuMX9xWjL.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Indian-American philanthropist to donate 1 million US dollars worth of face masks to protesters in US||On the occasion of Juneteenth, eminent Indian-American philanthropist and entrepreneur Gurinder Singh Khalsa has announced to donate face masks and protective shields worth USD 1 million to peaceful demonstrators across the US seeking protection from police brutality and demanding police reform after the death of African-American George Floyd.Juneteenth celebrates the emancipation of those who had been enslaved in the US.Indiana-based Khalsa, a recipient of the prestigious Rosa Parks Trailblazer Award, also said that we need to portray the true picture of America if we want to replace hate and violence with love and compassion.Khalsa, who is also the founder of SikhsPAC, a nonpartisan political action committee, said that his USD 1 million worth donation of face masks and protective shields to the protestors nationwide is a small token of contribution to those who are seeking justice and end to the police brutality, reflected in the recent gruesome murder of 46-year-old Floyd in Minneapolis last month.Khalsa recently started Cleanxa, a personal protection equipment manufacturer and distributor, which would be used to distribute reusable, rewash able, medical grade filtered face masks and protective shields to protestors either individually or in bulk through non-profit bodies.Noting that he took this decision to commemorate Juneteenth to support national movement seeking police reforms, Khalsa requests every American to join this movement by following the path of peaceful protest shown by leaders like Martin Luther King Jr and Mahatma Gandhi.‘LEARN LESSONS FROM HISTORY’“Going forward if we want to replace hate and violence with love and compassion, we need to portray the true picture of American history. This is the most important part of American history, which is not being taught in schools. For the better future of America, we need to learn our lessons from history, however bitter it might be,” he said.‘STILL A LONG WAY FROM EQUALITY’ Observing that he was inspired by two movies that he recently watched “Just Mercy” and “13th” and the series “Hell on Wheels”, Khalsa said that people of this great country still have a long way to go to achieve the goals of equality and equity set up by its founding fathers.Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic in the country, widespread protests have been taking place for weeks across the US following the death of Floyd in Minneapolis while he was in police custody. Protesters have sparred with police for weeks.The US continues to remain the worst-hit country from the novel coronavirus with 2,191,052 cases and 118,434 deaths.“SikhsPAC has always and will always stand with the Black community. SikhsPAC is making these donations as a way to advocate for police reform and justice for Black individuals in the United States. Along with this, SikhsPAC would like these donations to reflect their support for making Juneteenth a national holiday,” Khalsa said.“In this country, the atrocities against Black individuals are not covered enough within the history lessons taught to our children in schools,” he rued.“Putting a blanket over the history of systematic racism in our country is one of the most harmful things we can do – the new generations moving forward will be much more passionate, caring, and understanding towards their Black community members if they are taught the real, tough history,” Khalsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/indian-american-philanthropist-to-donate-1-million-us-dollars-worth-of-face-masks-to-protestors-in-us/story-pcEOdhhMTT1YhjJO8ZSZNP.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||SHO, gunman among four to test positive in Punjab’s Phagwara||A station house officer and his gunman were among the four people to test positive for Covid-19 in Phagwara on Saturday.Kapurthala superintendent of police Manpreet Singh said the SHO and his team members had been home quarantined and cops were being screening for Covid-19.The police department is already burdened due to added responsibilities in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the increasing number of policemen testing positive or being quarantined is adding to their woes. Around 25 police personnel in Jalandhar and Kapurthala have tested positive so far, while around 60 personnel had to be home quarantined.Cops from different police stations, including a DSP level officer, have tested positive.“All cops have been working overtime for the past three months due to the pandemic. Now, cops are testing positive which will burden the other cops,” a senior police officer said, on request of anonymity.Jalandhar senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal said they had been screening all cops s part of a special drive and so far six people had been found positive and around 20 were home quarantined.He said the cops were at higher risk as they interact with the public and also assist the health department in transporting Covid-19 patients from different locations to hospitals. “Considering this, a drive has been launched to screen all cops. We are not deploying cops aged above 55 and those with pre-existing medical risk on the frontline,” SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sho-gunman-among-four-to-test-positive-in-punjab-s-phagwara/story-Z0QecIn0HcFIwaSY043BgN.html
20-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid-19 tally crosses 14,000-mark with 542 cases in last 24 hours||The number of coronavirus positive cases in Pune district of Maharashtra crossed the 14,000-mark after 542 people were found infected in the last 24 hours, a health official said on Saturday.The Covid-19 case count of the district now stands at 14,292, the official said.As the virus claimed eight more lives in the district, its death toll has reached 560, he said.“Of the 542 cases, at least 359 were reported from the areas controlled by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), where the count has reached 11,554. However, 157 patients were also discharged from hospitals, the official added.With the rise of 32 cases in neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad, the Covid-19 tally there has grown to 1,381, he said.The number of positive cases in rural parts of the district, areas under the Pune Cantonment Board and the civil hospital has increased to 1,246, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-s-count-of-covid-19-cases-crosses-14-000-mark/story-PLJ4vTNOk0yI7hG1pZM4gN.html
20-06-2020||Bangalore||Plea in Karnataka High Court to transfer case of Amulya Leona who raised pro-Pakistan slogans to NIA||A petition has been filed in Karnataka High Court to transfer Amulya Leona case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). She raised pro-Pakistan slogans at an anti-CAA rally on February 20 at Freedom Park.The petition, filed by advocate Vishal Raghu, blamed the probe team for not filing chargesheet on time and suggested the state government to approach the higher court against bail granted to Amulya Leona.On June 11, she was granted conditional bail by the Bengaluru civil court.She was charged with sedition for her actions in the presence of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi.The court granted bail after hearing the bail application. Amulya’s advocate on behalf of the petitioner said, “the petitioner is just a 19-year-old lady and she is studying in a private college in the Bengaluru. She shouted ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ but she never mentioned Pakistan as her country.” (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/plea-in-karnataka-high-court-to-transfer-case-of-amulya-leona-who-raised-pro-pakistan-slogans-to-nia/story-hyFS6bgXCbKatyE1SUHsVN.html
20-06-2020||City||Man shoots nephew dead, injures cousin over land dispute in Sonepat||A 34-year-old man was shot dead and his father injured after his uncle fired shots at them over a land dispute in Sonepat’s Palda village on Friday night.The victim has been identified as Devender. His father, Sahab Singh, awas discharged from the government hospital in Sonepat on Saturday.Sahab told the police that he and his son had gone to visit their fields on Friday night after the accused, Mahabir, called them to sort out the land dispute.“However, he fired shots at my son and me. My son died on the spot and locals rushed me to the hospital,” the complainant added.Rai SHO Viveik Malik said a case had been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shoots-nephew-dead-injures-cousin-over-land-dispute-in-sonepat/story-ZkmPrdWeGnyJVZ7UjtPsBN.html
20-06-2020||Latest||Sourav Ganguly’s kin test positive for Covid-19||Family members of Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) secretary Snehashish Gangly tested positive for Covid-19, the state health department said on Friday. Wife of Snehasish, the elder brother of BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, tested positive for Covid-19, a senior official said.Snehashish’s mother-in-law and father-in-law also tested positive for the disease last week, he said.Besides, a domestic help at Snehasish’s Mominpur home where he was living recently was also found to be positive, he added. They are all undergoing treatment at a private nursing home in the city and are stable.Also Read | ‘MS Dhoni is Mr. Cool but Gambhir would take a bullet for his players’Snehashish, a former Ranji cricketer, has tested negative for Covid-19 and been advised home isolation, the official said.“All the four complained of some health issues, which were similar to the symptoms of Covid-19 when they were staying at another residence and not at Ganguly’s ancestral house in Behala. After testing positive, all the four were shifted to a private nursing home,” a senior official of the department said.They will be tested again on Saturday and further decisions on their treatment will be taken, nursing home sources said.“Whether they will be discharged or not, depends on the result of the tests,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/sourav-ganguly-s-kin-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-7pAhoBUat3O7kunN8RaDTJ.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt opposes L-G’s order on mandatory institutional quarantine||A day after Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal ordered mandatory five-day institutional quarantine for all those, who have tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive, deputy chief minister (Dy CM) Manish Sisodia said on Saturday they are meeting the L-G in the afternoon and would urge him to withdraw the order.L-G Baijal, who is also the head of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), had on Friday made it mandatory for all those, who are under self-isolation at home, be quarantined at government-run institutional facilities for better monitoring and to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak.Sisodia, who is also supervising the work of the health department after incumbent minister Satyendar Jain tested Covid-19 positive, said the L-G’s order was against the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and would cause chaos among the panic-stricken public. Saurabh Bhardwaj, a member of the legislative assembly (MLA) of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) from the Greater Kailash constituency in south Delhi, also tweeted that the order was impractical and cited a lack of adequate institutional quarantine facilities for all Covid-19 patients.Another AAP MLA from Rajinder Nagar, Raghav Chadha, also opposed the L-G’s move on the ground that the national capital would require at least 90,000 hospital beds by end-June, if the order has to be followed. However, the Arvind Kejriwal-led government had made arrangements for only 15,000 hospital beds till end-June, he told media persons.“How are we going to arrange so many hospital beds in such a short span of time?” he asked.The L-G’s office is yet to clarify if the new order would be applicable to around 10,000 people, who are already quarantined at home, or only those who test Covid-19 positive from Saturday onwards, or for both the categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-opposes-l-g-s-order-on-mandatory-institutional-quarantine-for-covid-19-patients/story-i3mbMb6w2vhkzn3E3bu9bO.html
20-06-2020||Education||West Bengal Governor writes to VCs to tell students to practice Yoga at home||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday called upon Vice-Chancellors of state-run universities to spread the message on social media and other platforms among students to practice ‘Yoga at Home With Family’ on June 21, the ‘International Yoga Day.’ At the initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ‘International Yoga Day’ was accorded global support at the United Nations General Assembly in 2014 and since then being celebrated on June 21 all over the world and across India, including educational institutions.Asking the VCs to spread the message on social media during the COVID-19 time, Dhankhar, who is also the Chancellor of state universities, said in a letter “as Vice Chancellor of a university, you have enormous motivational and inspirational authority in society, particularly on impressionable minds.” “I would urge you to give out a message ‘Lets practice Yoga and spread happiness in social media and otherwise amongst society, students and youth so that they practice ‘Yoga at Home with Family,” he said.Dhankhar further said, “In these stressful trying times, where the entire humanity is faced with the COVID-19 pandemic, Yoga will bring about the feeling to be stress-free and happy. Inspire all to share videos on social media #MY LIFE MY YOGA.” Contacted, Calcutta University Vice-Chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee told PTI, “we will forward the letter to the concerned official of university who conducts such programmes. She will take necessary action so that it is observed in a proper manner this year as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/west-bengal-governor-writes-to-vcs-to-tell-students-to-practice-yoga-at-home/story-RmE9ehppdzhTSyAEARcPoN.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Develop cold storage in public-private partnership: Himachal governor||Himachal governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Saturday said that the state needed more cold stores so that fruit growers and farmers could get remunerative prices for their produce and advised officials of the horticulture department to develop the same in public-private partnership (PPP).Interacting with senior officers of the horticulture department at Raj Bhavan, the governor said it should be ensured that fruit growers receive timely payments and get a good price for their produce. He added that labourers could be brought in from neighbouring districts and non-apple growing regions.‘DEVELOP SUB-MARKETING YARDS’The governor also suggested that sub-maketing yards be developed as it will help maintain physical distance during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.He said efforts should be made to provide packing material to growers in advance. In addition, a helpline and centralised contacts should be set up in each district. Horticulture department secretary Amitabh Awasthi told the governor that this season it was expected that around 30 million apple boxes, approximately five to six lakh metric tonnes (MT), will be produced. “Around 68,000 trucks will be needed to transport crops and there will be more pressure in August and September when approximately 75,000 trucks will be required.” Arrangements are being made to arrange the trucks and to make the transportation process smooth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/develop-cold-storage-in-public-private-partnership-himachal-governor/story-F4tP3EzSpi4htrvMKNVe0O.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh CM takes stock of situation along China border, villages not to be vacated for now||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh government does not plan to get the six villages within 10 km of the border with China evacuated for now but it has stepped up vigil in the area after the recent faceoff between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh that claimed the lives of 20 soldiers.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur reviewed the situation in the state’s regions along the China border in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts. Thakur, who also holds the state home portfolio, met Himachal director general of police Sanjay Kundu and the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) commandant besides central intelligence officials at Oakover, his official residence in Shimla, to take stock of operational preparedness on Friday.Thakur had cancelled his visit to the frontier areas in the first week of June due to the standoff in Ladakh. He was to visit Sumdoh, a strategic post between Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur, which is a military base. Himachal Pradesh shares a 260-km border with China in Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts.During the review meeting, it was decided that villages along the border will not be evacuated for now.BORDER VILLAGERS WORRIEDVillagers have been worried due to escalating tensions between the two countries. Namgia, Pooh, Tashigang, Sumdoh, Shalkar, and Dubling villages are located within 10km of the border.Both India and China have deployed more units in the frontier areas after the face-off. China deployed more troops in Tunzuk and Shipki La, the main centre for the annual cross-border trade. The pass connects Kinnaur district with the Tibetan Autonomous Region.The trade with China that begins in mid-June is held up this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the border tension in Ladakh and Sikkim.KEEPING A WATCHMeanwhile, DGP Kundu has asked superintendents of police in Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts to monitor the situation in border villages. “Both the district police chiefs have been directed to meet inhabitants of border districts,” Kundu said.Police have also been asked to guard against rumour-mongering on social media. Though the region remained largely peaceful during the 1962 aggression, the ITBP representative briefed the chief minister about activities of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) across the border. There is no suspicious activity along the border, he said. ONLY TWO PASSES OPENOf the nine mountain passes in Himachal Pradesh on the border with China that forbids troops from both countries to intrude into each other’s territory, only two, namely Lepcha La and Shipki La, are open. The seven other passes are snowbound. They include Khimoku La and Simthong Pass, located ahead of the Trungla valley that crosses into China-occupied Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-cm-takes-stock-of-situation-along-china-border-villages-not-to-be-vacated-for-now/story-vNETiAGjDCTQajJq33BQYJ.html
20-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government caps costs for Covid-19 testing, treatment in private labs and hospitals||Rajasthan government on Friday capped the charges for coronavirus testing and treatment of Covid-19 patients in private labs and hospitals.The government fixed Rs. 2,200 for the testing of samples by private labs.No private hospital shall charge more than Rs. 2,000 per day for normal bed and Rs. 4,000 for ICU bed with ventilator.The decisions to regulate the charges were taken in a review meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot.He asked the officials to take stern action if any private lab or hospital charges more than these prices.Health minister Raghu Sharma, chief secretary DB Gupta and other senior officials were present in the review meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-government-caps-costs-for-covid-19-testing-treatment-in-private-labs-and-hospitals/story-N4JORro9mLCb1FAZqejQ3H.html
20-06-2020||City||Patient dies after family members unplug ventilator to plug in cooler at Kota hospital||A 40-year-old man died at a government hospital here after his family members allegedly unplugged the ventilator he was on to plug in an air cooler. He was suspected to be suffering from Covid-19 and admitted at ICU in the Maharao Bhim Singh (MBS) Hospital on June 13. His test report, however, came negative later.Hospital authorities said a three-member committee will probe the incident.The man was shifted to an isolation ward on June 15 as a safety measure after another patient in the ICU tested positive for the disease.Since it was very hot in the isolation ward, his family members bought an air cooler the same day. On finding no socket for the cooler, they allegedly unplugged the ventilator but almost half-an-hour later, the ventilator ran out of power. The immediately informed doctors and medical staff, who administered CPR upon the patient, but he died. Hospital superintendent Dr Naveen Saxena said the committee comprising the deputy superintendent, nursing superintendent and chief medical officer on duty will probe the incident and submit the report on Saturday.The committee has recorded statements of medical staff in the isolation ward but the family members of the deceased patient are not responding to the panel, he alleged.The doctor said action would be taken against whoever is found responsible in the probe report.Hospital deputy superintendent Dr Sameer Tandon refused to comment on findings by the committee citing that a probe was underway. The isolation ward is furnished with a medical station with 4-5 medical staff and a resident doctor on duty. The family members allegedly did not seek permission to plug in the cooler and when the patient died, they “misbehaved” with the medical staff and the resident doctor on duty, the hospital authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patient-dies-after-family-members-unplug-ventilator-to-plug-in-cooler-at-kota-hospital/story-4WyQsqhHILNsw1iwE7N8UJ.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Five people test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Mohali, count climbs to 213||Five more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Mohali on Saturday, taking the Covid-19 count to 213 in the district.The patients include a 57-year-old man of Chanalo in Kurali who had returned from Delhi, a 53-year-old man of Lalru who had come in direct contact of a positive patient, two women aged 25 and 18 of Baltana who were contacts of a Bapu Dham Coloney resident and a 54-year-old woman of Kharar who had come in direct contact of a positive patient.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said most cases were either contacts of positive persons or had returned from other cities. All of them have been admitted to the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur but are responding well to treatment.Currently, there are 213 positive patients in the district, of which 72 are active. While 138 people have recovered, three people have succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-mohali-count-climbs-to-213/story-5e7lQ62wTG8s0Fu4shlEIM.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, govt schoolteachers asked to check illegal mining in Phagwara||After Gurdaspur district administration asked the teachers to keep the eye on liquor smuggling, Phagwara sub-divisional magistrate has deputed government schoolteachers to check the illegal mining in the area during the night. As per the order issued by Phagwara SDM Pavitar Singh, teams of teachers have been constituted to stop the illegal mining. They will the trucks and tractor-trailers (carrying sand or mud) coming from other areas, on the various checkpoints in Phagwara read the orders. The orders further said that teachers, along with the cops, will remain at checkpoints and submit their daily report of truck or tractor-trailers checked to the SDM office. The administration has appointed around 30 teachers to perform the duty between 9pm to 1am in Phagwara. In May this year, Gurdaspur deputy commissioner’s office posted teachers outside four distilleries to keep an eye on smuggling. The orders were later withdrawn. Amandeep Singh, social science teacher at Government middle school, Sangatpur, said he has received orders on Friday while he has been already performing Covid-19 duty at Phagwara railway station. Manjit Lal, social science teacher at government middle school, Gandwan village, who was on duty on Friday said: “We are government officials and have to follow the instructions We were asked to check the papers of trucks or trailers carrying sand and submit the daily reports.Karnail Phillaur, committee member of Government Teacher Union, Punjab, condemned the move said: “We have been working on frontline Covid duties but such moves were setback to honour of teachers. “We are ready to perform the emergency duty, including census or any other front. We will meet the officials on Monday if they don’t withdraw the orders then will protest”, added Phillaur.When contacted, SDM, Phagwara, Pavitar Singh said the orders were issued with an aim to curb illegal mining. “If any teacher opposes it, he will withdraw the orders,” he said. Kapurthala deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal said she has no information about the orders issued by the SDM Phagwara and will check it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-govt-schoolteachers-asked-to-check-illegal-mining-in-phagwara/story-LTkzhCSa7MUELM8zcXMSWO.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri tests negative for Covid-19||Dharamshala: Himachal Pradesh Congress legislature party leader Mukesh Agnihotri on Saturday tested negative for Covid-19.Una chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Raman Kumar said that 141 samples were sent for testing on Thursday, the reports of which were received on Friday night. All samples, including Agnihotri’s, had tested negative.The leader of opposition in the state had gone into self-quarantine in Una district on June 16 after coming in contact with a Covid-positive Punjab Police assistant sub inspector (ASI).“I suspect having come in contact with a Covid positive person while discharging my duty as a public representative. Though social distancing was maintained and I feel healthy, I am self-quarantining at home till further notice,” Agnihotri had written in a Facebook post.He had visited the ASI’s house in the Dulehar-Hiranagar area of his home constituency of Harloli to mourn the death of the policeman’s father.KANGRA WORST-HIT, LAHAUL AND SPITI CORONA-FREEHimachal Pradesh has recorded 627 Covid-19 cases so far.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 166 cases followed by Hamirpur with 155 cases. Una has reported 77 cases; Solan 71 cases, Chamba 43, Bilaspur 31, Sirmaur 28, Shimla 26, Mandi 23, Kullu four and Kinnaur three cases.Eleven of the 12 districts of Himachal are affected by Covid-19.Lahaul-Spiti is the only coronavirus-free district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-leader-of-opposition-mukesh-agnihotri-tests-negative-for-covid-19/story-J8JDfrRjZhd35hobnr0eYP.html
20-06-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: One dead, two injured as boiler explodes in chemical factory||A labourer was killed and two women workers were injured after a boiler exploded at a chemical factory in Chinhat area on Friday, a police official said.According to police, two women workers fainted due to the explosion after which they were rushed to the hospital where they are reported to be stable.“There are no reports of fire or gas leak. Two women who received injuries and fainted in the factory were shifted to hospital and are stable now while one labourer died in the accident. We’re investigating the matter,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Somen Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-one-dead-two-injured-as-boiler-explodes-in-chemical-factory/story-5Eh9uqEpFAs9zE6fViOo5J.html
20-06-2020||Education||Patna University to hold pending BA exam on July 21; PUSU dissatisfied||The long-awaited final exam of BA part III of Patna University (PU) will be held on July 21. The university had deferred all the exams following the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The exam was scheduled to be held on March 13 across six centres, but it was put off later, holding the fate of around 3,000 students in a balance.PU’s examination controller RK Mandal said that elaborate arrangements were being made for peaceful and fair conduct of the examination, for which the students were waiting anxiously for the past three months.The examination will be conducted at Patna Women’s College, Magadh Mahila College, Patna College, Patna Science College, BN College and Vanijya Mahavidyalaya of the PU. Additional exam halls would be engaged to conduct the examination in conformity to the social distancing norms.NK Jha, dean of students’ welfare, said that the principals of various constituent colleges have been urged to provide list of total capacity for accommodating students. “College premises would be sanitised before exam and students would have to wear mask,” Jha said.Talking about the status of copy evaluation of exams held prior to suspension of academic activities owing Covid-19 outbreak, Jha said that result of B.com is expected to be declared in 10 days.He said, “Of the three traditional UG courses, examination of commerce stream was duly completed as per previous schedule. Evaluation of copies has been completed and results are expected in 10 days. Besides, copy evaluation of those exams of Arts stream which were held earlier is also almost complete. Practical exams of science stream are yet to be conducted by respective colleges.”“We are trying to complete pending exams and release results of final year students at the earliest so that they can apply in PG courses”, added Jha.PU is likely to conduct rest pending exams of traditional, vocational and diploma courses in July-end and August.However, Patna University Students’ Union is not satisfied with the decision. Nishant Kumar, vice-president of PUSU, said, “Students are not ready for exam as they are under mental stress and one-month study leave is not sufficient to prepare for exams. Besides, students residing in hostels have returned to their native places. Gathering of students from different corners would risk health of students. We’d sit on a hunger strike seeking postponement of part III examination and promotion of part I and part II students without examination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-university-to-hold-pending-ba-exam-on-july-21-pusu-dissatisfied/story-urhhgKvZ6v9kiBgEHmuMZO.html
20-06-2020||Lucknow||Iconic Tunday Kababi reopens after 90 days||After a lull, the iconic eatery Lucknow’s Tunday Kababi is back. Mohammed Usman, the owner, said they have re-opened after more than 90-days. “We are presently serving mutton and chicken galaouti kebabs. However, we are yet bring back buffalo meat kebabs (considered to be the most popular dish) to the menu since shops selling the meat are still closed.”The eatery, popular for its Awadhi cuisine, was established by Usman’s grandfather in 1905. The business was hit by the 68-day lockdown that began on March 25 to contain Covid-19, licencing issues and disruptions in meat supplies. “It was the first time in the restaurant’s 115-year history that we had to suspend operations during holy month of Ramzan in April,“ he said.Relishing the galaouti kebabs would now be a little dearer to the food lovers since the eatery has raised prices. “We are selling mutton kebabs for ₹100 a plate and ₹80 for chicken galaouti kebabs,” said Usman. Initially, a plate of mutton kebabs used to cost for ₹84 whereas buffalo kebabs, which were the most popular, used to cost ₹50 a plate.“Good things come at a price. I don’t mind spending a little extra on one of my favourites kebabs. I think things are gradually coming back on track after lockdown,” said Bilal Arshad, a patron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/iconic-tunday-kababi-reopens-after-90-days/story-GJKLn7gSvZwImNSgAxBojN.html
20-06-2020||Ranchi||JMM chief, BJP candidate win 2 Jharkhand seats||Ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) chief Shibu Soren and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Deepak Prakash won the two Rajya Sabha seats for which polling was held on Friday. A candidate needed 27 first preference votes to win. Soren got 30, while Prakash 31 votes. Shahzada Anwar, who contested unsuccessfully, could manage 18 votes.The ruling JMM has 29 legislators in the assembly while the BJP 26 and Congress 15. The All Jharkhand Students Union Party’s two and as many independent lawmakers also voted for Prakash.Prakash thanked BJP’s national leadership and the lawmakers for ensuring his victory. “We always maintained that we have the numbers.... Ideally, this election should not have happened and even JMM president should have got elected uncontested. But Congress fielded its candidate and forced an election,” Prakash said.Chief minister Hemant Soren said, “But it seems the BJP contested the Rajya Sabha election here as it has been doing in other states to win over MLAs to its side...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jmm-chief-bjp-candidate-win-2-jharkhand-seats/story-mVmWfc0x4oGv9vFu57gQDN.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The father of six daughters||He is thousands of miles away from home, and tends to keep his troubles to himself instead of adding anxieties to his family. For instance, when he accidentally hurt his left foot a few weeks ago while riding his rickshaw (despite the coronavirus-triggered lockdown), Rajinder didn’t utter a word about the “mild pain” to his wife, who lives in faraway Kolkata.Anyways, he does not have easy means to reach out to her.“I have no mobile,” he says, rolling up his expressive eyes. They look so full of life and motion that they could be a separate person altogether.Rajinder is perched on the passenger seat of his rickshaw in a central Delhi market lane. He’s waiting for customers. It is still early in the morning.In his late 40s, he is wearing a T-shirt and check shorts “that I bought before the lockdown.” He points out that he will get a new set of daily wear only after wearing out the present one.The rickshaw puller has no fixed address in the city, though he has been living here for 17 years. He sleeps in a nearby Ren Basera, a shelter for the homeless.“Why spend money on room rent when I’m alone here,” he argues, taking out an orange mask tucked away within the secret crevices of his rickshaw’s roof. Tying it with a practised ease about his face, he explains that he came so far from his own city to better support his large family. “I have six daughters and no son, so I have to work doubly hard.” He admits Kolkata itself is a bustling metropolis with a variety of work options “but in Delhi you make more money... and you must remember I have six daughters.”On request. Rajinder lists their names, and utters them out in a single breath as if chanting a mantra: “Pooja, Rupa, Tanu, Soni, Bipasha, Natasha.”He mentions that his wife’s name is Champa Devi.Rajinder now shows the hurt foot. For a better view, he places it on the rider’s padded seat and leisurely rubs his fingers over the heel. There are no scars. Every night at the shelter he massages his affected foot with “mom ki tel.”While chatting, he admits candidly that he would sometimes be out on the streets with his rickshaw during the lockdown. “I’m sorry to have broken the rules... I would be finished with money, and forced to find a few rides.” Otherwise, he says, he would spend those days cooped up inside the homeless shelter.Now he asks for his interlocutor’s mobile phone. “I try to talk to my wife by borrowing phone from customers or (friendly) shopkeepers... they always give it for me to make a brief call.”The person on the other end picks up the phone almost at once, and Rajinder chats for a minute in an accent that is difficult to comprehend.A short while later, he gets the day’s first customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-father-of-six-daughters/story-2rx4ZzPpjtvSBim9MOoZpJ.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR wake up to heavy rain, gusty winds||Heavy rain accompanied by strong winds lashed parts of the national capital early on Saturday morning.Earlier today, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that thunderstorm accompanied with rain and gusty winds of speed 30-50 kmph would occur at and adjoining areas of Delhi NCR.“04:20 IST - Thunderstorm with rain and gusty winds of speed 30-50 kmph would occur over and adjoining areas of Hisar, Hansi, Jind, Meham, Bhiwani, Rohtak, entire Delhi and adjoining NCR (Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gr Noida) during next 2 hours,” said IMD in a tweet earlier today.The southwest monsoon is unlikely to progress further till June 21, however, conditions may become favorable for its advancement in Delhi and Haryana around June 25, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-to-witness-thunderstorm-with-rain-gusty-winds-predicts-imd/story-fTK0a78msVoA2syMEm2EbO.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn redesignates HC law officers||The Chandigarh administration has redesignated its law officers in Punjab and Haryana high court. The additional government pleaders will now be called additional standing counsels.An official said that ‘additional pleader’ was “quite an obsolete term” and that was why change had been effected. However, redesignation did not bring any change in the remunerations. “Their remunerations were revised in April. They now get ₹22,000 per case, which will remain unchanged,’ the official added.There are at least 35 lawyers who will be redesignated. UT’s law officers in high court are headed by a senior standing counsel. These days, the panel is headed by Pankaj Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-redesignates-hc-law-officers/story-9eOtllsPReshJ4eejitOoO.html
20-06-2020||City||Mohali confirms four fresh Covid-19 cases, count now 208||Four fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from Mohali, taking the district count to 208.The patients include a 23-year-old Zirakpur man, who had recently travelled to Delhi; a 56-year-old man from Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur; and a 48-year-old woman and a 50-year-old man, both residents of Baltana. They are contacts of an already positive patient.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. On Friday, four more patients were discharged from the hospital, bringing down the active patients to 67. Out of total 208 positive patients in the district, 138 have recovered and three have died.PARTS OF MUBARAKPUR DECLARED MICRO-CONTAINMENT ZONEAfter Jawaharpur village, now Mubarakpur village in Dera Bassi has been declared a micro-containment zone by the Mohali administration. The announcement came after 15 new Covid-19 cases surfaced in the area in the past one week. Only a limited area is sealed in a “micro-containment zone”. These include the main market of Mubarakpur and the area from the government ayurvedic dispensary to the village’s main road.“Out of the 35 cases in Mohali in the past week, 30 are from Dera Bassi alone, including 15 from Mubarakpur,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, adding that the micro-containment zone will help contain the spread of the virus.In all, Dera Bassi accounts for 53% (110) of the total 208 cases in Mohali district. The first case in Dera Bassi was reported in Jawaharpur village on April 4. The village was declared containment-free on May 25 after 51 days of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-confirms-four-fresh-covid-19-cases-count-now-208/story-48xKmguImWkNpfKQcgpfJO.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||50-minute rain exposes chinks in Chandigarh’s drainage system||The 23.4mm rain over 50 minutes on Friday morning, which caused waterlogging in a number of important roads in the city, was an indication of how ill-prepared the city is for the monsoon, expected to hit by the end of this month or early July.“The road outside the HIG complex had been filled with debris from construction done a few years back which has blocked the road gullies here, so even a little rain leads to waterlogging,” complained Amardeep Singh, president, Sector 39-B resident welfare association (RWA).The northern sectors, too, had a similar problem. “The gullies are in bad shape and are not being cleaned properly. Instead of the covers being taken off and the gullies cleaned from inside, jut the covers are scraped,” said Ranvinder Singh Gill, president, Sector 8 RWA.Friday’s rain led to waterlogging in two drains outside his house, he said.The inner sector road in Sector 19 was also flooded. “There are many old trees over here and the roots have choked the drain. A new sewerage system needs to be installed here or every year we will face waterlogging,” said RL Goyal, president, Sector 19-B RWA.Manimajra fared badly as a railway under bridge (RUB) was flooded. “The levelling of the RUB is such that the water doesn’t drain quickly,” said Col Gursewak Singh (retd), president, Modern Housing Complex (MHC) RWA .Taking stock of the situation, MC chief engineer Shailender SIngh said, “around 50% of the 30,000 road gullies have been cleaned and the rest will be done soon. We should be able to finish before the monsoons start.” He said they received no waterlogging complaints on Friday as it rained for a short spell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-minute-rain-exposes-chinks-in-chandigarh-s-drainage-system/story-4gJvXkKIQ3pgMVUTxzImpO.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Middleman arrested in Chandigarh graft case sent to judicial custody||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday arrested a middleman for seeking bribe on behalf of three policemen posted at Maloya police station.Rajan of Maloya acted as a middleman and demanded money from one Shani on behalf of constables Nasib Khan, Krishan Malik and Shiv, the SHO’s driver, all from the Maloya police station. The trio were suspended.Rajan was produced before special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg at his residence in Sector 16 on Friday and sent to judicial custody. The policemen are yet to be arrested by the CBI. One Dev Raj of Balongi alleged that constable Shiv had demanded ₹2 lakh, threatening to implicate his son, on June 17. Dev Raj told the police that his son had helped the police arrest Rajan, his former employee who had eloped with a girl and taken away the motorcycle of his neighbour. Dev Raj had lodged a complaint with the SSP office, which is still pending verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/middleman-arrested-in-chandigarh-graft-case-sent-to-judicial-custody/story-d0pDkGbuRx1MscpLkvSZ2H.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Distribute textbooks, continue classes online: Mumbai civic body tells schools||With the state education department yet to come up with detailed guidelines on the reopening of schools in red zones across the state, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) education department has now asked schools in the city to complete the distribution of textbooks and continue teaching online until June 30.In a circular released on Friday, the department instructed all civic and government-aided primary schools in the city to call one parent at a time and distribute textbooks by ensuring social distancing norms.“Textbooks under the free textbooks scheme have arrived in schools across the city. Schools can call parents to collect them in the days to come. Care needs to be taken to ensure social distancing norms and to make sure all students get textbooks. If the school is short of a few textbooks, temporary provision for second hand books should be made,” stated the circular.The circular has also asked teachers with schools under civic body to report to work, depending on the institute’s requirement.“Teachers can be called to work for completion of the book distribution process. Other times, they should continue online teaching through messaging apps, live videos, recorded lessons etc until June 30,” the circular further stated. On Tuesday, state education minister had Varsha Gaikwad announced that comprehensive guidelines would be released separately for schools which fall in red zones so that they can plan reopening accordingly. Three days after the announcement, however, the government is yet to come up with clear guidelines on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/distribute-textbooks-continue-classes-online-mumbai-civic-body-tells-civic-schools/story-10WPeJIx5FF05KKcBdrE0N.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 55-year-old cop dies of virus, Mumbai Police toll touches 31||A 55-year-old head constable attached to the Tardeo traffic division died of Covid-19 on Friday morning at KEM Hospital in Parel, where he was undergoing treatment since June 9 after complaining of difficulties in breathing, a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer said. The development was confirmed by Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration). The police said it is unclear how the head constable contracted the virus. He did not have any comorbidity, a senior police officer from the traffic branch said. The head constable’s close contacts are home quarantined.In the past seven days, nine police personnel died owing to Covid-19 in the city, taking the death toll in the force to 31. There were also 102 new Covid-19 cases reported from Mumbai Police in the past two days. “Until Friday, 2,349 personnel from city police have tested positive for the virus,” Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations), said.However, the police also added that the number of recovered is more than those seeking treatment. Till Saturday, 1,573 personnel recovered from the virus and only 746 are undergoing treatment, Ashok informed.Senior police officers believe that quicker response, setting up four dedicated Covid Care Centres for the police, creating awareness about sanitisation, strictly adherence of social distancing norms and provision of financial and moral support to the personnel are some of the key reasons for the higher number of recovered personnel.Need strict measures to control doubling rate in north Mumbai: Police Vinoy Choubey, joint commissioner of police (law and order) on Friday held a meeting with additional commissioner Dilip Sawant, zonals DCPs, deputy civic commissioners and other civic officials, during which he instructed the authorities to take impose a strict lockdown in areas where the rate of infection is high, so as to control the doubling rate in north Mumbai. The police will now take strict action against those violating social distancing rules and roaming without masks. To restrict the movement of people in containment zones, more personnel from the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) will be deployed, an officer said. In the past four days, more than 800 cases were registered against those flouting rules in north Mumbai.(With inputs from Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/55-year-old-cop-dies-of-virus-mumbai-police-toll-touches-31/story-FeP994IN5RIqdXpS8hmWkJ.html
20-06-2020||City||Can’t hold final-year exams; tests for non-professional courses optional: Maharashtra government||Putting an end to the confusion over the status of final-year exams, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Friday evening announced that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, officials from the education department and state disaster management team in a meeting on Thursday decided not to hold the exams. However, examinations will be made optional for non-professional courses across all state universities, Samant said.In a Facebook Live session held on Friday evening, Samant added that for professional courses, including law, engineering, architecture, pharmacy and hotel management, the state government has written to individual exam councils, including All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Council of Architecture (CoA) and Bar Council of India (BCI), asking them to accept the promotion of students instead of holding exams.“We had initially announced that the status of exams will depend on the Covid-19 situation and as the situation in Maharashtra continues to remain grim, we wrote to exam councils of all professional courses. The status will be decided based on their [central councils] responses,” said Samant.Over the past few weeks, students and colleges repeatedly sought clarity over the status of allowed to keep term (ATKT)/backlog exams of final-year students. Samant announced that the Maharashtra government will decide on it in the next couple of days. “Once our appointed committee decides how ATKTs of final-year students can be handled, we will share the information. Individual universities can then decide how to implement it,” he said. A total of 7.3 lakh students are part of non-professional courses across 14 state universities.“All students from non-professional courses will give in writing to the university if they wish to give the examinations or not. Students who don’t wish to give exams will be promoted on the basis of their previous semester performance. We will release their results. We have also asked universities to schedule exams by following social distancing norms for those who wish to appear for exams,” said Samant. On May 31, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that state universities will not hold any exams for final-year students for academic year 2019-20. In his address to the state, Thackeray announced that with the lockdown extended till June 30, the state will have no choice but to promote final-year students based on their performance of the previous and current semester. However, a day later the Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is the chancellor of all state universities, said such a decision will jeopardise the future of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/can-t-hold-final-year-exams-tests-for-non-professional-courses-optional-maharashtra-government/story-rrYZUedcvFN42Fxf8x0qbO.html
20-06-2020||City||Out of work, Mumbai’s dabbawalas may look for new ways to serve||The city’s iconic lunchbox delivery men, the dabbawalas, were forced out of their 130-year-old occupation by the lockdown. However, with local trains resuming services and Mumbai gradually returning to the grind, dabbawalas are now planning to do what the city does best — get back to work and adapt to changing times.When the lockdown shut down public transport and people started working from home, dabbawalas found themselves without work. Although lockdown restrictions have eased in Maharashtra since June 1, schools and colleges remain shut and only a small percentage of employees may go into offices. “There is no doubt our business will continue to see a slump for a few more months even after lockdown is lifted because work-from-home will continue for a lot of our customers. If dabbawalas are not needed, we can do other kinds of deliveries, like courier and mail deliveries, or e-commerce,” said Subhash Talekar, president of Mumbai’s dabbawala association. Adapting will be more of a challenge to some. Sixty-five-year-old Yamunatji Ghule, a member of the dabbawala association, said, “I am not as physically fit anymore. I can’t carry all the lunchboxes allotted to me. But I have worked as a dabbawala since 1970, so my colleagues share my work, lift a few of the lunchboxes allotted to me, and say ‘don’t work, just be a part of the group, and we will share your work’,” said Ghule, who returned to his village in Pune district in May. The average dabbawalla worked approximately 10 hours a day, starting around 9am. Each dabbawala delivered between 15 to 20 lunchboxes, and was paid between Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500 per lunchbox per month. Their routes were along Western and Central Railway, with 40 to 50 dabbawalas covering each station and the areas around it.During the first few weeks of the lockdown, when no one could leave Mumbai, most of the 5,000 dabbawalas in the city tore through their savings. When transport was arranged for migrant labourers, some like Ghule left Mumbai for their village homes, mostly in Western Maharashtra, where they have returned to farming. Ghule is among those looking forward to returning to Mumbai.Back in 1890, the profession of the dabbawala began to ensure white collar workers from the Parsi community had home-cooked meals. The first dabbawalas picked up lunchboxes from people’s homes and brought them to their offices in south Bombay. Since then, Mumbai’s work culture and the lunchbox delivery business has changed. Dabbawalas have added new routes and clients — today they deliver lunch to a range of people, including small businessmen, government employees, as well as school and college students. “These people will always go to work and need their lunch delivered from home once the city restarts properly,” said Talekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/out-of-work-mumbai-s-dabbawalas-may-look-for-new-ways-to-serve/story-R6Kh5hl8mxlKUUcEUltlQK.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||15 years on, Chandigarh MC finally takes over Dadumajra waste processing plant||The Chandigarh municipal corporation on Friday finally took over the reigns of the controversial Jaypee-run waste processing plant in Dadumajra.The plant’s fate, however, still remains uncertain.A technical committee set up by the MC will examine the mechanical condition of the plant, and report on how quickly the plant can be made operational and whether it requires major repair works or upgrades.MC officials on Friday accompanied by the duty magistrate and the police took over the possession of the plant even though firm officials said a stay order was in operation.Stating that no time frame as of now could be given on the restarting of the plant, MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “We have set up a technical committee to study the condition of the plant. Experts from IIT Roorkee will also be part of the committee. They will submit a report by the first week of July.”PANEL SET UP TO ANALYSE PLANT“The committee will find out the plant’s internal strength and make appropriate decisions regarding upgrades. In case the experts find that the entire machinery is defunct, we will have to explore the option of setting up a new plant,” added Yadav.The MC takeover of the plant on Friday came consequent to the termination notice issued on March 5 to Jaypee group.The MC General House terminated Jaypee’s contract in March this year. The civic body issued a termination notice on March 5 asking the firm to hand over the plant within a week. The district courts, however, after being approached by Jaypee, stayed the order on March 12 up to June 12, following which MC initiated the action.Since the order passed was for a definite period, which expired and there was no order of stay by any court of law, the impugned order dated March 5 passed by the MC stood active. Consequently on Thursday, the MC issued a 24-hour notice to the firm for handing over the possession.PLANT WASN’T RUNNING ON OPTIMUM CAPACITYThe MC had signed an agreement with Jaypee in 2005 for setting up a garbage processing plant, which over the years was not operated to its optimum capacity. The plant was only processing 120 metric tonnes (MT) of waste against a requirement of 450 MT, with the remaining waste being illegally dumped in the open ground nearby. Despite several notices from the MC to rectify the defects, Jaypee did not make any changes.Even the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in one of its orders had directed the MC to make alternative arrangements if it was no longer viable to work with Jaypee. The tribunal had also rejected the firm’s plea for a tipping fee for running the plant and slammed Jaypee for not running the plant efficiently.Yadav said the aim of the takeover was to make waste management efficient in the city. The MC will operate the plant and bear the running costs. “Efficient garbage management in the city is one of the priorities of the MC, and consequently, MC will bear the cost of running and maintenance of the plant. Now, we can have holistic waste management from collection to final disposal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15-years-on-chandigarh-mc-finally-takes-over-dadumajra-waste-processing-plant/story-18HrMuuhmNoVgCJUX1el3M.html
20-06-2020||City||Two held for duping elderly shopkeepers of ₹6 lakh||The police have arrested two persons from Phase 11 in Mohali for allegedly duping some elderly shopkeepers on the pretext of exchanging Indian currency with US dollars.The accused were identified as Vijay, 30, of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, and Lalchand Ali, 25, of Assam. Police have recovered ₹43,000 in cash and 26 bills of 20 US dollars, along with some gold items.As per police, the accused duped Gurnam Singh, 60, a shopkeeper of Sohana and Rajesh Kumar, 55, another shopkeeper of Phase 3, of ₹3.5 lakh and ₹2.5 lakh respectively on the pretext of exchanging the amount with US dollar notes.The suspects had offered the shopkeepers an exchange rate of $20 for ₹400, almost ₹1,100 less than the actual rate.After the elderly traders handed over the money, Vijay and Ali gave them a polythene covered with newspaper, and assured the victims that the dollars were in the bag. When the victims opened the bag, they found only pieces of newspapers inside it. Phase-11 station house officer Jagdeep Singh said, “We received a tip-off that the accused were all set to commit a similar type of crime, following which we nabbed them from Sector 66 here. They used to target mainly elderly shopkeepers after winning their faith.”A case was registered. The accused were produced in a local court on Friday, and sent to three-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-duping-elderly-shopkeepers-of-6-lakh/story-D12ExTNYSKN3Q9YHXbM7YI.html
20-06-2020||City||Jagraon Bridge to miss deadline, expected to be completed by July-end||The much-awaited Jagraon Bridge will miss the July 14 deadline and it is expected that the project will now be completed by July-end.Mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal inspected the work at the site on Friday.They claimed that the project had been delayed due to changes in the design of the foundation of the retaining wall to avoid road cave-ins in future.It is also being claimed that the MC would hand over one side of the approach road (Dukhniwaran side) to the Railways by June 30 and the other side would be completed by July-end.Sandhu said, “The project got delayed due to the changes made in the design of the foundation. However works of both departments -- MC and Railways -- would be completed by July-end and the bridge would be opened for traffic. The newly appointed MC chief Sabharwal also took stock of the project and the contractor was directed to expedite the work.” Under the project, the MC has to construct the retaining wall of the bridge and increase the width of the roads approaching the railway overbridge (from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran side towards Durga Mata Mandir) by three metres.The MC had started the construction on January 30 and it was due to be completed by April 14. But, the project was halted after curfew was announced on March 23. The construction restarted on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagraon-bridge-to-miss-deadline-expected-to-be-completed-by-july-end/story-Q41Gp03kXdJDYE2GjlJfaL.html
20-06-2020||City||Ludhiana police chief says battle with Covid-19 still on, urges people to follow safety measures||Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal in a Facebook live session on Friday said the battle against Covid-19 is still on and people have to learn live with it. The one hour-long session has viewed by more than 24,000 users. He added that to make people aware of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, police have roped in NGOs. He said members of NGOs will be called ‘ambassadors’ and help police in markets and public places.Market and residential associations will be awarded by the government for maintaining a safe environment and spreading awareness on precautionary measures. Agarwal added that the police will issue challans for not wearing masks to the violators, but also give them free masks to wear. Those attending the session requested the police chief to issue on-spot challans to violators, so they would not have to stand in queues at Regional Transport Office to pay.The police chief also asked people to send their complaints to police on cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in instead of visiting police stations and offices. He added that the police have made a system and such complaints have been put up in the process on the same day they are received. The complainant will receive information on the progress on his complaint via e-mail or text message.Replying to a query, Agarwal added that as some people have not renewed their driving licences, pollution certificates and insurance of their vehicles, they will be given some time and challans would not be issued for these offences.Agrawal also appealed to the people to download Cova Punjab App, join Mission Fateh warrior drive and get rewarded by the government by making people aware of social distancing.He added that three containment zones have been designated in the city.When a Facebook user asked about the opening of dance academies, the police chief said that such academies are in categories of gym and a decision on their reopening is yet to be taken.Another Facebook user complained that liquor vends in Rishi Nagar remain open till late night. The police chief assured that the police will take action on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-chief-says-battle-with-covid-19-still-on-urges-people-to-follow-safety-measures/story-18nxPYjUFDPGL2v2GTQ8nN.html
20-06-2020||City||Grocery store owner found dead at his house in Ludhiana||A grocery store owner was found dead at his house in GK Estate, Jamalpur, under mysterious circumstances on Friday.The victim, identified as Sushil Singla, 43, was alone at home as his wife had left the house on June 7, following a verbal spat between them.On Friday, she came home and found the house locked from inside. Despite consistent knocking, he did not respond following which she called on the police.A police team, that reached the spot, broke open the door of the house and found the man lying dead. The cause of death has still not been ascertained.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaswinder Singh of the Jamalpur police station said that Sushil’s wife approached the police on Friday afternoon saying that her husband was not opening the door. When the police broke open the door, they found the man dead.The kin of the deceased told the police that Sushil was a drunkard and this was the reason of his strained relations with wife.The ASI added, “On June 7, the couple had a fight after which the woman left the house and went to her parents’ house. The woman called her husband several times on Thursday, however he did not respond. Following this, she reached home to check if everything was fine.”The neighbours also told the police that nobody had seen Sushil for the past two days.The ASI added that the body had been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grocery-store-owner-found-dead-at-his-house-in-ludhiana/story-0wsyEXBDldrOvcvFDaD06I.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA cancels bids of two Chinese firms for 10 monorail rakes||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) and amid the stand-off between India and China at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has cancelled the bids to manufacture 10 monorail rakes received from two Chinese companies – CRRC Corporation Ltd and BYD Co Ltd. HT had reported on Wednesday that an MMRDA notification had stated that the bids for the rakes had been scrapped for the second time in six months. However, it had not cited any reason for the termination then. MMRDA said the Chinese firms were constantly asking for revisions in terms and conditions. “As the two Chinese companies are dictating us to change tender conditions, MMRDA has decided to look for technology partners in India. As we do not require large quantities, it is possible for Indian firms to manufacture and supply (the coaches) in less time,” MMRDA metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said. “We will start the re-tendering process immediately with revised eligibility criteria, such as manufacturing facilities established in India for the past 10 years on similar projects to enable participation of Indian firms,” a senior MMRDA official said.The official also said that talks have been initiated with Indian manufacturers namely Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-cancels-bids-of-two-chinese-firms-for-10-monorail-rakes/story-RKQeQ3Sn41zrgi6QY3bCKJ.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Six Chinese firms working on infra projects in Mumbai||With many politicians demanding a boycott of Chinese products and firms following a tense situation on the border with China, there are questions being raised about the Chinese companies that are involved in the Metro and other major infrastructure projects in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).There are approximately six Chinese companies involved in infrastructure projects in Mumbai, which is in the process of a massive overhaul of its infrastructure. The estimated cost of the entire 337km Metro project is ₹1 lakh crore. Of these, Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co Ltd (STEC), China Railway Tunnel Group Co Ltd (CRTG) and Continental Engineering Corporation (CEC) are undertaking civil and tunnel works for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz). The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is building the fully-underground Metro, has appointed the SJEC Corporation, a Chinese consortium, for system works.CRTG in a joint venture with J Kumar Infraprojects Ltd is also building parts of Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli). Another Chinese company, China Harbour Engineering Company Ltd (CHEC), is building part of Metro-4 (Wadala-Kasarvadavali) in a joint venture with Tata Projects.While MMRC did not respond to queries, a senior official from Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) said the involvement of the Chinese companies “stands as it is”. “So far there is no advisory [against the involvement of Chinese companies],” said the official on condition of anonymity.STEC was also shortlisted to build two underground sewer-water tunnels between Borivli and Goregaon, a ₹50-crore project being undertaken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). For the coastal road project, BMC was also exploring the possibility of hiring a team from China to assemble a tunnel boring machine. The 9.8 km coastal road will have 3.4-km-long twin tunnels, which will run partially under the sea between Girgaum Chowpatty and Malabar Hill. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in BMC, on Thursday tweeted, “Considering the atrocities and violations in Galwan valley, I propose that BMC should ban Chinese machinery or technology in all their projects. Also, they should sever ties with consultants or firms if involved in any which way with any projects BMC has undertaken.” Atul Shah, spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party, said some “tough decisions” need to be taken. “Emotions are running high in the country because of what happened to our soldiers. People in large numbers are already boycotting or returning Chinese goods,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-chinese-firms-working-on-infra-projects-in-mumbai/story-7n2n0fFkyYulHlN8BRMOrN.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||25-year-old held for duping bizman of ₹1.94 crore by faking PMO, NSA email IDs||Bandra police arrested a 25-year-old woman from Mumbai airport on Monday for cheating a businessman from Bandra of ₹1.94 crore. The accused had allegedly claimed she needed the money to study in Delhi to pursue her ambition to clear UPSC examinations and created fake email accounts of the Prime Minister’s office (PMO) and national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval to convince the businessman that she was recruited by the intelligence bureau. According to the complaint registered by the 62-year-old businessman Manohar Tank, the accused’s mother used to visit his house for his wife’s cosmetic treatment and had requested him to financially help her daughter to clear UPSC exams in 2016.“Tank agreed to sponsor her studies. But the accused kept borrowing money from him under different pretexts. In 2018, she told Tank that she had cleared the exam and was recruited by the intelligence bureau. When Tank asked her to return the money, she said she would return the money soon,” said sub-inspector Sachin Chaudhary.Following this, Tank received emails, supposedly from the PMO and NSA’s email id, saying the prime minister was happy with him for having helped the accused, said Chaudhary. “Tank received several such mails. One of those mails said PMO would pay the money he had spent on the accused,” said Chaudhary.Last year, Kadam told Tank that she was posted to Pakistan and Dubai for secret mission and met with an accident, and borrowed money for her supposed treatment, said police officers.In June this year when Tank verified the email address, he realised the accused had cheated him, following which he lodged a complaint with Bandra police station on June 5. “We registered an offence under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act,” said Chaudhary.On Monday, when the accused returned to Mumbai from Delhi, she was arrested at the airport and has since been remanded in police custody. During interrogation, the police learnt that she had completed a course in fashion designing, for which she had borrowed money from Tank. To maintain her profile, she used to live in a rented apartment for ₹1.7 lakh per month, said police officers.“The accused had even kept her mother in the dark,” said Chaudhary. Meanwhile, the accused was subjected to Covid-19 test at JJ Hospital according to protocol and was found to be positive, following which she has been kept under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-year-old-held-for-duping-bizman-of-1-94-crore-by-faking-pmo-nsa-email-ids/story-LtBzlwdswTTFS6S3dY08jK.html
20-06-2020||City||Three killed as bike skids, falls 20ft; six-month-old survives||Three people were killed near Sajiwali Ghat in Shahapur on Friday as their bike skidded and fell 20ft off the hill. A six-month-old boy, who was also riding pillion, survived as he fell on the road. According to Shahapur police, the deceased couple – Jijabai Wagh, 20; her husband Somnath Wagh, 25 – are residents of Shahapur and had gone to their relative’s place for some work. “While the couple was returning home with the child, Swapnil, her brother, Raju Mange, 22, accompanied them on the bike. Somnath couldn’t control the bike on the steep slope and it skidded on a rock. All three of them fell 20 feet down while the six-month-old fell off the bike on to the road and survived,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.“We got a call from another driver who saw the child on the side of the road. We have registered a first information report against Somnath for rash driving,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-killed-as-bike-skids-falls-20ft-six-month-old-survives/story-Llnegcfoz60PcRxBa4v0iL.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Man sentenced to 12 years in jail for sexually assaulting minor||The special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has convicted a man for sexually assaulting his 13-year-old niece in 2015. The accused, the husband of the minor’s mother’s sister, kidnapped her and abused her to take revenge on the minor’s mother on suspicion that she provoked his wife against him.Special judge Priti Kumar Ghule said, “It is seen that the accused committed the offence due to anger as his wife left him based on the words of the minor’s mother. He wanted his wife to return back and was frustrated. The accused did not use maximum force on the minor and did not cause bleeding. The act of accused is condemnable, but he stopped himself before the worst act of deep penetration into her vagina. In these circumstances, I do not find it fit and proper to give a maximum punishment of life imprisonment.”As per the prosecution case, on June 7, 2015, the accused had fought with his wife and had decided to leave his house. The prosecution alleged the accused, a vegetable vendor, was addicted to alcohol which was the reason for frequent quarrels between the couple.After the incident, the accused left the house and went to the minor’s house in Wadala between 5pm and 6pm. Meanwhile, the girl’s mother visited the accused’s house in Kurla. Assuming that the minor’s mother provoked his wife, the accused decided to take revenge, the prosecution claimed.The accused allegedly told the girl to accompany her claiming her mother was unwell and had to be taken to hospital. The accused along with his friend, who died pending the trial, took her near a temple in Kurla and sexually assaulted her.The prosecution argued that the statements of witnesses, which included the minor’s neighbours who saw the accused taking the girl, the minor, her mother, as well as the medical report support the prosecution case. It was proved that the accused took the girl and sexually abused her. Considering the evidence, the special court held the accused guilty of sexual assault on the minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-sentenced-to-12-years-in-jail-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/story-jr4saALdRIQHPZRSb1Z1QP.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||J Dey murder convict Satish Kalia denied interim bail||The special MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act) court has refused to grant interim bail to Rohit Thangappan Joseph alias Satish Kalia, the sharp shooter of Chhota Rajan’s gang, who is convicted for shooting journalist J Dey. The court has, however, asked prison authorities to provide him proper diet and medicines to improve his immune system.Kalia, who is presently lodged in Arthur Road jail, submitted through his lawyers, Santosh Deshpande and Nitin Kamble, that he is suspected to have contracted the virus. The lawyers added that he is undergoing treatment and the report for his swab test is pending. Citing that more than 100 prisoners have tested positive for Covid-19 in the jail, Kalia’s lawyers pleaded that in case he tests positive, after due treatment he be released on temporary for three months or till the end of the pandemic. The accused is currently facing trial in connection with firing at bookie-turned-developer Ajay Gosalia alias Ganda in 2013 outside Infinity Mall in Malad (West).The court, however, rejected the plea observing that the high-power committee has excluded accused booked under MCOCA from the categories of prisoners who can be granted interim bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/j-dey-murder-convict-satish-kalia-denied-interim-bail/story-FY8tzB8lflpcmbViDX943J.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Special court hears P Varavara Rao’s interim bail plea||Veteran Telugu poet P Varavara Rao’s plea for interim bail was heard on Friday by the special judge, almost a month after Rao moved the special court seeking interim bail on May 15. Rao’s lawyers sought bail for Rao, who was arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, on grounds that he is more vulnerable and is at a higher risk of contracting Covid-19 in jail amid the spread of the disease in Mumbai jails.Rao’s lawyers, Sudeep Pasbola and R Sathyanarayan, said Rao is 81-years old and is suffering from various ailments. They said he is more vulnerable to the virus due to his age and ailments and hence pleaded for the interim bail.Meanwhile, the defence sought time from the court to put forth legal submissions and cite court rulings in support of their contentions. The court allowed it and scheduled the matter for further hearing on June 26.Meanwhile lawyers for Dr Shoma Sen obtained permission to speak to her through video call before making submissions on the interim bail filed for her. The court has scheduled the hearing for Sen’s plea on June 26 as well.Meanwhile, 14 members of parliament (MPs) from the Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (DMK), Indian National Congress (INC), Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Rashtriya Janata Dal, including DMK MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, have written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to transfer Rao to a hospital considering his deteriorating health condition. The letter states that Rao’s health report from JJ Hospital indicates an electrolyte disturbance and claimed that it could prove detrimental to his health as he is already a cardiac patient. The letter also quoted an instance where Rao fainted and was admitted to JJ Hospital on May 27. The letter calls for immediate medical attention to Rao as well as Professor Dr GN Saibaba who suffers from 90% disabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-special-court-hears-p-varavara-rao-s-interim-bail-plea/story-vlkPJBB65ZX043sfFPEyqK.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||65-year-old ‘hypnotised’, robbed of gold ornaments, cash worth ₹90K||A 65-year-old chartered accountant (CA) was allegedly hypnotised by two persons on Thursday and was robbed of gold ornaments and cash worth ₹90,000. According to police, the victim, Vinayak Khadilkar, a Wadala resident, was returning home from bank after withdrawing ₹5,000 on Thursday around 9.25am when the incident took place. An unknown person allegedly stopped him near the post office on RAK Marg and asked him not to roam alone saying a murder had taken place in the area. The man then took Khadilkar to a side while the accused’s associate came on bike and started talking to the victim, said senior inspector Sunil Sohani, RAK Marg police station. While one of the accused talked to Khadilkar, the other took his gold chain, ring and the cash worth a total of ₹90,000. The accused then kept a small plastic pouch in the victim’s pocket saying his gold ornaments were in it, added the officer. “The victim did not realise anything that was happening with him. It seems he had been hypnotised,” added Sohani. After Khadilkar came home and checked the pouch, he realised his ornaments were missing. “We have registered a case of cheating against two unknown persons. We are checking CCTV cameras in the vicinity to find out suspects,” said Sohani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/65-year-old-hypnotised-robbed-of-gold-ornaments-cash-worth-90k/story-9G5nD7DC3gRWX8rRpuTeIM.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||GST official booked for sexually assaulting model||Oshiwara police has registered a first information report (FIR) on Friday against a 40-year-old deputy GST commissioner for allegedly sexually assaulting a 34-year-old model. The woman in her complaint alleged that the man had been assaulting her since the past two years and that he promised to marry her. Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector from Oshiwara police station, confirmed that a case was registered against the accused under sections 376(2)(n) (repeated rape on same person), 377 (unnatural sex), 323 (causing hurt), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and that investigations were on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gst-official-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-model/story-9GRPbuiiA45gEKSY4wYOqJ.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 3,827 Covid-19 cases, highest 1-day rise again; peak expected in July?||The surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra continued on Friday, when the state for the second consecutive day recorded a highest one-day spike in infections. The state’s case count rose by 3,827 cases, taking its tally to 1,24,331. Of these, 55,651 are active cases, the state health department said. The state also reported 142 deaths on Friday, taking its toll to 5,893. Of the fatalities, 114 were in Mumbai, 21 in Pune, eight in Aurangabad, five in Vasai-Virar, three each in Raigad, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, two in Thane, and one in Solapur.Mumbai, the worst hit city in India, recorded 1,264 cases, as its tally rose to 64,139. Of these, 28,442 are active cases. The city’s toll stands at 3,425.With cases rising rapidly, the state expects a sharp surge in the coming days. This month has already seen the maximum cases — 56,679 — being reported in the state since the outbreak began on March 9. Of the 1,24,331 cases, 45.58% have been reported in June so far. State officials said they expect the Covid cases curve to peak in July. “According to fresh projections, the peak is likely to come in July. If that happens, it will take another month for the cases to decline and by September, the situation may come under complete control,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.State health minister Rajesh Tope had recently said the “peak has started”. “The fresh cases will continue to rise for the next 15-20 days as the peak has started. The situation in the state will stabilise and we will be able to settle things down soon. I’m saying this going by what is happening in other countries,” Tope had said on Saturday.Dr Avinash Supe, former dean KEM Hospital and a member of the expert committee appointed by the state to study and analyse data and recommend new measures to curb the spread, said, “In some areas, cases are going down, whereas in some other areas, they are increasing. So it is very difficult to say when the actual peak will come. The peak may come as a wave and it would be different at different places.”More concerning for the government is the rise in case fatality rate (CFR), which stands at 4.74%. By May-end, the state had brought down CFR to 3.26% from 7.41% on April 13. But it has risen again.“There could be two reasons behind rise in case fatality rate. One, some deaths were not reported, as patients had died due to heart attack, but they were Covid-19 positive and some municipal corporations had not added them in their toll. This they have started doing now. Second, more focus on symptomatic patients. With change in guidelines, our focus is now only on symptomatic patients and we may not have picked the asymptomatic patients at the right time for treatment,” said Supe.According to fresh guidelines from the Ministry of Health, asymptomatic and mild cases of Covid-19 don’t need hospitalisation. Also, only those who are in close contact of Covid-19 positive patients are allowed to get tested. The CFR concern was also discussed in a review meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He instructed officials that there should not be any negligence in aggressive contact tracing and testing as that is the only way to contain the spread. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta pointed out that the spread of pandemic is found more in areas where contact tracing is less than 10 people, indicating that it needs to be done more aggressively.Thackeray also directed constituting a task force comprising experts and senior doctors at district or division level. “We have greatly benefited with the task force constituted in Mumbai to contain the spread. As cases are rising, it has become necessary to constitute such task forces at district or division level,” the chief minister said in the meeting. He also said there should not be any delay in Covid-19 test reports and laboratories must provide them at the earliest.Meanwhile, the constant improvement in recovery rate has brought some relief to the state. On Friday, the recovery rate reached 50.49% from 31.05% (on May 27), after 1,935 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The total number of recovered patients stands at 62,773.State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said the doubling rate of cases has improved to 23.1 days from 21.3 days.The health department declared to have conducted 7,35,674 tests at public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 6,11,343 people tested negative, which means 16.9% of the total reports tested positive, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-3-827-covid-19-cases-highest-1-day-rise-again-peak-expected-in-july/story-nFVMp3cT0C7UpPQMjE0XlN.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Forest department arrests 12 poachers, seizes equipment worth ₹4.46 lakh||The Maharashtra forest department busted a poaching operation in Satara district, arrested 12 people, and seized poaching material worth ₹4,46,200, on Thursday. Forest officials said a 600-metre long and 300-metre broad snare trap was laid to capture animals near Padli village at a farm adjacent to the reserved forest area. “After local villagers spotted the group of poachers setting up the trap, they informed one of our forest rangers. We immediately deployed a team and identified their exact location,” said V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest, Kolhapur. “Fortunately, no animal was caught within the period they set up the trap and we nabbed them.”Four motorcycles, one four-wheeler, 10 snares made using a combination of nylon ropes and wire meshes, and 10 wooden logs were seized and two dogs were taken into the forest department’s custody. “The poachers had trained the dogs to assist them in catching animals. The minute a wild boar, deer, hare etc. entered the farm, the dogs would chase them to a corner and the snare or wire mesh would snap around the animal’s leg,” said Vishwas Bhadale, assistant conservator of forest (Satara), one of the officers who led the operation. “The trap was laid in such a manner that even a leopard could have been caught in the wire snare,” he added.Forest officials said all arrested accused belonged to nearby villages, mainly Karal. “Based on our investigation, we found that some of the accused were past offenders. Their intent was to catch a wild boar for bush meat, and sell it nearby areas for quick money,” said Bhadale.The accused were presented before a district court on Friday. According to the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, any hunting attempt is a punishable offence for at least three years or a fine of up to ₹25,000 or both. “However, all 12 accused were granted bail considering they had not managed to complete the poaching operation and to decongest the local jail due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They were let out on the condition that they report to the range forest office once a week for further investigations,” said Bhadale.Maharashtra has witnessed a surge in wildlife crimes in June with 19 people arrested between June 1 and 11 in a multi-district illegal wildlife trade racket busted by the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/forest-department-arrests-12-poachers-seizes-equipment-worth-4-46-lakh/story-5cpprpo2qBZBwMQGJ0rXVM.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Evaluate losses of fishing community due to Cyclone Nisarga, compensate them, HC tells state||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the disaster management authority and the state to take cognisance of the representations made by the fishing community to the chief minister regarding the losses they suffered owing to Cyclone Nisarga which ravaged the Maharashtra coastline on June 3. The court directed the authorities to conduct a proper survey to evaluate the losses suffered by the community and to compensate them accordingly.The fishing community, represented by Damodar Tandel, informed the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated through advocate Rakesh Bhatkar that as the losses they suffered during Cyclone Phyan were not compensated, the court should ensure that their concerns regarding the losses owing to Cyclone Nisarga are addressed, as without the compensation they would not be able to revive their activities.Bhatkar submitted that unless a proper survey was undertaken it would not be possible to ascertain the extent of losses suffered by the fishing community, and hence the concerned authorities should be directed to conduct the survey as soon as possible. He further submitted that various representations were already made on behalf of the fishing community to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in this regard. The counsel for the state submitted that the state would ensure that the grievances of the community were taken care of as per the representations made to the CM.After hearing the submissions, the court directed the authorities to conduct a proper survey within three weeks and decide on the compensation to be paid to the affected persons and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/evaluate-losses-of-fishing-community-due-to-cyclone-nisarga-compensate-them-hc-tells-state/story-jZ9Jj3JVvtF47TUiH9Gc7L.html
20-06-2020||City||Hand over Covid-19 test report directly to patient, kin, SC tells Maharashtra government||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to provide Covid-19 test reports directly to patients and their relatives. The order, by a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, came as part of the suo moto monitoring of facilities to Covid-19 patients.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had issued a circular on June 13, stating that the test report will not be shared by the laboratory directly with the patient. “Laboratory will share the report with MCGM (Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai) and MCGM in return will share it with the patients,” the circular had said.The Indian Medical Association (IMA), as well as doctors, had complained against the circular, saying it is leading to delays in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “Because of the new rule, patients come to know about the result of the test after three to four days, and during this time their symptoms may aggravate and may become serious,” IMA had said.“This is why we are insisting on having a uniform policy for all states. See this order passed by Maharashtra government,” the SC said. “We have no doubt states and all concerned shall supply a copy of the patient’s report to him or his relatives and the hospital.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta found the order “illogical” and said such an order ought to be withdrawn. The bench asked Maharashtra government counsel, Sachin Patil, to take instructions and persuade the government to withdraw the order.The BMC said it will ask laboratories to hand over test reports directly to patients and their relatives, but hospitals will have to take permission from the civic Covid-19 war rooms before admitting an infected person. “For asymptomatic patients, we have CCC-2 (Covid Care Centre) and hospital beds are reserved only for symptomatic patients. So the hospitals will have to inform war rooms in their respective civic wards before admitting patients. This is for better management of beds,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC.Earlier on Friday, before the SC order came, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had explained the logic behind asking laboratories to share report only with the civic body and not patients. “Most of the Covid-19 beds and Covid-19 ICU beds in 35 private hospitals in Mumbai are occupied by asymptomatic positive patients. This, because, after directly receiving the test reports, they [asymptomatic patients] rush to private hospitals out of anxiety and fear of complications and immediately get admitted,” said Chahal, adding that this results in a symptomatic Covid-19 patients, who are in need of medical attention, not finding beds in private hospitals.The Association of Medical Consultants (AMC), however, expressed satisfaction over the Apex Court overruling BMC’s policy. “This led to unnecessary delay of reports. The private laboratories provide reports only after two-three days. The civic body takes additional time to inform the patients. In the meantime, the patient keeps waiting for treatment,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of the association. “While the patients wait, their oxygen saturation deteriorates and then they collapse within a few hours of admission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hand-over-covid-19-test-report-directly-to-patient-kin-sc-tells-maharashtra-government/story-rvtSZ4NWWIhCmJg4Be8ppI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Unidentified men open fire at caretaker of under construction colony in Ludhiana||Three men opened fire at the caretaker of an under-construction colony in Bhattiyan village of Salem Tabri on Friday, over a land dispute. The victim, identified as Jaswinder Singh, 20, received bullet injuries in his leg and has been admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The accused fled the spot after the incident.Salem Tabri station house officer, inspector Gopal Krishan said the land on which the colony was being built, belonged to two Tarn Taran residents, Jaswant Singh and Harbans Singh, who had sold the land to another resident, identified as Jaswinder Singh.Jaswinder Singh had hired his namesake Jaswinder Singh of Bhattiyan village as the caretaker and started construction of the colony.The SHO said that on Friday, three men reached the spot and claimed that they had purchased 1.5 kanal land from the Tarn Taran residents. Following this, a clash broke out and the trio opened fire at the caretaker and fled after injuring him. The SHO said the accused are yet to be identified. They are hoping to gather more clues on the accused after they record the victim’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unidentified-men-open-fire-at-caretaker-of-under-construction-colony-in-ludhiana/story-2Lxw38cwCHVfxrIa6lBl9N.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||29-year-old provides essential kits to transgenders||Twenty-nine-year-old media professional Ankita Wagle was so affected by an article that she read last month about the plight of transgenders, that she decided to do something for the community.What followed next were calls to friends who work with non-government organisations (NGOs) and in the media to know if she could help the community amid these uncertain times.She came across Bandra resident Zoya Lobo, who works as a freelance photographer. Through Lobo, Wagle reached out to 25 transgenders in Mahim and 100 more in Ulhasnagar, and has been providing them with essentials and other help, with assistance from Lobo.“With the help of family and friends, we raised around ₹ 75,000, with which we bought essential kits, consisting of rice, dal, flour, oil, spices, masks and sanitiser for the community members,” said Wagle, a Borivli resident. Lobo said the kit provided by Wagle can be utilised for a month. “Many in our community have been affected owing to the lockdown, as most of them either beg on trains, signals or are sex workers,” said Lobo.To continue working for the community even after the lockdown ends, Wagle also started an initiative, ‘Identify- the world for transgender’, through which she aims to help transgenders seek employment in the future.With Identify, we aim to make the younger generation understand our problems and hope to be accepted as part of society,” said Lobo.“This is one community which has been ignored largely by society. Through social media, I am trying to tell their stories to the world, so that I can help them live a dignified life,” Wagle said.Wagle has also documented the story of Vidya Sagar, a lavani dancer and member of the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/29-year-old-provides-essential-kits-to-transgenders/story-ZCKyMmRxAvmkT2TIpoghPI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Jobs lost due to lockdown 3 friends turn snatchers; held||Having lost their jobs due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, three friends turned snatchers and executed at least six snatchings at filling stations and liquor vends in Ludhiana’s rural areas before being caught. The accused, identified as Pavittar Singh, 29, of Bahadurke village, Roop Lal, 32, of Bhattian and Mahinder Singh, 33, of Jeevanpur village, were arrested on Friday from a checkpost set up near Hawas village. Police have recovered a toy pistol and the motorcycle used in the crimes from their possession.As per the police, the accused have no criminal history. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, during an online press conference, informed that before the lockdown, Pavittar used to work as a security guard in a factory, while Roop Lal and Mahinder were workers there. Following the lockdown, the trio lost their jobs, adding to their pre-existing financial woes, especially since they were neck-deep in debt.To get out of the situation, the trio decided to take to crime. The police chief said the accused were captured on closed-circuit television cameras when they were executing the snatchings and robberies at filling stations. They had covered their face with masks and also removed the number plate of the motorcycle.Inspector Parveen Randev, in-charge at CIA staff-2, said the accused have no criminal background. “They told us that they wanted to pay off their debts so they took to crime. So far, they have confessed to their involvement in six cases.”CONFESS TO INVOLVEMENT IN SIX CASESOn June 5, the trio robbed a filling station employee of Rs 23,000 in Chaunta village.  One May 20, they robbed a Meharban area filling station employee of Rs 15,000 and mobile phone after threatening him with a toy pistol.On May 30, the accused robbed Rs 8,840 from a worker of liquor vend in Meharban. In April, they looted Rs 2,900 and liquor bottles from a vend worker in Baunkar village. In May, they looted Rs 3,500 and liquor bottles from Shalu Bahini village, Rs 700 and a carton of liquor from Hadiwal village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jobs-lost-due-to-lockdown-3-friends-turn-snatchers-held/story-W3HiwVDbBeb2MzQvcHqszI.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Despite Centre’s go-ahead, Maharashtra zoos refuse to open for visitors||Zoological parks and wildlife rescue centres across Maharashtra have refused to reopen for visitors for the time being, in a bid to keep captive animals and its staff safe during the Covid-19 pandemic.Days after the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) under the Union environment ministry allowed zoo operators to take a call on reopening zoological parks to visitors following the relaxation of lockdown rules under Unlock 1 from June 1, a review by the Maharashtra Zoo Authority (MZA) showed that none of the state zoos have opted to reopen.The decision comes at a time when Melghat Tiger Reserve was reopened for tourists on Friday while the buffer area of Pench and Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve will be reopened from July 1.There are 10 zoological parks and four rescue centres in the state. Of these, two are medium-sized zoos – Virmata Jijabai Bhonsale Udyan and Zoo in Byculla, and Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre in Pune. The remaining eight are mini zoos across Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Solapur, Kolhapur, as well as the Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Borivli (classified as a mini zoo by CZA).“We reviewed all the major zoos. So far, none of them are open for visitors due to prevailing local situation and threat of the pandemic,” said Ravikiran Govekar, member secretary, MZA. “We have asked the zoo operators to consult local authorities empowered by the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act before taking any decision.”As per the circular issued by CZA on June 10, based on guidelines from the Ministry of Home Affairs, the decision to reopen zoos for the public has to be taken by zoo operators based on consultation from the state disaster management authority. “Zoological parks across Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh were reopened for the public but there have been no visitors at all,” said SP Yadav, member secretary, CZA. “The final decision has to be taken by state authorities and the zookeepers based on the prevailing Covid-19 situation across the city, district or state,” he said.Byculla Zoo authorities said they have no plans to reopen till the end of July. “The Mumbai Metropolitan Region continues to have some of the highest Covid-19 positive cases in India, and it is not wise to reopen the zoo at the moment,” said Sanjay Tripathi, zoo director. “Our zoo comes under the large entertainment park category, and no relaxations have been issued for that category by the state or civic body. It will be safer for captive animals and our 35 staff members who have been residing within the zoo premises since March.”Other zoo operators highlighted the example of a tiger that had tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19, at Bronx Zoo in New York on April 5. “Among 450 animals, birds and reptiles, we have a large number of big cats. Under no circumstances can we risk their safety by reopening the zoos at the moment,” said Rajkumar Jadhav, zoo director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park in Pune.Meanwhile, rescued or captured tigers have been sent for rehabilitation and treatment to the Gorewada Wildlife Rescue Centre in Nagpur during the pandemic. Officials said they had to be extra careful after the Bronx case and ensure minimal human contact with the animals. “We plan to inaugurate the zoo only after Nagpur is declared a green zone. We have one of the highest numbers of captive and rescued tigers with us. So far, no animals have displayed symptoms of illness,” said Nandkishor Kale, divisional manager, Gorewada project.Meanwhile, CZA on June 11 had also directed the mandatory deployment of round-the-clock veterinarians at zoos, to keep a close watch on the behaviour and health parameters of the captive animals. “All zoos are complying with CZA directives and are trying their best to provide required health facilities,” said Govekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-centre-s-go-ahead-maharashtra-zoos-refuse-to-open-for-visitors/story-socLqGd4iR429Om5mKHehL.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Malad corporator challenges BMC’s testing rule in HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state government to respond to a petition filed by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from Malad, challenging the civic body’s June 13 circular which restrained private testing laboratories from giving reports of Covid positive patients to the patient. Later in the day, the Supreme Court directed the Maharashtra government to provide the reports of Covid-19 tests directly to the patients and their relatives.The petitioner stated the circular was violative of the fundamental rights of the patient and by not issuing the report to the patient, the lives of relatives and those who came in contact with the patient were being put at risk. The court has placed the petition for urgent hearing on Saturday.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Nitin Borkar was hearing the petition filed by Vinod Mishra through advocates Amogh Singh and Jeet Gandhi via video-conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/malad-corporator-challenges-bmc-s-testing-rule-in-hc/story-dUOYmh1IxjI2AyNUO7l17L.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers can pay coop loan instalments by June 30||The state government has given an opportunity to farmers who have not been able to pay their co-operative loan instalments till March 31 to pay the dues till June 30. Meanwhile, Haryana’s additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal on Friday released six working group reports of Haryana Kisan and Agricultural Costs and Prices Commission.Kaushal said the reports included working group report on promotion of organic farming in Haryana, working group report on promotion of mushroom cultivation in Haryana, working group report on maize cultivation in Haryana, Proceedings of the Workshop on Growing of Poplar Yield: Bottlenecks and Policy Issues. Besides this, working group report on promotion of organic farming in Haryana and working group report on maize cultivation in Haryana, were released in Hindi languages. He said these publications were highly useful for the benefit of the farmers and also important for implementation of the recommendations from these publications by the agriculture and allied departments for progress of agriculture in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-can-pay-coop-loan-instalments-by-june-30/story-Wt4NoVpTN0oQnAkPtlhXQL.html
20-06-2020||Mumbai||Why BMC decided that lab reports should be given only to the civic body||Hours before the Supreme Court (SC) on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to provide reports of Covid-19 tests to patients and their relatives directly, Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had clarified the logic behind asking private laboratories to share reports only with the civic body – many asymptomatic patients, after learning that they were positive, were getting admitted to private hospitals, taking away the beds meant for symptomatic patients.BMC in a circular issued on June 13 had said: “No positive test report shall be shared by the laboratory with the patient directly. Laboratory has to share the report only with BMC and BMC in turn shall share it with the patient.” The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had objected to it, stating family members of those who test positive should get the information immediately rather than waiting for BMC to inform the patients. The SC bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan passed the order as part of the suo motu monitoring of facilities to Covid-19 patients.In a clarification issued on Friday before the SC’s direction, Chahal said that beds in 35 private hospitals were occupied by asymptomatic patients, and under the pretext of not denying beds to walk-in patients, these hospitals are breaching trust of BMC and not allowing the civic body to allot beds there. “It has come to my knowledge that most Covid beds and Covid ICU beds in major 35 private hospitals in Mumbai are occupied by asymptomatic patients. This is because after directly receiving positive test reports from laboratories, they rush to private hospitals out of anxiety and fear of complications and immediately get admitted before a positive symptomatic patient from the list can be allotted the Covid-19 bed or Covid-19 ICU bed in these hospitals, through our ward-level war rooms,” said the municipal commissioner.Chahal said the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines state that asymptomatic positive patients shall not be allotted beds in Covid hospitals in dedicated Covid hospitals and dedicated Covid health centres. However, as these asymptomatic positive patients get direct access to test reports from laboratories, they rush to these hospitals, pay money and occupy the beds. BMC chief said the hospital too is happy as these patients are as good as quarantined, requiring no treatment. “They earn money from their admissions, clearly violating ICMR guidelines of not allotting beds to such a category of positive patients,” he said.According to civic corporation’s data, as of Wednesday, the bed occupancy rate for 17,000 Covid-19 beds is 69%, 96% for ICU beds, and 97% for ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-bmc-decided-that-lab-reports-should-be-given-only-to-the-civic-body/story-fTxKMEWqkRq3W8FJ5NJZBI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana residents paid Rs 40 lakh fine for not wearing masks, spitting in open||It seems the city’s residents prefer paying fines over following the rules as the Ludhiana Police have collected over Rs 40 lakh from lockdown violators in the past 85 days. Of this, Rs 37.6 lakh has been collected from those found venturing out without a mask while Rs 2.2 lakh has been collected from residents for spitting in public places.Officials say the fine amount was increased on May 29 to discourage violators but that too seems to have no effect.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary says violations continue unabated despite the government’s concentrated efforts at generating awareness. “We have so far issued 10,667 challans for not wearing masks and caught 2,192 people for spitting in the open. Besides, 18 people have been fined for not following social distancing norms and two for violating home quarantine.”He said the cases against the violators are issued under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. As per the police, most violators are in the age group of 18 to 40. When caught, they make excuses, saying that they forgot to wear the mask or lost their mask while riding the two-wheeler. Cops also say that those caught spitting in the open are mostly habitual tobacco chewers, who end up putting others’ lives at risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-residents-paid-rs-40-lakh-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-spitting-in-open/story-OpOUK7rriQIWHJk2CeWK4L.html
20-06-2020||City||Fatehabad village panchayat bans entry of widow for 15 years||The panchayat of Fatehabad’s Dhani Bhojaraj has issued a diktat banning the entry of a widow to her in-laws village for the next 15 years. Bala Devi said after her husband’s demise, the panchayat told her to not step foot in the village till her son turned 18.“A panchayat was called after my in-laws refused to give me my husband’s share of land after his demise. They then agreed to register the same in my son’s name, but objected to my entry into their house. However this week, the panchayat passed a diktat banning my entry into the village for the next 15 years. It has asked me to live at my parental home along with my son and daughter and allowed to rejoin my in-laws only after my son turns 18,” Devi said.Stating that the panchayat had done injustice with her, Devi added, “It is very difficult for me to live at my parental home for so long.”When contacted, sarpanch Sadhu Ram agreed that the panchayat did pass an order to such effect.“We had called a panchayat after Devi and her in-laws were constantly engaging in domestic fights. Initially, the in-laws were accusing Devi of her husband’s death, but later accepted their mistake. We have asked Devi to return to her in-laws’ house when her son attains the age of 18 years,” the sarpanch added. Bhuna block development and panchayat officer Mahender Singh said the panchayat has done injustice to the widow and the sarpanch did not have any right to pass such a diktat.“We can take action only against the sarpanch. Rest of the investigation will be done by the police, if the woman files an official complaint,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fatehabad-village-panchayat-bans-entry-of-widow-for-15-years/story-Mou4SkD6h4As1DVTBzBSPI.html
20-06-2020||City||2 Covid patients in Kalyan die awaiting treatment||In two separate incidents, Covid-19 patients died while waiting for hospital beds in Kalyan this week. Both the patients had been suffering from breathlessness but since the result of their swab tests were awaited, they did not get admitted to Covid hospitals while the civic-run Rukminibai Hospital, a non-Covid hospital, did not have ventilators.In the first incident, a 43-year-old man died at a Covid Hospital in Kalyan (West) on Friday.The patient’s sister said, “My elder brother was having issues with breathing and high fever. My younger brother went to every hospital but none of them admitted him and we were asked to go to Holy Cross Covid hospital at Karnik Road. When we reached there, the doctors said they could not admit the patient as the test report was awaited and only treated Covid cases. My brother died on the hospital premises on the same day.”A day after his death, the man’s test results confirmed he was positive for Covid-19. The sister said that her younger brother is also showing symptoms and is scared after this incident.In the second incident which took place on June 16, a 57-year-old man died at Rukminibai Hospital in Kalyan (West).The deceased’s 32-year-old son said, “My father was suffering from fever since June 12, for which he had taken medicines from our family doctor and did typhoid and malaria tests. He tested positive for typhoid. Meanwhile, our doctor also suggested doing a Covid test. On June 14 he was tested and the next day he started suffering from breathing problems.”The family went to Rukminibai Hospital where there was no ventilator. Doctors gave him oxygen and he was sent to another private hospital. The private hospital refused to admit the patient and he was made to return to Rukminibai.“My father was on a stretcher with an oxygen mask and couldn’t breathe. There was no treatment given on time. There were no beds available,” said the victim’s son. Following his death, the 57-year-old was tested and found to be infected with the coronavirus.Hospital authorities have denied any negligence on their part. An official from Rukminibai Hospital said, “The 57-year-old patient was immediately provided with oxygen as he was in a severe condition. Rukminibai is a non-Covid hospital and hence we do not have a ventilator. We send such patients to the Covid hospital with oxygen support. The same procedure was followed for the patient.”Spokesperson for Kalyan Doctors Army, that handles Covid patients at Holy Cross Covid Hospital, Prashant Patil said,”When there are no beds available, we tell the family so that their time is not wasted and the patient gets admission in some other hospital. Also, if a patient’s report is awaited, we don’t admit them because its a Covid hospital and tomorrow if the patient’s report is negative, there are chances he could get infected from the hospital. Only those who test positive are admitted here.” As per Kalyan Doctors Army, which is closely working with the KDMC, the civic body had earlier given directions to private hospitals to not deny admission in severe suspected cases. “Private hospitals should not deny any patient even if their report is awaited. Covid hospitals can only admit positive cases,” said Patil. Epidemic officer of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) Pratibha Paanpatil said, “The 43-year-old patient who died near the hospital was very severe and arrangements to admit him were underway when he died. He was given oxygen support, however, he succumbed before he was admitted. As per the directions from the KDMC chief, we will inquire into both cases and check if there was any negligence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-covid-patients-in-kalyan-die-awaiting-treatment/story-8IElCF2W6g8V78zrlfMaYN.html
20-06-2020||City||Panipat trader hangs self after killing 9-yr-old son||A cloth merchant committed suicide after killing his nine-year-old son in Panipat on Friday.The deceased, a 35-year-old man, was resident of Wadhwa Ram Colony in Panipat city.He killed his son by hanging him using a rope and later committed suicide, his father told the police. Quila police station in-charge Sandeep Kumar said based on the complaint, an FIR has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC against cloth merchant and the bodies have been sent for postmortem examination at the civil hospital.He said the incident took place around 2pm when the father-son duo was home alone as the man’s wife had gone to attend her sister’s wedding. The matter came to light when the trader’s employees found their bodies hanging from the ceiling in one of the rooms. Following this, they informed the neighbours, family members and police.The station in-charge said the reason behind the incident could not be ascertained, however, as per preliminary investigation, the cloth merchant had been engaged in a family dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-trader-hangs-self-after-killing-9-yr-old-son/story-gCiaccOG10fw7kuEEO8b1O.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||DU student to be first wheelchair-bound Indian to study at Oxford||“I met with a severe car accident on my way from Hoshiarpur to Chandigarth (Punjab), with my family. I was 13 then. With various other injuries, my spinal cord broke and made me paralytic from chest down,” recalls Pratishtha Deveshwar, a final year student of Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University, in a matter-of-fact tone. Remembering the incident that changed her life is of course not easy for her, yet her voice gleams with positivity as she says in the same breath: “People with disabilities can achieve anything!” On the path to make her belief and statement true, Deveshwar had been a high ranker in academics, and convinced her family that she could stay all by herself in Delhi, after being home schooled. “I always knew that I could overcome my situation only with education. So, after 12th, I told my parents that I don’t want to live inside the four walls of my home anymore; I deserve better. I applied to LSR, and got admission! That changed my life,” says Deveshwar who was soon spotted on a wheelchair on Delhi roads, with shopping bags hanging on either sides. “Everyone advised my family to not to send me to Delhi because I’m differently-abled, and was dependent on them. So (they thought) it would be impossible for me to live alone. But, the word impossible was never in my dictionary! I started living by myself — did grocery shopping, paid bills and even travelled, by myself, almost the whole of the city in the metro train. And don’t be surprised if you see me buzzing around the roads of Delhi again, on my wheelchair, after the pandemic ends.”  Thrilled to share that I'll be pursuing Masters in Public Policy from the University of Oxford!From the ICU where I fought for my life,to being the first wheelchair-user from India to get into Oxford-it has been a rollercoaster ride! I want to thank you all for your support!❤ pic.twitter.com/1K4t1D1jYMThis young lady has one more dream to fulfil, and that is to pursue higher studies at Oxford University, UK. “I applied to Oxford because their course on public policy is one of the best in the world, and I got through. In fact, I’ll be the first Indian who is wheelchair bound, to study at Oxford. I intend to study there, come back to India and use my knowledge for the betterment of 26.8 million people with disabilities in India, who urgently need to be empowered. Also, because I wanted to prove that my accident or wheelchair do not define me, and I’m not what happened to me but I am what I choose to be. I wanted to show it to the world that a woman in a wheelchair can achieve anything she dreams of, despite all the hurdles.”Studying at Oxford, however, is an expensive affair, and Deveshwar has been raising money on a crowdfunding platform to realise her dream. “Due to lack of scholarships, I decided to start a crowdfunding campaign because I sincerely believe that there is absolutely no hesitation in asking for help if the cause is genuine. And there are so many wonderful people out there who are willing and able to support. And I’m someone who sincerely believes in the goodness that prevails in the world. I just know in my heart that sharing my story of strength and determination will inspire people, and good vibes will come my way,” she says with a smile. Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-student-to-be-first-wheelchair-bound-indian-to-study-at-oxford/story-VW3TiYNEvQulQnWSUVCigK.html
20-06-2020||City||Family search for ‘missing’ Covid patient; find him only after his death||The family of a 50-year-old Covid-positive man was made to run from pillar to post for two days as they could not trace the patient in any of the hospitals where the Thane civic authorities claimed he was admitted. On Friday morning, the family received a call that the patient had died.On June 13, the patient, a resident of Chirag Nagar, was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa after testing positive for Covid-19. However, when a relative of his reached the hospital on June 17 to enquire about his health, he was told that the patient has been shifted.The victim’s 48-year-old cousin said, “Initially, my brother, who is diabetic, did not have any symptoms. However, two days after being admitted, we were told that his condition had started deteriorating and he had been shifted to a private hospital. I went to the said hospital in Mumbra but could not locate my brother. The next day I again went to the Kalwa hospital where they gave me the same information but shared the contact number for Thane Civil Hospital. By Thursday night I came to know that my brother was shifted to Thane Civil Hospital, however, the next morning I was informed that he had died.”Till the time of going to press, the family was not informed about the cremation of the deceased.Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) officials said they had no knowledge of the incident. “We have alerted hospitals to be cautious and will enquire into this incident,” said Vishwanath Kelkar, health officer, TMC.MLC Niranjan Davkhare from the BJP has demanded an inquiry. “A proper inquiry should be done as this is not the first time that the negligence of hospitals has come to light,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-search-for-missing-covid-patient-find-him-only-after-his-death/story-w6G8Wsd9JmcF980egQIHqL.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||District admin to issue certificates for every negative rapid antigen test||People whose samples return negative after being tested using the rapid antigen method will be issued a certificate from respective district administrations, senior government officials said on Friday. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on Friday issued directions asking all 11 district magistrates to start handing out such certificates to everyone who tests negative. The chief secretary also reiterated ICMR guidelines and asked the district administrations to get RT-PCR tests mandatorily conducted on all symptomatic persons who test negative in the antigen detection tests.Prodded about the rationale behind the move, senior government officials did not have a clear answer. But some of them said that the move will help them track and trace those who test negative in the first antigen test for follow-up tests, if needed, in the coming weeks. “The Union ministry of home affair (MHA) has asked the Delhi government to issue certificates to those who test negative in the antigen tests. It was recommended by the expert committee, led by Dr VK Paul of the NITI Aayog. We are following the order in totality,” said a senior government official. Another official in the health department of the government said that the certificate is also meant to create awareness that the antigen detection test is not a fully confirmatory test, like the RT-PCR tests, which is considered gold standard in Covid-19 testing programme.As many as 193 centres across Delhi started antigen testing from Thursday. On the first day, of the 7,040 people who took it, 456 tested positive. Rapid antigen detection tests are quicker than RT-PCR Covid tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/admin-to-hand-out-certificates-to-those-who-test-negative-for-antigen-tests/story-fDa4YMYoGOSH5ktYaOPj6L.html
20-06-2020||Gurugram||3 state government employees booked for failing to report for Covid duty||The police on Thursday booked three state government employees — a clerk, an executive engineer and a school teacher — for allegedly failing to report for Covid-19 duty. The police said the case was registered after a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) filed a police complaint at Civil Lines police station.According to the police, the accused persons were deputed as liaison officials and were tasked with assisting migrant workers to board the Shramik Special trains to return to their respective states.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “In the complaint, the SDM stated that during an audit, it was found that a clerk from the excise department, a government school teacher and an executive engineer from the construction division had failed to report for their duties during the lockdown. The accused persons had neither informed their senior officials of their absence nor had they taken permission for the same.” The official added that the police had initiated a probe and no arrests have been made so far.The police said the accused persons were posted at Tau Devi Lal stadium, where hundreds of migrant workers had camped before they were sent to their respective home towns in buses and trains. The complaint was lodged on Thursday, following which an FIR was registered. A case was registered against the accused persons under Section 56 (failure of officer in duty or his connivance at the contravention of the provisions of this Act) of the Disaster Management at Civil Lines police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/3-state-government-employees-booked-for-failing-to-report-for-covid-duty/story-R028wrzrb8hpSxpPOdUhsM.html
20-06-2020||Gurugram||Four, including 3 children, killed by tractor on Sohna-Palwal Road||Three children and their father were killed after a tractor-trolley allegedly rammed them when they had stopped for a water break on Sohna-Palwal road on Friday morning. The police said the trolley driver escaped from the spot after the incident.The deceased have been identified as Hassan Mohammad, 32, his 11-year-old daughter and two sons, aged 6 and 3. Hassan’s wife, Afsana, suffered minor injuries, while his brother-in-law, Khurshid, was left unhurt in the accident.According to the police, Hassan’s wife had gone to visit her parents in Dhauj, Faridabad, on June 17 and the family was returning to their residence in Bhadangaka village in Nuh on two motorcycles, driven by Hassan and Khurshid. According to the police, the incident took place around 10.30am near Silani Chowk in Sohna where the family had stopped for a water break. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “According to the statement recorded by Khurshid, the children, on the way, said they were parched and the family stopped for a break. Hassan, his children and his wife stood next to the motorcycle while Khurshid went looking for a water bottle. A tractor-trolley suddenly arrived and while negotiating a turn, it lost balance and hit the family.”The police said Hassan, who worked as a driver, and his children, were killed on the spot while his wife sustained minor injuries. “Since the lockdown was imposed, the family had not visited their relatives. On Wednesday, they went to Faridabad and spent the night there and on Friday morning, decided to return to Nuh. The accused trolley driver is yet to be traced.”A case was registered against the accused person under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Sadar Sohna police station on Friday, said the police. The post-mortem examinations were conducted on Friday and the bodies were handed over to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/four-including-3-children-killed-by-tractor-on-sohna-palwal-road/story-1A34zmHIpS2kp102aGqLBL.html
20-06-2020||Gurugram||Cost of Covid-19 tests in Haryana capped at ₹2,400||Haryana’s health department on Friday issued an order to regulate rates for Covid-19 tests in the state. the move comes a day after an expert panel of the Centre, headed by NITI Ayog member VK Paul, suggested that RT-PCR testing costs be capped at Rs 2400 for Delhi-NCR.  Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests — which is considered the gold standard in Covid-19 testing and diagnosis –– will now cost Rs 2400 in Gurugram and rest of Haryana, the order said.Senior officials of the state government confirmed that testing prices in Haryana were cut down after the national capital went ahead with the Central government committee’s decision of capping prices at Rs 2,400.. The official order regarding the same was released on Friday by the director general health services, Haryana government.The order states, “Taking into account the cost of kits on the basis of precedents in other states like Delhi, Maharashtra and Telangana, the state government directs that no private laboratory should charge an amount more than Rs 2400 for RT-PCR.”Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, confirmed the move and said, “RT-PCR testing price have been capped to Rs 2,400.”The decision was taken under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. The order also mentions that the new price is inclusive of GST, cost involved in pick up, packing and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting.There are seven private laboratories in Gurugram approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct RT-PCR tests. Also, the state is providing free testing in 12 government laboratories, which are mostly in medical colleges, civil hospitals and other government institutions.Representatives of Core Diagnostics, a lab that works closely with Haryana government, refused to comment on the latest order.On March 17, RT-PCR testing was started in private labs and the upper limit for single test charges was capped at Rs 4500, based on the cost of imported kits and efforts involved in carrying out the test. Since testing supplies were stabilized and varied options of testing materials/kits, including indigenous ones, were more readily available, the ICMR on May 25 asked the states to negotiate and fix mutually agreeable prices for RT-PCR tests for Covid-19.The Haryana government on May 28, fixed the cost of RT-PCR test for detecting SARS-CoV-2 virus between Rs 2,500 and Rs 3,950, after negotiations with the three actively functioning private labs that are authorised to conduct the test in the state. In Gurugram, some of the samples collected by the health team were initially sent to these private labs for testing. The Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL) fixed the prices, stating Rs 2500 will be charged per sample if the health department collects the sample and uses its own transportation to deliver it to the lab.In case, the sample is collected by the staff at Civil Hospital but it is picked up by the private labs, which includes their logistics, testing and reporting, the price will increase to Rs 3200. It will further increase to Rs 3950, if the sample collection, logistics, testing and reporting is done by the private lab all by itself. These rates have been fixed as one-third for screening and two-thirds for confirmatory test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cost-of-covid-19-tests-in-haryana-capped-at-2-400/story-nV3Zp17nRYXgI7jRi0zf9J.html
20-06-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat case: 12 more charge sheets against foreigners||The Delhi Police on Friday filed 12 charge sheets against foreigners who had gathered at the Nizamuddin Markaz—which was one of the first Covid-19 hot spots in the national capital—taking the total number of charge sheets (comprising nearly 50,000 pages) filed against foreigners to 59. The dozen charge sheets on Friday were filed against 41 foreigners who belong to 12 different countries. In all, so far, 956 foreigners belonging to 36 different countries—mainly Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan and Malaysia—have been charged by the police till date.A statement issued by the police on Friday said that none of these foreigners have been arrested so far and they are staying at various places in Delhi that have been approved by the High Court. “The court has fixed June 25 and July 9 and 16 for further proceedings in the case,” the police statement read.The crime branch registered the FIR against the foreigners on March 31 after the station house officer of the Nizamuddin police station filed a complaint alleging violations of various government orders and directions by the management of the Markaz.The FIR was registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code which include the stringent sections of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy.The people named in the FIR include Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad and six other top officials of the religious sect on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital.A religious congregation was held inside the Markaz in March, which had a gathering of around 3000 persons, including many from several countries. Saad is yet to be questioned by the police.More than 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in March-end and lodged in quarantine facilities in Delhi by the authorities. In April, the religious sect’s headquarters was then the single largest hot spot across the city.The police said that all the foreign nationals have been charged with offences such as violation of visa rules, government guidelines and regulations regarding the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act, the prohibitory orders and disobeying quarantine rules.“The government has already cancelled the visas and blacklisted those who had visited India on a tourist visa and had illegally participated in the religious congregation at the Markaz,” the police added.The first lot of 47 charge sheets against the foreigners were filed over three days between May 26 and 28.Advocate Fuzail Ayyubi, who is representing the Tablighi Jamaat, said that while “at this stage, it’s not prudent to comment on the merits of the charge sheet, nevertheless all legal options and recourses as available under the law are being considered”. “The same shall be availed as and when such an occasion arises. As far as foreigners are concerned it’s quite strange that they are being chargesheeted now since they have been coming here for this purpose on the strength of the same visa for years,” Ayyubi said.“As per the law, there is no prohibition against any foreigner visiting any mosque in our country as such,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-case-12-more-charge-sheets-against-foreigners/story-90lxYh3DAxJMf4duYGHnFJ.html
20-06-2020||Noida||Environmentalists object to laser shows in medicine park, Sector 91||Residents and environmental activists across the city are objecting to the Noida Authority’s plan to go ahead with laser shows at the Medicinal and Herbal Park in Sector 91. Preparation for the show, which is supposed to start on August 15 will begin from Monday, said officials of Noida Authority. A similar show in Meghdootam Park in Sector 50 was cancelled in February after residents had cited ecological damage as a reason and started a petition for the same.Residents and environmental activists plan to write to the state chief minister and the home minister to postpone the installation of equipment in the medicine park, citing issues related to ecological damage and social distancing“Social distancing will be difficult to achieve when a large number of people assemble for the show. Even though the lockdown is being withdrawn in a staggered manner, caution is still encouraged. One should practise physical distancing and avoid non-essential activities. There is no need for a large gathering now. Even regular visitors to parks are taking precautions. The laser shows are ill-timed and should be postponed,” said Nisha Rai, an environmental activist from Noida.Another environmentalist Vinod Agagrwal said, “There were multiple sites selected for these laser shows, including the Noida Gate, Meghdootam Park, etc. In Sector 50, there are several high-rises surrounding the park which itself has a limited space for gathering. There were risks involved and the show was shelved. While the Sector 91 park, which covers an area of 144 acres, is still larger, it will negatively affect the ecological habitat of the birds and insects in the park. In the latest master plan, it has been designated as a recreational area. While attracting tourists is understandable but it should not be done at the cost harming the natural ecosystem of the park. Having a large gathering of spectators especially in the evening will have negative repercussions on the ecology of the area.”Officials from the Noida Authority, however, said that the sites were selected only after careful consideration. “The ecological concerns cited by the environmentalists are misleading. No animals will be harmed because of the laser shows. The civil work on the project will start soon,” said Gaurav Bansal, executive engineer, project in-charge of the laser shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/environmentalists-object-to-laser-shows-in-medicine-park-sector-91/story-jl8p6X48BQbNghK9YJRZ8M.html
20-06-2020||Noida||Rape in moving bus: Another suspect nabbed, NCW writes to DGP||The Noida police on Thursday arrested the conductor of the bus in which a 25-year-old woman was allegedly raped on June 17.The incident had taken place in the wee hours on Wednesday when the woman travelling from Pratapgarh to Gautam Budh Nagar with her two minor children was raped allegedly by the driver of the overnight sleeper bus between the Lucknow-Mathura stretch. According to police officers, the woman relayed the incident to the husband later and informed the police, after which the suspects, including a second driver and the conductor, had fled the spot leaving the bus behind. One of the suspects was arrested Wednesday, while the prime accused is still on the run.“The second driver who was driving while she was raped was arrested the same day, while the conductor was arrested yesterday. A search is on for the prime accused,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), women safety, Vrinda Shukla.The suspects had left the bus near Atta Market and it was later seized by police. A case had been registered against the suspects under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and 212 (harbouring offender) of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, the National Commission for Women(NCW) has taken sou motu cognisance of the case and in a letter to the Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP) has asked the police to take action against the culprits following a thorough investigation. In a tweet, the women’s body said: “NCW condemns this brutality and has demanded strict action against the culprits.”“We will provide necessary answers to the commission,” said DCP Shukla.The Noida police have also included the name of the Ghaziabad-based owner of the bus in the FIR who is also on the run. The woman had filed a complaint against the two drivers and the conductors only.They police said they have also taken the statements of 12 or 13 passengers who were in the bus at the time of the alleged incident. A medical board was set up for the woman’s examination who collected the necessary evidence after the incident, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rape-in-moving-bus-another-suspect-nabbed-ncw-writes-to-dgp/story-BStYX2Mfcuf4JFEKpa86dI.html
20-06-2020||Noida||89 more test Covid-19 positive in Gautam Budh Nagar, district’s tally crosses 1,200||As many as 89 persons tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 1262. A 24-year-old pregnant woman and a 77-year old man died in the district on Friday. Both were residents of Delhi and health department officials said their deaths have been cross-notified to the neighbouring state. The district’s Covid-19 death toll stands at 18. Two people who had died of Covid-19 on Thursday were added to the toll on Friday. So 14,573 samples have been collected by the district administration for testing.“ A 24-year-old Covid-19 positive pregnant woman, resident of Vikaspuri Delhi died in a private hospital in Greater Noida. She was a patient of ectopic pregnancy. A 77-year old male, resident of Sukhdev Vihar New Delhi was admitted to a private hospital in Noida. He was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, and prostatic hyperplasia. He was tested Covid-19 positive he died today. The cause of death was septic shock with respiratory failure. Both the patients were cross notified to Delhi,” said district surveillance officer, Dr Sunil Dohre.“Total active cases in the district stand at 584. A total of 56 patients were discharged on Friday,” a senior official of the health department said. A total of 660 patients have been cured in the district so far.Of those 56 discharged, 26 were from Sharda hospital, Greater Noida that included one senior citizen who was being treated for cancer in the hospital.So far, 88 patients have been cross notified to other districts and states. Among them, 32 positive patients have been cross notified to Delhi, 13 to Ghaziabad, 12 to Bulandshahr, one each to Agra, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, and Haryana while two each to Hapur and Aligarh, said officials.The district’s daily health bulletin said of the 89 cases reported Friday, 81 patients had ILI ( influenza-like illness) symptoms, while four patients are contacts of people who have previously tested positive for Covid-19.Officials said that 683 patients were screened on Friday and 15 of them were detected with fever and admitted to hospitals for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/89-more-test-covid-positive-in-gautam-budh-nagar-district-s-tally-crosses-1-200/story-NilOmvKdV7F1znZ59jhmBN.html
20-06-2020||Pune||22-day-old infant, 80-year-old woman cured, discharged in Pune on Friday||The city, on Friday, reported six more deaths related to Covid-19 (coronavirus), caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 493. In addition, 350 fresh Covid cases were reported within 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune district to 11,465.While a total of 157 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals with total number of cured patients touching 7,063. The number of critical patients on Friday was 265. Two deaths were reported from outside the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits but admitted to hospitals in the Pune civic body jurisdiction.Among the patients who were cured and discharged from Sassoon General hospital were a 22-day-old baby girl and a 80-year-old woman, who was also suffering from diabetes, on Friday.According to the information given by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, all the six deaths reported on Friday were of elderly people above the age of 50 years.The deceased include a 60-year-old female admitted to Inlaks and Budhrani hospital, 58-year-old male patient admitted to Sahyadri Hospital, Hadpsar, 50-year-old male patient admitted to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, 59-year-old female patient admitted to Symbiosis Hospital, 66-year-old male patient admitted to Bharati Hospital and 56-year-old male patient admitted to Sassoon Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-day-old-infant-80-year-old-woman-cured-discharged-in-pune-on-friday/story-RcFEMjLm9v4G3kJmeg8OBI.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Five of Sector 38 family among seven new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Five members of a Sector 38 family are among the seven new Covid-19 cases confirmed in Chandigarh on Friday.A 65-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran and a former employee of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, were also found positive.Health officials said the five family members, including three males and two females, hailed from Ambala and lived in Sector 38 on rent. Two of them work in Ambala, where one of their relatives had tested positive earlier.Two other members of the family have been isolated at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and will be sampled. One of them works in Panchkula.Five family contacts of the 65-year-old Mauli Jagran woman have been shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and will be tested. There is no official word on the source of infection in her case.The former GMSH-16 employee is a 61-year-old man from Sector 24. He had developed symptoms of pneumonia a few days back and took treatment privately. The patient, who has diabetes and hypertension, has been admitted to GMSH-16. Samples of his seven family contacts have been collected.With this, the total cases in Chandigarh have gone up to 381, of which 315 patients have been discharged. As many as six people have succumbed to the virus so far, leaving 60 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-of-sector-38-family-among-seven-new-cases-in-chandigarh/story-VQzOn2snfcj1YBn0L4vkDP.html
20-06-2020||City||11 fresh cases in Panchkula take tally to 79||The district confirmed 11 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, raising the Panchkula tally to 79.Besides, four outstation visitors were also found positive. As many as 45 people from other cities have tested positive in the district.“Of the 11 Panchkula residents, six are contacts of people tested positive earlier,” said civil surgeon Jasjeet Kaur.These include four family members of an infected Sector-6 resident. They are his mother and father, wife and a teenaged son. Besides, the wife and son of another positive patient were also confirmed infected in Sector 9.The remaining five patients include two children, aged 12 and 8, from Tipra village in Kalka, who had recently travelled in a train from Delhi with their mother; a man from Madawala village in Pinjore, a woman from Sector 21; and a girl from Sector 16.Among the outstation patients are a woman and her two daughters, who had arrived in Panchkula from Mumbai; and a Zirakpur man.Among the 79 patients in the district, 41 have been discharged, leaving 38 active cases.More containment zones declaredDeputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said after fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Abhaypur, Buddanpur and Sector 16 on Thursday, some areas had been declared containment zones. As per the order, the area around Chakki in Abhaypur from House Number 180 to 192, 191 to 182 and the open area in the street; in Buddanpur, House Numbers 4 and 128; in Sector 16 House Numbers 754 and 756, along with the park adjoining them, have been declared containment zone.In Kalka and Pinjore, the areas declared containment zones include Parade Mohalla Colony, Bitna Colony, Shakti Nagar, Ahata Murari Lal, Gandhi Chowk and Kaushalya Huts, Surajpur. In Raipur Rani, two houses on the stadium street have also been declared containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-take-tally-to-79/story-tGahMOYlH9slQjVE1FbHFJ.html
20-06-2020||Pune||Hospitals charging high fees for Covid treatment to face action: Pawar||Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian Ajit Pawar on Friday warned of action against hospitals found charging more fees from Covid-19 patients.Pawar held a Covid-19 review meeting with officials in the city. Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Sharvan Hardikar and senior officers were present.Pawar said, “If doctors are found guilty and negligent in treatment of patients, the government would not accept it and, if needed, action would be initiated. Even if complaints are coming for exorbitant bills, action needs to be initiated against such hospitals.”The deputy CM said that the government had approved Rs12.44 crore for Sassoon General Hospital to increase the testing facility. “The government is also providing fund to pay the newly appointed medical staff.”Pawar said that there are complaints that Covid-19 cases are not reported in time. The administration should ensure that positive cases are alerted and manpower will be provided if agencies are falling short of staff.“Government would ensure that adequate fund is released for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Sassoon hospital must procure modern equipment to handle virus cases,” he said.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol urged the state to increase the testing and bed facilities in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hospitals-charging-high-fees-for-covid-treatment-to-face-action-pawar/story-zVv9Lbi2kpQv7dhsmAMviK.html
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn scraps Shramik train project due to dearth of takers||After the Shramik Special Train headed to Patna on Friday left with 554 empty seats, despite efforts to contact stranded migrants in the city, the UT administration has decided to do away with the Shramik train project for now.The administration had planned to run another Shramik train to Patna on Monday. However, seeing the dismal response, the plan has been scrapped.The Shramik train on Friday left at 1pm with 1,046 passengers against a capacity of 1,600.“Since Wednesday, more than 11,000 registered persons were contacted through telephone calls and SMSes for the Friday train. Station house officers (SHOs) of the various police stations were also requested to give details about stranded migrants in their areas. Some NGOs were also asked to provide this information,” a UT official said, not wishing to be named.However, since industrial and commercial units have resumed operations, a considerable number of workers are now not interested in going back, he added.It was on May 23 when the Shramik train first saw vacant seats. It had left for Gaya in Bihar and Dhanbad in Jharkhand. Since then, number of passengers has been dwindling. As many as 39,795 migrants have been sent to their home states via Shramik trains, while another 4,633 have been transported by buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-scraps-shramik-train-project-due-to-dearth-of-takers/story-TD5EH2rjG226sHUDH4rvaM.html
20-06-2020||Pune||Export of agriculture commodities in state remain unaffected by lockdown||The lockdown restrictions did not affect the agriculture export sector as it saw more business as compared to last year. According to officials, export of commodities like lemon, ginger, muskmelon, green chilli, banana, eggplant (brinjal) and potato was more as compared to 2019, and trade basket of grapes, mango, pomegranate, okra and garlic saw a dip.Sunil Pawar, managing director, Maharashtra Agricultural Marketing Board, said, “Post lockdown relaxations, agricultural export is increasing. Export of Kesar mangoes has started. We are yet to collected the sale growth figure. With major export of state happening from Mumbai’s Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust and by air, the data is expected soon.”Bhaskar Patil, head, Maharashtra Agricultural Export Monitoring Committee, said, “Agriculture export is carried out through sea to Dubai, Middle east countries, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. Export by airway is to European countries, but the quantity is less.”The agro export panel head said that the government machinery ensured that agriculture export is not hampered by lockdown restrictions. “As all these countries that buy our commodities do not have their own produce, they mainly depend on us,” he said.Patil said, “We have data till May 31. Export is increased more in June as compared to previous month but data collection is going on. Anoop Kumar, principal secretary (agricultural marketing, animal husbandry and fisheries), and Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board (MSAMB) managing director Sunil Pawar helped to bring coordination between various departments and sort out issues. Various departments are involved in export work.”Agricultural export gainersCommodity/ export in April and May 2019 in metric tonnes/ export in April and May in 2020 in metric tonnesBanana/27,980/39,470Lemon/453/719Green chilli/1,601/2,020Muskmelon/1,380/2,041Ginger/767/1620Eggplant (brinjal)/946/1,125Potato/886/893Agricultural export losersCommodity/export in April and May 2019 in metric tonnes/ Export in April and May 2020 in metric tonnesGrapes/13,947/10,305Mango/22,892/11,760Pomegranate/3,931/1,972Okra (lady’s finger)/441/195Garlic/2,360/375Air cargo facility shutdown hits mango exportMaharashtra Agricultural Export Monitoring committee head Bhaskar Patil said, “MSAMB had made preparations for mango export from its facility located at Vashi in Mumbai. Every year mango is exported to America, Australia, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea, but as air travel facility is unavailable, the cargo is not lifted. Despite the Vashi market being closed, MSAMB ensured that packing houses for export located on market committee premises remain operational though the market was closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/export-of-agriculture-commodities-in-state-remain-unaffected-by-lockdown/story-7ZrT7N6oYsSifnHflFkhBK.html
20-06-2020||Pune||Cycling 5,000km in 12 days... on a stationary bicycle in Pimple Nilakh... Lt Col Pannu takes on vRAAM 2020||The Race Across America (RAAM) is an endurance feat that has steadily seen a growing number of Indian athletes participate each year.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the 2020 event is now the Virtual Race Across America (vRAAM), which will be conducted from June 16-28.The announcement brought great relief to Lt Col Bharat Kumar Pannu, who was to take part in the event. Now, Lt Col Pannu will cycle 5,000km in 12 days, with a cumulative elevation climb of 73,500 metres, all on a stationary bicycle in Pimple Nilakh, Pune.“I am all set to ride on a stationary bike integrated with the online application FulGaz,” said Lt Col Pannu, who could not take part in RAAM 2019 due to a fractured right collar bone.Lt Col Pannu is based at the Army’s aviation unit in Bengaluru, but chose to ride the vRAAM from Pune, where he landed in on Saturday evening. Lt Col Pannu has been training indoors since April.“I have a very old connection with Pune. Of my eight-member team, six are from Pune, and one each from Nashik and Mumbai. Calling all of them to Bengaluru was risky, so I decided to come here,” said Lt Col Pannu who had completed solo cycling expedition from Kashmir to Kanyakumari (K2K) in 8 Days 09 Hours and 48 minutes in October 2019.Pannu’s vRAAM attempt is dedicated to raising awareness and funds for supporting the education of the children of domestic helps in Pune, through an NGO called Punarjanmam.“The situation has become worse due to coronavirus and I will appeal to people, via social media, to support my cause,” added the 37-year-old Pannu, who hails from Rohtak, Haryana.Darshan Dubey, the crew chief, says, “We were disappointed when we first got the news, as the whole plan was to go to the US and be a part of RAAM, but now we are excited with the alternate option. vRAAM will have its own set of challenges for which the whole team is prepared.”Team will be working in a group of four in 12-hour shifts.What is RAAMRace Across America is a race where the cyclist covers 3,000 miles, across 12 states. Solo riders have 12 days to cover the distance, while if one is participating in a team, then s/he gets nine days to complete the distance.Professional and amateur cyclists can take part in the race, which runs between California and Maryland. Now, vRAAMThe cyclist will complete 3000 miles with the help of smart indoor trainers and an application called FulGaz between June 16-28. A total of 40 cyclists from across the world are participating in the event.Lt Col Bharat Kumar Pannu, pedalling to endurance glory Began cycling as a sport in 20162020:Winner of Ultra Spice Race (1,750 km) with King of the Mountain segment Virtual Everesting Challenge 2019:Winner of Ultra Spice Race 2019 (1750 km) with a course recordBliss in the Hills (1200 km) Kashmir to Kanyakumari Solo Cycling Expedition (K2K) Guinness Record; finished in eight days, nine hours & 48 minutes; the record also listed by World Ultra Cycling Association (WUCA)2018:Ultra Spice Race (Goa- Ooty-Goa; 1,750 km) Crew member for US team ‘Sea To See’ which became the first blind/visually Impaired team to finish RAAM in 2018Deccan Cliffhanger (Pune-Goa; 645 km) in 20182017:Super Randonneur in NashikWinner of Ultra Spice Race (Goa-Mangalore-Goa;1,000 km) First Indians, with Darshan Dubey, to successfully complete Race Around Austria (2,200 km) Three from India who have completed solo RAAM2019: Kabir Rachure, Mumbai2017: Dr Amit Samarth, Nagpur 2017: Shrinivas Gokulnath “vRAAM will be a very monotonous activity. As you will keep cycling in one room and he (Pannu) will be in one position for 12 days while cycling. He will not be able to stand and cycle,” says Amit Samarth from Nagpur who completed Solo RAAM in 2017.“Cycling in the lap of nature is a completely different thing. Pannu will need to be very strong mentally for all 12 days,” says Mahendra Mahajan from Nashik who completed the RAAM team of two in 2015 with his brother Dr Hitendra Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cycling-5-000km-in-12-days-on-a-stationary-bicycle-in-pimple-nikah-lt-col-pannu-takes-on-vraam-2020/story-paKDofcUas3gOGCNVYhgkJ.html
