21-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad plans RT-PCR test lab to enhance testing; district records biggest single day spike with 65 new cases||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad health department is now scouting for a suitable building to set up a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test lab in order to enhance the Covid-19 testing capabilities in the district. According to district health officials, the issue of a testing laboratory for Ghaziabad district had cropped up in a video conference meeting, which was chaired by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister.Till Sunday, Ghaziabad could collect only 15,578 samples for Covid-19 test, which is not even 1% of its estimated population of 42 lakh. The officials said that during his visit in April, Sudhir Garg, UP principal secretary (forest), had directed the district administration to prepare a proposal for setting up of a testing lab.“We are now searching for a suitable building where the RT-PCR lab can come up. During a recent video conferencing, chief minister directed for a need of a testing lab at Ghaziabad considering the high number of cases and time consumed for receiving the test reports. We will soon submit a proposal to Ghaziabad district magistrate and it will later be sent to the state government,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Presently, the Ghaziabad health department has achieved only about 350 samples per day. The district has reported a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases as well as deaths due to the virus.Recently, the UP government-appointed nodal officers had visited the district and focussed primarily on the rising number of death cases. They have also directed officials to study every death case and find out reasons for spike in fatalities.“According to our assessment, 23 deaths have taken place in Meerut. Of them, about 70% cases were referred from Ghaziabad while rest of the patients got admitted on their own. Prima facie, as per our assessment, there could be delay in identification of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). This led to late detection of Covid-19 complications. The delay in identifying Covid-19 cases at an early stage can also be attributed to patients who fail to approach health care facilities when symptoms arrive,” CMO said.Therefore, the district health department has decided to speed up and enhance the surveillance systems through 260 teams. However, the officials said that they would require about 1,000-1,200 teams to cater to the existing population comprehensively.The aim of surveillance teams is to early detect the ILI and SARI patients so that they can be administered immediate treatment before anyone goes to complicated state, the officials said.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 cases in the district refused to show a decline.The health department officials on Sunday said that 65 more Covid-19 cases were added to the tally of 853, taking the total positive cases to 918 in the district. On Sunday, four more deaths were reported, which took the tally of fatalities to 46.“The 65 new cases have come from different localities in Ghaziabad and this is the highest single day spike till date. Four deaths have also taken place. One death has taken place in Ghaziabad, while three deaths which took place in Meerut earlier, were also added to the tally,” CMO added.According to the officials, the list of 65 new cases include five cases from the Women’s Hospital while two cases have also come in from the Dasna district jail.“The five positive cases from our hospital are staff nurses and ANMs who come from Khoda, Delhi and Noida. None of the doctors have tested positive so far,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, chief medical superintendent of Women’s Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-plans-rt-pcr-test-lab-to-enhance-testing-district-records-biggest-single-day-spike-with-65-new-cases/story-CbymZjjMeio8TIhTRO7udO.html
21-06-2020||City||75-year-old woman injured as part of ceiling collapses in a high-rise in Greater Noida West||A 75-year-old woman sustained minor leg injuries Sunday morning after a portion of the ceiling in a flat in a Greater Noida West high-rise collapsed.The incident took place in a flat on the ninth floor in a high-rise in 5th avenue in Gaur City around 11.30 am.“We were all sitting around when all of a sudden a portion of the ceiling in the living room collapsed. My mother-in-law sustained some minor injuries in the incident, but she is doing better now,” Rohit Seth, the flat occupant said. He said the family immediately alerted the society’s management about the collapse, but have not reported the incident to the police so far.Residents of the society alleged that this is the second such incident to happen in the last few days.“Just a few days ago, a portion of the external plaster collapsed in a flat on the 14th floor. Luckily, no one was injured when it fell down on the ground. Both the two incidents could have resulted in a major tragedy. This building was built only four years ago and such incidents go on to show poor quality of construction. We are planning to take this matter forward by complaining to officials. The issue needs to be highlighted as this poses a direct risk to the safety of the residents,” Achal Rohit, member of the high-rises’ Apartment Owners’ Association, said.The builder said the collapse was not a result of any structural damage and the ceiling is being repaired.“Gaur City 5 was completed and handed over almost six years ago. Sunday’s incident is a one-off but an unfortunate incident.The plaster that had fallen down is part of a POP ceiling design and requires timely maintenance. The maintenance team immediately reached the flat after the incident and have already started the repairing work. We are doing all the necessary checks. After checking we have found that it was not a structural damage, it is just the POP(Plaster of Paris) which had fallen and we are in the process of repairing it,” a Gaur City spokesperson said.Reports of such collapses have been reported from several high-rises across the district in the last month.On May 27, a seven-year-old boy was injured after a part of the ceiling collapsed in Ajnara Homes society in Greater Noida West. Three people from the management and the builder’s group had also been arrested by the Bisrakh police in connection to the incident.In another incident on May 29, a woman had been injured when a ceiling’s part collapsed in a Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77. The builder’s group had, however, denied the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/75-year-old-woman-injured-as-part-of-ceiling-collapses-in-a-high-rise-in-greater-noida-west/story-1M3XgQTRiLIaqdmLozR5DJ.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||Will act against societies if they refuse to let house help in: Maharashtra government||The state government is likely to crack the whip on housing societies restricting entry to maids despite the advisory issued on Thursday. Managing committee members of housing societies have been accused by state cooperation department officials of causing inconvenience to flat owners who wish to avail of domestic help services. Cooperative housing societies come under the jurisdiction of the state cooperation department. State cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil has called for action against office bearers of such housing societies. Earlier this week, Patil had appealed to housing societies to allow domestic help to resume work in a bid to avoid inconvenience to residents, especially senior citizens. However, managing committees of several housing societies in Mumbai are opposing the move. “The office bearers have become very arrogant and are not listening despite our advisory. We will issue a formal order this week. After that, if anyone complains, we will take action against such errant societies,” said Patil.Vishaka Sawant, a resident of a Parel housing society, said that the restriction is hampering her ability to go to work. “The society is not allowing me to bring my maid who has been taking care of my children for years. I am unable to proceed to my workplace in such circumstances. They don’t understand that Covid-19 is here to stay and I am ready to take all precautions with regards to my maid,” she said. A majority of housing societies imposed a ban on the entry of maids and drivers after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24. After the lockdown was eased from June 5, some of the societies started allowing maids on their premises. However, many societies have restricted their entry, citing that it poses a risk as the domestic help could be carriers of Covid-19. “A majority of maids stay in slums or chawls where social distancing is not possible. It is risky for us to allow them,” said Dhaval Shah, chairman, Lokhandwala-Oshiwara Residents Association. “A minority of flat-owners want to bring in maids. We cannot endanger the majority for these people,” he added. A domestic workers association has called this a case of discrimination against the poor and welcomed the government’s intervention. “The maids are as careful as anyone else with regards to the precautions against the virus. The societies are just robbing us of our livelihood. We demand that the individual owners decide on whether to hire the maid or not. This should not be on the whims and fancies of the society office bearers,” said Babli Rawat, president, Ghar Kamgar Molkarin Sanghatana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-act-against-societies-if-they-refuse-to-let-house-help-in-maharashtra-government/story-PVJH55yn93CeINlVVntGpN.html
21-06-2020||City||Patient’s consent must if covid treatment offered at regular rates: Govt order||New Delhi: Hospitals treating coronavirus disease (covid-19) patients at regular rates needs to seek written consent of the patient/attendent, says a Delhi government directive issued on Sunday.There are seven such hospitals in Delhi that are eligible to offer treatment at regulator rates over and above the subsidised treatment they must offer on 60% of their bed strength. “The authorities of the... 07 (seven) hospitals are directed to seek a written consent from a patient/ attendant prior to admitting him/her under 40% category at their schedule rates and the same shall be kept in record,” reads the directive.The hospitals are Max Saket, Ganga Ram Kolmet, Ganga Ram City Hospital, Maha Durga Charitable Trust, Cygnus Orthocare, Saroj Super specialty and Bansal Global Hospital.Those private hospitals that were allotted land at concessional rates by land owning agencies and are providing Covid related treatment, shall earmark 10% of the total Covid beds for free Covid related treatment of eligible patients of EWS category, says the government directive.Also, at least 100 hospitals in the city that have offered 20% of their beds for Covid treatment must provide treatment at concessional rates.The Delhi government said on Saturday that beds for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals will be subsidised, with treatment charges being reduced by 60-67%. The new rates, to be charged by all private hospitals with immediate effect, will be applicable to all Covid-19 beds at a private hospitals for up to 60% of its total capacity.100% Covid beds shall be subsidised up to an upper limit of 60% of total hospital capacity,” Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, cleared the move.The rates now have been capped between Rs 8,000 (non-NABH accredited hospitals) and Rs 10,000 (NABH accredited hospitals including entry level facilities) a day for an isolation bed, Rs 13,000-15,000 a day for a bed at an intensive care unit (ICU), and Rs 15,000-18,000 a day for an ICU bed with ventilator. Until this order was issued on Saturday evening, the fee for an isolation bed in Delhi was Rs 24,000-25,000 a day. For an ICU bed, it was Rs 34,000-43,000 a day, while an ICU bed with ventilator was Rs 44,000-54,000 a day.The cap of up to 60% of the total beds in private hospitals means that hospitals such as Moolchand, Fortis, etc., which have been declared as 100% Covid-19 hospitals will also have to offer the new subsidised rates to 60% of the beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patient-s-consent-must-if-covid-treatment-offered-at-regular-rates-govt-order/story-BwSZyOAaLJ86o18Icl4UwJ.html
21-06-2020||City||Cheaper diesel in Noida attracts customers from Delhi, sale picked up, say petrol pumps||Noida: The soaring diesel prices in Delhi have come as a boon for fuel stations in Noida. With diesel prices in the district cheaper as compared to the neighbouring national capital, dispensing stations have been able to get customers from Delhi, recording at least 20% additional sales.While petrol is Rs 80.16 per litre in Noida, which is only Rs.0.93 dearer than Delhi (Rs 79.23), diesel prices in Noida as of Sunday was Rs.70.79, against Rs.78.27 in Delhi, leading to better sales in Noida and speedy recovery of losses faced due to the lockdown.“Yes, sales are better and we are seeing more vehicles of Delhi registration numbers, especially since Friday. It’s obvious that a price difference of Rs.5 to Rs.7 matters a lot to customers. We are seeing an additional demand of 8,000-10,000 litres of diesel per day that accounts for about 15-20% rise. Sales at filling stations bordering Delhi are recording an even higher increase, of around 40-50%,” said Deepak Chauhan, manager, Indian Oil petrol pump, Sector 41 Noida.Some petrol pump owners claim that the soaring prices in Delhi are helping them make up for the losses incurred due to the national wide lockdown in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.“We are still recovering from losses. Even though there are not that many vehicles on the road, motorists are slowly returning. We have experienced an increase in sales and many new customers are from Delhi, particularly since the last two-three days, this has helped us a little with recovery of losses,” said Kapil Singh, manager, Shaheed Chaman Petrol Pump, Sector 52, Noida.The Noida petrol pump association, however, observes that while the sale of diesel has risen due to the price difference in Delhi, the overall sales have been affected due to the continuous soaring prices of fuel.“The price of diesel and petrol has been good every day for the past 15 days, but that is only because the price of diesel is high in Delhi. The petrol price before the lockdown was around Rs.75 which is now Rs. 80; customers are affected because of this surge as well,” said Sushil Gupta, general secretary, petrol pump association, Gautam Budh Nagar.They differ in regions as respective state governments levy taxes at varying rates. With an additional value added tax (VAT) of 16% in Delhi, the price of both diesel and petrol are higher in the National Capital as compared to Uttar Pradesh. Fuel prices are decided by the central government. On Sunday, the price of diesel and petrol in Delhi were again hiked by 60 paise and 35 paisa, respectively, putting the cost of diesel at an all-time high.The fuel stations in Delhi, especially those at areas bordering Noida have been suffering heavy losses. “The sale is almost nil and it’s even difficult to manage salaries of staff. The main reason is because the Delhi government has hiked VAT. Against a daily diesel sale of 40,000-45,000 litres, we are currently selling only 1,000 to 1,500 litres per day, as customers have diverted to Noida or Haryana,” said Sunil Verma, owner of a petrol pump in Mayur Vihar Phase 3 in Delhi, merely a few hundred metres from the Noida border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cheaper-diesel-in-noida-attracts-customers-from-delhi-sale-picked-up-say-petrol-pumps/story-mB6NBtFZj8qrAKaP9QBZTP.html
21-06-2020||Bhopal||4 Covid-19 deaths in MP due to delayed referral, treatment: Health dept audit||An audit of Covid-19 deaths done by Madhya Pradesh’s health department has shown that four fatalities in the state were caused due to delayed referral or management in treatment.Following the audit, state’s principal secretary, health, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai, in a letter dated June 18, asked all the district collectors and chief medical and health officers (CMHOs) to take effective measures to check such lapses.The official gave details of all the four cases in his letter, the first of which was reported from Shajapur district.“The patient from Shajapur was 40-year-old. He was having fever and respiratory problems for 2- 3 days. He consulted the auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) who gave him some medicines and asked him to go home whereas the patient should have been immediately sent to the district hospital Covid centre for a medical examination. In the district hospital later, the medical specialist didn’t follow the protocols in letter and spirit. Hence, when the patient was referred to Indore two days later , his condition had worsened. The patient died”, the letter stated.The second death was of a 40-year-old from Bhopal who was examined in the outpatient department (OPD) of the district hospital and then sent back home with supportive and symptomatic treatment but without measuring his blood pressure and temperature. The patient returned to the same hospital five days later in a serious condition. He was referred to the medical college in Bhopal but declared brought dead. Later, the test of the sample suggested he was Covid-19 positive.“Had the Covid test and medical examination been done in the district hospital on time, proper treatment could have perhaps been ensured in this case”, the principal secretary said.In the other two cases, while one patient died in Indore due to lack of adequate surveillance at community level, the other patient passed away for want of proper monitoring at a quarantine centre, said Kidwai’s letter. Kidwai pointed out that the case studies suggest deaths due to Covid-19 can be minimised with proper testing and referrals.“These case studies suggest that if medical examination, test and referrals of the patients are done on time, the number of deaths caused due to complications arising from Covid-19 can be minimised”, said the principal secretary.A public health expert, too, reiterated the need for proper monitoring and referral.“We have been repeatedly pointing out from the day one as to where the problem lay. The health department has ultimately realised it now. There is no denying the fact that if survey, screening, medical examination, testing and treatment are done in an effective and professional manner, many such deaths could have been avoided and Madhya Pradesh would not have registered such a high death rate,” said public health expert Amulya Nidhi.However, Kidwai said that the situation in the state has vastly improved and the death rate has reduced.“These case studies have been suggested to all the districts to avoid recurrence of such delay in management and referrals. However, the situation in Madhya Pradesh has vastly improved which is reflected in the tremendous recovery rate of over 71% and considerably reduced death rate,” he said.As per the state health department’s bulletin released on Sunday night, Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 case count climbed to 11, 903 on Sunday , with 179 new infections reported in the last 24 hours. Of these, 9,015 have recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals while 515 have died from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/4-covid-19-deaths-in-mp-due-to-delayed-referral-treatment-state-audit/story-xuf0xsJtzl8d0HlQb20pXJ.html
21-06-2020||City||Noida: Layout of containment zone crucial to reduce Covid-19 spread, say officials||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has decided to consider the layout of an area while finalising a containment zone as it will help in monitoring and implementation of the guidelines, officials said on Sunday. If the layout of containment zone is convenient, then it will help reduce the rising number of positive cases in the district, they said.“We have asked the incident commanders to keep in mind the layout while finalising the containment zones. It is crucial because it helps in implementation of the health guidelines in a containment zone,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.There are five different zones -- Noida, Greater Noida, Dadri, Jewar and Sadar Tehsil -- in the GB Nagar district and each zone is taken care of by an incident commander. At Noida and Greater Noida’s urban areas, city magistrates are incident commanders, while in Jewar, Dadri and Sadar Tehsil areas, SDMs are incident commanders. The incident commanders have the onus of enforcing the rules in their respective areas and also supplying essential services to residents. The district has a total of 225 containment zones, as per the latest data from the administration. According to new rules of the Uttar Pradesh government, a containment zone can be is de-sealed 14 days after the last case in that particular area. Earlier, at least 236 containment zones were there in the district. The district administration’s move has come after several residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners’ associations and villagers demanded for more caution while declaring containment zones. There have been incidents when many far off areas were made part of a containment zone where implementing rules were not easy.“Sector 137 group housing societies were part of a containment zone that had Nagli Wazidpur village, which is 3km away and located on the other side of Noida expressway. Such containment zones don’t work out well because of distance,” said Prempal Chauhan, a resident of Nagli Wazidpur.Now, the administration will be making containment zone of one sector, without clubbing multiple sectors, one tower or two towers where multiple positive cases are or a village. Earlier, several sectors and housing societies were clubbed together to make a containment zone.“Earlier, supplying essential services was a huge task. But in small containment zones, now it is easier,” said an administration official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-layout-of-containment-zone-crucial-to-reduce-covid-19-spread-say-officials/story-kqBCXVsY5bgpPTrE5WzFxO.html
21-06-2020||City||Revenue courts to start working from Monday||After remaining shut for almost three months, all revenue courts in Gautam Budh Nagar district will be operational and open to the general public from Monday (June 22). The opening of the revenue courts will help homebuyers get their due refund from property developers as ordered by the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera).The revenue courts were shut since March 24 the Uttar Pradesh government announced a lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The statewide lockdown merged with the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25.“We have asked all staff members to ensure that all revenue courts start operations from June 22. All senior officials are asked to inform their junior staff that they should report to work in the revenue courts as usual from June 22,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.When a homebuyer files a refund case against a builder with the UP-Rera and regulatory body decides in favour of the buyer ordering the administration to recover the revenue, it is the revenue court staff that carries out the job. At least 1,000 recovery orders of the authority related to homebuyers and developers are yet to be implemented because of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, a UP-Rera official, who did not wish to be named, said.Lawyers said that opening up of revenue courts will help the public get their work stuck because of the lockdown done now. “Since the lockdown started, work related to recovering revenue was stuck and of the government and homebuyers, investors and even the government suffered. While the civil courts were already working, people can start getting their work done from Monday at the revenue court as well. However, maintaining social distance must be the top priority for everyone to stay safe during the Covid-19 pandemic,” Parminder Singh Bhati, advocate and former president, Gautam Budh Nagar bar association, said.The UP government had on June 19 sent a letter to the DM on opening the revenue courts. Subsequently, the Gautam Budh Nagar DM has issued an official order on June 20 in this regard asking the naib tehsildar, tehsildar, and other officials to take necessary action so that the state government’s directions are implemented.Naib tehsildar, a key official in the revenue administration, decides cases related to land disputes, recovery of revenue from land-owning farmers, and also cases related to the recovery of revenue from commercial and institutional groups and property developers for the government..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/revenue-courts-to-start-working-from-monday/story-TRI2EdZwOYeht4xNw7XgvJ.html
21-06-2020||City||Couple donates 50 beds, oxygen cylinders on wedding day||In a unique gesture, newly wed couple Eric Anton Lobo, 28, and Merlin, 27, of Nandakhal village in Vasai decided to celebrate their wedding day by donating 50 hospital beds and oxygen cylinders to the rural Covid-19 care centre at Satpala village on Saturday.“In a typical Christian wedding, around 2,000 guests attend and the event is incomplete without wine and good food. This costs a big packet. We decided to celebrate differently,” said Lobo.Only 22 guests attended the wedding and all wore face masks and maintained social distancing. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, scores of people are dying and in Vasai-Virar. In the Palghar district, around 90 people have died and more than 1,500 have tested positive, so we decided to contribute our bit,” said Lobo. “We wanted to share our joy with our fellow Vasai residents by helping provide better care for patients in hospitals,” he added.In March, Lobo and Merlin approached local MLA Kshitij Thakur with the idea and he directed them to Dr Kailas Shinde, Palghar district collector, who approved the special project. “We then approached a Vasai fabricator to design the hospital beds as per government health department specifications and also contacted various linen dealers to give us a good deal for mattresses, blankets, pillows, bedsheets, and other allied materials,” said Lobo, adding, “We also decided to provide oxygen cylinders as and when health department officials need them to treat Covid patients.”After the marriage ceremony, which was attended by Thakur, the couple went to the Covid care centre where the beds had already arrived. A small inauguration was held with the couple still in their wedding clothes.Earlier, the couple was actively involved in the local community kitchen and also helped provide the government with lists of migrants from Vasai-Virar who wanted passage on Shramik special trains to return to their home towns.“Eric and Merlin have set an example for the society and I congratulate them for their noble deed,” said Thakur. “Good Samaritans like these will help us battle the Covid pandemic and come out of it quickly. Residents of Vasai-Virar have always been supportive of their society, and I am optimistic that more people will come forward to do their bit in the coming days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-donates-50-beds-oxygen-cylinders-on-wedding-day/story-5Y2ObbZ7cICS9dIt3MIASO.html
21-06-2020||City||With 49 new cases, total count goes to 1,419 in GB Nagar||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district on Sunday reported 49 new cases, in the past 24 hours, taking the overall count of the district to 1,419 cases.According to a press statement issued by the district administration, as many as 162 positive patients were cured and discharged from different hospitals by Sunday. “So far, nineteen Covid-19 positive patients have so far lost their lives in the district so far. As a result, the district now has 577 active cases,” the release said.Meanwhile, to cater to Covid patients, the district administration on Sunday kicked off another L-1 facility at ITS dental college in Greater Noida, officials said.The officials further said that in the last 24 hours, as many as 21 Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh have lost their lives and their death audit report is awaited.According to the release, the overall tally of the Covid-19 positive cases in the state has gone to 17,731, with 596 new cases in last 24 hours. “As many as 626 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state,” the release stated.District magistrate Suhas LY said all 12 operative L-1, L-2 attached, Covid care centres, L-2 and L-3 facilities in the district have been asked to properly monitor sanitisation, regular visit of doctors, proper arrangements of meals, oxygen level checking of admitted patients, their timely sampling, referral slips of patients, etc. “The facilities have also been asked to keep a record of cured patients and the death audit of deceased ones. They have also been asked to keep a close tab on feeding records of Covid hospitals,” he said. He further said that quarantine centres have also been directed to keep all records updated. “Quarantine centres have been asked to keep the real-time records of admitted, cured and negative persons,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-49-new-cases-total-count-goes-to-1-419-in-gb-nagar/story-2LDNr5ooWfkrQ6BXaXN5OM.html
21-06-2020||City||MMR continues to see rise in cases||With the number of Covid-19 cases continuing to rise in Panvel, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has taken action against 32 shops in its jurisdiction that allegedly violated social distancing norms, and sealed the businesses.PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “With the relaxation of the lockdown, social distancing norms were violated as most residents were out in markets and shops. It came to our notice that some shopkeepers are not adhering to the instructions and acting irresponsibly. I have issued orders to take action against 32 such establishments.”On Sunday, 62 new cases were detected in Pavel city, and two deaths were reported. The total case count for the area has reached 1,329, with a death toll of 56.In Navi Mumbai, 154 new Covid-19 cases were reported, along with 154 deaths. The total case count is 4,841, with 164 deaths.Four constables from Thane Central Jail tested positive on Sunday. Jail superintendent, H Ahirrao said, “The four are all in the age group of 30 to 32 years. We suspect they got infected while on duty.”Thane city saw 164 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 6,296. Ten deaths were registered on Sunday, bringing the city’s toll to 208.The death count released by Thane district authorities and Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has revealed major discrepancies. The district authorities have claimed there are 227 deaths, against TMC’s count of 208.Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner of TMC said, “As per our record, there were 10 new deaths on Sunday, of which five were registered late.”Meanwhile, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 254 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the highest one-day count. Two deaths were also reported, of an 80-year-old man from Kalyan (East) and a 60-year-old woman from Kalyan (West).KDMC has a total of 3,511 positive cases, and the death toll is 73.“The civic body has started increased their testing capacity so the number of cases has doubled in recent days. Of all the cases reported, 80% are asymptomatic,” said an official from KDMC’s health department.The neighbouring city of Bhiwandi also reported its highest one-day count of 170 new cases. The city has crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,045 positive cases reported to date, and a total of 71 deaths.Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation initiated a complete lockdown in 18 areas since June 18, for a fortnight, due to a spike in Covid-19 cases. Essential shops like grocery shops and medical stores will remain open for residents during the lockdown period.Palghar district has 2,508 positive cases in total. Of this count, 1,938 cases were reported in the Vasai-Virar civic area along with 74 of Palghar’s 83 Covid deaths.(With inputs from Ram Parmar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mmr-continues-to-see-rise-in-cases/story-rz5rnS71VWAVJCobIAOkRL.html
21-06-2020||City||One death, 122 fresh cases in Punjab||Amritsar/Jalandhar/Bathinda/Faridkot/LudhianaPunjab on Sunday reported one death and 122 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 4,074. With one more death, Punjab toll due to the virus has reached 99, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. A 42-year-old woman from Ferozpur died in Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana. She was under treatment for about a week.Six police personnel, including a woman constable, an additional station house officer and two assistant sub-inspectors, were among the 54 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Dr Sachin Gupta, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19, said ASI Raghbir Singh (53) deployed at Sahnewal police station, Amandeep Singh (32) working as Munshi at Sahnewal Thana, ASI Surinderpal (49), constable Kulwant Singh (49) and Shimlapuri police woman constable Sushmarani were all hospitalised after their reports came in.Of the 54 infections, 14 cases were reported from the containment zones of Prem Nagar, Sansi Mohalla and Habib Gunj. Three pregnant women also tested positive for the disease. A 51-year-old PNB Bank employee posted at Miller Ganj has also contacted the infection.A couple from Baltana in Zirakpur are among four fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Mohali on Sunday. Besides the couple, both aged 60, a 42-year-old man from Govind Vihar in Baltana and a 40-year-old woman from Dera Bassi have also tested positive.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said: “The district reported 21 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Among them, 16 are fresh community transmission cases. The other five patients are the close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. Fifteen more people tested positive for Covid -19 in Sangrur. As per health department officials, these patients are from Malerkotla, Bhasour, Sangrur and Sunam areas of the district.Nine people, including five minors, tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Sunday. Besides, two Uttar Pradesh-returnees and another person contracted infection in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. In Hoshiarpur, a policeman and an army jawan tested positive. Six persons, including a 15-year-old boy and three women, tested positive in Fazilka. Civil surgeon Dr CM Kataria said all infected persons are residents of the district and four of them had recently visited other states. Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said a 31-year-old resident of Ran Singh Wala and a 45-year-old migrant labourer were found infected with coronavirus. Four persons, including two staffers of Government Rajindra Hospital have been tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said 34-year-old staff nurse posted in emergency ward and 52-year-old employee of the hospital contracted infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-death-122-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-DBA4UE3R7ZfxAJq6XFt4DM.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||SRPF reports first casualty as PSI dies of Covid-19; Maha Police’s toll reaches 48||A 51-year-old police sub-inspector (PSI), who was heading a company of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), died of Covid-19 at SevenHills Hospital on Sunday, taking the toll of the state police to 48. The officer had come to Mumbai after additional security forces were called in to aid the exhausted Mumbai Police force. “This is the first casualty from the SRPF,” said Archana Tyagi, additional director general of police (SRPF).The PSI was attached to the Jalna SRPF group 3 and was a platoon commander having over 100 jawans under his command.Around four SRPF men from the officer’s company had tested positive for the coronavirus. However, it is still unclear how he contracted the virus.“The company had returned to Jalna, but the PSI stayed in Mumbai as he got a fever. He was admitted to SevenHills Hospital after he tested positive. While undergoing treatment on Sunday morning, he succumbed to the infection,” said Tyagi.The officer was last deployed in the jurisdiction of the Oshiwara police station and was accommodated at Santacruz police station. His two brothers are also in SRPF. On Sunday evening, the PSI’s last rites were performed in Jalna, where his wife and two sons reside.SRPF personnel were deployed in urban areas where the maximum cases of Covid-19 infection were reported. SRPF jawans were moved to these places to assist local police to enforce strict lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.An SRPF officer said that many of the force’s personnel had contracted the virus but immediate measures were taken by the top brass to contain the spread. Tyagi said that till Sunday, a total of 741 SRPF jawans tested positive for Covid-19, of which 648 have been discharged from hospital. “The recovery rate [among SRPF] is around 86% and we hope to increase it more,” the senior IPS officer said.In the last 24 hours, around 88 new cases of Covid were reported in the Maharashtra Police force. The total number of positive cases has now risen to 4,048, with 48 deaths reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/srpf-reports-first-casualty-as-psi-dies-of-covid-19-maha-police-s-toll-reaches-48/story-lUdIDLsdyQYrmVNBzsuiMN.html
21-06-2020||City||GB Nagar has lowest fatality rate among UP’s 10 districts worst affected by Covid-19||NOIDA: Despite having the highest number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases across Uttar Pradesh, the Noida district has the lowest fatality rate of 1.31% among the 10 worst-affected districts in the state.According to the Covid-19 data released by state health department on June 20, out of overall 17,135 positive cases reported so far in UP, Noida district tops the list with a tally of 1,369, which is 7.98% of the total positive cases in the state, followed by Agra, Kanpur and Ghaziabad.Meanwhile, neighbouring Ghaziabad has a recovery rate of 51.71% (423 cured of 818), the corresponding figure for Noida district is 48.28% (661 cured of 1,369 patients). When asked, Noida district magistrate Suhas LY said the highest number of Covid-19 cases detected in the district indicates that tracking and testing are being done properly and systematically. “And, the low fatality rate denotes that our team of doctors at different Covid-dedicated hospitals in the district are providing proper treatment to the infected patients,” he said.Echoing similar views, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said the lowest fatality rate among the worst-affected districts is a very positive indication. “Our doctors have handled the cases adroitly. On average, most of the patients turn negative and asymptomatic in less than a week,” he said.The death rate is lowest in Noida among all UP district because of multiple reasons, including better monitoring of Covid as well and non-Covid patients, early detection of patients and aggressive surveillance, said senior IAS officer and nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district, Narendra Bhooshan. “We are also in touch with private hospitals to provide better medical facilities to the needy. And our doctors at government hospitals are motivated and are doing an excellent job,” Bhooshan said.According to Dr Rakesh Gupta, the director of Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, fatality rate is low in the district because of multi-level monitoring of infected patients. “Our doctors have adopted many innovative methods to ensure full-proof recovery of Covid-19 patients. After testing positive, we conduct multiple tests to detect their other ailments. It gives us better vision to diagnose and medicate them. It is not about just finding positives and starting generic treatment for them. But, more important is to find out what other ailments could affect the recovery span of the patients,” he said. As per the data, after GB Nagar, state capital Lucknow has the minimum death rate of 1.51%, followed by Kanpur city (3.66%). In GB Nagar district, 18 persons have died of coronavirus disease till June 20. While Jhansi has the highest fatality rate of 11.42% (11 died of 98 cases), Meerut and Agra have 9.54% (75 died of 786) and 6.95% (79 died of 1,136), respectively. Among other worst affected districts, Aligarh has a fatality rate of 5.63% (20 died of 355) and Ghaziabad has 5.01% (41 died of 818).In terms of recovery rate among the districts having 750-plus cases so far, Agra has maximum recovery rate of 79.92% (908 Covid-19 patients cured of 1,136 total cases), followed by Meerut (59.66%), Lucknow (56.89%) and Kanpur city (54.52%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-has-lowest-fatality-rate-among-up-s-10-districts-worst-affected-by-covid-19/story-iRX5YykAHdNmtzHSEunq8L.html
21-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Parents’ body writes to DM to not reopen schools till September 30||Ghaziabad: The members of Ghaziabad Parents’ Association (GPA) have written to the district magistrate to defer reopening of schools till September 30 due to high incidence of Covid-19 cases in the district. In an online survey conducted by the association, 97% of the parents who participated said that they are not in favour of reopening the schools in July. The survey had 2,106 responses about the issue, the association said.Ghaziabad has witnessed a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases this month. In a period of 20 days since June 1, the district has added to its tally 548 positive cases and 38 deaths. Overall, the total positive cases stood at 853 till June 20, which included 42 deaths.“The parents are alarmed by the situation. So, we have written to the district magistrate not to reopen schools till September 30. The Covid-19 cases are on the rise and it will be difficult to manage situation in schools with thousands of children studying together. The online survey had a question whether the schools should reopen in July or not. About 97% of the respondents opposed the idea,” said Seema Tyagi, president of GPA.Tyagi said that it will not be practically possible for schools to ensure that children maintain social distancing, and don’t share food, among other things. “Above all, we don’t have a vaccine yet to deal with Covid-19. In case children get infected, it will be very difficult to keep them in isolation. The monsoon season is approaching and it brings in a number of viral diseases,” she added.In its Unlock 1.0 guidelines issued on May 30, the Union ministry of home affairs had stated that schools, colleges, educational institutions, etc will be reopened after consultations with states and Union Territories in July. State governments and UT administrations may hold consultations at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders, the ministry had said in a statement. When asked, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said he has been receiving representations from parents for not allowing opening of schools. “We will soon hold a review meeting and write to the state government about the issues concerning parents. It will be an overall decision which will be taken up by the state government,” Pandey added.Further, the reopening of colleges will also be a tricky situation for Ghaziabad authorities as about 13 different colleges in the district have been proposed to have Covid care facilities as part of state government’s plan to deal with rising number of cases. In Ghaziabad, the health department has proposed 4,000 Covid beds at 13 colleges.In a related case, the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court on June 15 ordered the state government to take a decision in larger public interest. The court’s decision arrived on a petition seeking closure of schools up to class 12 till a single patient of Covid-19 remains or its vaccine comes in the market.The directions were issued by the Bench of justices Devendra Kumar Updhyay and Narendra Kumar on a writ petition filed by Anuj Nishad, a student. “With regard to the prayer made in this writ petition, this court is clearly of the opinion that the issue raised herein should be considered by the government itself. Accordingly, we direct the state government to consider the grievance raised in this writ petition and take a decision thereon,” the court had said in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-parents-body-writes-to-dm-to-not-reopen-schools-till-september-30/story-YAx1iEB68bH2NpaMOWRtbO.html
21-06-2020||City||Man duped of Rs 1.11 lakh in KYC online scam||PUNE A 61-year-old man was duped of Rs 1,11,138 after he called a phone number mentioned in an SMS he received on his mobile phone, on Saturday, according to police.In a similar incident, another person was duped of Rs 1,96,393, on Friday.The SMS warned the complainants of expiration of know-your-customer (KYC) sections of their e-wallet. The SMS provided them with a phone number on which they could call to extend their KYC.Once the complainants called the number, the callers tricked them into making a transaction of Rs 1 and told the complainants that the transactions had failed due to expired KYC.Subsequently, the callers tricked the two into sharing their details of multiple bank accounts owned by the complainants.“The person on the call extracted money from three bank accounts of the complainant (in the case which was reported on Saturday),” said police inspector (crime) MR Khokale, Bibwewadi police station, who is investigating the cases.The accused made the complainants install an application called ‘Quick Support app’ after which money was transferred from their accounts without their knowledge.A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act was registered at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-duped-of-rs-1-11-lakh-in-kyc-online-scam/story-FAMbv5Lu3fRKpVnzBEAALO.html
21-06-2020||City||Fitness enthusiasts across Ludhiana celebrate International Yoga Day virtually||College students and teachers across the city celebrated the International Day of Yoga online on Sunday.BCM College students, along with their families, practised common yoga asanas, such as surya namaskar, tadasana, vṛikṣhasana and padamasana at home following this year’s theme: “Yoga at home and yoga with family”. The National Service Scheme (NSS) unit and the department of physical education of Arya College, in collaboration with Everest Yoga Institute, organised an online lecture. Sanjeev Tyagi, director, Everest Yoga Institute, was the keynote speaker. He spoke about the importance of yoga in the maintenance of physical as well as mental health and encouraged the staff and students to practice it on a daily basis. He also demonstrated various asanas online. Principal Savita Uppal said “yoga-sadhna” was a “sanjeevani” in contemporary times. The NSS volunteers of Kamla Lohtia SD College practised various asanas at home along with their family members and pledged to make it a part of their routine. Principal Mukesh Kumar Mahajan lauded the efforts of the students and urged them to adopt yoga as a way to attain a healthy, peaceful and successful life.Following the guidelines of ministry of AYUSH and directions of Panjab University NSS coordinator, the NSS unit of Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Civil Lines, organised an online workshop on “Mental health and physical wellness during Covid-19 pandemic”. Amit Ahuja, naturopathy consultant and yoga therapist, Form Yoga Life Centre, was the resource person. During the session, Ahuja demonstrated stretching, breathing, surya namaskar, and relaxing yoga asanas to help the NSS volunteers maintain good mental and physical health. The workshop concluded with a query session. Principal Naginder Kaur thanked the resource person and appreciated the efforts of the staff. ONLINE CELEBRATIONS FOR BHARTIYA YOG SANSTHAN Bhartiya Yog Sansthan celebrated the day online under the leadership of Dharam Singh, district president and principal of SCD Government College. More than 130 sadhaks, along with their family members, took part in the online session. Usha Jindal recited a poem highlighting the significance of the day and the benefits of yoga. Dharam Singh said that in today’s time, performing yoga was the best way to stay physically and mentally fit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fitness-enthusiasts-across-ludhiana-celebrate-international-yoga-day-virtually/story-vFA9FpZmYK0QoNZK02HcgI.html
21-06-2020||City||Court fines applicants who opposed use of homoeopathic drug against Covid-19||PUNE A city court has levied a fine of Rs 10,000 against two applicants, including a doctor, for filing case against civic officials for violating human rights by distributing and promoting the use of arsenicum album 30, a homoeopathic drug prescribed for the treatment Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.The two applicants Adam Beig (57) member of Care of Public Safety, public trust and his co-applicant Dr Abhishek Haridas (37), residents of Kothrud, had filed a case against Pune district collector and Pune municipal commissioner for violating human rights of residents.The order by principal district and sessions judge SR Navandar, dismissing the application, read, “The application is hereby dismissed with costs of Rs 10,000 to be paid to District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Pune. If the applicants fail to pay the costs, jointly or severally, the same be recovered from them as land revenue.”The applicant has claimed to not have received a copy of the order.Haridas, “There were applications in the Kerela and Madras High Courts about use of homoeopathic medicine. The orders show that the courts have asked only for modern medicine to be used.”“Here politicians and PMC officials are distributing the drug without any medical inspection. The drugs have been distributed to Covid-19 patients and healthy people as well. My application was neither civil nor criminal, it was about human rights violation,” he said.The order further read: “From the conduct and approach of the applicants, what appears is that by taking undue advantage of the existing situation of pandemic they made an attempt to get cheap publicity.”“Thereby they have taken a lot of time of the court, particularly when the court is busy in dealing with important urgent bail applications of jail inmates and injunction matters. Such conduct on the part of the mischievous applicants needs to be curbed by imposing exemplary costs,” reads one of the concluding portions of the court order.In a Press Information Bureau (PIB) press release issued by Ayush Ministry on January 29, the drug is recommended for use in consultation with registered Ayurvedic practitioners.“The Group of Expertsinter-alia has recommended that homoeopathy medicine arsenicum album 30 could be taken as prophylactic medicine against Covid-19 infections, which has also been advised for prevention of ILI (influenza-like illness),” it reads.However, the court order by Judge Navandar reads, “In the documents submitted on behalf of the applicants, said medicine is referred to as an immunity riser and not as a vaccine or antidote for Covid-19 virus.”The said medicine has been distributed among officials of various government offices in the city to boost their immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-fines-applicants-who-opposed-use-of-homoeopathic-drug-against-covid-19/story-n7zUpc7VYNPzqbdJYIeOnL.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Yoga a tool to maintain self-discipline, mental hygiene: PGIMER director||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) organised a virtual yoga session to celebrate the International Day of Yoga on Sunday.Over 100 volunteers, including doctors, nursing officers, healthcare workers and their families, took part in the session.Most of them practised asanas at their residences, while others performed yoga on the hospital campus.Inaugurating the virtual session, PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram, citing the first shloka of Patanjali, described yoga as a tool to maintain self-discipline, mental hygiene and to engage in self-discovery.He also highlighted the importance of yoga in prevention of non-communicable diseases and promotion of health.“By inclusion of yoga in the lifestyle of technologists, nurses, physicians, faculty, and students, the healthcare delivery can be revitalised and scientific validation of disease-specific yoga protocols can be usefully exploited for risk reduction of untreatable disorders, based on sound scientific evidence,” he said.Talking about participants who had recently recovered from Covid-19, Dr Ram said, “It sends a very positive message that you can not only beat Covid-19 but also lead a normal and healthy life afterwards.”Piru Mulla, one of the Covid-19 recovered participants, said, “I felt so rejuvenated and alive after the session. Now, I would like to make it a part of my daily routine.”PU CONDUCTS WEB LECTURESThe Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies(ICSVS), Panjab University(PU), conducted two web lectures on the occasion.VR Sinha, dean, research, who was the chief guest on the occasion, said, “Yoga unites body, mind, and soul.”Renu Thakur, coordinator, ICSVS said, “Yoga is a panacea for our physical and mental well-being. It liberates us and elevates our souls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/yoga-a-tool-to-maintain-self-discipline-mental-hygiene-pgimer-director/story-d6duweaAjVt6DLzLMcVwWP.html
21-06-2020||City||NDA pays homage to late Col B Santosh Babu, slain in Galwan valley clash||PUNE A wreath-laying ceremony was organised for the late Col B Santosh Babu, an alumnus of 105 course of National Defence Academy (NDA) who died in the line of duty.He was killed during a clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley of Eastern Ladakh on June 15.His name was inscribed with full military honours on the sacred walls of Hut of Remembrance in golden letters adding him to the elite league of ‘ex-NDA brave hearts’. The wreath-laying ceremony was organised wherein Commandant NDA, Lt Gen Asit Mistry, AVSM, SM, VSM laid a wreath on behalf of all officers and cadets of NDA and the ex- NDA fraternity.Col Babu was also an instructor at NDA from July 2010 to December 2011. He will be remembered for his selfless service, devotion to duty and resolute courage, said a press release issued by NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nda-pays-homage-to-late-col-b-santosh-babu-slain-in-galwan-valley-clash/story-R8TBjJgMpZs2Zsvid6eMaP.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 staff crunch hits ₹5lakh PM-JAY health cover scheme||Chandigarh: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet scheme offering ₹5lakh health cover to families from economically weaker sections has been hit as the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, does not have enough staff to register patients during night hours. All energies are directed at combating Covid-19, hospital authorities say. Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (PM-JAY) under Ayushman Bharat offers secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation to over 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families (approximately 50 crore beneficiaries) that form the bottom 40% of the Indian population.However, GMCH-32, the only tertiary care hospital under the UT administration, has two employees to register the patients, a process which hospital staff say requires at least eight employees completing three shifts in 24 hours.Though the matter has been brought to the UT administration’s notice through an online complaint filed by 22-year-old social activist Vaibhav Gupta, no measures have been taken to rectify the problem.“Patients with Ayushman Bharat Scheme Card can avail of services from 9pm to 5pm, but not at night when the counters close, which can be very inconvenient for patients, especially during emergencies,” Vaibhav said .Admitting that the staff crunch was making things difficult, hospital medical superintendent Dr Ravi Gupta said, “We are sorting it out and have also asked for staff from director health services, who is also the CEO of Ayushman here. But as all our energies are diverted towards dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic many services are unavailable.”However, he was optimistic that authorities would soon find a way out of the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-32-staff-crunch-hits-5lakh-pm-jay-health-cover-scheme/story-HlbRwht9VammQxf4pc5a9M.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala Station staffer, 52, falls on tracks, run over by train||A 52-year-old mechanical craftsman on duty at the Ambala Cantonment Railway Station was accidentally run over by a train while crossing the railway line.  “Devender Kumar, a resident of railway colony, was crossing the tracks at the station near platform number seven when he fell after his shoe got stuck in a nail. He was run over by a train. A postmortem was conducted on Sunday after which his body was handed over to the family. His father has also served in the railways,” said Satvir, government railway police investigating officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-station-staffer-52-falls-on-tracks-run-over-by-train/story-jzXhxbKDFwYDAsbq7m4WrM.html
21-06-2020||Dehradun||43 fresh cases take Uttarakhand tally to 2,344, recoveries touch 1,500 in state||With 43 fresh Covid-19 cases reported from the state, Uttarakhand’s tally increased to 2,344 on Sunday.Of the 43 fresh cases reported, four cases were close contacts of earlier detected positive cases in the state and travel history was not available for six patients at the time of the release of the health bulletin. All the other patients had returned to the state from places like Maharashtra, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and Delhi-NCR.The cases were reported from districts like Almora (1), Chamoli (9), Dehradun (6), Haridwar (12), Pauri Garhwal (4), Uttarkashi (1), Rudraprayag (4) and Tehri Garhwal (6).A total of 50 patients had also been discharged from hospitals in districts like Bageshwar (3), Dehradun (43), Uttarkashi (2) and one each from Pauri Garhwal and Tehri Garhwal after successful recovery on Sunday.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 55,000 samples of which results of over 4700 are awaited.Districts like Dehradun with 606 cases, Tehri Garhwal with 376 cases, Nainital with 366 cases and Haridwar 271 cases, have the highest number of cases in the state. Champawat district with 48 cases has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the state.The state now has a recovery rate of 63.94 per cent while the rate of infection stands at 4.86 per cent. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days stands at 21.09 days in the state.The state has 106 containment zones reported from five districts with 57 such zones from Haridwar district, 36 from Dehradun, two from Udham Singh Nagar, ten in Tehri Garhwal district and one in Uttarkashi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/43-fresh-cases-take-uttarakhand-tally-to-2-344-recoveries-touch-1-500-in-state/story-ZSukua9g2RuM4Kaeg2BOPL.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Stigma, social boycott awaits residents of former containment zones in Chandigarh||After facing hardships living in one, the residents of erstwhile containment zones are now struggling with social stigma and ostracisation, which is costing them their jobs, marriage proposals and social relationships.For containing the spread of coronavirus in the city, the UT administration had declared six areas as containment zones. Strict perimeter control was enforced in these areas with high incidence of positive cases.With no new case being reported in five of the six zones for 28 days, the administration ended the containment operations in Sector 30, Sector 52, Shastri Nagar (Manimajra), Kachhi Colony in Dhanas, Sector 38 and some parts of Bapu Dham Colony.Residents were desperately hoping that the removal of the containment tag will mean life back to normal. But for most of them, it has only worsened. A hard reality hit residents when they realised they were no longer welcome in social gatherings and even in their workplaces.MARRIAGES BROKEN OFF, FIRED FROM WORKLiving in Bapu Dham Colony not only cost Baljeet Singh his daughter’s marriage, but also his job. Baljeet, formerly a driver with a private company, said, “In April last year, we accepted a marriage proposal for my daughter from a family living in Dhanas. The marriage was to take place in June this year. But when parts of Bapu Dham were declared containment zones, even though my house didn’t fall in it, the Dhanas family broke all contacts with us. We were told by one of their relatives that they didn’t want to marry in a family living in Bapu Dham Colony.” The company where he was working as a driver also fired him because of that tag.An evaluation engineer, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Sector 30, also lost his job even though his employer maintained it was a performance-based decision. “After containment restrictions ended, I went back to my job. But the management laid me off, saying my performance was not satisfactory. In three years of working there, I was never told my work was not good.”COME BACK IN A MONTH: EMPLOYERSMeanwhile, some residents are not being fired at work, but being asked to come back after a month or more. “I work as a salesman in a mobile shop at Elante Mall. I thought with the mall opening I will get back to work. When I asked my employer, he refused. He asked me to call him after a month,” said another resident of Bapu Dham, requesting anonymity.Yanki Kaliya, a local Congress leader in Bapu Dham Colony, said, “Most Bapu Dham residents either work in Industrial Area factories or in shops in sectors like 22 and 17. Their employers have not been keen to take them back at all.”Some residents have said they have been ostracised on the social front as well. Rajinder Kaur Panag, a resident of Sector 30, said, “Children from the area are not welcome to play with children living in other sectors. Some tuition teachers are also asking them not to come. People have even stopped calling us to social functions like marriages or birthday parties.”When contacted, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “If we get a specific complaint, we will advise the employer [to not lay off people].” The administration has made the SDM of the area the nodal officer for addressing complaints regarding job loss. As per the administration officials, they have intervened successfully in 800 such matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stigma-social-boycott-awaits-residents-of-former-containment-zones-in-chandigarh/story-OXL9lteg6t9WMAs3eZwaHI.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||As restrictions ease in Chandigarh, tracing contacts of Covid-19 cases becoming wild-goose chase||With the lockdown restrictions removed and Covid-19 cases rising consistently, tracing community contacts of positive patients has become a Herculean task for the municipal corporation teams tasked with the job. As the city gradually returns to normalcy, people are coming in contact with a number of strangers in the community, leaving no foolproof system of tracing all persons who positive patients may have come in contact with.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta says the person testing positive shares the name and other information of the people who they have met recently.“These people are traced and home quarantined. Besides, a poster to this effect is pasted outside their houses. In a few cases, we also track their movement with the help of their mobile phones,” he adds.But, this methodology helps only so much with people venturing out in public places without any restrictions. For instance, a medical shop owner and its workers had tested positive for the virus earlier in June. The infection even spread to the workers’ family members in different parts of the tricity. However, the contact tracing teams soon found out that it was next to impossible to trace all customers, who these workers may have served at the shop.Similarly, an auto driver was found infected after he transported a Covid-19 positive patient to the hospital. Even though the auto driver’s family members tested negative, there is no clarity on the number of passengers he ferried in his vehicle after contracting the infection. In another such case, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) constable, who is posted at the Punjab Civil Secretariat, took leave after testing positive for the virus. A resident of Daria village, he never developed any symptoms and continued to check visitors at the secretariat before isolating himself.Simultaneously, a number of cases have cropped up where the health teams have no information with regard to the source of infection. Such cases have been reported from Sectors 24, 25, 43 and 47.Anil Kumar Garg, MC additional commissioner-cum-nodal officer, MC contact tracing teams, say their focus is on quarantining the immediate contacts within six hours to contacin the spread of infection.“People’s movement has returned to normal since the lockdown restrictions were removed. So, finding the source of infection and all community contacts is pretty difficult. However, our four teams are working hard it,” Garg says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-restrictions-ease-in-chandigarh-tracing-contacts-of-covid-19-cases-becoming-wild-goose-chase/story-8eV4KbbS4uovlSr7596UEP.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 patients from outside Panchkula keep authorities on toes, furnish wrong addresses||The lengths to which people will go to for their own convenience to create problems for health authorities became evident recently when some people coming into Panchkula for Covid-19 tests deliberately furnished wrong addresses.The reason probably is avoiding detection to skip mandatory quarantining.Eleven persons tested positive in Panchkula on Sunday, of whom only seven were from the district. A 60-year-old couple had given a Sector 5 address but was later found to be living in Baltana when traced through mobile phone numbers. Similarly, three others, whose positive test reports came in on Saturday, included two from Lucknow and one from Delhi. They had given local addresses of their relatives but were later found to be living elsewhere. Seven members of a Delhi family who tested positive recently had come to Panchkula only to get tests done this week and were putting up at a Zirakpur hotel. The businessman had provided the address of a factory in Panchkula’s industrial area, which he had reportedly rented out and had later shut down. He is at present staying with his family in Delhi.Another family, including a couple and two children from Delhi, who tested positive, were found to be residents of Delhi. They had given the address of relatives in Sector 27 to health authorities. A man visiting the town from Gujarat also tested positive. “We found the addresses were wrong only after the positive test reports came in,” added a senior health official.“People from outstation are coming to Panchkula to get their tests done. They are providing wrong addresses. Verification is taking a lot of manpower and time,” said Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-patients-from-outside-panchkula-keep-authorities-on-toes-furnish-wrong-addresses/story-rFwUqLLIoyLSDkskENeyZI.html
21-06-2020||City||‘Dead’ shown as beneficiaries of ration meant for poor in Ludhiana, says BJP||A “dead” man walked away with a ration kit meant for the poor, the local unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed here on Sunday.Accusing the Congress government of committing a major bungling in the distribution of centrally sponsored ration, state BJP chief spokesperson Anil Sareen said several metric tonnes of ration, meant to be distributed among the poor during the lockdown, have been siphoned off by showing the dead as beneficiaries.The party has demanded a CBI probe or investigation by a sitting judge of the high court in the matter.Showing the identity card of a dead person, on whose name ration was distributed in the central constituency of the city, Sareen said persons such as Kanta Rani and Gagandeep Singh, who had died in 2019; Ashok Kumar Sharma of Kashmir Nagar, who had passed away in 2015 and his relative Neeraj (also shown as Ashok Kumar) who had died in 2013, were shown as beneficiates of the ration scheme.“A Nisha Rani of the same area is not aware that there was a ration card in her name and five persons have been shown as beneficiaries. Nisha is not a stray case. There are many such fake beneficiaries. Besides, details of Aadhaar and ration cards did not match with those of the beneficiaries,” said Sareen.District BJP president Pushpinder Singhal said a ration kit consisting of 15kg wheat flour and 3kg pulses, meant for three-month consumption, was to be distributed among the poor.“The ration scam is far bigger than the seed or liquor scams unearthed recently. The Congress regime has usurped ration worth several hundreds of crores allotted from the central pool,” said Singhal.He added, “A total of 2.12 lakh metric tonne grain, 10,605 metric tonne pulses had arrived, but either the dead or the fake beneficiaries walked away with it while the poor, such as Ajit Kumar Rai, were forced to commit suicide due to non-availability of ration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dead-shown-as-beneficiaries-of-ration-meant-for-poor-in-ludhiana-says-bjp/story-q1Xta4UfIYunueYliP0q3K.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three months on, 177 Indian nationals stuck in Dubai land at Chandigarh airport||As many as 177 Indian nationals from the region, who were stuck in Dubai following the Covid-19 outbreak, landed at the Chandigarh International Airport on Sunday.The Air India flight landed at around 6:52pm with passengers from Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.The evacuation was a part of the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission of the Government of India.Most of the persons, who arrived, had recently been laid off by a company in Dubai.All passengers were screened by the health department, Punjab and subsequently handed over to respective states after immigration and customs clearances.District nodal officer Harmandeep Kaur Brar said the passengers will not be sent home yet as a precaution measure and will instead be quarantined at government facilities for 14 days.All of them were asymptomatic, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-months-on-177-indian-nationals-stuck-in-dubai-land-at-chandigarh-airport/story-7ZDdMuUtsL3FB9aAEe42jL.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialists spending a lot to bring their labourers back to city||After the Punjab government allowed factories to open, industrialists started making efforts to bring their labourers, who had left for their native places during lockdown, back to the city.Some industrialists had reportedly brought back as any as 747 labourers recently by air.According to the data available with the police, a total of 15,108 labourers have returned to the city after the government allowed factories to open.Train services had resumed on June 1, while flights were started on May 25.A total of 13,035 labourers returned to the city via trains, while 1,326 by buses, as per the police.After lockdown was imposed in the region, as many as 3.5 lakh migrants had left the city for their respective states via Shramik special trains.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said they are keeping a record of labourers returning to the city and are regularly in contact with the industry to update inventory due to coronavirus outbreak.Bobby Jindal, owner of Balaji Processors, a blanket manufacturing firm, said, he made arrangements to bring his 150 employees back from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states. They had left for their native places during lockdown, he added.He said he bought air tickets to bring back his 10 employees from Bihar. They had taken a flight from Patna to Delhi and then from Delhi to the Sahnewal airport in Ludhiana.Jindal said he also bought 2-tier AC and 3-tier AC train tickets for around 50 labourers and arranged taxis at a cost of more than Rs 2 lakh for bringing his labourers back to the city.Rahul Verma, a dyeing factory owner, said he had arranged train tickets for his 30 labourers from Uttar Pradessh and Bihar to the city.Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, some of big houses in the industry, which are merely 3%, arranged buses to bring their labourers back.Sokhi added that most of the demand for sewing machines is from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, but, due to coronavirus, they have no orders this time. Hence, most of small sewing machines, parts and assembling units are closed.The cycle parts and manufacturing industry is planning to engage local labour.DS Chawla, president of the United Cycles and Parts Manufacturers Association (UPCMA), said, “Most of the units are small and micro and they cannot afford airfare for labourers. So, we are planning to engage local labour through the employment exchange.”RK Yadav, general secretary of the Punjab unit of the Samajwadi Party and a labour leader, said labourers want to come back to the city, but they are not getting reservation in trains. Some industrialists are helping labourers to come to the city on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-industrialists-spending-a-lot-to-bring-their-labourers-back-to-city/story-Dn2Cp5xO8rS2QDHb79VpBN.html
21-06-2020||City||17 more test positive in Himachal, tally rises to 673||The Covid-19 tally in Himachal Pradesh has climbed to 673 as 17 more people were tested positive for the virus on Sunday. Eleven cases were reported from Kangra, three from Solan, two from Sirmaur, and one from Chamba.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that a Delhi returned 30-year-old woman and her two-year-old daughter, residents of Thakurdwara; a 42-year-old man from Dehra area, who travelled back from Ghaziabad; and a 19-year-old Delhi returnee girl are among the patients tested positive for the virus.Apart from this, three men from Rakh village near Palampur town were tested positive. One of them had returned from Pathankot and two from Delhi. Two cases have been reported from Lambagaon area. Both men had returned from Delhi. Among other patients are a 37-year-old woman and her 11-year-old daughter who were under institutional quarantine. All patients have been shifted to covid care centres at Baijnath and Dadh.Among three cases detected in Solan district, one is a Kuwait-returned man of Nalagarh town. He was in institutional quarantine. Two cases were detected in late evening. Two people have tested positive in Dhaulakuan and Pachhad area of Sirmaur. One has a travel history to Ahmedabad and the other has returned from Delhi.Sirmaur DC RK Pruthi said that the administration has started their contact mapping.In Chamba district, a Faridabad-returned man has tested positive. He was also under institutional quarantine.237 ACTIVE CASES IN STATEAt present, there are 237 active cases in state; 417 have recovered; eleven have migrated to other states, and six have succumbed to the disease.Till date, Himachal has recorded 673 cases. As many as 343 cases have been recorded in June.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 181 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 166 cases. Una has recorded a total of 80 cases, Solan 77 cases, Chamba 44, Bilaspur and Sirmaur 32 each, Shimla 30, Mandi 23, Kullu five, and Kinnaur three cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-more-test-positive-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-673/story-CZ5EIaQOCRk10iueksAUML.html
21-06-2020||City||Two masked men loot ₹80,000 from finance firm’s office in Mohali||Masked robbers made off with Rs 80,000 within minutes from a finance company at Sohana village on the Landran Road on Saturday.Janvi, a manager at the firm, UP Money, complained to the police that the men arrived at their office around 11am with a bag. They forcibly snatched the Rs 80,000 lying on the counter and fled in no time.The CCTV camera outside the office captured the men entering and leaving.Investigating officer sub-inspector Barma Singh said the robbers also snatched the complainant’s mobile phone before fleeing. Deputy superintendent of police (City 2) Deep Kamal Singh said they were probing the matter from various angles, while not ruling out an insider job.On the manager’s complaint, a case was registered at the Sohana police station.No headway in PNB robbery Police have yet to make headway into the daylight robbery of Rs 4.8 lakh at the all-women branch of PNB bank in Phase 3A on June 17.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of Mataur police station, said, “We haven’t found any clues yet. Further investigation is on.”The two armed robbers had entered the bank during the lunch break at 1:42pm and left by 1:45pm. There was no security guard deputed outside the branch, situated on a secluded stretch near Hotel Cama.After filling the money in a suitcase, they had fled in a white Hyundai i20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-masked-men-loot-80-000-from-finance-firm-s-office-in-mohali/story-YW8zxe8STD6bapok9aeZRI.html
21-06-2020||Jaipur||New dense locust swarm from Pakistan enters Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar district||A new five square kilometer dense swarm of desert locust entered Sriganganagar district of Rajasthan on Sunday and breeding of locusts has been reported in Bikaner district amid even as the Rajasthan government augmented the means to control the invasion.These included 411 tractor-mounted power sprayers and 53,000 litres of plant protection chemical, procured under a World Bank-funded project for locust control activities, multiple officials said.Officials of Locust Warning Office, an Agriculture ministry wing, said a new swarm from Pakistan entered Rajasthan’s Anupgarh town in Sriganganagar district on Sunday. It was 5km-by-5km and very dense. Earlier, on Saturday, four swarms entered Jaipur from Nagaur and after control operation in the evening, were reported to have moved towards Tonk on Sunday.Meanwhile, the Rajasthan Agricultural Competitiveness Project (RACP), a World Bank-funded project, has issued work order for 211 tractor-mounted power sprayer for locust management in Bikaner and Jalore districts, and 200 for Barmer and Jaisalmer. The budget for these sprayers is Rs 1.56 crore.Work orders were also issued for supply of two pesticides – Lambda Cyhalothrin 5% EC and Deltamethrin 2.8% EC – in 13 districts.The state government had earlier sanctioned Rs 1.47 crore from the state disaster relief fund (SDRF) for hiring vehicles, tractor-mounted sprayers and pesticides.RACP project director Alok Ranjan said pesticides worth Rs 1.39 crore have been ordered from a Jaipur supplier. “The two pesticides will be supplied in packing of one litre and will be sent directly to the deputy directors of the agriculture department in the respective districts before June 30,” he said.The pesticides will be supplied to Barmer, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagaur, Jalore, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Pali, Churu, Ajmer, Jaipur and Sirohi. The biggest supply will be made to Barmer – 3,000 litres each of Lambda and Deltamethrin. Sirohi gets the smallest supply – 1,000 litres of Lambda and 500 litres of Deltamethrin.Ranjan said under the integrated locust (pest) control plan of RACP, small and marginal farmers will also be provided the pesticides for use in a maximum area of two hectares. “They will be made aware about their safety and the precautions to take while using the pesticides,” he added.Locust outbreak was reported in Rajasthan in May 2019 after a gap of 26 years. The attack continued until February this year and the pests devoured crops on at least 670,000 hectares across 12 districts, causing a loss of around Rs 1,000 crore, according to the state agriculture department.The second wave of locust invasion began on April 11 this year when locust swarms entered Rajasthan from Hindumalkot in Sriganganagar and Babla in Jaisalmer.Joint director of plant protection division in state agriculture department, Dr Suwa Lal Jat said until Sunday, more than 200,000 hectares in 29 districts had been affected by the crop-munching pests. Control operations have been done in around 180,000 hectares.Meanwhile, according to a bulletin by the locust warning organization (LWO), breeding of locusts has been reported in Bikaner district amid frequent outbreaks in the states of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. In the areas of Bikaner where breeding was reported, this week (the third week of June), hopper emergence may be reported.According to bulletin, immature, maturing and mature adult groups/swarms were observed at various districts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/new-dense-locust-swarm-from-pakistan-enters-rajasthan-s-sriganganagar-district/story-L9qFFpyXbhbpBVgfqXRLvM.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||22-year-old youth commits suicide in Daria||A 22-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence in Daria village here on Sunday. The deceased was spotted around 11am by his family members.As per the police, the family members were sitting outside when he hanged himself from the ceiling in his room. No suicide note was found at the spot, police said.The youth was unmarried and used to work at an automobile showroom in Panchkula, but he had not been there since the lockdown was imposed. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC.TB PATIENT HANGS SELF IN PANCHKULA A tuberculosis (TB) patient was found hanging in his house in Rajiv Colony, Panchkula, on June 20. Police said the deceased had been suffering from TB for the last four years and was discharged from the civil hospital on June 19. He was earlier treated at PGIMER. Stressed due to his illness, he committed suicide, police said, adding that inquest proceedings have been initiated in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-youth-commits-suicide-in-daria/story-vldnEBISOxAox8EANMB2iP.html
21-06-2020||City||Social activist booked for fraudulently selling prime land in Zirakpur||Social activist and landowner Alamjit Singh Mann has been booked for fraudulently selling a piece of prime land on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway at Singhpura village in Zirakpur.Complainant Amit Nanda, partner in MMD Infrastructures, told the police that he had bought three acres from Mann in exchange for crores in July 2018 and the sale deed was executed before the Dera Bassi sub-registrar.A portion of the land was also owned by Mann and his family. Nanda alleged that despite the land being registered jointly under his and Mann’s name, the latter fraudulently sold it to a builder without his authorisation.The complainant said by selling off a portion of the land, which was valued at over Rs 1 lakh per square yard, the entire property was rendered useless for any project, as there is no other direct passage to it.On Nanda’s complaint, Mann has been booked under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 82 (falsely personates another, and in such assumed character presents any document) of the Registration Act, 1908.On his part, Mann issued a press release, stating that Nanda had filed the same complaint against him to director, Bureau of Investigation (BOI), Punjab Police Headquarters, Sector 9, Chandigarh, on July 28 last year. He claimed that after recording Nanda’s complaint and completing the investigation, BOI had found nothing incriminating against him and had closed the case in March this year. Zirakpur station house officer (SHO) Gurwant Singh said they had booked Mann for cheating, and he will be asked to join the investigations, he added.Last year in April, Mann and his associate, Sajjan Kumar, were booked on charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy on another complaint by Nanda, who had alleged that his firm had sustained monetary losses due to fraud by the duo. State awardee for social serviceA social activist since 1988, Mann has been working for visually impaired children, orphans and accident victims, while also performing the last rites of unclaimed bodies. He also runs a 24-hour helpline for victims of real estate cases.He was awarded the Punjab Government State award and Parman Patra by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at the Independence Day function in 2004.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-activist-booked-for-fraudulently-selling-prime-land-in-zirakpur/story-i1xTBPtpekYYgm4NjV0avI.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mulling 5,000 more seats to help kids shift from private to govt schools||The UT education department is planning to create 5,000 additional seats for students willing to move from private to government schools in this academic year, said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, on Sunday. The move comes in the wake of hordes of requests by parents of children studying in private schools, seeking school change amid the economic slowdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.There are 114 government schools in Chandigarh, of which 40 are at the senior-secondary level. Around 1.4 lakh students are enrolled in these schools, education department figures reveal.Sources in the department said several parents had approached the education department seeking clarity on the admission process if they shifted their wards from private schools, as it had become difficult for them to pay the hefty fees.“My wife lost her job due to the lockdown. How will we manage our household expenses if we pay Rs 4,000 per month as tuition fee to my son’s school?” asked Sulabh Kumar, whose son is a student at a Sector-38 school.For over a month, parents across Chandigarh have been protesting outside various schools demanding fee waiver. While the UT administration had earlier directed schools to defer fee collection, it had later permitted collection of only tuition fees. This was followed by a flurry of complaints to UT’s fee regulatory authority, alleging overcharging by schools during the lockdown.DSE Brar said, “We are working out the details of a special admission campaign. We may set up an online centralised platform for a few schools with low enrolment. Parents will be able to shortlist three schools.”Brar said many parents had raised queries about fees, admissions in Class 9 and neighbourhood policy under the Right to Education Act. “We wish to enrol around 5,000 fresh students this academic year,” he said, adding that the initiative was awaiting the nod of senior officials of the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mulling-5-000-more-seats-to-help-kids-shift-from-private-to-govt-schools/story-MYk9DdCVO0ukTWtsyHBPdJ.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon to arrive in Chandigarh on June 25: IMD||Chandigarh witnessed its first premonsoon showers of the season, with 32.9mm rain recorded in the early hours of Sunday, while monsoon is likely to arrive around June 25, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Due to prevailing pressure conditions in the country, the monsoon system has accelerated, and premonsoon winds have already reached the city,” said IMD’s regional director Surender Paul. “Monsoon is likely to enter the city around June 25, five days earlier than the normal date of June 30.” It was last in 2015 that monsoon had arrived this early in Chandigarh. In 2019, the onset was witnessed on July 5.Paul said monsoon is declared when continuous rain is received over 50% of the region for two days. Usually premonsoon starts three days before the onset of monsoon, he said.“Early onset of monsoon is a good sign for the region, as higher rains can be expected during the season. When monsoon starts late, the overall rainfall is mostly below normal. The La Nina current is also expected to boost monsoon rains during the later part of the season,” he said.As per the long-range forecast released by the IMD this month, the region is expected to receive around 107% of the normal rain during the monsoon months (from June to September). The normal rain for Chandigarh during this period is 845.7mm.June already wettest since 2013After the Sunday showers, Chandigarh has recorded 135mm rain till June 21, already the highest for this month since 2013, when 275.1mm rain was recorded, according to the IMD data. “This month due to a number of western disturbances and their interaction with low-level moisture-laden northeasterly winds, there was higher than normal rainfall in the city. More rain is expected with monsoons set to start around June 25,” he said.However, even as premonsoon showers were witnessed on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday are expected to stay on the drier side, according to IMD officials. “Only light rain up to 20mm is expected on Monday and Tuesday. However, moderate rain up to 40mm can be expected from Wednesday onwards,” said the weatherman.Maximum temperature can also go up on Monday, but cloudy weather is likely to drop the mercury again from Tuesday.Maximum temperature fell from 36.8°C on Saturday to 33.7°C on Sunday, four degrees below normal owing to rain in the early hours and solar eclipse in the afternoon. Minimum temperature went down from 29.1°C to 22.8°C, two degrees below normal. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 34 and 36 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 23 and 25 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-to-arrive-in-chandigarh-on-june-25-imd/story-5qo3cpqZyNsbCTCalE7GFP.html
21-06-2020||City||Three of Raipur Rani family among 7 Covid-19 cases in Panchkula||Three members of a family, including a newlywed woman, from Raipur Rani are among seven new Covid-19 cases reported in Panchkula on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 91. However, according to official statement issued by the district authorities, the total number of positive cases stands at 87, as the health department is still verifying addresses of some patients.The 22-year-old woman had got married on June 9. She along with a 27-year-old woman and an 11-year-old relative, who attended the wedding in Delhi, have tested positive. Her husband had already tested positive on June 18, after which samples of 20 people who were part of the wedding procession were taken.Among others who were found infected are two members of a family in Kalka, including a 34-year-old man and a woman of the same age; a 42-year-old resident of Sector 26; and a 17-year-old woman from Bitna colony in Panchkula.Meanwhile, a 22-year-old woman from Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh is among four people from outside the district who tested positive in Panchkula on Sunday. The woman had delivered a child in the civil hospital. The labour room has been sanitised while the staff who attended to her have been home quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-of-raipur-rani-family-among-7-covid-19-cases-in-panchkula/story-tCJqj2wKaY9O4wuVtKmZ9H.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana realtor murder case: Two proclaimed offenders booked for non-appearance||Two of the absconding accused, who had been declared proclaimed offenders in the murder of a realtor and a Congress worker nine months ago, have been booked for not appearing before the police in response to a proclamation.The realtor was killed during a birthday party at the Castle’s Barbeque, a restaurant and bar, on the fourth floor of the Pavilion Mall here.Key accused in the case Jaswinder Singh alias Bindi of Sahibana village was arrested immediately after the crime, while Karamjit Singh of Sangowal village and Jagdeep Singh of Bulara village had managed to escape.The court had declared them as proclaimed offenders in April.The two have also now been booked under Section 174-A (non-appearance in response to a proclamation under Section 82 of Act 2 of 1974) of the IPC.(A written proclamation under Section 174-A requires an accused on the run to appear at a specified place and at a specified time not less than thirty days from the date of publishing such proclamation.) Realtor Manjit Singh, 42, of Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar, had been gunned down in a birthday party at Castle’s Barbeque, near the Old Session Chowk, following a brawl on the intervening night of September 13 and 14, 2019.A case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 of the IPC was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-realtor-murder-case-two-proclaimed-offenders-booked-for-non-appearance/story-zhhjr7q1kl9VnvEAriWUSL.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Education, health priority sectors for Punjab government: Balbir Singh Sidhu||Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday handed over a cheque for Rs 10 lakh to Government Primary School, Rurka village, for construction of classrooms.The grant has been given out of Lok Sabha MP (Sri Anandpur Sahib) Manish Tewari’s local area development fund.On the occasion, the health minister said, “Education and health are priority sectors for the state government. It is always striving to upgrade the infrastructure in these two sectors to ensure quality education as well as sound health for our future generations.”Encouraging students to excel in studies as well as sports, the minister said that no stone was being left unturned to transform the condition of the schools of the constituency.The schools in the Gobindgarh and Gigemajra villages are great examples of the same, Sidhu added.The health minister even called upon the panchayats, NRIs, and progressive youth to come forward and contribute towards the development of schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/education-health-priority-sectors-for-punjab-government-balbir-singh-sidhu/story-ViJvRzHpmAQF42TT1ccMeK.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pharmacist at Haryana MLA Hostel among 2 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Two women, including a 45-year-old pharmacist posted at the Haryana MLA Hostel in Sector 3, tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Sunday. With this, the city’s total count has reached 406, of which 84 cases are still active.UT health officials said the 45-year-old woman, who resides in Sector 22, is an employee of the Haryana government and was tested positive in Panchkula. She has four household and three family contacts. All are asymptomatic. The health authorities have ordered sanitisation and sealing of the dispensary. Meanwhile, a 25-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran has also been reported infected, a day after 14 cases surfaced from this locality. She has five family contacts and one community contact, all of whom are asymptomatic, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pharmacist-at-haryana-mla-hostel-among-2-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh/story-Z01xpPnPGn3WJ6ZOqziBXM.html
21-06-2020||City||Rana seeks NHRC probe into tragic death of two kin of Covid-19 victim in Jammu||National Conference provincial president Devender Singh Rana on Sunday sought the National Human Rights Commission probe into the tragic and shocking death of two kin of a Covid-19 victim in Jammu due to alleged negligence in following the laid down protocol with regard to last rites of the coronavirus cases.“Not only the necessary protocol was ignored but no compassion or attention was reportedly shown by the designated personnel, which led to deaths in most tragic circumstances,” Rana said while describing the incident as the worst human tragedy and a grave violation of human rights.The provincial president said the scope of inquiry needed to be scaled up to find out the truth and to restore the faith of the people in the system. Such negligence and pathetic approach negates the good work being done by frontline workers in fighting the pandemic and therefore it is imperative to identify the wrong-doers so that they are dealt in per law, he said, adding that the incident has shaken the conscience of the people, who received this chilling news with shock and disbelief.Rana expressed solidarity with the families who lost their kin, saying no words were enough to console their great loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rana-seeks-nhrc-probe-into-tragic-death-of-two-kin-of-covid-19-victim-in-jammu/story-j1pS4RwXNexwvTIz2vhafK.html
21-06-2020||City||122 fresh cases take J&K’s Covid-19 tally to 5,956||Jammu and Kashmir reported 122 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the Union territory to 5,956. One person from the Kashmir division fell prey to the virus.Of the new cases, 102 are from Kashmir and 20 from the Jammu division. Among these, 41 patients are said to have a travel history.A 50-year-old man from the Rafiabad area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district died of ‘cardiac arrest’ at a quarantine centre. He was admitted to Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura on June 4, an official said. With this, the death toll in J&K has reached 82.The number of active cases stands at 2,492 after 46 more patients recovered on Sunday. The government statement said, “Thirty-eight people were discharged from Jammu division and eight from Kashmir.”Eleven more Covid-19 patients admitted at SKIMS hospital were discharged today, an official of the hospital said.“The recovery rate at present is more than 77.9%. With four deaths, the mortality rate is 0.77%,” the official said. So far, 3,382 people have been cured of the virus in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 56.78%.The highest jump was witnessed in Srinagar where 32 more people tested positive for the disease. Baramulla reported 17 new cases, Anantnag and Budgam 15 cases each, and Bandipora reported 10 new cases. The other districts saw a single-digit increase. In the Jammu division, districts reported a single-digit increase.The highest number of active cases is in Srinagar district at 428 followed by 318 in Baramulla and 240 in Pulwama.On Saturday, 154 new cases and six deaths were reported in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/122-fresh-cases-take-j-k-s-covid-19-tally-to-5-956/story-j7My8rC2EJ1NyOWfJagBfK.html
21-06-2020||City||Six cops, 3 pregnant women among 44 test positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana||Six police personnel, including a woman constable, an additional station house officer and two assistant sub-inspectors, were among the 44 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 here on Sunday.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Dr Sachin Gupta, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19, said ASI Raghbir Singh (53) deployed at Sahnewal police station, Amandeep Singh (32) working as Munshi at Sahnewal Thana, ASI Surinderpal (49), constable Kulwant Singh (49) and Shimlapuri police woman constable Sushmarani were all hospitalised after their reports came in.Out of the 44 new infections, 14 cases were reported from the containment zones of Prem Nagar, Sansi Mohalla and Habib Gunj. Three pregnant women also tested positive for the disease. A 51-year-old PNB Bank employee posted at Miller Ganj has also contacted the infection.Now, cases have started emerging from the colonies of Dugri, SBS Nagar, Besant Avenue, BRS Nagar, Rishi Nagar, Punjab Mata Nagar and rural parts of the district, including Payal Dehlon, Sangowal and Sahnewal.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has reached 561. The district has recorded 14 deaths due to the disease, while 13 patients from other districts and states have also succumbed in city hospitals. Total 156 patients from other districts and states have tested positive for the infection at the city hospitals so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-cops-3-pregnant-women-among-44-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-Tv9ZEFnxlVkkNgvKvvgtQK.html
21-06-2020||City||Communal speech case: Sidhu remains out of reach as Bihar cops wait to deliver bail papers||Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu has been giving a tough time to two Bihar cops who are in city to get his signatures on bail documents related to a case registered against him for delivering a communal speech during Lok Sabha elections last year.The cops say that they have been camping in the city for five days but have so far failed to meet him. “We just need his signatures on the bail documents. But he has not been available,” says sub-inspector Janardan Ram of Barsoi police station in Bihar. The case was registered on April 16, 2019, after the cricketer-turned-politician appealed to Muslims to “unite and vote” against PM Narendra Modi. He said this while campaigning for Congress’ Tariq Anwar in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/communal-speech-case-sidhu-remains-out-of-reach-as-bihar-cops-wait-to-deliver-bail-papers/story-1apfSnANzVE4Nut2WF0QKJ.html
21-06-2020||City||Ex-armyman, wife booked for duping colleague of ₹12.5 lakh in Ludhiana||An ex-armyman and his wife have been booked for allegedly duping one of his colleagues of ₹12.5 lakh on the pretext of securing jobs for his three relatives in the army.The accused have been identified as Swarn Singh of Noorpur Bet village of Ladhowal and his wife Mandeep Kaur.Ex-serviceman Manjit Singh of Jawanda Kalan village of Tarn Taran said Swarn Singh was also posted in his unit when he retired.In 2017, when he had come to Ludhiana to see Swarn, the latter had claimed to have links with higher-rung army officers and he could secure jobs for Manjit’s relatives in the army.Manjit believed his claim and talked to his three relatives about it and introduced them to Swarn. As per the deal, the accused demanded ₹5 lakh per person, Manjit said.“I then handed over ₹8.5 lakh in cash to the accused and also transferred ₹4 lakh in his bank account on different dates. The rest of the money was to be given after my relatives got the jobs,” said Manjit.“To win our trust, the accused handed over 8 cheques as guarantee. However, later, Swarn stopped picking up my phone calls. After futile attempts to meet him, I realised that we had been duped. I then lodged a complaint with the police,” he added.ASI Sandeep Singh of Ladhowal police station said a case under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-armyman-wife-booked-for-duping-colleague-of-12-5-lakh-in-ludhiana/story-NGgWDgo8Qxgj5IZn4IwqnJ.html
21-06-2020||Lucknow||SP in reactivation mode with VCs, rebuilding & protests||The Samajwadi Party (SP) is slowly gearing up its political activities and simultaneously preparing for the UP assembly elections due in 2022. After a hiatus of two months due to the lockdown, party president Akhilesh Yadav has restarted establishing contact with the party’s outfits in the districts and reorganising the district units. The party has also started taking to the streets in the form of protests.On June 2, Akhilesh began doing video conferencing with party leaders, on June 10 the party did organisational restructuring for the assembly polls and appointed new district presidents in nine districts. On June 11, the party expelled two members from its frontal organisations and last week it again declared over half-a-dozen party leaders as spokespersons. The SP had disbanded its team of media spokesperson the day after 2019 Lok Sabha polls results were declared.“Yes, our party has resumed political activities, although it was active since Lockdown-1 with all district units helping people with food and ration. Now, the party president has begun direct contact and discussions with party units across the state through video and WhatsApp calling,” said former SP minister and party’s state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.Akhilesh started reviews and feedback gathering from districts on June 3 and since then had discussions with leaders and office-bearers in Ayodhya, Bijnore, Mahoba, Kannauj, Gonda, Kanpur, Chandauli, Azamgarh, Sidharthnagar, Farrukhabad, Sant Kabir Nagar, Agra, Ghazipur, Barabanki, and Varanasi. The interactions revolved around intensifying poll preparations for the assembly elections, consolidating respective district units right up to booth level and reorganisation of booth committees, Chaudhary said. Akhilesh is now asking the party outfit to “expose the BJP’s lies” by beginning to tell people that first it was BJP government’s demonetization; then GST crippled the nation and whatever little was left of the economy was crushed by the unplanned and dictatorial lockdowns, he said.The party has also resumed protests. On June 8, the Ghaziabad district president Haji Rashid Malik, and his team protested on their bicycles at the gate of the closed factory of a prominent bicycle brand in Ghaziabad. The protestors then sent a memorandum to the UP governor seeking reopening of the factory. And for last six days, a former SP MLA in Kanpur is sitting on a dharna there over drinking water problem. “In future our protests would increase . Except for Team-11 meetings every day, the government is doing nothing for the people. . We are waiting for the next assembly session, where we will effectively corner the government,” Chaudhary said. Pawan Pandey, former Ayodhya MLA with whom Akhilesh spoke on Tuesday through video call, said: “I told him that we are always among people, as he had asked, since Lockdown-1. It is people like us that are helping the needy and migrants; the government is only playing number games by quoting statistics. .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sp-in-reactivation-mode-with-vcs-rebuilding-protests/story-IiIQxDWyjlslU7fTIqLylL.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bajwa raises questions over civil service board for IAS transfers||Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday raised questions over the Amarinder Singh government’s decision to set up a three-member civil services board (CSB) for transfers and postings of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers in the state.In a letter to the chief minister, Bajwa said the setting up of the board under the chief secretary (CS) had ruffled the feelings of many Congress MPs and MLAs in the state. “The timing of your move is ominous. Just when cabinet ministers have been humiliated by the chief secretary, you have set up an all-powerful CSB to ensure that bureaucracy becomes much less answerable and accountable...this has sent a disturbing and negative signal to already demoralised elected representatives,” he wrote in a two-page letter.The Punjab government issued the notification for the three-member CSB on June 2. HT was the first to report on the constitution of the board and the detailed procedure laid down by the state government for postings and transfers of IAS officers before completion of two-year tenure. The notification is based on an order issued by the Union ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions on January 28, 2014, when the Manmohan Singh-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was in power. It was aimed at providing stability of tenure and checking political interference. In October 2013, the Supreme Court had mandated minimum tenure for bureaucrats. Punjab is the 20th state to adopt these rules.Bajwa, in his letter, said many states, including Punjab, had not set up CSB and successive governments had decided not to set it up for many years till now, but the state bureaucracy had now staged a coup through the June 2 order to render the ministers and MLAs helpless in raking up neglected issues of public importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bajwa-raises-questions-over-civil-service-board-for-ias-transfers/story-NCx2hgHhzpPkXgF0LWnisL.html
21-06-2020||Lucknow||Lapses surface as MNREGS expands, govt acts tough||On June 15, the day Uttar Pradesh attained the Number One position in the country in engaging the highest number of workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) in a day, action was also taken against six people in a village in eastern UP for irregularities in the execution of a project under the scheme. The accused had engaged a heavy earth-mover for digging a pond instead of deploying MNREGS enrollees.With more focus on MNREGS post the pandemic, the state is reporting irregularities and corruption in the scheme’s execution from different parts and the government is taking firm action.So when the government received a complaint from the Itaur (Shuklapurwa) gram panchayat of Mankapur development block in Gonda district, it investigated the case, found the allegations true and acted. It suspended two government officials -- village development officer and secretary for their involvement and filed an FIR against four people -- village head, gram rozgar sewak (employment assistant), secretary and owner of the heavy earth-mover for execution of the irregularity.The sanctioned fund for the pond-digging was Rs 2.608 lakh. The government also issued a recovery notice against the village head, rozgar sewak and the secretary.“This year, the state government created 7.93 crore man-days under the MNREGS till Monday and 57.13 lakh in a single day on that day. With over 27 lakh migrants and workers returning from other states, the chief minister zeroed-in on MNREGS as the first and instant line of employment generation in villages. He has directed strict action against those who either do not create MNREGS jobs or allow any anomaly,” said a state government spokesperson.So, the UP rural development department acted tough in a far more glaring case of anomalies in Ratanpura development block of Mau district. “No MNREGS work was done in 15 gram panchayats while the orders are that each gram panchayat must execute more than one project so that in these critical times labourers may get help. Still no effort was made to give jobs. Not only this, even last year’s payments totalling Rs 8.34 lakh were pending. The government had sanctioned Rs 29.59 lakh for Chakra, Rs 26.81 lakh for Piparsath, Rs 15.16 lakh for Sidhwal, Rs 19.98 lakh for Gadhwa and Rs 21.11 lakh for Devdah under the material component of the MNREGS, but no work was found done on the sites. All this was tantamount to serious negligence in duties,” said Manoj Kumar Singh, principal secretary, rural development department, in a suspension order dated June 9 for Ramesh Yadav, block development officer, Ratanpura.Singh also recommended adverse entry in service records of the CDO, Mau and terminated services of over half-a-dozen additional programme officers, technical assistants, and rozgar sewaks. “The chief minister’s zero-tolerance policy against corruption applies to MNREGS as well. We will investigate and act on any complaints that we might receive from villages,” said the state government spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lapses-surface-as-mnregs-expands-govt-acts-tough/story-yZZeaewdC2VObJQEpCVTfP.html
21-06-2020||City||12 arrested for partying, gambling during lockdown in Ludhiana||Twelve people were arrested for partying and gambling at the godown of a tent house owner in Jawahar Nagar camp during lockdown on Saturday.The tent house owner, identified as Roop Lal, had arranged the party and invited his friends, one of whom was from Chhawani Mohalla, which has been declared as containment zone due to the spread of coronavirus.The police also recovered ₹3.4 lakh from their possession.It may be mentioned here that due to coronavirus outbreak, any kind of gathering is banned in the district.Those arrested by the Division number 5 police have been identified as godown owner Roop Lal of Jawahar Nagar, Rajan of Prem Nagar, Pardeep Kumar of Nali Mohalla, Raman Kumar of New Aman Nagar, Sagar of Railway Colony, Sahil Bhatia of Joshi Nagar, Sanjiv Kumar, Lakhan of Chhawni Mohalla, Raman Kumar of Ghumar Mandi, Chand Kumar of Salem Tabri, Joginder Kumar of Ghumar Mandi and Satvir Singh of Bharat Nagar.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Malkit Singh said the police had got a tip-off that a Jawahar Nagar resident had invited his friends to a gambling party at his godown. The police conducted a raid and arrested the accused, he added.A case under sections 13, 3, 67 of the gambling Act and sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-arrested-for-partying-gambling-during-lockdown-in-ludhiana/story-5kKPuqbtCZyolDStINZ1cP.html
21-06-2020||Lifestyle||International Yoga Day: Celebrate the fervour virtually||Over the last few years, International Yoga Day (June 21) had become a much sought-after affair with denizens thronging iconic places such as the India Gate or Lodhi Gardens to practise an asana or two. Not to lose the charm of imbibing this age old practice of yoga, due to social distancing being followed during the pandemic, most of the ministries, public departments, not for profit organisations and even individuals decided to celebrate the day virtually. Ministry of Ayush, Government of India, started a campaign called Yoga at Home, Yoga with Family, to encourage the practice of yoga to counter the effects of coronavirus. The official handle of the ministry had recently tweeted: “Share your pictures of practising Yoga as per common Yoga Protocol on 21st June with “#IdoYogaAtHome.” The posts on this handle also has links for those who want to practice the art of yoga.Manoj Shrivastava, a Delhi-based businessman, says, “I used to attend the event at India Gate every year with my family, it was a different feeling to practice yoga at wee hours of the day, but this year because of coronavirus, we have had to change the plan. We woke up at 5am and did surya namaskar at home, which is the most beneficial asana.”Public service departments such as Delhi Police also put up virtual sessions for their staff. RP Meena, DCP, South, says, “We planned to do yoga in each of the police stations and district head quarter, South-East District. There was a bigger programme planned at the District Park in Jasola, and all the police stations were connected through video conferencing with the central location district park.”Practising yoga isn’t just beneficial for the body, but has even been proven beneficial for the mind. It has been reported that yoga it helps in dealing with mental stress and anxiety. Constable Omprakash, who was tested corona positive and recovered, shares, “Everyday while recovering I used to do practice yoga, and it not just helped me recover from the virus but also helped me maintain my sanity. There was so much negative news around me, and I was keeping all of it at bay with the help of yoga and meditation.”Even those working with the differently-abled say that yoga via virtual platforms has helped them in keeping the differently-abled active. Mumbai-based Gauri Singh, who conducts yoga session with differently-abled kids at NGO Gharkul, says, “Being associated with the specially-abled kids for almost a year, I have realised that yoga is one of the ways to help them. I have seen a positive change in their day to day activities due to yoga. Every differently-abled child needs special attention since their attention span is quite less; so taking a group session becomes impossible. To be able to behave one like them, we have been conducting virtual yoga sessions, and did so on the International Yoga Day as well. For these kids, yoga helps coordinate the activities of the mind, body and emotions, and even helps build their focus and concentration.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/international-yoga-day-celebrate-the-fervour-virtually/story-fb1yQwGbPOthEiXLW8uDVJ.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali factory blaze: Equipment not upgraded, says fire dept||Mohali : A plastic products factory which was partly gutted in a fire on Saturday at Industrial Area, Phase 9, Mohali, did not have safety measures in place, a fire department report revealed on Sunday. The unit, Accutex Sales and Services, had outdated fire extinguishers. It also lacked a smoke detection alarm, illuminated exit sign, smoke check door, fire control room or fire lifts with fireman’s switch that allows firefighters to disconnect power from high voltage devices. No hose reels to spray water were installed.The fire broke out at around 6 pm, an hour after all 30 workers had left the premises .“We will submit the report to the municipal corporation commissioner on Monday and will also issue notices to the factory owner. The building lacked fire equipment. Also the exact reason for the fire is yet is ascertained though we suspect it was due to a short-circuit,” said fire officer Karam Chand Sood.Factory owner Paras Shah claimed that they had suffered losses of ₹25 lakh. On asking about fire safety measures adopted by the unit, he said, “We had fire extinguishers and sand, but no worker was present so it could not be used.”Fire tragedies: No lessons learnt in MohaliThe recent fire tragedies seem to have had no impact on the authorities, even after a safety audit following the Surat coaching centre fire tragedy in May last year revealed several violations in most of its commercial establishments.After submitting its report to the Mohali to deputy commissioner in June last year, the fire department also issued 200 notices to commercial establishments falling under its jurisdiction on June 14 last year seeking compliance with fire safety norms. They were warned their water and sewerage connections would be snapped.No action, however was taken.The revised rules as per National Building Code 2016 require staircases at the rear of showrooms, something that cannot be done in the existing structures.That’s why “we cannot give no-objection certificates (NoC) until the bye-laws are relaxed. There is no way to tackle the issue,” Sood had said last year.The fire department report had identified 500 commercial establishments in Mohali, Kharar and Kurali which were not complying with fire safety norms and included coaching centres, hotels and other showrooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-factory-blaze-equipment-not-upgraded-says-fire-dept/story-1mkvqlgIOeYcwVJ1CLj1iL.html
21-06-2020||City||Three commit suicide in separate incidents in Ludhiana||A 35-year-old tenant, salesman and daily wager have committed suicide in three separate incidents in the district, police said on Sunday.In the first case, the tenant was allegedly facing harassment from his landlord for not paying rent and electricity bill for the past two months. Following this, he ended his life by consuming poisonous substance in Jamalpur. He was admitted to a private hospital, but died there on Saturday after struggling for life for at least 14 days.His wife told the police that her husband had lost his job during the lockdown and was unable to pay the dues, but the accused kept pressuring him for the same and threatened him to vacate the house. Fed up of the situation, he consumed poison on June 6, she alleged.Based on her statement, the Jamalpur police have booked the landlord for abetment to suicide under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. The accused, who resides near Guru Teg Bahadur Road in Jamalpur, is yet to be arrested.In another case, a 20-year-old salesman ended his life by hanging himself in his house in Jawahar Nagar area on Saturday. His kin told the police that he had an affair with a girl, but her family was against it. The girl’s brother and father used to threaten him with dire consequences, following which he took the extreme step.Investigating officer ASI Tarlochan Singh said a case under Section 306 of IPC has been registered against the girl’s father and brother at Division 5 police station. Both the accused were arrested on Sunday.In third case, a 26-year-old daily wager hanged himself to death at his house in New Kuldeep Nagar on Rahon Road after failing to find work due to the lockdown. He was the lone breadwinner of the family. His mother said he was upset and worried about feeding the family.The deceased was married and has a 2-year-old daughter.Basti Jodhewal SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said the police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-commit-suicide-in-separate-incidents-in-ludhiana/story-X7Ys8DhXsoie5P960di2yI.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Rains, cloudy weather keep mercury in check in Delhi||Light rains and cloudy weather kept the maximum temperature in check in the national capital on Sunday as the weatherman predicted more downpour till the onset of the monsoon in the city.These rains are a result of a trough extending from Pakistan to Assam, crossing over north Rajasthan and southern Uttar Pradesh, said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department.A western disturbance is also active over north Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir, he said.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 36.6 degrees Celsius, two notches below the normal. On Saturday, the city recorded a high of 38.1 degrees Celsius.  The humidity levels oscillated between 62 and 92 per cent.The maximum temperature will hover around 35 degrees Celsius for the next three-four days, Srivastava said.Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting service, said rains will continue on and off till the onset of the monsoon around June 24-25.This means the national capital is likely to witness light showers in the morning and towards the evening for a few days, he said.According to weather experts, the monsoon is likely to arrive in Delhi two-three days earlier than its usual date of June 27 because of a cyclonic circulation over West Bengal and its neighbourhood areas which then moved towards southwest Uttar Pradesh on June 19 and June 20.“It helped in further advancement of the monsoon, which has reached eastern Uttar Pradesh and central Madhya Pradesh. It is expected to reach west Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Uttarakhand by June 22,” Srivastava said.Thereafter, it will make an onset in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab within the next two-three days, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-cloudy-weather-keep-mercury-in-check-in-delhi/story-hsPFV2ULGryzgBYNGe2DcI.html
21-06-2020||City||Despite MHA advisory, Punjab education dept still using Zoom app||Despite the home ministry’s advisory against the use of Zoom app, the Punjab education department is still using it for videoconferencing, leaving government school teachers hassled.Teachers say that even though the advisory, citing security concerns, was issued over two months ago, the department has failed to find an alternative or issue directions against its use.Confirming this, an education department official, pleading anonymity, revealed that senior officials of the department use this app to conduct meetings with district education officers, who then hold meetings with school heads and teachers.“Who will be responsible if a teacher’s personal data, including bank details, are leaked through this app,” said Vikram Dev, a member of the Democratic Teachers’ Front.District education officer Amarjeet Singh said, “We are only following the government’s directions.”While education secretary Krishan Kumar did not respond despite repeated phone calls, department spokesperson Rajinder Singh said, “I’m not aware about the advisory and will speak to the officials concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-mha-advisory-punjab-education-dept-still-using-zoom-app/story-Lr89dVJw7Wjkiu0aVgh1GN.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||First Covid-19 death reported from Delhi prison, 28 inmates to be tested||A 62-year-old inmate lodged in Mandoli Jail here has died of coronavirus, a first Covid-19 casualty in Delhi’s prison, prompting authorities to test 28 other inmates who were sharing the barrack with the man, officials said on Sunday. Kanwar Singh passed away on June 15 and his Covid-19 test report came out positive on Saturday, they said. Singh was serving life sentence in a 2016 murder case. He was lodged in Central Jail number -14, Mandoli and was asymptomatic, the officials said. On June 15, some members of his barrack tried to wake him up but he did not respond. Soon the jail staff took him to a doctor who then declared him dead, they said. Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said inquest proceedings were conducted by the metropolitan magistrate and a Covid-19 test was also done. His test report came out positive on Saturday, Goel said. However, the source of infection was not known yet, according to the officials. Twenty-eight other members of the barrack are being tested for the virus, they said. Delhi Prison comprises Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli Jail. Till now, 23 inmates of Delhi Prison have been found positive for Covid-19, out of them 16 recovered from the disease and one has died. According to the officials, 45 prison staffers have tested positive for coronavirus so far. Of them, seven have recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/first-covid-19-death-reported-from-delhi-prison-28-inmates-to-be-tested/story-BibHjb9CgByancvQMK8zEN.html
21-06-2020||City||Centre feeding lies to people, is in denial mode: HP Cong leader||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former Himachal minister Sudhir Sharma on Sunday accused the PM Modi government of feeding people lies on crucial issues.Sharma said that in past few weeks, there was a Chinese army intrusion on Indian territory in Ladakh but the PM denied it. He said that the recent violent face-off was China’s attempt to unilaterally change status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “However, PM Modi said that no one has entered the Indian territory,” he said.The assertion contradicted government statements about the circumstances in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Later, the PMO sought to clarify that the PM meant that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC and Indian soldiers had foiled an attempted transgression at the Galwan Valley. “This is nothing less than a blunder in foreign diplomacy as it gives the Chinese an opportunity to put the blame on India,” Sharma said.The Congress leaders said that the Chinese side of the LAC is also officially the Indian territory. ‘GOVT DENYING COMMUNITY SPREAD OF COVID-19’Sharma said that coronavirus has entered community spread phase in India but the government is still in denial mode. “With over 4 lakh Covid-19 cases and nearly 10,000 deaths in country, it is inconceivable that the virus is not spreading in the community.However, the government continuing to insist that there is no community spread is misleading and gives people false hope,” he alleged.Sharma said that according experts both the numbers are rapidly increasing and are expected to reach peak in next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-feeding-lies-to-people-is-in-denial-mode-hp-cong-leader/story-KLokuyxEtLgx9Ld32nKs5O.html
21-06-2020||City||J&K man dies of heart attack hours before leaving quarantine centre in Kathua district||A 47-year-old man died of “heart attack” at a quarantine centre in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, hours before his release after testing negative for Covid-19.A resident of Chipaki Kala village in Hiranagar, the man was put under institutional quarantine at Changran on his return from Mumbai on June 15 and was tested for Covid-19 the next day. Kathua district authorities, however, suspected that the man, who was suffering from a liver ailment, might have died of sudden “cardiac arrest”.Kathua district commissioner OP Bhagat said, “On June 15, the man returned from Mumbai and his samples were taken for the mandatory Covid 19 test, the next day. On June 17 he complained of liver-related problems coupled with palpitation. We took him to the government medical college where doctors examined him and the doctors found his condition satisfactory.”However, this morning he died, probably of heart attack, the DC added.He said that a magisterial probe has been ordered into his death and ADC Atul Gupta shall submit a report within 15 days.The body has been shifted to the mortuary of GMC in Kathua town.Following his death, other inmates in the quarantine centre staged a protest and alleged that 8 to 10 people have been kept in a single room in unhygienic conditions. Some of them even tried to block the passage to the ambulance.Bhagat said that following the death, people, who usually were reluctant to get quarantined, have got an opportunity to level allegations.It may be stated here that Vimal Zadoo, 38 and Vipin Zadoo, 35, two young Kashmiri Pandits died in Tawi river bed on Thursday where they had gone to cremate the body of their relative.They died due to apathy of the officials present at the site, who didn’t even provide water to them under the scorching sun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-man-dies-of-heart-attack-hours-before-leaving-quarantine-centre-in-kathua-district/story-l2xmoF1U8F7GVbgIxCisBL.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Pune police act against social media accounts||The murder of Viraj Jagtap (20) in Pimple Saudagar area of Pimpri Chinchwad has led to an online outrage among the protesters of caste-discrimination even as the online activism has attracted attention from police who have initiated action against various social media accounts for provocative messages with caste overtones. The police have filed an FIR against 18 social media accounts while 103 videos on TikTok and 37 posts on Facebook were reported to the respective social media site as well till June 18. Of the 103 posts on TikTok, 67 were deleted whereas on Facebook, 12 of the 37 posts were deleted, according to the police. The Maharashtra State Cyber Cell has also served warning notices under Section 149 of Code of Criminal Procedure to some, according to an official of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.“We have registered a case against 18 handles from various locations for posts against the girl who as per the police complaint was in love with the girl from accused’s family, case is registered at Sangvi police station,” said Vinayak Dhakane of Pimpri Chinchwad police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-act-against-social-media-accounts/story-5kXk4kXWSyW97QXfuYFWYO.html
21-06-2020||City||Post-criticism J&K admn says ‘no policy decision on fresh liquor licences’||The administration’s plan of opening 67 liquor shops across Kashmir has caused public resentment in the valley with local organisations and common people terming it as a conspiracy.Recently an order from the government’s excise department seeking approval of opening of liquor shops at different places from the finance department went viral on social media. The excise department had even identified 67 locations in Kashmir where these liquor shops would be established.This order has caused strong resentment within the people and social and religious groups who vowed to oppose the decision tooth and nail. Sensing the mood, the administration clarified that the decision will only be implemented after taking all the stakeholders into confidence.“The finance department has clarified and urged everyone not to believe any rumours or half baked news,” J&K administration spokesperson and principal secretary, Rohit Kansal said in a tweet.“The finance department has not taken any policy decision regarding issuance of fresh liquor licenses in unserved areas. No list of unserved areas has either been considered or approved. No decision will be taken without the participation of stakeholders and due process,’’ he tweeted.Many people questioned the administration to clarify whether its order circulating on social media is fake. “This is unfortunate that when we are perturbed with drugs in Kashmir, the administration is planning to open the liquor shops. We will oppose this move and will never allow this to happen as it’s going to ruin our young generation,’’ said Khursheed Ahmad, who runs a social organisation in north Kashmir.Zaffar Iqbal Manhas, a former legislator and senior leader of the J&K Apni Party said that the administration’s proposal to open liquor shops at around 183 newly identified locations in J&K including 67 in Kashmir valley is totally unacceptable as the decision is bound to have disastrous consequences for peace in the region.Manhas said the pretext of generating much-needed revenue from the liquor business in the backdrop of an economic crisis brought about by Covid-19 does not hold water as J&K is one of the progressive states in the country.“There are other states like Gujarat, Bihar, Nagaland, Mizoram, and Lakshadweep which are coping with the lockdown despite a ban on liquor sale and consumption. Why choose predominantly Muslim areas of Kashmir Valley for opening large scale liquor sale points when there is no such requirement?” he asked.Former PDP leader and now chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Society Forum, Abdul Qayoom Wani also termed it a dangerous move. ‘’We are trying to get our youth deviated from drug addiction and now attempts are being made to corrupt our society especially the young generation.’’Mutahida Majlish-e- Ulema, an amalgam of different religious organisations led by Hurriyat chairman, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq strongly condemned the move and said that they will never allow this to take place. “The administration’s order states that they are planning to open 67 liquor shops in Kashmir which are of great concern to people. In the midst of the major global pandemic, the government is bringing ordinances and rules to change the demography of the Muslim majority of the state and fresh orders are aimed in assaulting our Muslim majority and religious sentiments.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/locals-organisations-people-oppose-opening-of-liquor-shops-in-kashmir/story-7ZZU8vSf9G30czfWpWYmMO.html
21-06-2020||City||Himachal CM asks civil supplies corporation to diversify activities||The Himachal Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation should diversify its activities to make it viable and provide best services to consumers, said Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.He was presiding over the 162nd meeting of the board of directors of the corporation. The CM said that the corporation has registered a sale of Rs 1,428 crore during financial year 2019-20 as compared to Rs 1,359.11 crore during 2018-19.Similarly, during the current financial year, a target has been fixed for achieving sales of Rs 1,516.21 crore. He said that income of the corporation during 2019-20 was Rs 1,955 crore which besides sale of commodities include Rs 416 crore as reimbursement of differential cost by state government or central government, Rs 100 crore as closing stocks, Rs 6 crore as miscellaneous income, and Rs 4.5 crore as handling charges from cement, GI/ DI/CI pipes, medicines and uniform.Thakur appreciated role of the corporation in providing uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to consumers of the state up to the remotest area during Covid-19 pandemic.He directed the corporation to supply cement to government departments, especially PWD, in a time-bound manner so that construction and other civil works are not hampered. The CM directed officers of the corporation to study modules of other state corporations to make functioning of the corporation more consumer-friendly.The board of directors gave its approval to increase monthly business promotion charges allowed to field units from existing Rs 250 to Rs 500. Corporation vice-chairman Baldev Singh Tomar, managing director Abid Hussain Sadiq and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-asks-civil-supplies-corporation-to-diversify-activities/story-Mko28FjZNDWsXqJ3vELv5H.html
21-06-2020||City||Two houses gutted in Himachal||Two houses were gutted in separate incidents in Himachal Pradesh. However, no loss of life was reported.A wooden house with eight rooms was gutted at Adesha village in Banjar subdivision of Kullu on Sunday. The house belonged to one Dile Ram.The fire was noticed by locals who immediately informed police and the fire department. Police and fire tenders reached the spot and put out the fire.Banjar station house officer (SHO) Naresh said that the cause of fire and amount of loss suffered are being ascertained.In another incident, a two-storey wooden house with four rooms, a kitchen and a cowshed was gutted at Sharmala village in Rohru subdivision of Shimla on Saturday. The house was situated in the middle of an apple orchard and belonged to one Bhupinder Mehta, who informed the police and fire department.Rohru deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Suniel Negi said that the cause of fire and loss suffered are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-houses-gutted-in-himachal/story-ssaNoWCmp5guDhd7rAvGhO.html
21-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka lays down criteria to appoint Pollution Board chief||The Karnataka government has set the criteria to appoint a chairperson to the state pollution control board.The aspirants to the post should hold a master’s degree in environment engineering or equivalent degree from a recognised university or institute.Through a gazette notification, the government on Friday fixed the criteria.The chairperson would be selected by a search-cum- selection committee comprising the Chief Minister, Minister for Forest, Ecology and Environment and Chief Secretary.The notification said the government should nominate a person having knowledge or practical experience in matters relating to environmental protection or a person having knowledge and experience in an institution dealing with environmental issues. Also, the government fixed a maximum age limit of 56 years as on the last date for the receipt of applications. The government would have to call for applications three months prior to the expiry of the term of the chairman by publishing in two national newspapers.The rules were fixed against the backdrop of a public interest litigation filed in November 2019 requesting the Karnataka High Court to direct the state government to frame the recruitment rules for the appointment of chairperson and members of the Pollution Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-lays-down-criteria-to-appoint-pollution-board-chief/story-Dp17WvyO5tBGxoDWNiAtMN.html
21-06-2020||Lucknow||Parts of UP receive rainfall; thunderstorm likely on Monday||Moderate to heavy rains lashed many places in east Uttar Pradesh, while light to moderate rain and thunderstorms occurred at few places in western part of the state, the Meteorological Department said on Sunday. Monsoon has been vigorous over east UP and normal in western districts of the state, it said. The weatherman has forecast rain and thundershower in east UP and at few places in western districts on Monday.Thunderstorm and lightening with winds gusting up to 30-40 kmph are very likely at isolated places over western UP on Monday, the Met department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/parts-of-up-receive-rainfall-thunderstorm-likely-on-monday/story-jXKSyiNhCMQW014U3gEbjM.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19 check-up bus to restart service in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation||The Covid-19 check-up bus which was out of service for the last one week will restart its operations from Monday in Pimpri-Chinchwad and nearby areas.“Streamlining of the agreement was in process as there has been a change in Covid-19 test rates by the state government. The bus will now collect Covid-19 samples from Covid-19 care centres and pre-screening of Covid-19 samples will be conducted in the bus,” said Shravan Hardikar, Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner on why the bus was not in service for a week.The bus is currently being parked at Walhekarwadi, Chinchwad, providing free service to people who are tested positive. Services like CT scan, X-Ray, teleradiology and swab testing can be conducted inside the bus. “Due to technical reasons the bus was out of service, we will be starting its service from Monday,” said Dr Kiran Bhise from Krsnaa diagnostics who has provided the bus.Before going on a break, the Covid-19 check-up bus was very useful for the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-check-up-bus-to-restart-service-in-pimpri-chinchwad-municipal-corporation/story-FmzXmGkOg5gY5vwbB9MDOO.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Advocate, car dealer sent to 3-day police custody||The court of duty magistrate Amandeep Kaur sent advocate Sohail Singh Brar and Moga based car dealer Pankaj Bansal to three-day police custody for their alleged role in fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan police firing on Sunday.The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 firings on people protesting the Bargari sacrilege in Faridkot arrested Bansal, a former witness in the case, for allegedly helping some policemen deliberately fire at and leave bullet marks on the escort vehicle of Charanjit Singh Sharma, former Moga senior superintendent of police and an accused in the case. Brar was arrested on June 16 under similar charges.SIT adds abetment section to FIRThe SIT on Sunday added section 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to the FIR filed in 2018.District attorney (DA) Rajnish Goyal, who appeared for SIT, told the court that new facts emerging during Brar’s interrogation led to Bansal’s arrest. Police remand was required for “Brar and Bansal to dig out the names of all conspirators. We cannot disclose fresh developments in the case as this information will be used during cross interrogation of both accused,” Goyal added. When defence counsel Gursahib Singh Brar argued against custodial interrogations, saying Brar and Bansal had appeared before SIT whenever required, the DA said Brar had not cooperated with the SIT during his four-day custody. Bansal too was not cooperating, he added. The defence also pleaded that as the accused were not present at the Behbal Kalan firing spot they could be booked under section 201 and 109 of IPC, both bailable offences. To this, the DA said they were also accused of criminal conspiracy in a murder case so section 120B (criminal conspiracy) applied to the case and the sections could not be bifurcated as investigations were in progress.The prosecution also said no mention was made of two persons killed in the Behbal Kalan firing incident in the FIR by the accused cops in 2015 to cover up facts.Brar was presented before the court after his four-day police custody finished on Sunday.Findings of the probeThe SIT in its probe found that Charanjit Sharma had conspired with three other police officers: Fazilka superintendent of police Bikramjit Singh, inspector Pardip Singh and sub-inspector Amarjit Singh Kular, to cover up facts related to the Behbal Kalan firing.SIT has claimed that to fabricate false evidence against the peaceful protesters, Sharma’s escort Maruti Gypsy was taken to the advocate’s house, where Bikramjit Singh had fired at it, leaving bullet marks. The same day, Kular, who was the Bajakhana station house officer, recorded the statements of Sharma, Bikramjit Singh and Pardip Singh among others, in which they claimed that police fired in self-defence after protestors attacked them.A case was registered against the policemen (then unidentified) under Section 302 (murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code on October 21, 2017. Names of the four policemen, including Sharma, were added in the FIR on August 11, 2018.Photos: Accused outside Fardikot judicial complex on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/behbal-kalan-firing-advocate-car-dealer-sent-to-3-day-police-custody/story-BooGIJ6vvonSchfJh1F0PP.html
21-06-2020||Pune||More suicide deaths reported in May as compared to past two months||The Pune police recorded more deaths by suicide in May 2020 as compared to the previous two months in the city. Officials say that 54 such cases were registered in May and 26 in April this year as compared to 60 such cases in May and 64 in April last year.While police have attributed “family connect” as the reason for fewer cases in April and March, psychiatrists cite Covid-19 induced financial distress for disturbing mental health issues post May.“We studied the cases in the light of the recent death by suicide of a couple, who are also suspected to have killed their two children. They left a message stating that ‘nobody is to be blamed for this as they are taking the drastic step due to prevailing situation’,” officials said.The family of four was found dead on Friday, while another 45-year-old businessman was also reported to have died by suicide on Friday. The couple was among the 42 suicide deaths reported in June. The number of suicide deaths in June 2019 in Pune was 47, while till June 19 this year, 42 cases have already been reported.“The main reason for less number of cases in March and April as compared to May is the support of family due to the lockdown, since family support may help fight suicidal tendencies. The reasons for suicide vary from loneliness, depression, financial penury, loss of jobs, problems in relationships among others, but there is no particular trend as it depends on the temperament of a person,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Pune.“Prima facie, proximity to family members gives people moral support and helps fight suicidal tendencies. More research needs to be done to understand the phenomenon,” said Singh.Dr Saumitra Pathare, director, Centre for Mental Health Law and Policy, Indian Law Society, believes that the data cannot be used to draw any conclusion.“It is good to know that the numbers are low, but what we do need is numbers for the entire country. The present data covers a small area and does not represent the society,” said Dr Pathare.Dr Harshad Bhagat, a psychiatrist, said, “People have lost their purpose during the lockdown period. A lot of the people were either daily wage workers or had something that kept them driven. A vacuum was created which they were not able to fill psychologically.”“Another reason could be that few people may have had psychiatric issues that were not met with proper help. A lot of people have been calling me for online prescription in absence of physical access to their regular doctors,” he said.Dr Pathare, who works as a consultant psychiatrist and has helped chart mental health policy of various countries, believes that more exhaustive data is required to reach any conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/more-suicide-deaths-reported-in-may-as-compared-to-past-two-months/story-PdoxA8Xhk9pxo7p9uleA4N.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Partial solar eclipse wows Punekars, but cloudy skies hinder stunning views||An annular solar eclipse, wherein the Sun appears like a ring of fire, had been the prime focus of Punekars on Sunday. While the annular eclipse was visible between 10:19 am and 2.02 pm within a narrow corridor in the northern part of the country (parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttarakhand), the city witnessed a partial solar eclipse.Several online programmes were organised by scientific institutes and astronomy groups in the city for students and public to observe the celestial event as residents went to their terraces to witness it. Residents used solar goggles, x-ray sheets or even mobile phones to watch the eclipse shadow image on the screen. However, cloudy skies played a spoilsport for some residents.Professor Somak Raychaudhury, director of Inter-University of Astronomy and Astrophysics (Iucaa), said, “Eclipses are very rare events and occur when the sun, moon and the earth play shadows with each other. The sun is the source of the light and if one of the two come in between the shadow, the other is eclipsed. They rare events because not much in the sky changes on an hourly or daily basis and that is why such rare events are wonderful to look forward to and to experience. Anybody who has seen an eclipse of the sun can never forget it in their lives. This year, we had an annular solar eclipse which is also an uncommon event, it was not a total eclipse but we can see the ring of fire and that is because of the relative sizes of the moon and sun on the sky. Residents should dispel fears about eclipses and enjoy watching the event with precautions.”Solar Eclipse 2020: Watch captivating images of the ‘ring of fire’ from across the country Iucaa shared live observations and experiences of different eclipses in the form of short videos on their YouTube channel, whereas the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune’s (IISER) science activity centre organised a live seminar ‘Solar Eclipse – A play of Shadow’ with scientist professor Prasad Subramanian, faculty at IISER, Pune. The seminar was for schoolchildren and teachers across the city and more than 5,000 children, teachers attended it.Ashok Rupner, programme manager at science activity centre, IISER, Pune, said, “We have conducted a live demonstration to explain the concept behind Sunday’s annular solar eclipse for schoolchildren and teachers from Classes 5 to 10. Various concepts were explained by the scientist to the students like size of the moon, earth and sun, how far are they from each other.”“There are two kinds of shadows, if you are in the umbra zone, then, you can see the total or annular solar eclipse. However, if you are in the penumbral zone then you witness a partial eclipse and Pune comes in the penumbral zone, so we observed a partial solar eclipse, around 60 per cent of the eclipse. There was great response to the live demonstration of the eclipse and students asked several questions,” he added.Vedashree Dangat, a student who observed the solar eclipse from Pune, said, “I was waiting for this day and was excited to see Sunday’s eclipse. Astronomy is my favourite subject and I have read a lot about the different types of eclipses and to witness it live is something for which we have to wait for years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/partial-solar-eclipse-wows-punekars-but-cloudy-skies-hinder-stunning-views/story-DFp0LUU1For4e9NLQeOgpO.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Socialising during Covid: Online ‘kattas’ keeps Puneites connected in spite of restrictions||The ‘katta culture’, a tradition of meeting up at a particular place, catching up over a cup of tea or coffee and holding a freewheeling discussion, has stood the test of time even during the restrictions implemented during Covid-19 pandemic.Restaurants like Vaishali, Roopali, Wadeshwar, Café Goodluck – all located on Fergusson College road – have been some of the popular places where katta groups often meet. During lockdown when cafes, tea stalls, restaurants and gardens were closed, these katta groups managed to meet via online platforms and also empty apartments, while maintaining all social distancing norms and following safety precautions.Morning star is one such group, which has been meeting every morning at Vaishali since the past 30 years. “The Covid hasn’t stopped us from meeting. We now communicate online and continue with our regular day,” said Sanjay Deshpande, a real estate developer, who is a part of this 20-member group, which celebrated members’ birthday online during the lockdown.Not all kattas are about fun as some are about exchanging crucial information too. Vijay Kumbhar, Right To Information (RTI) activist, began his ‘RTI katta’ at Chitranjan Vatika, Model Colony, in 2014 to share information about subjects he was pursuing. During the lockdown, this katta went online while expanding its scope nationally as the platform allowed everyone interested to participate in it.“With no geographical barrier, many people from outside Maharashtra have started participating as we began meeting online during the lockdown,” said Kumbhar.Another group that used to meet outside Roopali since the past 10 years found another way to continue with their daily routine. As the government imposed restrictions, members of this unnamed group started meeting in an unoccupied apartment with all precautions and social distancing norms in place. Rashida Khilawalla, who has been part of the group, said, “Our group discusses everything from personal life to the stock market, Bollywood, to our dreams and ideas. The group is like a support system.” His friend Sanmegh Sontakke, also a part of the group, said meeting people is an essential daily dose they require. “The group, for me, lies between family and friendship. It is my therapy and the biggest challenge to my patience.”Omkar Thatte, a television content creator and a member of two kattas, one which meets at Roopali and one at café Goodluck, said, “There is a big difference in the two katta groups that I am part of; Café Goodluck consists of people from drama, film and television, with subjects revolving around them, we are a fleeting group though the core is of five members, but there is a lot of attachment.”“At Roopali, there are members from all walks of life. One member is a software CEO, while another is an executive film producer, and another is an interior decorator and we talk on random subjects. I am meeting them here for the past two years,” said Thatte.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/socialising-during-covid-online-kattas-keeps-puneites-connected-in-spite-of-restrictions/story-p4ofOmiB740c8lURY7e9VI.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Doubling rate slows down, but more positive cases per 100 tests||The city’s doubling rate of progressive positive Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases has slowed to 24 days as of June 19, according to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) projection. The previous doubling rate was 19 days on June 9, five days on April 11 and 14 days on May 21.However, the city’s positive rate — number of confirmed cases per 100 tests — has gone up from earlier 10 per cent to 13 per cent as of June 19. The figure is, however, much less than Maharashtra’s current rate of 20.58 per cent.While PMC’s projection about doubling rate brings hope, increased positive rate indicates that the civic body is not conducting as many tests despite having a larger capacity, politicians say.Rubal Aggarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Based on the current average growth rate, it would take 23 days for the progressive positive cases to double and 26 days for the active cases to double.”Opposition member and Congress party corporator Arvind Shinde said, “Despite the fact that Pune has more capacity to carry out tests, PMC is not conducting tests to check positive cases.”Dr Vijay Natrajan, chief executive officer, Symbiosis Hospital, said, “As the lockdown opens up, it is expected that the number of cases will rise. Currently, the government should focus more on bringing down the mortality rate.”“PMC is doing a satisfactory job by tracking vulnerable people like comorbid patients, pregnant women and senior citizens. However, it is natural that a certain number of people are likely to get critically infected due to the virus and the government should focus more on bringing down the mortality rate by hiring experts and build up infrastructure for critical care,” said Dr Natrajan.As per the information on PMC smart city dashboard, the city’s progressive positive cases stand at 11,115 with 3,722 active cases. Out of the 81,511 tests conducted, over 13.6 per cent tested positive for the virus which earlier in the month of May the number stood at around 10 per cent. The figure indicates that as the number of tests rises, the number of sample testing positives also rises. The current average is 13 samples testing positive for every 100 samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/doubling-rate-slows-down-but-more-positive-cases-per-100-tests/story-vZWl4UySuEzUlBQ1Xyjp2I.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Two held in Pune for running fake defence recruitment racket||The Pune rural police crime branch arrested two men for duping a man from Daund of Rs 3,80,000 under false pretext of providing employment in the Indian Navy. The duo is suspected to have cheated many hailing from various parts of the state, including Pune, Satara, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Osmanabad, Wardha, Washim, Jalgaon, and Vidarbha, according to the police.The suspects were identified as Nitin Tanaji Jadhav, 30, a resident of Kalpananagar in Baramati, and Akash Kashinath Dange, 25, of Bhadali Budrukh in Phaltan area of Satara district.“They were arrested last night, produced in court on Saturday and remanded to police custody,” said senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of Pune rural police crime branch, who added that Jadhav is a science graduate and Dange completed his Class 12.In 2018, the duo duped an unemployed man called Kishore Jadhav, a resident of Kurkumbh area of Daund, of Rs 3,80,000 by ensuring a job as store keeper in the Indian Navy. The two allegedly made a fake email ID and forged admission letter, medical documents and an admit card to convince the complainant that he had been employed at INS Shivaji in Lonavla before they stopped responding to his communication, according to a statement issued by Ghanwat.The complainant narrated the incident to Sandeep Patil, superintendent of Pune rural police two years after the incident. Subsequently, a case under Sections 419, (personation), 420(cheating), 170, 467, 468, 470, 471 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bhigwan police station.The two were arrested from their native places. Upon primary investigation, the police found that they have duped many people of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 4 lakh each, according to the statement.The police suspect many were duped by the suspects and believe the duo have accomplices. Assistant inspector Jeevan Mane of Bhigwan police station is investigating the case.CAPTIONS: Akash Dange, 25, (#0727), other image Nitin Jadhav, 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-held-in-pune-for-running-fake-defence-recruitment-racket/story-ZiMngDcQKFUbLGsMWP8aIL.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Pune gets its normal rainfall quota of June in just 20 days||The city has surpassed its normal rainfall of 137mm for June in just 20 days despite monsoon arriving four days late in the region. Till June 20, the city recorded 151.6mm rainfall, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The excessive rainfall was due to the impact of cyclone Nisarga, which hit the state int he first week of week, according to IMD officials.“There are three reasons due to which Pune has received more than normal rainfall in just 20 days, that is cyclonic rains due to Nisarga, good moisture incursion and normal onset of monsoon,” said Anupam Kashyapi, IMD director. For the past three consecutive years, Pune has been receiving more than normal rainfall in June. In 2017 the normal rainfall recorded was 207mm, 2018 recorded 148mm, 2019 recorded 194mm rainfall.The dams providing water supply to the city, Khadakwasla (60.26%), Panshet (22.99%), Varasgaon (16.17%), Temghar (nil) have a good capacity of water stored, according to PMC.Till June 19, Shivajinagar received 151.6mm rainfall, while Lohegaon and Pashan received 260.6mm and 145mm of rainfall, respectively. In the last one-week ghat areas of Tamhini, Mulshi and Paud have received moderate rainfall and it will continue to be the same for the next seven days. The IMD has forecast that the city will witness light rains till next week.Along with Pune, other districts including Aurangabad, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Kolhapur, Chandrapur, Dhule, Bhandara, and Washim had received more than normal rainfall.The excessive rainfall was due to the impact of cyclone Nisarga. For the past three consecutive years, Pune has been receiving more than normal rainfall in June. In 2017, the normal rainfall recorded was 207 mm, 2018 recorded 148 mm, 2019 recorded 194 mm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-gets-its-normal-rainfall-quota-of-june-in-just-20-days/story-nvvH8VRxgjIzCwTswe6nxH.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Sangvi murder: Police act against social media accounts||The murder of Viraj Jagtap (20) in Pimple Saudagar area of Pimpri Chinchwad has led to an online outrage among the protesters of caste-discrimination even as the online activism has attracted attention from police who have initiated action against various social media accounts for provocative messages with caste overtones.The police have filed an FIR against 18 social media accounts while 103 videos on TikTok and 37 posts on Facebook were reported to the respective social media site as well till June 18. Of the 103 posts on TikTok, 67 were deleted whereas on Facebook, 12 of the 37 posts were deleted, according to the police.The Maharashtra State Cyber Cell has also served warning notices under Section 149 of Code of Criminal Procedure to some, according to an official of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.“We have registered a case against 18 handles from various locations for posts against the girl who as per the police complaint was in love with the girl from accused’s family. The case is registered at Sangvi police station as the complaint is from the jurisdiction,” said Vinayak Dhakane of Zone-2 of Pimpri Chinchwad police.Six people, including two minors, were booked and arrested on June 8 a day after murder of Jagtap. The police booked accused for the murder while invoking Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 after the deceased man’s uncle told the police that the assailants were “motivated by caste-differences”.Inflammatory posts related to the murder made on various social media from over 15 districts in Maharashtra were reported by the Pimpri Chinchwad police to the office of Additional Director General of Police, law and order, Maharashtra.“The information was provided to ADG (law and order) and through them it was forwarded to the respective district,” said Sudhir Hiremath, Deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri Chinchwad police.The case has also landed on the radar of State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh who visited the deceased man’s family on Friday to pay condolence.According to a statement issued by his office, he said, “Some anti-social elements had tried to give a castist angle to the murder. However, the family members of Viraj have ensured that these elements do not succeed. Sabhudrabai (Viraj’s grandmother) has come forward in front of her entire village and urged people to not make inflamatory posts.”More IP addresses are being provided to the ADG (law and order) office as they are getting detected, according to DCP Hiremath.Based on the information provided by the Pimpri Chinchwad police, cases against these account holders have been registered in Pune city, Pune rural, Pimpri Chinchwad, Ahmmednagar, and Beed among other places so far.Meanwhile the home minister has handed over a cheque of Rs 4.12 lakh to the grandmother of the deceased man. The six men are in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sangvi-murder-police-act-against-social-media-accounts/story-urDE9o7UtAqI3djMIwB77N.html
21-06-2020||Pune||IISER, Pune uses activity-based videos to engage students||If the lockdown posed a major challenge before kids and their parents, the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) has found an innovative way to engage students and teachers in hands-on learning.The Indrani Balan Science Activity Centre (SAC) at IISER took a lead to create basic activity-based videos on science and mathematics that is keeping students engaged and providing them with a learning experience. The centre is dedicated to training teachers and conducting workshops for making science fun through various hands-on activities and teaching aids using readily available, inexpensive material for children.“These activities explore concepts in science and mathematics in an engaging manner. So far, we have developed and uploaded images with stepwise instructions for over 150 activities. These activities explore various concepts in science and mathematics from state and other education boards’ syllabi for grades five to ten,” said Ashok Rupner, senior teaching assistant, IISER.So far around 1 lakh students have engaged in these activities from Pune and outside with most of them in the age bracket of 11 to 16 years. Along with students, around 1,000 teachers benefited from online activities, according to IISER.According to Rupner, activities in physics explore electricity, magnetism, electromagnetism, optics, air expansion, contraction, force, motion, gravitation, buoyancy, heat, pressure, and sound. Concepts in chemistry, biology, and mathematics are also documented.These activities have benefitted students, especially now when most schools are either still closed or operating partially through an online medium. Presently, instructions in these activities are in English. The centre is working on translating them to Marathi.Deepali Vikram Tare, science teacher with Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh secondary school is one of them to have used these activities for teaching her classes online.“These online activities help simplify the notions of science and maths and make it interesting for them. As all activity videos demonstrated by IISER has a scientific base, understanding the principle was easy and it has helped us to teach students by conducting the same activity as done by IISER,” said Tare.Yash Kelkar, an eight standard student said it was a great experience for him and his brother. “My brother and I both watched the session based on air pressure together. It was full of experiments which are very simple and very easy to do at home. We made a model vasudev cup as the material is readily available at our home. When the experiment was completed, we were very happy, and had a feeling that we can do it,” Kelkar said. All activities conducted by IISER were related to school textbooks and material required for doing these activities was available at home. Since the material was available at home, conducting these activities and asking students to do it at home was easily possible.“It was really a nice experience for me when my child was doing the experiment. It is very useful for him and brainstorming activity. It also reminded me of my childhood days. I am very thankful to IISER Team for such demonstrative sessions,” said Anagha Kelkar, mother of Yash Kelkar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/iiser-pune-uses-activity-based-videos-to-engage-students/story-guGHXatjQ5N0eW5kgdM08J.html
21-06-2020||NA||Cloudy skies obstruct solar eclipse in Chennai, parts of Tamil Nadu||Cloudy skies played spoilsport for few sky gazers who braved the blistering sun to watch the annular solar eclipse, the first for this year, on Sunday here.The eclipse was however partial in most parts of Tamil Nadu and many enthusiasts who managed to take photos of the rare phenomenon posted them on the social networking sites. From about 10.20 am, a fairly bright sky enabled the gazers in Chennai, Madurai, Tiruchirapalli, Coimbatore, Salem, Tirunelveli and other parts of the state to witness the celestial occurrence. “We were able to get a clear view and could even record the celestial event till the peak of the eclipse at noon.Later, the sky became cloudy and the eclipse could not be seen from here,” said S Joseph Winston, Head, Remote Handling and Irradiation Experiments Division, Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research,Kalpakkam.Solar Eclipse 2020: Watch captivating images of the ‘ring of fire’ from across the country As people had to remain indoors owing to the lockdown being enforced to prevent the spread of Coronavirus, he had made arrangements for live streaming of the event. “The visibility of the eclipse was hampered due to clouds in most parts of Tamil Nadu. Some people in the metro and other parts, too, who had solar filters, had attempted to see the partial eclipse from the terrace of their houses,” an official of the district science centre, said.The obscuration of the sun by the moon during the greatest phase of the annular eclipse was nearly 34 per cent in Chennai, he said. “From noon onwards, the clouds blocked the view and nothing much was witnessed,” Joseph said and added that he had used polymer filters to capture images from a telescope.Down south, in Tirunelveli, an official of the District Science Centre, said the centre was opened only to observe the rare phenomenon, but members of the public were however barred from viewing at the centre due to the lockdown. “We captured the images and uploaded them on our social networking sites,” he added.This is the first solar eclipse of this year and it coincides with the summer solstice, when the Northern Hemisphere has the longest day. The eclipse started by 10:22 am and ended at around 2 pm. Temples including the Lord Venkateswara temple in T Nagar here remained closed due to solar eclipse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/cloudy-skies-obstruct-solar-eclipse-in-chennai-parts-of-tamil-nadu/story-xozulP7rxfhqs82ebYcKZJ.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Pune receives normal rainfall for June in just 20 days||The city has surpassed its average rainfall of 137mm for June in just 20 days despite monsoon arriving four days late in the region. Till June 20, the city recorded 151.6mm rainfall, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The excessive rainfall was due to the impact of cyclone Nisarga, which hit the state int he first week of week, according to IMD officials.“There are three reasons due to which Pune has received more than normal rainfall in just 20 days, that is cyclonic rains due to Nisarga, good moisture incursion and normal onset of monsoon,” said Anupam Kashyapi, IMD director. For the past three consecutive years, Pune has been receiving more than normal rainfall in June. In 2017 the normal rainfall recorded was 207mm, 2018 recorded 148mm, 2019 recorded 194mm rainfall.The dams providing water supply to the city, Khadakwasla (60.26%), Panshet (22.99%), Varasgaon (16.17%), Temghar (nil) have a good capacity of water stored.Till June 19, Shivajinagar received 151.6mm rainfall, while Lohegaon and Pashan received 260.6mm and 145mm of rainfall, respectively. In the last one-week ghat areas of Tamhini, Mulshi and Paud have received moderate rainfall and it will continue to be the same for the next seven days. The IMD has forecast that the city will witness light rains till next week.Along with Pune, other districts including Aurangabad, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Kolhapur, Chandrapur, Dhule, Bhandara, and Washim had received more than normal rainfall.Rains in mm in JuneYear/ Rain (in mm)2017/ 2072018/ 1482019/ 1942020/ 151.6 (till June 20)Storage in damsKhadakwasla 60.26%Panshet 22.99%Varasgaon 16.17%Temghar nil||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-receives-normal-rainfall-for-june-in-just-20-days/story-rhLrHcODhoKtHCfJtdfAsN.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Two arrested in fake defence recruitment racket||The Pune rural police crime branch arrested two men for duping a man from Daund of Rs 3,80,000 under false pretext of providing employment in the Indian Navy. The duo is suspected to have cheated many hailing from various parts of the state, including Pune, Satara, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Osmanabad, Wardha, Washim, Jalgaon, and Vidarbha, according to the police.The suspects were identified as Nitin Tanaji Jadhav, 30, a resident of Kalpananagar in Baramati, and Akash Kashinath Dange, 25, of Bhadali Budrukh in Phaltan area of Satara district.“They were arrested last night, produced in court on Saturday and remanded to police custody,” said senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of Pune rural police crime branch, who added that Jadhav is a science graduate and Dange completed his Class 12.In 2018, the duo duped an unemployed man called Kishore Jadhav, a resident of Kurkumbh area of Daund, of Rs 3,80,000 by ensuring a job as store keeper in the Indian Navy. The two allegedly made a fake email ID and forged admission letter, medical documents and an admit card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-arrested-in-fake-defence-recruitment-racket/story-TzoifAKhjG2szrvxg7HvMN.html
21-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand to launch job guarantee scheme for urban poor||Jharkhand is set to launch a 100-day employment scheme for urban unskilled workers similar to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) amid the coronavirus pandemic and increasing unemployment, officials said on Sunday.A brainchild of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, the scheme will be known as Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar) Yojna, which is aimed at enhancing livelihood security for urban poor.Jharkhand will be the second state in the country after Kerala to launch an employment guarantee scheme for the urban poor. Kerala runs Ayyankali Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme (AUEGS).“Formulation of the scheme has been done. The scheme will be rolled out once it gets approval from the state cabinet,” Vinay Kumar Choubey, Jharkhand’s urban development secretary, saidLike MGNREGS, the scheme will also have a provision for unemployment allowance, if any urban local body fails to provide work to job seekers within 15 days, Choubey said.A worker will be entitled to one-fourth of the wages for the first 30 days of unemployment and it will be half in the second month. If the worker does not get a job for third, they will be entitled to equal to basic minimum wage, officials said.“They will be given priority in the existing schemes. If they could not be accommodated in existing schemes, exclusives schemes for the purpose will be created and ULBs would be given separate funds for this. There are lots of opportunities of jobs in urban areas right from sanitation work to development projects,” Choubey said.Like labourers in MGNREGS, urban workers will also be registered and they would be provided job cards. “A special website is also being designed, similar to the website functions in MGNREGS,” Choubey said.The scheme will be conducted by the urban development and housing department through the state urban livelihood mission. Municipal commissioners, executive offices or special officer of municipal bodies will be the nodal officer of the scheme.Economists have appreciated the concept of the scheme and said it became necessary after the influx of migrant workers to the state.“Till now there was a notion that poor means rural people. So, a lot of poor alleviation schemes were launched for rural areas. However, there is also a chunk of urban poor and they also need job guarantee like in rural areas,” Harishwar Dayal, a Jharkhand-based economist, said.“The new scheme will help the migrant workers who returned to urban Jharkhand after corona outbreak,” Dayal added.More than five lakh migrant workers stuck outside the state returned to Jharkhand since May 1 during the coronavirus pandemic. The state rural development department has done a skill mapping of 2.5 lakh workers and it revealed that 30% of workers who returned from different states are unskilled labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-to-launch-job-guarantee-scheme-for-urban-poor/story-HZoPx11omvIMknSrz355vI.html
21-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka Governor, CM stress importance on performing yoga||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday stressed the importance of practicing yoga regularly for maintaining one’s mental, physical and emotional health, as the International day of Yoga celebrations saw people in Karnataka celebrating it in a low key manner, with Covid-19 restrictions in place.Schools, parks, clubs and playgrounds in Bengaluru wore a deserted look, unlike in previous years, as people did not congregate there due to the restrictions.The Governor and Chief Minister greeted the people on the day.Sharing images of the Governor performing solo Yoga, the Raj Bhavan, in a press release, quoted him urging people to perform it regularly to boost immunity and improve mental, physical and emotional health.“Honourable Governor wishes happy sixth International Yoga Day 21 st June, 2020 to the people of Karnataka State and appealed to practice ‘Yoga at home, Yoga with family’,” a press release said.It said the staff practiced yoga on the lawns of the Raj Bhavan at 6 am.In his tweet, Yediyurappa said Yoga is a gift from India to the world, which was handed down to us by our ancestors.“We have to preserve Yoga and also need to practice it regularly to celebrate a strong, healthy and meaningful life”, he said.Many ministers and government officials shared images of them performing Yoga.State ministers B C Patil and S T Somashekar performed yoga together at a lawn and shared the videos and images.The Pantanjali Yoga Kendra members performed Yoga on the Parakala Math premises in Mysuru, maintaining social distancing.The Karnataka unit of BJP celebrated the day at the basement of the party office, where the state BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel and other office bearers performed it.Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi, who represents Dharwad Lok Sabha constituency in Karnataka, too shared his photographs and Yoga Day message on Twitter, saying it helps in boosting immunity and is the most effective way to combat Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-governor-cm-stress-importance-on-performing-yoga/story-vNe8MasnKBUzbXQ2DwGdCI.html
21-06-2020||Jaipur||Four more deaths, 154 fresh Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan rose to 341 on Sunday with four more fatalities, while the cases climbed to 14,691 after 154 people tested positive, officials said.Of the fresh cases, 59 were from Dholpur, followed by 31 from Jaipur, 22 from Jhunjhunu, 12 from Alwar, nine from Sikar, five each from Dungarpur and Bhilwara, three from Rajsamand, two each Nagaur and Udaipur, one from Churu besides a patient from other state, according to an official report here.A total of 11,158 Covid-19 patients have been discharged, and the state now has 2,955 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/four-more-deaths-154-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan/story-LN5RWO9juMnaS6O7kx6tTI.html
21-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s Bibvewadi ward needs testing, quarantine facility||Senior bureaucrat Saurabh Rao reviewed the Bibvewadi regional ward office on Saturday after the area reported a rise in Covid-19 cases.Bibvewadi regional ward office is among the top five areas that is more positive cases in the city. Rao is the incharge of Dholepatil road and Bhavani peth ward office which was the most affected ward offices in the city before preventive measures helped check the growth rate of positive cases.Pravin Chorbole, president of Bibvewadi ward office said, “Elected members along with ward office staff discussed various issues with Rao. He suggested having a dedicated testing lab and a quarantine facility. The civic administration and elected members conducted joint visits at some places in Bibvewadi ward areas. Bibvewadi ward area has three wards which include Salisbury Park-Maharshinagar, Market Yard-Indiranagar, and Upper Indiranagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-bibvewadi-ward-needs-testing-quarantine-facility/story-T7gkJDgUJaDJhileMCPTmI.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||53-year-old Kalyan doctor succumbs to Covid-19||A doctor in Kalyan near Mumbai succumbed to the Covid-19 infection on Sunday. He was part of the Doctors’ Army, which comprises of several private doctors from the city closely working with the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) to fight the coronavirus pandemic.The representatives of the Kalyan Doctors’ Army claimed that the 53-year-old used to follow all the guidelines and always took extra care while attending to the patients.“The demise of our team member is saddening, especially when we realise that he used to be very careful on duty and also followed all the guidelines and preventive measures while attending the patients. There is no clue about from where he got the infection. He was admitted for almost 15 days after he developed fever. Initially, he was under home quarantine for five days,” said Prashant Patil, spokesperson, Kalyan Doctor’s Army.The doctor was initially treated in Kalyan, was later shifted to a hospital in Thane and then to Jaslok hospital in Mumbai, where he was on ventilator for 15 days. “His elder daughter was also infected earlier, However, she was treated at the Holy Cross Covid hospital and discharged after recovery,” added Patil.He is survived by a wife and two daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/53-year-old-kalyan-doctor-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-gmQwW9XlHyWEvpbk0tP9QO.html
21-06-2020||Jaipur||Covid treatment fee at private hospitals capped in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government has fixed rates chargeable by private hospitals for Covid treatment. Private labs can charge Rs 2,200 per test and private hospital can charge Rs 2,000 per day for a bed while they can charge Rs 4,000 for a ventilator bed in the ICU.Additional chief secretary, health department, Rohit Kumar Singh issued orders to this effect on Saturday. The government has fixed the charges under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. The decision to fix the rates was taken by chief minister Ashok Gehlot during a review meeting on Friday evening. He asked health department officials to ensure that corona patients were not overcharged.Gehlot said the statewide-Covid awareness campaign should be effective enough to ensure that every person is alert about his or her health and that of their families.The campaign will be digitally launched on June 22 in which over 1 lakh public representatives, including panachayat level workers, will participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-treatment-fee-at-private-hospitals-capped-in-rajasthan/story-Dz4gxvYfpOXq8MYmqs9ThP.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||88-year-old woman killed in Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave: Police||An 88-year-old woman was killed with her throat slit and her husband, 94, was tied up in their house in south Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave late on Saturday night, police said on Sunday.Kanta Chawla lived on the ground floor of a four-story residential building with her husband. Police said the couple, who lived alone, had hired a security guard about a fortnight ago, who is missing. Their house was ransacked and investigators suspect robbery as a motive behind the killing, senior officers said. According to the police, the incident took place after 8pm when a few men gained friendly entry into the house and attacked the woman. They said they were informed late night around 9:30pm when the husband managed to alert neighbours who called the PCR.“It looks like the woman was killed because she tried to raise alarm to alert others living on the floors above. Her husband who is 94 years old can’t speak or move properly because of the old age and was therefore just tied up,” an investigator, who wished not to be named, said. “The house is ransacked and prima facie, robbery seems to be a reason behind the murder,” the investigator added.Police have found that the couple had a domestic help working at their house.“With her help, the couple had hired a security guard about a fortnight ago. He is missing. During the preliminary probe, three men were seen escaping in CCTV footages. One of them is possibly the security guard. The security guard was not verified by the police,” the officer added. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya said a case of murder has been registered and they are probing all possible angles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/88-year-old-woman-killed-in-delhi-s-safdarjung-enclave-police/story-dYWl3fBYlzomJZGSTfwyPP.html
21-06-2020||Kolkata||Sky gazers in Kolkata gather on rooftops to witness solar eclipse||Sky gazers and space enthusiasts in the city have all geared up to watch the annular solar eclipse, as the celestial phenomenon began here on Sunday at 10:46 am.Several people went up to to their rooftops to witness the rare celestial treat, which may offset Covid-19 gloom to an extent for the day.Some were, however, sceptical that the overcast skies may hinder the view.The eclipse will be at its peak at 12.35 pm, with 65.5 per cent obscuration, Debi Prasad Duari, the director of M P Birla Planetaurium, said.Members of different science clubs in the city said they have made arrangements to view the he eclipse through solar filters on telescope, while strictly maintaining physical distance.The Birla Industrial and Technological Museum will stream the phenomenon online on its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sky-gazers-in-city-gather-on-rooftops-to-witness-solar-eclipse/story-HDXkT2SSABjwNQHjZEa6eN.html
21-06-2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar lauds PM’s employment scheme for migrant workers||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday hailed an employment scheme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for migrant workers, saying it will boost the state’s efforts to generate jobs at home for people who had to return due to the coronavirus lockdown. Modi on Saturday launched the ‘Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan’ with an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore for migrant workers who returned to their home states during the coronavirus-induced lockdown.The prime minister launched the scheme via video conference in a village in Khagaria district of Bihar in the presence of Kumar and the chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and a minister from Odisha.Kumar, who attended the function via video conference from Telihar panchayat in Khagaria, sought exemptions in GST and Income Tax as a special assistance to promote industries in the state.He said the Centre should increase the limit of Rs 25,000 crore fund allotted to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) to promote the sector in Bihar.Kumar also stressed on increasing the existing banks CD (credit deposit) ratio of 43 per cent in the state by enhancing the size of annual credit plan, the issue which he had raised at a recently-held State Level Bankers Committee meeting in Patna. The scheme will be implemented on a mission mode in 125 days in 116 districts of six states -- Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha -- that received the maximum numbers of migrant workers back.In Bihar, the scheme will be implemented in 32 out of the total 38 districts, the chief minister said.Kumar, in his speech, highlighted that his government provided Rs 1,000 special assistance to more than 21 lakh distressed people who were stranded outside the state during the lockdown, besides running quarantine centres with proper health facilities.He said more than 20 lakh natives of the state returned their home in more than 15,000 ‘Shramik Special’ trains during the coronavirus crisis.Kumar, who had an interaction with people in quarantine centres across the state via video conference, said people informed him that they suffered a lot and hence they do not want to return to other states where they were employed, instead they want to work in Bihar.“Our government’s efforts will be to ensure that no one goes outside the state in ‘majboori’ (compulsion) for work. We will try to give them the work in the state itself,” he said.The chief minister said people are being provided opportunities under MNREGA, road construction and other development work such as seven resolves, Jal-Jiwan-Hariyali etc.Under the ‘Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan’, the Centre will spend Rs 3.43 crore per panchayat, he informed, while stating that the state government will spend Rs 2.30 crore in Telihar panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-lauds-pm-s-employment-scheme-for-migrant-workers/story-Xlu5beyffVyn4QXmyAzYbJ.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Health care workers try to balance their fatherly duties between COVID duties||The thought of being away from your kids is difficult, but for front line male doctors, this has become a reality. From warm hugs to bedtime stories, we all have cherished these moments at some point in our lives. The fatherly duties have taken a backseat in the wake of duties they took up as medical professionals. Male health care workers are trying to cope with the fact of being physically distant from their kids while trying to balance their fatherly duties.Dr Shuchin Bajaj of internal medicine department at a South- Delhi hospital, who has been craving the warm greetings and hugs from his kids, says, “I have a 16-year-old son and a 12-year-old daughter. They both understand the situation but still there is always a constant fear that runs in my mind that what if I am transmitting the virus to my kids. I have forgotten when was the last time we watched a movie or show on TV together. Life has become an emergency drill. It’s highly fulfilling to serve your nation at this time of need. I haven’t been able to attend the digital parents meet from last three-four months because they usually happen during my operating hours. But during this time also, I am trying to give my best to my kids. I try to utilize the time with my family as I know I can just spend limited time with them. It is very hard to express those feelings as a father, who can’t hug his children or spend some time with them. They are sacrificing a lot during this time, so whatever time I get at home, I try to just spend it with my kids now.”Being away from kids is very difficult but at the same time, it is a necessity for these doctors. Dr Akhilesh Yadav, orthopaedic surgeon, says that his sons have adapted with this lifestyle of him going out for COVID duty.“As a father, at least the last three to four months have been very difficult with restricted ‘family time’. I have two sons, one is seven years old and the other is 12-years-old. Recently, both of them have gotten into the habit of getting up early because of me and we try to have breakfast together before I leave for work. Though I take all the precautions while I step out but still there is a fear in the mind. Before the pandemic, the warm greetings and hugs that I used to get when I returned from the hospital are missing now. It was tough during the initial lockdown to make them understand the importance of social distancing, self hygiene and the time that I need to provide to the affected and those in need, but gradually, he has understood this very well,” he says.Read: International Yoga Day 2020: A virtual Yoga Day celebration in Texas and other American statesAnd for Dr Saurabh Nanda, an anesthesiologist, it is all about doing that one activity with his kids everyday.“As healthcare workers, we are very much exposed to the virus everyday. Everytime, we head out of the house, there is a risk. All the time, there is fear in my mind that I might carry something back from the hospital. I have a separate room in my house which has an exit, so I mostly operate from that room only. We all have one specific thing, which is like a routine with our kids and for me, it is teaching my three-year-old daughter. I try to do that through a video call from my room or teach her from a very safe distance. It is very tough psychologically also because I am unable to hug my kids or have a quality time with them but if we do not go out to serve then who will?” he says.Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/health-care-workers-try-to-balance-their-fatherly-duties-between-covid-duties/story-y2UAVIpvWXnzEuhCIgnjwM.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Annular solar eclipse underway, cloudy skies may play spoilsport for sky gazers in Delhi||An annular solar eclipse, wherein the Sun appears like a ring of fire, is currently underway but cloudy skies are likely to play a spoilsport for sky gazers in the national capital.  The annular phase began at 10:19 am and will end at 2.02 pm.The annular phase was visible on Sunday morning from some places within a narrow corridor of northern part of the country (parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttarakhand). Few prominent places within this narrow annularity path are Dehradun, Kurukshetra, Chamoli, Joshimath, Sirsa, Suratgarh.It will be seen as a partial solar eclipse from the rest part of the country.The annular path also passes through Congo, Sudan, Ethiopia, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Pakistan, and China.Obscuration of the Sun by the Moon at the time of greatest phase of partial eclipse will be around 94 per cent in Delhi.N Rathnashree, Director of Nehru Planetarium, said visibility of the eclipse is being hampered due to solar eclipse.  The next annular eclipse will be seen from South America in December 2020. Another annular eclipse will occur in 2022, but that it will be hardly visible from India, Rathnashree added.  A solar eclipse occurs on a new moon day when the Moon comes in between the Earth and the Sun and when all the three objects are aligned.  An annular solar eclipse will occur when the angular diameter of the Moon falls short of that of the Sun so that it cannot cover up the latter completely. As a result, a ring of the Sun’s disk remains visible around the Moon. This gives an image of a ring of fire.Rathnashree cautioned that eclipsed Sun should not be viewed with the naked eye, even for a very short time as it can cause permanent damage of the eyes leading to blindness even when the Moon covers most portion of the Sun.  Safe technique to observe the solar eclipse is either by using proper filter like aluminised mylar, black polymer, welding glass of shade number 14 or by making projection of the Sun’s image on a white board by telescope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/annular-solar-eclipse-underway-cloudy-skies-may-play-spoilsport-for-sky-gazers-in-delhi/story-Lzwdhl5mhOSINqma7sa2dP.html
21-06-2020||Patna||213 fresh Covid-19 cases in Bihar, tally climbs to 7,503||Bihar reported 213 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the virus count to 7,503, while the death toll remained 49 with no fresh fatality, a state health department official said. Of the 213 new cases, 90 are of Friday whose test results were received on Saturday. The rest 123 were reported on Saturday, a health department release said. There are 2,087 active cases of the disease in 38 districts of the state, while another 5,367 have recovered, it said. A maximum of 377 cases were reported from Patna, followed by Bhagalpur (348), Begusarai (347), Madhubani (325) and Rohtas (309). Siwan reported 302 cases of the disease. A total 4,844 migrants have tested positive since May 3, while the number of samples tested till date is 1,51,148. Darbhanga reported the highest number of five Covid-19 deaths, followed by Saran which reported four deaths, while Begusarai, Khagaria, Nalanda and Vaishali have reported three fatalities each. Bhojpur, Jehanabad, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, Patna, Sitamarhi and Siwan reported two deaths each. Araria, Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Jamui, Katihar, Madhepura, Madhubani, Munger, West Champaran, East Champaran, Rohtas, Samastipur and Sheohar witnessed one Covid death each, the health department release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/213-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-bihar-tally-climbs-to-7-503/story-ZkJF2MduoIhpqB5HC6xOeL.html
21-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2,000-mark||Jharkhand on Saturday reported 59 fresh cases of Covid-19, following which the total crossed the 2,000-mark, according to the state health department. The state has so far reported 2,024 cases and of them, 609 are at present undergoing treatment, it said in a bulletin. Total 1,404 people, including 69 during the day, have recovered from the disease, it said. Eleven people have died in the state due to Covid-19. Four of them were from Ranchi, two from Bokaro, and one each from Giridih, Gumla, Hazaribag, Koderma and Simdega, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-000-mark/story-BycoMHv6Zt71SqhES4OlfL.html
21-06-2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid-19 tally reaches 17,135; death toll rises to 529||Twenty-two people have succumbed to Covid-19 and 541 more people tested positive in Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours, officials said on Saturday. The death toll in the state is 529 now with the coronavirus tally reaching 17,135, they said. Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said 10,369 of the total infected have recovered. The state has 6,237 active Covid-19 patients now. Among the 22 new fatalities, five have been reported from Meerut, two each in Kanpur Nagar, Ghaziabad, Varanasi and Hapur, one each in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Sambhal, Mathura, Muzaffarnagar, Etawah, Mainpuri, Farrukhabad and Baghpat, a health department release said. As many as 65 cases were reported from Hapur followed by 55 in Kanpur Nagar, 41 in Gautam Budhnagar, 40 in Ghaziabad and 38 in Lucknow among others, the release said On Friday, 14,048 samples were tested, he said, adding that ASHA workers have tracked over 17 thousand people. Samples of 1,567 of them have been sent for testing, he said. Prasad said that random testing was being carried out in old age homes, orphanages and juvenile homes on the directions of the chief minister. Covid-19 cases have been found in old age homes in Sultanpur, Kushinagar and Jalaun districts and in orphanages and juvenile homes in Meerut and Kanpur. A government spokesman said urban slums were sampled randomly across the state. In the bigger districts, 10 slums were sampled. In the middle size districts, 5 slums per districts and in the smaller districts 2 slums per district were sampled. A total of 311 slums were randomly tested across the state. Thirty slums in 20 districts showed positivity for Covid-19 in pool test. Out of 4,160 samples tested, 75 samples tested positive and the results of 4,085 came out negative. Twenty districts which “showed positivity” are Ambedkar Nagar, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Moradabad, Mathura, Shravasti, Aligarh, Auraiya, Badaun, Ballia, Etah, Firozabad, Ghazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur Nagar, Merrut and Gautam Buddha Nagar. Such random sampling is being carried out to map the vulnerability of high risk groups, generate awareness among them and take corrective measures in time to contain the spread of infection, the spokesman said. The chief minister has directed all DMs to take precautionary measures. He has also asked for active contact-tracing and sampling wherever “positivity” has been found in the slums, the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-covid-19-tally-reaches-17-135-death-toll-rises-to-529/story-pk3icuDNZnXfpoW9bB3OrL.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt procuring oxygen cylinders, hospitals need not do it themselves: Report||The Delhi government has said it is in the process of procuring oxygen cylinders and concentrators and directed hospitals under it to not procure them for Covid-19 patients, according to an official order.The government had earlier this month directed medical directors of all the designated Covid hospitals  under the Delhi government to arrange oxygen supply for all hospital beds. However, the government, in supersession of its earlier order, said on Saturday that hospitals may now not procure oxygen concentrators or cylinders.“The Health Department is already in the process of procurement of 18,000 D-type cylinders, 3,000 B-type cylinders and around 3,000 oxygen concentrators centrally,” the order said.“The cylinders and concentrators will be procured shortly and will be allocated to the respective hospitals in a staggered manner as per their requirement and as per the receipt from suppliers,” it said.It is also directed that consumables and ancillary devices such as regulators, breathing circuits, masks, nasal prongs, cannulas, filters, flow metres, trolley stand etc. to make the oxygen cylinders operational may be procured by hospitals as per their need and stock position, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-procuring-oxygen-cylinders-hospitals-need-not-do-it-themselves-report/story-V6b4wba0lVmUx0TCKBISDK.html
21-06-2020||Lucknow||Chasing a dream, he grew apples in this guava belt||Apples – red, pleasantly crisp, sweet and juicy – hanging from tree after tree, but then this is not Himachal Pradesh, but Uttar Pradesh, and to be precise, Rampur village, around 45 km from Prayagraj, in the water-scarce, rocky trans-Yamuna area of Jasra development block.The ‘miracle’ has been made possible because of the drive of a driver-turned-farmer of this Sangam city.Chasing the dream of owning an apple orchard in the district known for growing guavas – on a farmland he inherited a few years back – this 52-year-old farmer has successfully cross-bred Hariman-99 and Anna varieties of apples. Now there are around 35 trees bearing the fruit of his labours.“I inherited some land in Rampur village a few years back and decided to construct a house here around five years back. I had a thought that it would be perfect if I had an apple orchard near my house. However, when I discussed it with others, including my father, Keshav Bahadur Singh, a seasoned farmer, made fun of me,” Rudra Pratap said.“At this time, I was working in Mumbai as a driver. In Mumbai, I came across a farmer from Shimla, who guided me a little on apple farming. Three years back I got 200 apple tree saplings of Hariman-99 and planted them on my farmland but they failed to flourish as I had hoped, Rudra Pratap said, who has just studied up to Class XII.Undeterred, he took the advice of an apple farmer from Kashmir whom he ran into in Mumbai and decided to crossbreed the trees through grafting with an apple variety dubbed ‘Anna’. “This clicked instantly. The grafts flourished within a year. Now, I have 35 trees with apples on them. Now, everyone is keen to visit my orchard and learn how to grow apples on their land. Even my 75-year-old father is helping me tend to the orchard,” said a beaming Rudra Pratap.So what does he do to give his apple saplings the advantage to grow in this rocky village land located on the banks of River Tons. “To protect the trees from moths, mites and other pests, I spray a safe pesticide procured from the local Jari market once a month. I irrigate the trees once every three days to ensure that they have adequate water and humidity using a submersible pump. To protect the trees from the hot winds that blow during summers, I have planted banana trees all around the orchard and it seems to be working perfectly,” added Pratap, whose three children are in Mumbai, including two sons who are employed with a private firm and a daughter pursuing MBA.Horticultural Experiment and Training Centre, Kushrubagh, chief horticulturist Krishna Mohan Chaudhary lauded the efforts of Rudra Pratap. “His efforts are praiseworthy. We have low chilling varieties of apples and efforts are on to grow them in plains, including UP. The quality of apples is judged by taste, texture and fragrance etc, and only after checking these apples on those parameters will we be able to determine the commercial value of the fruits,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/chasing-a-dream-he-grew-apples-in-this-guava-belt/story-VSEUkxOcMiwCqMrcgX4DvK.html
21-06-2020||Lucknow||‘Yoga and health complement each other’: UP CM Adityanath||Ahead of the International Day of Yoga on Sunday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said the ancient practice and health complement each other. Immunity increases by practising yoga. If the immunity system of a person is strong then the risk of infection of any virus will be reduced, Adityanath said, amid the coronavirus pandemic. He was addressing an online workshop on yoga organized by Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad and Mahayogi Gorakshnath Yoga Institute on Saturday. The chief minister said one should not be afraid of the coronavirus. “It is the weakest virus of the century, only the transmission of this virus is fast. You have to protect yourself from this infection, especially children, elderly and those who are already suffering from any disease are most vulnerable to this infection,” he added. “The functional aspect of yoga is useful for person of every age. Through this, one can gain physical and mental health and understand the secrets of the spiritual world. In order to know the secret of spiritual world, it is necessary to have a healthy body and mind and this is possible only through yoga. Everyone should include yoga in his daily routine,” he said. “Yoga gained global recognition through efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Today, this day is celebrated in more than 200 countries. It also means that India also creates conversation through its heritage with so many countries,” the chief minister said. Due to the ongoing crisis, it is not possible to organize this event in a collective form so practice Yoga with family at homes, he said. “The Union Ministry of AYUSH has issued a common Yoga protocol regarding this. You can upload your photos or videos on that platform while practicing yoga. The central and state governments will also reward good yogis,” he said. PTI SAB CK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yoga-and-health-complement-each-other-up-cm-adiyanath/story-RK1IjI5MMhgLnh9130nNzK.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Govt thanks Baijal; Opposition says decision wasn’t wrong||The five-day mandatory institutional quarantine order by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday evoked sharp responses from across the political spectrum in Delhi with the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) calling it a “dictatorial” decision. The order was, however, withdrawn on Saturday evening after the government held two meetings with Baijal. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia thanked the L-G in a tweet following the announcement. “We have been able to clear all the doubts that the L-G had regarding home isolation. Home isolation will now continue. We thank the L-G for this. Under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, we will not allow any Delhi resident to suffer,” Sisodia said in a tweet in Hindi. “In the same order, the L-G had discontinued the services of a private company which had been providing counselling to those under home isolation. For now, the service will continue till Monday. It will be discussed under after the health department is ready with alternatives,” the deputy CM tweeted. During the day, senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh addressed a press conference and questioned why the L-G was formulating “different rules” for Delhi. “The ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] guidelines being implemented throughout the country state that Covid positive patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms will be allowed to practice home isolation. Why are different rules being formulated for Delhi? This is a dictatorial decision,” he said. Earlier this month, the L-G had disagreed with the state government’s decision allowing only Delhi residents Covid-19 treatment at Delhi government-run hospitals and private ones. Baijal had overruled the Delhi government’s order and instructed hospitals to accept all patients. Referring to the 503 railway coaches deployed as isolation wards across nine stations in Delhi, Singh said these coaches were not in a good condition. “They are like hot furnaces without any air-conditioning. It is not feasible to live there at 47 degree celsius,” he said.But Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary said the removal of home isolation had been a repeated demand of his party. “We had suggested the government and L-G that home isolation is not possible for marginalised people. But the government has to make sure there are adequate facilities at quarantine centres so that people don’t suffer,” he said.During the day, BJP Delhi President Adesh Gupta said the L-G’s order was necessary because there were many families in Delhi which stay in one or two-room houses. “In such a scenario, home isolation can be dangerous and can put others living in that house at risk. This is why L-G took the decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-thanks-baijal-opposition-says-decision-wasn-t-wrong/story-nXGk5ApSqaXkLOhYhkmODM.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Efforts on to boost health care infrastructure in Delhi as cases surge||The Delhi government is focusing on ramping up hospital beds and ensuring the availability of medical workers in the backdrop of a steady a rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, laying stress on two crucial aspects of the city’s health infrastructure that could define the fight against the infection in the coming days.The national capital recorded 3,630 cases on Saturday — the biggest single-day jump — as its tally reached 56,746 infections.As of Saturday, Delhi had over 12,000 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients across government and private hospitals, according to the data on the “Delhi Corona” app. Authorities also plan to use 77 banquet halls and 40 hotels for treatment of Covid-19 patients, a move that is expected to add about 16,000 more beds to Delhi’s health infrastructure. Then, using railway coaches for treatment will translate to 8,000 additional beds. While the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee will provide another 850 beds in eight establishments run by it, the government will also create 450 beds in its upcoming hospital in Burari.Of the 12,647 hospital beds available now, 47% are already occupied. While the occupancy rate at government hospitals ins 43% , the beds in private hospitals are 50% full.When it comes to beds equipped with ventilators, the occupancy rate is higher. Almost 69% of all beds with ventilators – both in private and government hospitals – are full. Over 71% of the 368 ventilators in private hospitals are already occupied.At present, only those with severe symptoms such as elevated respiratory rate of over 30 breaths per minute (normal is 12 to 20 breaths per minute) or oxygen saturation of less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%) have to be admitted to hospitals.People with mild symptoms can remain in home isolation if they have no comorbidities, and have a separate room and a bathroom to follow proper isolation protocols. Those with no such facility can stay in Covid care centres. And those with moderate to severe symptoms are admitted to Covid Health Centres or Covid hospitals as per need. The government estimates 150,000 beds will be required by the end of June. The projection is based on the report of a five-member committee set up in early June, which said the city would record 100,000 cases by the end of the month and need 15,000 beds for those with severe symptoms of the infection.The requirement for beds will go up to over 40,000 by mid-June, according to the committee members. And the number would translate to 80,000 beds by July-end. The government increased the numbers further when it could not restrict the services of its hospitals for Delhi residents.Makeshift hospitals such as railway coaches, however, cannot treat those with severe symptoms of the infection. The challenge for the government is to add more ventilator and ICU beds in its hospitals.The city government has received 200 ventilators from the central government and plans to buy 300 more. It will also ensure that all the beds in the hospitals have oxygen support, according to officials from the department.The state government has also sought the help of central hospitals such as AIIMS and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital to increase the number of ICU beds. At Lady Hardinge Medical College, two of the large hospital wards are being converted into Covid-19 beds. Almost all the beds in the hospital have oxygen support.“Around 36 beds in our Covid-19 area have oxygen support along with invasive and non-invasive ventilators. The other beds are also all oxygen supported. The orange zone – where suspected Covid-19 patients are admitted – also have all these facilities as several of the patients are actually testing positive,” said Dr NN Mathur, director of the hospital.At the centrally run All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 100 beds – including 30 ICU beds – have been added in the newly constructed burns ward for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“We are also planning to increase our bed strength at the Jhajjar centre by about 500 beds. This will also include ICU beds. In total, AIIMS currently has about 100 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent , AIIMS.Another challenge the government faces is increasing the manpower at its hospitals, as well as the makeshift ones. For its own hospitals, the state government has decided to hire final-year MD/MS/ DNB (post-graduation medicine degree) students and final-year UG (undergraduate) and PG nursing students.Another administrator of a Delhi government Covid-19 hospital said, “We have been asked to recruit more staff, but it is not that easy. We do not get a lot of people for the walk-in interviews. So the medical and nursing student would be a great help. They can be trained for a few days and posted anywhere in the hospital.”For the makeshift hospitals in banquet halls and stadiums, the government has tied up with various doctors’ organisations in the city. “The government is in discussion with the doctors and it is likely to be finalised soon. They will have to take responsibility of running a section of the beds, providing manpower etc. As for consumables, the arrangement is being worked out,” said Dr Arun Gupta, the president of Delhi Medical Council who is also a member of the expert committee that gave the projections on the number of cases and beds required.All 40 hotels have been attached to private hospitals, which provide medical staff and consumables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/efforts-on-to-boost-health-care-infrastructure-in-delhi-as-cases-surge/story-1eZ8fSpAuMHNRVePYoNRWO.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 treatments at private hospitals to get cheaper||The Delhi government said on Saturday that beds for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals will be subsidised, with treatment charges being reduced by 60-67%. The new rates, to be charged by all private hospitals with immediate effect, will be applicable to all Covid-19 beds at a private hospitals for up to 60% of its total capacity.“100% COVID beds shall be subsidised up to an upper limit of 60% of total hospital capacity,” Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, cleared the move.The rates now have been capped between Rs 8,000 (non-NABH accredited hospitals) and Rs 10,000 (NABH accredited hospitals including entry level facilities) a day for an isolation bed, Rs 13,000-15,000 a day for a bed at an intensive care unit (ICU), and Rs 15,000-18,000 a day for an ICU bed with ventilator. Until this order was issued on Saturday evening, the fee for an isolation bed in Delhi was Rs 24,000-25,000 a day. For an ICU bed, it was Rs 34,000-43,000 a day, while an ICU bed with ventilator was Rs 44,000-54,000 a day.A senior government official said the cap of up to 60% of the total beds in private hospitals means that hospitals such as Moolchand, Fortis, etc., which have been declared as 100% Covid-19 hospitals will also have to offer the new subsidised rates to 60% of the beds. A second senior government official said that the health department is also going to issue an order making it mandatory for all private hospitals in Delhi to reserve 40% of their beds for Covid-19.The decision was taken at a meeting of DDMA on Saturday. Like the decision on the five-day mandatory institutional quarantine for all Covid-19 positive cases, this, too, was a point of disagreement between the L-G and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during the DDMA meetings held on Saturday. Kejriwal is the vice-chairperson of the DDMA.The Covid treatment rates were recommended by an expert panel headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul. “The rates approved by the committee would be applicable to all Covid beds up to the upper limit of 60% of the total bed capacity of the private hospitals. The L-G also directed that the hospitals would follow the National Guidelines on admission of COVID-19 patients… The L-G directed that best quality of clinical care should be provided to all patients. He advised that the health department should ensure adherence to quality of care by the hospitals/Laboratories as per standards. An efficient system for feedback and grievance redressal should be put in place by the Health Department to strictly ensure implementation of the recommendations of the High Level Expert Committee,” the LG office said in a statement.Representatives of private hospitals said they have been under stress to maintain staff and infrastructure in view of the increased demand for beds due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“While we fully support the need for transparency of pricing, hospitals are incurring considerably increased expenses on both non-Covid and Covid patient care. It is important to ensure there is no compromise in the quality of care or the safety of health care professionals,” Fortis hospital said in a statement.Another representative of a private hospital, asking not to be named, said: “The hospital now has to invest for at least double the staff. Earlier, if there were 200 nursing staff needed, now we need at least double that because they have to undergo quarantine after duty. Plus, when you ask someone to risk their lives they want a higher salary. How are the hospitals supposed to remain viable if the government imposes such price caps?”An order issued by the health department later on Saturday evening read that the rates recommended for private hospitals beds would be inclusive of all charges. The package rates will include bed, food, and other amenities, monitoring, nursing care, doctor’s visits/consultations, investigations including imaging, treatment as per national protocol for Covid care and standard care for co-morbidities, oxygen, blood transfusion and so on.“Since many of the Covid patients have conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular problems, etc, the charges for medical care of such co-morbidities will be a part of the package. This would include short-term haemodialysis as a part of acute care during the current admissions,” the order stated.The rates, the order stated, would not cover experimental therapies (ramdesivir, for example). “The charges will not include the cost of Covid-19 diagnostic test(s) as well as IL-6 levels. The proposed charges wil apply to paediatric patients as well. For pregnant women, cost for delivery (normal/c-section) and care of new born would be charged by the hospital extra as per prevailing PMJAY rates of relevant packages,” the order further read.The Delhi government in a statement said the Central government Committee had recommended the rates, but it was limited to 60% of the beds reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals.“As the Delhi government has asked private hospitals to reserve 40% of their beds for Covid patients as of now, this capping would have meant that only 24% of beds would have been price capped. CM Kejriwal put forward his views on this and strongly presented a case to price cap all the beds reserved for Covid in private hospitals. After deliberations, it was unanimously decided to price cap all the reserved beds for Covid patients which will benefit the common man and leave no scope for arbitrary overcharging,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-treatments-at-private-hospitals-to-get-cheaper/story-vVU5i0COD3OpIUrcM9xJEL.html
21-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand moves SC against govt’s coal block auction move||The Jharkhand government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the central government’s decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Saturday. Soren said the state government has moved SC as it is a huge policy decision and the respective state governments needed to be taken into confidence. “Mining has always been a contentious issue in the state. ..This will take us back to the old system which we came out of. I think the Centre took this decision in a rush...There are several issues related to land and displacement in the state,” Soren said. “Several trade unions are out on the street against the decision,” he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction of 41 coal blocks under the new regime, under which the private miners would be sharing revenues with the government. The blocks are located in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-moves-sc-against-govt-s-coal-block-auction-move/story-rR85bbTQmrC4YYxPNzeEcM.html
21-06-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: Masks, sanitiser bottles part of wedding package in Mumbai||Going to a lockdown wedding? Be prepared to be greeted with a request to sanitise your hands at the entrance before you can check for your name on the invite list. Then, after getting a thermal scan done and changing your face mask, you can enter the mandap area (with your complimentary bottle of hand sanitiser) where guests are all seated with a few feet distance between them.Although the lockdown has forced the wedding market to shrink, caterers and wedding venues in the city are trying to adapt. The lockdown wedding package includes photography, food and decoration with artificial flowers, as well as masks, sanitisers, social distancing markers and thermal scanners. As per regulations, a wedding can have only 50 guests. Mumbai city collector Rajeev Nivatkar and Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar have said police clearance is required to ensure the venue is large enough for distancing norms to be observed.Hotel Tip-top Plaza in Thane recently released a video which shows how it follows all government regulations at its venues. Having opened up bookings, the venue will host two weddings this month. “We have created a package of ₹1.29 lakh, inclusive of masks and sanitiser bottles,” said an employee.Dombivili-based venue Shree Varad Siddhi Vinayak Seva Mandal has introduced wedding packages for ₹90,000 which include a sanitiser stand, thermal screening, face masks, a selfie-booth and sitting arrangements with adequate distancing. Umesh Naik of the seva mandal said, “Actually, we have a capacity for 1,000 people, so social distancing for 50 people is easily possible in the hall. We have a wedding the next month.” He added that some weddings from March and April that were cancelled are being held now.Another wedding planner in the city, SK Decorations, has created a ₹1.90-lakh package which includes e-invitations, hand-sanitisation station at the entrance and live streaming for those who can’t physically attend the wedding.However, some are finding adapting more difficult to cover overhead costs when the number of guests is small. Raja Iyer, owner of Mumbai-based Ronak Caterers, said his business had taken a hit with many families postponing weddings to the end of the year. “Only inviting 50 people is not possible for many families. We have not had inquiries since a few months now. But if we do, we are ready to provide sanitiser bottles and masks,” said Iyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-masks-sanitiser-bottles-part-of-wedding-package-in-mumbai/story-ZG2rSeSsbBFTCL4pAIAXhJ.html
21-06-2020||City||Kalyan, Dombivli to get 400 more beds for Covid patients, says guardian minister||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will get 200 intensive care units (ICU) beds as well as 200 oxygen beds in the coming days to tackle the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde said on Saturday.“There is a need to increase beds in Kalyan and Dombivli. Also, I directed the civic body to emphasise on contact tracing and conduct mass screenings at homes,” Shinde said at Acharya Atre auditorium in Kalyan (West) during a review meeting of the preparations taken to tackle the outbreak in the city. The civic body plans to set up more quarantine centres and hospitals in the coming days.Shinde directed the civic body to finalise a location for these beds at the earliest and also appealed to the elected representatives to work as a team. City corporators also asked Shinde to impose a 15-day lockdown akin to Bhiwandi to reduce the number of cases in Thane. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said, “We are contemplating on the idea of a complete lockdown. The decision is yet to be made by the general body.”On Saturday, 243 new Covid cases were recorded in KDMC’s jurisdiction, taking the total count to 3,257. With two more deaths in the twin cities, the toll rose to 71. In neighbouring Thane, the case count crossed the 6,000-mark on Saturday, after 176 new cases took the total number of Covid-19 cases to 6,132. Thane recorded six new deaths, owing to which the toll now stands at 198. The city also recorded 51% recovery rate.“On Saturday alone, 114 people recovered and were discharged home,” a health officer from Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-to-get-400-more-beds-for-covid-patients-says-guardian-minister/story-f9U7nVP459ScE8Zn4nwJkJ.html
21-06-2020||City||No decision on height of Ganpati idols yet: Mandals||Two days after CM Uddhav Thackeray appealed to keep the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations a low-key affair amid the Covid-19 outbreak, he held a meeting with key mandals in the state on Saturday. Despite deliberations, the decision over the height of the idols at public pandals was deferred after some organisers demanded the state to allow the idols to be up to at least five feet instead of the three feet proposed by government. The organisers also assured that they will ensure social distancing norms at the pandals. The final decision over the height of the idols is expected to be taken by the state next week, after another meeting with representatives from the mandals. Every year, some public mandals even get idols which are more than 20-feet high.“We will decide over the height of the idol after the government announces the height limit. Our mandal has decided to cooperate with the government,” said Sudhir Salvi, secretary of Lalbaugcha Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal. He said the mandals also discussed several other issues pertaining to the festivities, which included considering last year’s permission as valid for setting up the pandals.Gajanan Tondvalkar, president of the Brihanmumbai Ganeshmurtikar Sangh, said, “All the sculptors are following the state government’s norms and are making idols of 21 inches [1.75 feet] in height for homes and up to three feet for public mandals. We also are making the idols from clay instead of the traditional plaster of Paris. We also expect the government to help us with permissions for our workshops, transportation and immersion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-decision-on-height-of-ganpati-idols-yet-mandals/story-jBnUpoMgd7KlIEtXGgdwaP.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||More than 1,000 Covid-19 patients untraceable in Mumbai||As the number cases of Covid-19 rises to 65,329 in Mumbai, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that since the beginning of the lockdown, more than 1,000 Covid-positive cases in the city are untraceable. Tracking patients and their close contacts are critical to curbing the spread of Covid-19.“These patients aren’t dead or admitted to hospitals or Covid-19 care centres. We aren’t aware of their whereabouts. Ward-wise, we have around 1,000 such missing patients,” said a senior BMC official. Civic officials have also received complaints that ward officials hide discrepancies in the list of recovered patients. “Every day, we get an update from ward officials. Some Covid-positive patients haven’t been tracked for over 30 days,” said the official. BMC is already facing criticism for anomalies in fatality cases in Mumbai.Officials said many patients, fearing stigma, provide BMC with wrong addresses. Outstation patients often share phone numbers of their local guardian or contact. The issue of tracking patients becomes more challenging when the patients live in slums. According to BMC, of the missing patients, 60% are from slum pockets in the city. “It is extremely challenging to track patients in slums without accurate addresses. Even after taking help from locals, we can’t track all the patients,” said the official.Previously, BMC had constituted a group of teachers who were given the task of contacting family members of patients. This group found that most of the phone numbers they had were incorrect. Now the corporation has sought help from Mumbai Police to trace these cases and their contacts.“We are trying to pull out the correct address from Aadhaar or voter ID cards of patients through their names. This has helped us reach a large number of patients. We are also tracking their GPS coordinates to find their movement and location,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Health activists emphasised the importance of giving correct information to the authorities. “Due to stigma, many patients provide wrong addresses. This exposes others around them to the infection, which further expands the chain of the virus,” said Dr Ravikant Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-than-1-000-covid-19-patients-untraceable-in-mumbai/story-1QEHwe1L7FM23bnM8xBLbK.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Statement of 14 people, including actor’s family, friends, recorded||Mumbai police said on Saturday that it has recorded statements of 14 people known to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput in order to understand the reason behind his death. Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14. Bandra police had recorded a case of accidental death the same day.A police officer said recording statements of people close to a person who has died by suicide is established police protocol, adding that the department has spoken to the actor’s father, his two sisters, his friend and creative manager Siddharth Pithani, manager Sandeep Sawant, friend and actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chabbra, business manager Shruti Modi, public relations manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, a key maker and two house staff.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Saturday that deputy police commissioner (Zone 9) and his team were investigating “all aspects related to the case and the truth will come to the fore soon”.Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (Zone 9), said, “We have recorded the statements of 14 persons, and an inquiry is ongoing.” An investigating officer, requesting anonymity, said, “None of the family members or friends has levelled any allegation.” Mumbai Police has also written to firms with which the actor had worked with, or had a contract, to understand the terms of the contract.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-statement-of-14-people-including-actor-s-family-friends-recorded/story-bRP7zJTJkjHHAy0HchRYPM.html
21-06-2020||Lucknow||No Kanwar Yatra this year||There will be no Kanwar Yatra this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.A decision in this regard was taken at the video conference in which Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar participated on Saturday.The three chief ministers said religious gurus and the Kanwar Yatra organisations proposed not to hold the annual Kanwar Yatra this time. The Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage that devotees of Lord Shiva undertake during the monsoon in the Hindu holy month of Shravan (July) to fetch the holy waters of the Ganga from Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Most of the pilgrims, called kanwarias, travel on foot. The pilgrims pass through several districts of western UP.Later, Yogi Adityanath had a video conference with ADG zones and divisional commissioners. The officers have been asked to hold a dialogue with religious gurus, kanwar yatra organisations and the peace committees on the issue.He said religious leaders should also be contacted to ensure that no assembly of more than five persons took place anywhere keeping in view the forthcoming festival of Eid Ul Azha (Bakrid).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-kanwar-yatra-this-year/story-ZI9GCUmYY9TvSXsIfVXZlM.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||Carbon sequestration volume from Thane sanctuary valued at ₹46 lakh per year: Maharashtra government||The 896-hectare (ha) mangrove cover at Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS) stores 2,688 tonnes of carbon every year, mostly from the pollutants released into the atmosphere, the Maharashtra forest department said. The estimated carbon sequestration volume was valued at ₹46 lakh per annum as an ecosystem resource, apart from being a safe haven for migratory birds and other species.Mangroves are salt-tolerant plants and so protect the coastline from inundation, capture and store carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere. The process is called carbon sequestration, and it helps control rising global temperatures by reducing CO2 levels in the atmosphere, according to climate scientists.The forest department revealed the details in the revised management plan (2020-21 to 2029-30) for the sanctuary, which was approved by the state chief wildlife warden (CWLW) on Thursday. An estimated expenditure of ₹106.66 crore has been budgeted for the sanctuary’s protection over the next 10 years while developing a road map for threats and their mitigation measures. “The plan focuses on habitat improvement and identifies sustainable management options for natural and anthropogenic threats, which will help in the long-term protection of this crucial segment of the Central Asian Flyway,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra.The carbon sequestration study for TCFS was carried out by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, while preparing the management plan.“Even the loss of one mangrove tree can lead to excessive carbon being released back into the air, making it crucial to protect this complex ecosystem,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest, state mangrove cell.Tiwari explained that the WII study, using allometric equations of mangrove leaves, leaf litter and sediment biomass was based on the assessment that a 20-year-old mangrove plant has a carbon burial rate of 580 grams per square metre each year.“TCFS’s carbon sequestration potential was estimated to be around 3 tonnes per hectare every year is equivalent to ₹5,180 per ha each year, which when calculated for 896 ha becomes 2,988 tonnes per year and translates into an ecosystem resource of ₹46.6 lakh annually,” said Tiwari.The mangrove cell further validated these findings for two locations – Bhandup and Airoli – through another study where the quantum of carbon sequestered was calculated at 37.3 tonnes per ha from Avicennia marina species (most dominant in the creek).“Mangrove trees have more potential to store carbon than terrestrial trees. Declared sanctuaries create a permanent carbon stock providing continuous bionetwork services. This is essential to curb daily CO2 emissions for a city like Mumbai,” said Sheetal Pachpande, assistant director (projects), mangrove cell.In August 2016, the state declared the northern part of Thane creek – that includes a flamingo sanctuary spread over 1,690 ha (896 ha mangroves and 794 ha land adjacent to a water body) – as tourism zone to safeguard the flamingo population.The area is home to 12 true mangrove species and 39 mangrove associates, 167 species of birds, 45 fish species, 59 species of butterflies, 67 insect species.Independent experts said not just mangroves but the whole benthic habitat, including migratory birds and marine organisms, contribute to storing large quantities of carbon.“Any economic tag to the role played by TCFS is an underestimate as it is beyond human comprehension to understand its value as an ecosystem protecting the Mumbai region,” said Deepak Apte, director, Bombay Natural History Society.Meanwhile, a critical natural threat to TCFS was identified, as the increase in mangrove vegetation due to leaching (liquid byproduct when waste gets decomposed) and excess siltation, reducing the width of the creek and mudflats as roosting areas for flamingos. Environmentalists said declining creek width and mudflat loss could lead to a flooding threat.“If not monitored carefully the combination of issues could turn the sanctuary into a swamp,” said environmentalist Stalin D.Tiwari said the mangrove cell intends to demarcate the exact boundary of the creek on-ground. “To prevent the mudflat habitat from shrinking, we will be uprooting saplings during post monsoon months (October-December) to ensure the current mangrove line is not breached. We will also conduct regular mangrove mapping and health surverys,” he said.The management plan was first submitted by former mangrove cell chief N Vasudevan in January 2019. However, after modifications suggested by a committee under the CWLW related to patrolling pathways, watchtower construction, additional staff requirements, and sapling removal from mudflat, the plan was revised and resubmitted in May, and finally approved on Thursday.10-year budget to conserve flamingo sanctuaryAn estimated expenditure of ₹106.66 crore has been budgeted for the sanctuary’s protection over the next 10 years, while developing a road map for threats and their mitigation measures. Of this, ₹43.8 crore has been earmarked for tourism development, including the second phase of the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre in Airoli (for developing amenities such as mangrove arboretum, parking facilities, mangrove trail, landscaping etc) as well as ‘Giant of the Seas’, a museum on marine animals comprising exhibits of whales and other marine species. ₹21 crore has been set aside for habitat management, site protection and restoration activities as well as for capacity building. The remaining funds would be used for increasing staff recruitment, building requirements, acquisition of vehicles and equipment for monitoring. State’s plans to combat anthropogenic threatsThe state plans to increase security staff, watchtowers, mangrove trails and increased tourism to put an end on hunting of flamingos.To prevent overfishing, the state will support fishermen through livelihood initiatives including aquaculture, crab culture and make them participate in tourism activities.The government will demarcate the exact boundary of the sanctuary on-ground. The management plan review committee plans to hold meetings every six months to check status of protection, and all proposed projects will be scrutinised at various levels of the state and Centre before assessing any clearances to prevent developmental pressures around the sanctuary.The state plans to keep a check on the dumping of waste and discharge of effluents by monitoring the pollution load from Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. It also plans to treat water from the nearby cities. (Source: Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary Management Plan 2020-21 - 2029-30)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/carbon-sequestration-volume-from-thane-sanctuary-valued-at-46-lakh-per-year-maharashtra-government/story-pINilR6a9aLrQqI9q7XYKK.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||55% new enrolments in Ludhiana govt school are from private schools||Unable to pay the exorbitant fees of private schools amid the lockdown-induced financial woes, more and more parents are looking to shift their wards to government schools.Education department records show that 55% of the new enrollments in the district’s government schools are of students shifting from private schools.Faced with layoffs, loss in businesses, parents drifting towards government schools that charge no fee for students upto Class 8. The fee for students of Classes 9 to 12 is also minimal.The private schools, on the other hand, are forcing parents to deposit three months’ tuition fee and pay other charges, unmindful of the financial constraints they may be facing. ONLINE CLASSES AND OTHER PERKSBesides, students and their parents also seem impressed by the online and televised classes started by the school education department.District education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur, says, “Online classes through zoom app, recorded lectures on television and radio have also helped increase the enrolment in the government schools. Government schools are also providing free textbooks, uniform and better infrastructure to students, which is encouraging parents to consider shifting their wards here.”The school principals, meanwhile, have started making arrangements to accommodate the new students. Rajesh Kumar, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, says, “Our school earlier had a 1,239 student. Now, our strength has increased to 1,590. I have written to the district education department to allow us to hold classes for primary sections in the morning shift and senior classes 9 to 12 in the afternoon shift once the school reopens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/55-new-enrolments-in-ludhiana-govt-school-are-from-private-schools/story-3npw4JhPgBIEgIY9oG5JUO.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||Record 1-day jump in Maharashtra cases for third day in a row||For a third consecutive day, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded its highest 24-hour jump in coronavirus cases with 3,874 more infections, taking the tally to 128,205. Mumbai, the worst-affected Indian city, recorded its highest single-day spike in deaths with 136 fatalities, taking the toll to 3,561. The state’s Covid-19 death toll also rose by 160, pushing the fatality count to 5,984 . According to the state, barring Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts, reconciliation of deaths in all districts/municipal corporations has been done. India’s worst-affected city, Mumbai, reported 1,190 new cases. Of the deaths reported on Saturday, 10 were in Jalgaon and six in Aurangabad, besides 136 in Mumbai. The state’s recovery rate is 50.04% as 64,153 patients are reported to have recovered so far, with 1,380 patients discharged on Saturday. The case fatality rate in the state stands at 4.67%. State authorities, however, are wary about the rapid spread of the virus in some parts of the state, mainly because of the weak health infrastructure. Jalgaon and Solapur, where the cases have been rising rapidly in the past few weeks, the tracing and testing rate is poor. In Solapur, according to government officials, the local administration has failed to trace the vulnerable people among beedi and textile workers, whose immunity is low because of their work profiles. This has led to a high case fatality rate in the district. “We could contain the spread well in Mumbai, but the curve has been disturbed because of cases in other parts of the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked district collectors and civic chiefs to pull up their socks and contain the spread. The districts and municipal corporations are being monitored from state level,an official said. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has again pointed at the lack of transparency. In a letter written to Thackeray, he has stated that the case fatality rate in Mumbai is 5.27% and the city’s total caseload is 52.18% of the total state cases. He has also pointed at lapses in the health system and at a few hospitals and demanded to maintain transparency. Mumbai’s case count, which was 61.37% on May 20, has dropped to 52.58% on Friday, while for Mumbai Metropolitan Region, it has come down to 73.85% on Friday from 76.40% on May 20. Mumbai accounted for 63.73% of the daily state cases on May 14, 56.47% on May 28, which dropped to 41.1% on June 17. Dr Sanjay Oak, who heads a task-force of doctors constituted by the government for the clinical management of critically ill patients, said that they are going to focus on reducing the fatality rate. “We are not scared of positive cases as they can be controlled. We have controlled them in Mumbai. Early identification, treatment and application of the appropriate drugs is the key for the treatment. After introducing plasma therapy, use of tocilizumab, now we are pushing for remdesivir and other drugs that have proved useful in treating Covid-19. We will focus completely on reducing the CFR in the state. The idea of the field hospitals has paid off well as we are ready with adequate beds and ready to take up more patients,” he said.He said that although the number of patients is on the rise, it is not a community spread of the disease and they now expect an undulating pattern of cases. “I would not say it as a peak, but there will be ups and downs in cases for the next few days, before the numbers start subsiding. One should understand that the virus would not completely go away, and the people have to be cautious while dealing with it,” Dr Oak said. After the first infection was reported on March 9, the month saw 302 cases and 10 deaths, followed by 10,196 cases and 449 deaths in April. In May, 57,157 cases and 1,827 deaths were reported, while 56,676 cases and 3,607 deaths were reported in 20 days of June. The cases in June account for 45.58% of the total.After a sudden jump of 1,328 fatalities, as a result of reconciliation of the data on Tuesday, the state case fatality rate has risen to 4.77%, much above the national rate. The state government, however, said that its recovery rate improved to 50.49% after 60,838 patients recovered. The state health department has also said that the doubling rate of cases has improved to 25.9 days on June 16, from 3.5 days on March 31 and 10.2 days on April 30 and 20.1 days on May 31. The weekly growth rate of cases has been 3% on June 16, from 12%, 7% and 4% on March 31, April 30 and May 31 respectively. Meanwhile, Thackeray inaugurated the 100th testing laboratory for coronavirus at GT Hospital in Mumbai on Saturday. This has augmented the total daily capacity to 38,000 samples, including 20,500 in private laboratories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/record-1-day-jump-in-maha-cases-for-third-day-in-a-row/story-nNA0yt9jG3UaFLmcCDH4aK.html
21-06-2020||City||Masked miscreants assault Ayurvedic doctor, vandalise clinic in Ludhiana||A group of miscreants allegedly assaulted an Ayurvedic doctor and vandalised his clinic situated on Kailash Nagar Road in Jodhewal area, here on Saturday.The injured has been identified as Dr Rajiv Sharma, 42, who also works as a scribe for a vernacular daily. The victim alleged that around 12:45pm he was attending to patients at his clinic. As soon as the patients left, two masked miscreants entered the clinic and tried to hit him on the head with a sharp-edged weapon, however, he somehow saved himself.Soon after, four more miscreants barged into the clinic, joined their accomplices and thrashed him.They also vandalised his clinic.The miscreants fled as soon as he raised alarm.The doctor suffered multiple injuries following which he was rushed to ESIC Hospital.Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, station house officer (SHO) of Jodhewal police station, said that the accused had come on two bikes and a scooter, which have been captured on the close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the locality and that the investigation was on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/masked-miscreants-assault-ayurvedic-doctor-vandalise-clinic-in-ludhiana/story-79pxdYMKunAVu1Vbo4RtSJ.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Patients’ health conditions to be assessed at Covid-19 care centres before home isolation in Delhi||All patients who test positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi will be referred to Covid Care Centres for an assessment of their clinical conditions, severity of illness and the presence of co-morbidities. At the same time, their houses will be assessed to check whether they have adequate facilities for isolation such as two rooms and separate toilets, according to the modified home isolation guidelines in the national capital.After the initial assessment, if the team finds that the person has no co-morbidities and does not require hospitalisation, the patient can either continue to stay at the care centres, move to paid isolation facilities such as hotels, or opt to remain in home isolation, according to the order by Delhi’s principal health secretary, Vikram Dev Dutt, issued late Saturday night.This comes after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority reversed its order mandating five-day institutional isolation for every person who tested positive.Earlier, patients were to remain at home after testing positive and a team was sent to their homes to conduct the clinical assessment as well as assessment of their homes. Delhi started home isolation is April 30 and was one of the first states to adopt it.Currently, 12,611 people in home isolation in the city. There are 23,340 active cases or those still living with the infection, according to Delhi’s daily health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/patients-health-conditions-to-be-assessed-at-covid-19-care-centres-before-home-isolation-in-delhi/story-t6GWuQgo9TfrzKYn1FdubJ.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Police complaints via e-mail rose by 50% during lockdown in Ludhiana||Police stations in the city, which used to witness a heavy footfall of people before lockdown, are now wearing a deserted look, as the people are choosing the electronic medium to register their complaints due to the outbreak of coronavirus.According to the data available with the police, police stations have witnessed a 50% increase in the complaints received by e-mail.Police officers are also avoiding meeting people and appealing to them to drop their complaints in the complaint box installed outside the police chief’s office or using e-mail.As per information, the police are receiving at least 15 complaints daily since March 23 via e-mail.Before lockdown, the number of complaints received by police on e-mail was 10 daily, and most people used to visit police stations and the police commissioner’s office for lodging complaints.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said, “The police received 1,381 complaints via e-mail after March 22. Earlier, from January 1 to March 22, the police had received a total of 867 complaints.”He added after the scrutiny of complaints, the complaints are marked to officers and police stations concerned.“Complainants are informed about the progress on their complaints within 24 hours through e-mail and text messages. Complainants receive updates on their complaints regularly,” said the DCP.“Most of the complaints the police are receiving on e-mail are regarding vehicle lifting, common frauds, land frauds and internet frauds, etc. In case of assault and other crimes, people call on the police,” he added.He said, “As most of city residents have access to internet on their phones, they are lodging complaints on the Facebook page of police and also on the Twitter handle of the district police.”To reduce crowding of police offices and stations, the police had requested people not to come to police offices and police stations, unless it is an emergency. The police had issued an email id cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in for people to lodge complaints.The police have also installed boxes at the reception of the CP office and asked people to drop their complaints in the boxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-complaints-via-e-mail-rose-by-50-during-lockdown-in-ludhiana/story-tg4mbtlYSghtVc9UBTpRYK.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Visa consultancy, IELTS centres in Chandigarh find no takers||With people putting off plans for travel and study abroad following the Covid-19 pandemic, visa consultancy firms and International English Language Testing System (IELTS) centres in Chandigarh are struggling to survive.With high commissions and international airlines yet to resume normal functioning there’s no one turning up at consultancies for travel and immigration advice. IELTS and Test of English as Foreign Language (TOEFL) centres which assess candidates’ proficiency in the language of the countries they are headed, too are facing a similar situation. According to a list of Chandigarh Police, there more than 200 immigration consultancies in the city. Finances hit, people not expected to travelAnuj Kalra, an immigration expert based in the city, says, “The economy may have reopened but embassies have deferred plans to reopen. International travel will remain critical even after the opening of embassies as people have been badly hit financially and many will not opt to travel abroad. We are not getting immigration related queries or phone calls yet. There has been no revenue since the lockdown was imposed.”Immigration experts say over one lakh students from Punjab and Chandigarh every year opt for popular education destinations such as the US, UK, Canada and Australia. For international travel firms, the period between April and September is considered peak season due to school and college vacations and favourable weather conditions, but this year business has been impacted.“Because of the high commissions remaining closed visa processes cannot be carried out at this stage. According to our calculations, we are not expecting any revenue till December,” says Jatin Wadhwa, director of an international education consultancy Survival a challengeA representative of Association of Overseas Education Consultants (AOEC) and CEO of Charms Education and Immigration, Manish Paitka, said, “There will be no real-time recruitment of students this year and no revenue will be generated. The industry is looking for the government’s support to prevent a total collapse.”Most of the 200 IELTS centres, which cater to not only Chandigarh, but also the adjacent states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, have been impacted by the lockdown.Deshraj Thakral, who runs an IELTS centre, Y-Generation Overseas Education, in Sector 32, Chandigarh, says, “We have generated no revenues since the lockdown was imposed. We have started online classes but the response isn’t good. Students are postponing their plans to travel abroad. Layoffs could be a possibility If the situation does not improve till July.”Navneet Singh, an immigration consultant and AOEC representative said, “The business will take close to a year to get back to normal. Many students have not been able to write their final exams yet. It will take them a few more months to get ready to apply to an international university or college. So, we are hoping that situation gets better by January next year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/visa-consultancy-ielts-centres-in-chandigarh-find-no-takers/story-CVQRalsQqyQVGaIS9hQp5M.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Official fails to provide information under RTI Act, Ludhiana civic body fined Rs 3,000||With the public information officer (PIO) of the municipal corporation (MC) failing to provide information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act regarding the challans issued against buildings in Blocks 32 and 32-A (under Zone A), the state information commission has imposed a penalty of Rs 3,000 on the MC, which would be paid as compensation to the appellant.A show-cause notice has also been issued to the PIO of Zone A in another case for failing to be present during the hearing of a case held on June 9 through video conferencing.The PIO has also been directed to remain present during the next hearing of the case.In this case, the applicant had sought copies of an application given by a coloniser to establish a colony, Barewal Awana, on the Sua Road, and the receipts issued by the MC against the same. In both the cases, the complaint was filed by RTI activist Baljeet Singh, who said that the PIO was not providing him the information, following which he had to file a complaint with the state information commission.The RTI application in both the cases was filed in November last year. The hearing of both the cases was held on June 9 through video conferencing. The commission has ordered that the penalty would be paid out of the account of the public authority and not from an individual’s account. The next hearing in both the cases has been scheduled for July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/official-fails-to-provide-information-under-rti-act-ludhiana-civic-body-fined-rs-3-000/story-TNjnw9WPPmwWJMrLU9gh0M.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Impasse over rent resolved, eateries at Elante mall resume services||Restaurants at Elante Mall that had kept their doors closed for nearly two weeks over rent disagreement have started reopening following a consensus over rebate with the mall management.Having remained closed since June 8 when the mall resumed business, some restaurants opened on Saturday, while most will restart operations on Monday.“The restaurants working on our premises are our partners, and now it is our turn to help them. Rebates have been given to restaurateurs, and they have started opening up already. Only the arcades, bars and movie halls will remain closed now,” said Anil Malhotra, executive director, corporate affairs, Nexus Malls.Although Malhotra didn’t go into details of the agreement, the proprietor of a restaurant here, requesting anonymity, confirmed that the rent for the lockdown period was waived. “The management has waived the rent for April and May, and agreed to reduce our rent by more than half till September,” he said.Backpackers Cafe was among the few restaurants that reopened after nearly three months. “The response on Day 1 has been satisfactory,” said Abhay Jagat, its proprietor.Staff at Chili’s, Pirates of the Grill and Nandos confirmed that they will open business from Monday, while Nik Bakers has already been open for two days.Footfall risesAs 90% of the 234 shops at the mall, run by Nexus Malls, have resumed business, the number of visitors has also started going up. From a few thousands, Malhotra confirmed, the footfall was as high as 10,000 on Saturday, which was about 30% of their regular visitors before the lockdown.Retail stores have also started reporting increase in sales. Manager of the Zara store, Deepak said, “We are seeing more customers now. Our sale is also on, so the footfall is increasing daily.”As per the protocol issued by the administration, visitors must install Aarogya Setu app and wear a face mask before entering the mall. The mall has been fitted with special cameras to detect crowds and alert the mall personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/impasse-over-rent-resolved-eateries-at-elante-mall-resume-services/story-G9E5CjdmezpdAumiVGkPAI.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s business school initiates MBA admissions for 2020-21||The University Business School (UBS) of Panjab University has initiated admissions for the 2020-21 academic session.Becoming the first department of the university to start the process amid the COVID-19 pandemic, UBS has issued the provisional list of applicant candidates who have been shortlisted for group discussion and personal interview for admission to MBA courses. The list is available on the institute’s website.UBS chairperson Deepak Kapur said, “If the university allows us, we will conduct group discussions of shortlisted students in July. Otherwise, we will do it online.” The institute offers five MBA courses, including human resource, international business and entrepreneurship. Last year, around 150 students were admitted to these courses. The shortlisted candidates have been advised to regularly check the website for further information regarding the dates, venue, and mode of group discussion/personal interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-business-school-initiates-mba-admissions-for-2020-21/story-uhUrj8pC4SWxR4mnWJhxpO.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||50 Ludhiana residents booked for misbehaving with cops||At least 50 residents of Chhawni Mohalla, which was declared a containment zone earlier this month, have been booked for misbehaving with police personnel. The accused were demanding removal of barricades from entry points of the locality on Friday.The accused have been identified as Sunita, Sanjiv, Sanju, Nonu, Neeraj, Pappu, Beena and their 43 accomplices who are yet to be identified.The case has been registered on the statement of assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Swarn Singh, who said that the residents had created ruckus in the area and forced a constable and head constable deployed there to remove the barricades.  The case has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 160 (punishment for committing affray) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-ludhiana-residents-booked-for-misbehaving-with-cops/story-1K5XqCJ3p6gap9PDRgztgO.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Covid count goes past 400 with highest single-day spike during Unlock||With 24 fresh cases of Covid-19 surfacing, in the highest single-day spike since easing of lockdown restrictions on June 1, Chandigarh crossed the 400 mark on Saturday. Meanwhile, Covid-19 count of the tricity, which includes neighbouring districts of Panchkula and Mohali as well, has crossed 700 mark.It was on May 24 that the highest number of cases (29) were recorded in a single day. Now, the total number of cases stand at 404, of which 82 remain active. The city has witnessed six deaths linked to the infection so far.Fourteen of the fresh cases in Chandigarh have been reported from Mauli Jagran, raising concerns of an outbreak as seen earlier in Bapu Dham Colony.All patients in Mauli Jagran are contacts of a 65-year-old woman from Mirpur village in Mubarakpur, Dera Bassi, who had visited her daughter’s house in the Chandigarh locality.Officials said the woman had complained of fever and abdominal discomfort and visited the Panchkula civil hospital on June 12 and returned home the same day. After four days, she visited Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, for treatment, and tested positive for Covid-19 on June 19. The woman has 19 family and two community contacts. Earlier, her case was added to the Chandigarh tally, but now it has been removed as she belongs to Mohali district.Among her contacts found infected, 12 are family members. These include four males, two aged 9 and others 18 and 40, and eight females, two aged 32, and others 5, 7, 9, 12, 30 and 40. The remaining two are community contacts: men, aged 24 and 35.Prior to these cases, the locality had reported only one infection. Area councillor Anil Kumar Dubey said before the situation worsens the area should be sealed.“We don’t want Mauli Jagran to become another Bapu Dham Colony. High-risk people should be put in institutional quarantine and the area should be sealed. All possible measures should be undertaken without wasting any time,” he said. Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 has reported 249 cases so far, accounting for 61.6% cases of the city. One of the fresh cases — a 20-year-old pregnant woman — is also from this congested colony. Her two family contacts have also been tested.Besides, seven family contacts of a patient from Sector 24 have also tested positive. They include four children, aged six months, 6, 10 and 12 years, and three adults, aged 38, 34 and 57. A three-year-old girl from Sector 38 has also tested positive. She is also a family contact of an already diagnosed case from the same sector. Another 59-year-old man from Sector 39, who is a workplace contact of a positive case of Sector 25, has been found positive as well. He has two family contacts, who have been sampled for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-count-goes-past-400-with-highest-single-day-spike-during-unlock/story-AiId09IcCEKJ1bpFimJJSJ.html
21-06-2020||City||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Transparency key in maintaining private school accounts||The tussle between Chandigarh administration and private schools over uploading of their accounts on their websites doesn’t seem to be ending. The administration recently told the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) that disclosure of income and expenditure will not be an invasion of the privacy of the schools or violate their rights guaranteed under the Constitution.The administration, in response to plea filed by a private schools’ body challenging its order to upload the balance sheets, argued that the institutes were public entities as these had been built on government land and were bound to follow the administration’s directions.The Independent Schools’ Association has also challenged constitution of the Fee Regulatory Authority under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, adopted by UT in 2018.The administration had reasoned that the law was adopted with some amendments to ensure transparency and accountability, which was essential for fee regulation.Schools were asked to upload balance sheets in consonance with provisions of the law and upon complaints of profiteering and some parents seeking fee waiver in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.Many schools did not upload balance sheets and did not respond to the show-cause notice served to them for failing to comply with the order, the administration said.Demanding that petition be dismissed they asked the court to tell the schools to approach the competent authority in the administration with their grievance, if any. MONEY MATTERSShould uploading accounts on school websites be mandatory?Should it be mandatory for private schools to upload their accounts on websites? Send your responses to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ht-chandigarh-our-take-transparency-key-in-maintaining-private-school-accounts/story-ibUTrqjRPcdWeYJin67miJ.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana labourer strangulates wife, buries body; caught||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly strangling his wife to death with the help of his friend and burying her body, police said on Saturday. He suspected her of infidelity, police said.The victim has been identified as Naju Khatoon, 38, while the accused is Mohammad Mehfooz , 40, a labourer of Jodhewal area. His friend, Mohammad Rafeeq, is on the run.The incident came to light when the victim’s children revealed the incident to their maternal grandfather, who lives in Bihar.Mohammad Daud, the victim’s father, said that the couple had strained relations. A few days ago, he got a call from the accused, informing him that Naju had died. He was also told that the burial had been completed.“When I asked him why he did not wait for the family members to reach Ludhiana, Mehfooz could not give a satisfactory reply. Thereafter I came to Ludhiana to find out on my own. After much coaxing, my grandchildren, aged 11 and 9, told me their father had killed their mother and they had been threatened against revealing the incident to anyone,” Daud said.The Ludhiana police have sought the district magistrate’s permission to exhume the body for post-mortem.Additional deputy commissioner of police-1 Deepak Pareek said that Mehfooz used to suspect that his wife had illicit relations with other men so he hatched a conspiracy to kill her and also involved Mohammad Rafeeq in the crime. In wee hours of June 14, the duo strangled Naju to death when the children were sleeping at home. However, the children came to know about the incident.”The ADCP added that the police have arrested Mahefooz while his accomplice is absconding.Sub inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, Basti Jodhewal station house officer, said that Mehfooz had promised to pay Rs 30,000 to Rafeeq for helping him in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-labourer-strangulates-wife-buries-body-caught/story-1Gn5DEJXGEVAk4kw33ZzdJ.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||30-year-old man held with 26 banned injections, country-made pistol in Chandigarh||A 30-year-old Ram Darbar resident was arrested with 26 banned injections and a country-made pistol, the police said on Saturday.Accused Samdarsh Kumar was held by the police patrolling team near T-point on the Sector 39A/B dividing road in Chandigarh on June 19, when he was walking on the cycling track.On checking, police recovered 26 injections of Buprenorphine and Pheniramine Maleate, along with a country-made pistol and six live cartridges from his possession. Kumar was arrested. A case was registered under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act.21-YEAR-OLD HELD WITH 22 BANNED INJECTIONSMeanwhile, a 21-year-old Banur resident was also arrested with banned injections, the police said on Saturday. The accused was identified as Dildar Khan. He was arrested near beatbox, Sector 56, and 22 injections of Buprenorphine and Pheniramine Maleate were found from his possession during checking. These injections are misused by addicts as inexpensive alternatives to hard drugs. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/30-year-old-man-held-with-26-banned-injections-country-made-pistol-in-chandigarh/story-8OtQedKxTv9BPdwSdpe2hO.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||Coming up: New containment plan for Mumbai||With the growth rate of Covid-19 cases rising in the city’s suburbs, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to revise its strategies regarding containment and tracing, to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. In the case of redeveloped high-rises under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA), the civic body has decided to revert to sealing entire buildings instead of the single floor on which a resident may have tested positive for Covid-19. This, civic officials explained, is because of the high density in SRA buildings as compared to other high-rises. Starting Sunday, BMC will also conduct door-to-door surveys in high-rises of north Mumbai to detect symptomatic patients, as officials believe that contact tracing has not been foolproof. BMC will also restrict the movement of those residing in containment zones and sealed buildings by sealing buffer zones. “We had a meeting with the Mumbai Police on Friday, after which we have taken several decisions to control the increasing cases. These include door-to-door surveys in high-rises to find new cases and sealing the entire building instead of only the floor in SRA buildings where residents test positive. We have also decided to extend the lockdown in all market areas and buffer zones if large crowds are observed in these places,” said Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner of zone 7. Meanwhile, 1,190 new cases were recorded on Saturday, taking the city’s case count to 65,329. Mumbai reported its highest single-day death count of 136, taking the overall toll to 3,561 deaths. The total number of discharged patients was 32,867, with a recovery rate of 50%. Active cases in the city stood at 28,893. The fatality rate in the city as of Saturday was 5.45%, and the doubling rate has reached 34 days.The change in strategy comes as the city prepares to reach the 80,000-case mark by June-end if the current pace of growth continues. BMC’s focus will now be on five wards in the suburbs, covering areas of Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Mulund, Vikhroli, Kanjurmarg, etc. The daily growth rate in the above-mentioned areas is between 3-4.5% against the average daily growth rate of 2.05% in the city. H East ward, which covers Bandra (East) and Santacruz, has the lowest growth rate in the city (1%), followed by E ward (Byculla, Mazagaon, Mumbai Central) and FN ward (Wadala, Dadar, Matunga, and Sion), both having a growth rate of 1.1%.In both R North ward (Dahisar and parts of Borivli) and PN ward covering Malad, BMC has widened the scope of containment areas by clubbing the buffer zone in the containment zone.“We have decreased the number of containment zones but clubbed the buffer zones in them. The concentration is majorly in slums when it comes to Dahisar (East), high-rises in Dahisar (West), and parts of Borivli. We are restricting the movement of those in containment zones to ensure the cases come down. Currently, there are many hidden cases and we are expecting to bring the number under control in the coming days due to better detection of these hidden cases,” said Sandhya Nandekar, assistant municipal commissioner, R North ward.In R Central ward covering Borivli, BMC claims 70% of the cases are in high-rises, owing to which their focus is to ensure minimal movement of those residing in sealed buildings. Around 60% of Malad, which has major slum areas, has been declared as a containment zone and is under lockdown, where only essential shops can remain open.Bhagyashree Kapse, assistant municipal commissioner of R Central ward, said, “Police had said that we should have a complete lockdown owing to rise in cases but that is not feasible. In my ward, 70% of the cases are in high-rises, and only 30% are from slums that are declared as containment zones. We are releasing those areas where no cases were reported for the last 20 days.”Meanwhile, Dharavi, one of the critical hotspots in Mumbai, reported its lowest number of cases since the first week of April. On Saturday, only seven cases were recorded, taking the total case count of the area to 2,158 with 80 deaths so far. A makeshift 1,000-bed Covid-19 hospital has been set up in the premises of engineering company Richardson and Cruddas in Byculla, according to BMC.In a statement on Saturday, the civic body informed that of the 1,000 beds, 300 are ICU beds with oxygen supply and other facilities. The hospital will be ready to use by the end of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coming-up-new-containment-plan-for-mumbai/story-pqmKNo8LP37dyqUZw8YFRN.html
21-06-2020||City||Pankaj Ashiya takes charge as new BNMC commissioner||The state government on Saturday appointed IAS officer Pankaj Ashiya as the new commissioner of Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC). Ashiya, 31, replaces Pravin Ashtikar, who is still waiting for a posting.Ashiya, a doctor by profession, worked in Malegaon for two months as an in-charge of Malegaon Emergency Operation Centre, established after the coronavirus outbreak in the city. He also assisted Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) in tackling the increasing cases of Covid-19, since June 8.“My team managed to bring down the number of active cases of coronavirus in Malegaon. In Thane, I was assisting the commissioner for five wards which had the highest positive cases. I guided in tracking the contacts, improving health infrastructure etc. In Bhiwandi, I will study the present scenario and work towards reducing the spread of the infection,” said Ashiya.“The best way to control the situation is by following the guidelines set by the government. In Malegaon, we involved locals and community leaders to spread awareness among people, which helped a lot. The same shall be done in Bhiwandi,” he said.Before taking the additional charges at Malegaon, Ashiya was handling an integrated tribal development project at Kalwan, Nashik, since October 2018.Bhiwandi city recorded 81 positive cases on Saturday, and eight deaths, taking the total number of positive cases in the city to 875 and deaths to 66.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pankaj-ashiya-takes-charge-as-new-bnmc-commissioner/story-XV9CN952SIaZYDf2H6es6J.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||State unveils academic planner to help students learn||To ensure students do not miss out on learning as schools remain shut across the state, the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) has come up with an academic planner.The 270-page document consists lesson plans for all subjects for Classes 1 to 10 under the state board curriculum. It lists out chapters to be completed every week between June and September. It will act as a guideline for teachers and parents to help the students learn remotely. “We had already started sending out links to students on a daily basis when the lockdown was announced in March. These links consisted audio-visual content on DIKSHA app, which students could access on their phones. Now, with this planner, we hope that teachers find it easy to teach children remotely even if not all of them have access to live online classes,” said Dinkar Patil, director, MSCERT. The planner also includes embedded links for each module, which parents or students can click on to see audio-visual content on the module. “It has to be circulated to all parents but care needs to be taken that teachers also supplement it with proper instruction and guidance to students with the help of phone, video call or messages,” states the planner. Over the next two weeks, schools across the state will distribute textbooks to students in a phased manner. “We are hoping that once textbooks reach students, learning can begin, especially for those who do not have internet or smartphone. Our teachers can call students and ask them to read and understand one thing at a time with the help of the planner,” said the principal of a suburban school. Schools in the state have started their new academic year from June 15 and have been asked to start online learning for students until physical reopening of schools is permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-unveils-academic-planner-to-help-students-learn/story-BimbLsB7AQZJj27tfEtRrM.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||Another city constable succumbs to Covid-19; toll 32||A 56-year-old policeman from the intelligence wing of the Mumbai Police died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the toll in the city police force to 32.The head constable posted in the special branch-1 was undergoing treatment at Bombay Hospital, where he succumbed to the disease around 7am on Saturday.Sunil Kolhe, additional commissioner of police (special branch-1), said the constable had been staying at home as he was exempted from duty in view of this age.“On June 3 he tested positive and was admitted to Bombay Hospital the next day. He had undergone a bypass surgery in the past and was also diabetic,” said Kolhe.The deceased was living with his mother, wife, two sons and a daughter in police colony, Crawford Market. It is not clear how he contracted the virus. His close contacts have been home quarantined.So far, 2,395 policemen from the city police force have tested positive for Covid-19, of whom 1,667 have recovered completely while the rest are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and Covid care centres.On Saturday, the Maharashtra state police reported 140 new cases and two deaths among its personnel in the last 48 hours, taking the total number of positive cases in the force to 3,960 and death toll to 47.Six crime branch cops test positiveSix police personnel attached with the unit 9 of the Mumbai Police’s crime branch tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday evening. They were tested after a 40-year-old constable tested positive on June 17, following which 11 police personnel including senior inspector Mahesh Desai were home quarantined.On June 18, tests were conducted on an assistant police inspector (API) and five constables and their reports on June 19 revealed that they are positive. The API is admitted in Saifee Hospital in Charni Road while the five constables are admitted in Lilavati Hospital in Bandra. Police station in-charge infectedSenior inspector of a police station in eastern region police has tested positive for Covid-19. Shashi Meena, DCP, zone 6, confirmed the development and said, “He was not well since a week and was on medical leave.”The officer decided to go for testing on June 18 after showing symptoms such as fever and cough. After his report stated he was positive, he was admitted to SevenHills Hospital in Andheri (East).Around a week ago, five thieves arrested by officers of police station had tested positive. Following this, around nine staffers were home quarantined and a sub-inspector tested positive.Use video conferencing apps cautiously: Cyber policeState cyber police on Saturday alerted netizens of some malware on internet which is targetting people by disguising as a video conferencing app named Zoom. A statement released by the special inspector general (Cyber police) stated cyber criminals through the fake Zoom app are targeting those who are using this app for office meetings while working from home. “The malware or the fake app can record the meeting details, capture vital information and can also take remote access/control of your device/computer systems. It is recommended that the users must download the app from authentic and credible platforms,” the statement read.(With inputs from Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-city-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19-toll-32/story-NQ6p24aHhIowCarsrEESXI.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||THE FINAL BLOW: Brass band groups in Ludhiana struggle to stay afloat as weddings become a low-key affair||Once an indispensible part of weddings, the brass band groups in city are struggling to make ends meet as the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant social distancing norms have put a halt on grand-scale celebrations.Band owners say they have not got any bookings in the past three months as couples are either deferring their weddings or going for small, intimate affairs in view of the lockdown.“We got 50 wedding cancellations in the first month of the lockdown itself. And since there is a ban on religious processions too, we have been sitting idle ever since the lockdown was imposed,” says Sham Singh Anand, the owner of Shehanshah Band. Harpreet Mann, the owner of Sartaj Band and Milan Band, says, “Due to the cap on gatherings, most people are giving bands a skip. The government has allowed only 50 persons to participate in wedding events but the band groups itself comprise of five to 40 crew members.”Mann says the government should either increase the cap on gatherings or provide monetary relief to bands till the situation improves.CREW MEMBERS FORCED TO LOOK FOR ODD JOBSMeanwhile, the crew members of these bands are forced to look for alternate job options.Vinod Kumar, a dhol player with the Sartaj Band, says, “As there are no wedding functions or religious events, I have been forced to sell vegetables to make a living. I have three children but due to financial crunch, I was unable to get them admitted to school this year.”Satish Kumar, another member of the band, says, “I have been working with the band for 15 years. But now, I am working as an autorickshaw driver to earn a livelihood. After paying the auto’s rent, I am left with a meager amount which is often not enough to meet the day-to-day expenses.”‘GOVT SHOULD PROVIDE RELIEF’Harwinder Jolly, president of the Ludhiana brass band association, says, “We have been in this business for over 25 years but have never witnessed anything like this. There are around 70 band groups in Ludhiana and everyone is struggling to stay afloat. We appeal to the government to announce some relief for the sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/the-final-blow-brass-band-groups-in-ludhiana-struggle-to-stay-afloat-as-weddings-become-a-low-key-affair/story-XXJgeEfWrQq7qbMiFIuDPO.html
21-06-2020||City||40-year-old man commits suicide in Zirakpur||A 40-year-old man committed suicide on Saturday in Zirakpur by hanging himself from a tree on the Patiala-Zirakpur road, the police said. The victim was a resident of Khanna city. The father of the deceased told the police that his son was under mental stress and had taken to the bottle. The victim had come to Zirakpur in the morning on Friday, and on Saturday told his family he was going out to get some medicine. Police said the man had a quarrel with his family over his alcohol problem. The body will be handed over to the family after postmortem, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-man-commits-suicide-in-zirakpur/story-aBjOUfVCxvveyVpBrWeezM.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s RWAs relieved after revision of mandatory quarantine order||Residents across the national capital on Saturday said they were “relieved” that an order mandating five days of institutional quarantine for all Covid-19 patients was rolled back. Many citizens groups said quarantining all Covid-19 patients, even those with mild symptoms, would discourage people from getting tested for the infectious disease.Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal in his capacity as head of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Friday issued an order making five days of institutional quarantine compulsory for all Covid-19 patients, irrespective of their symptoms — a move the Delhi government said was “arbitrary” and “harmful” for the city.However, Baijal on Saturday evening tweeted, “Regarding institutional isolation, only those COVID positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment and do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation.”As of Saturday, the national capital has recorded 56,746 Covid-19 cases, of whom 2,112 have died. On Saturday, at least 50 resident welfare associations (RWA) in the city wrote to the L-G, asking him reconsider the order, and mandating institutional quarantine for only without adequate space for isolation at home.Dr Ruby Makhija, secretary, Navjeevan Vihar RWA, Malviya Nagar, welcomed the move and said it was a matter of reassurance for people.“Local authorities can rope in RWAs to help patients under home isolation. For instance, they can follow up on their health and make essentials available to them,” said Makhija, an ophthalmologist, whose RWA, along with 49 others, wrote to the L-G.Later on Saturday, once the order was revoked, the 50 RWAs wrote another letter to the L-G, this time lauding the decision, and adding that “associations look forward to being consulted in such matters”.These included the RWAs of Greater Kailash 1, Anand Lok, Vasant Vihar, Sarvodya Enclave, Mandakini Enclave, Geetanjali Enclave, Mayur Vihar, Ashok Vihar and east Delhi’s Federation of RWAs, among others.Suresh Goel (61) a resident of Vasant Vihar, said it was sensible to have withdrawn the order. “There are many who need their family’s support to recover. The government must focus on providing beds to those in need of hospital care, which has been an issue so far,” he said.Members of United Residents Joint Action (URJA), an umbrella body of 2,500 RWAs in the city, said it was a timely move to revoke the order, but added that it should not have been issued in the first place.“Issuing such orders creates confusion and panic among people, who are already battling so many odds. There should be proper consultations before passing such an order that can majorly impact the populace,” said Atul Goyal, president, URJA.Rejimon CK, a member of Dwarka Forum, said a number of associations in the area had arranged for medical equipment such as oxygen concentrators and cylinders, as emergency aid for people under home isolation. “The government must ensure that in the event a patient’s condition deteriorates, people should be able to avail an ambulance and find a bed in a facility where they are attended to properly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rwas-relieved-after-revision-of-mandatory-quarantine-order/story-pydLkpQKfvYxhAgJvYdkWN.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Scramble for beds, ambulances, confusion before order reversed||By Saturday evening when Delhi L-G Anil Baijal revised his Friday’s order to put all Covid-19 patients who were under home isolation in institutional quarantine, officials in many districts had already put many in the quarantine centres while others were scrambling to arrange beds and ambulances needed for such patients. On Saturday evening, the L-G issued a fresh order saying only those needing hospitalisation and not having adequate facilities for home isolation would have to undergo institutional quarantine.Officials in at least three districts -- South, Southwest and West -- confirmed to HT sending patients in home isolation to quarantine centres since Friday evening. In the Southwest district, there were even cases where asymptomatic persons who tested positive for Covid refused to get into an ambulance and threatened to take legal recourse, a senior official in the district said on condition of anonymity. Throughout the day, several Covid-19 patients currently under home isolation were moved to Covid care centres even as the government was engaged in a dialogue with the L-G for overturning the decision of five-day mandatory home isolation. “Several ambulances had been kept ready for moving patients from home isolation to the centres. We were getting calls from the district authorities about the transfer. But, the problem was that many of the centres were refusing to admit the patients. Some of the ambulance were on call for two to three hours waiting with the patient at the centres to see whether they would be admitted,” said a CATS (Centralised Accident and Trauma Services) Ambulance employee on condition of anonymity.For most part of the day, officers were also confused whether the order was also applicable on the 10,490 Covid patients who were in home quarantine till Friday. Later, principal secretary (health and family welfare) Vikram Dev Dutt clarified to all officers that people in home isolation till June 19 were not supposed to be sent to the quarantine centres unless anyone was found violating the ICMR guidelines.At the same time districts such as Shahdara and East chose to wait until there is more clarity on the matter. District magistrates, who are responsible to arrange such facilities and requisition them accordingly, said had the L-G’s order not been withdrawn they would have had no option but to compromise on the quality and safety parameters.“If we actually had to continue keeping everyone under institutional isolation, we would have had to take over all stadiums and even the smallest dharamshalas apart from the banquet halls and hotels, some of which are paid facilities. The middle and upper middle class residents already complained to us after the order as to why they are being subjected to opt for paid and substandard facilities when they can get cured in their homes,” said an official in the South district.In Shahdara, the quarantine facility running in the Mandoli police quarters had gloomy state of affairs. In some flats, the beds were laid out on the floor while only a few had cots. The toilets in these flats were dirty and unkempt. There was no hot drinking water facility, a basic requirement for Covid patients.Officials in the Shahdara district also said they reached out to the Northern Railways on Saturday after the L-G’s order to ready the railway coaches at Anand Vihar. When it comes to toilets, the ratio was even worse in some of the banquet halls, 77 of which have been identified to create over 11,000 beds. HT visited three banquet halls ---- two in Karol Bagh and one opposite Lok Nayak hospital and saw there were two toilets for 50 persons and no bathrooms. Some had three. Besides, there were no charging points or tables or chairs available with the beds to charge phones or keep essential items.When asked about these problems a government spokesperson said facilities in banquet halls and hotels are still being readied and that the issues highlighted will be addressed. With monsoon expected by next week, at least four DMs HT spoke to on Saturday said mosquitoes were turning out to be major issue in their respective centres. Some said they were ordering mosquito nets while others were procuring coils.“We are placing orders for mosquito nets. With monsoon coming the problem is going to get even bigger. Already we have started getting a lot of complaints,” said an official who manages the quarantine centres set up in government flats in Narela. Heat is another major problem which these centres are battling with. While coolers are being arranged at some places, some authorities are also resorting to trying different initiatives to finding solutions to the problems.In South Delhi’s Radha Saomi Satsan Beas facility which is touted to be the country’s biggest CCC with a capacity of 10,000 beds, the workers of the religious institute were found applying mud packs on the floors to keep the shed cool.To bring down the temperatures inside the train coaches, railway officials said they are considering using “bubble sheets” on the roof of the coaches which could bring down temperatures “by three-four degrees.”One aspect which all officials agreed would not be a problem is food. “We have done it during the lockdown. Food was being prepared in a decentralized manner for around 12 lakh people every day. So that is one thing which is doable,” an official, who did not wish to be named, said.For the districts which on Saturday actually began to take away Covid positive persons in their government-run quarantine facilities, also known as Covid care centres (CCCs), the respective administrations said at the city’s current positivity rate, the available beds would last only for about five days.In Delhi, the average rate of samples testing positive for Covid-19, has grown from 7% on May 17 to over 31% on June 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mad-scramble-for-beds-ambulances-confusion-before-l-g-s-order-was-revised/story-flmWdJBE9Qii8wDgzhv48O.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi directs its hospitals to recall all staffers from leave||The Delhi government’s health department has directed all hospitals and medical institutions under it to recall all their employees on leave and ask them to report for duty immediately. The special secretary of the health department SM Ali issued the order on Friday. A senior health department official has said that leave of any kind would only be granted under the “most compelling circumstances.”“…Issue directions to all staff who are on leave of any kind to immediately report for their duties in their concerned hospital or medical institution without fail,” the order read. The medical directors of bigger Delhi government hospitals reported the shortage of staff as one of the chief reasons for their inability to expand intensive care unit services for Covid patients. “We have asked everyone on leave to join back duty immediately and cancelled all leaves. With the rising number of Covid-19 cases, we will need more staff in the coming days,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital.To combat the challenges in the hospitals, the government on Thursday ordered that the final-year student pursuing their MD/MS/ DNB (post-graduate medical training) and final-year students of undergraduate and post-graduate nursing will be hired for the next six months.“The students will help the doctors in various areas of the hospital. This will free up doctors for ICUs and other critical patients,” said Dr Kumar.Earlier this week, the health department had also issued another order that stated that action would be taken against health department staff not reporting to work. Only those who had tested positive for Covid-19 were allowed to remain in home isolation. This came at a time when the city’s health minister tested positive for the infection. Prior to this order, the director general of health services also had to undergo quarantine for feverAs of Saturday, the national capital has recorded 56,746 Covid-19 cases, of whom 2,112 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-directs-hospitals-to-recall-all-staff-on-leave/story-tqAP0bRnAtIEduXJwekwiI.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Health minister Satyendar Jain’s condition improves after plasma therapy||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s condition has improved after receiving plasma therapy for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday night at Max hospital, Saket. The minister’s fever has subsided and he is off oxygen support, according to hospital sources. He is currently stable and is being monitored by a team of critical care specialists in the hospital’s intensive care unit, according to sources.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a component of the blood called plasma, which is rich in virus-fighting antibodies, from someone who has recovered from the infection, to boost an infected person’s immunity.The therapy is currently provided only under a multi-centric a clinical trial that is being spearheaded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In Delhi, seven hospitals are enrolled for the trial, including Max Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.Jain, 55, had tested positive for the infection on Wednesday, after testing negative a day before that. He had been admitted to the Delhi-government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur on Monday night with a high-grade fever and low oxygen saturation. He had attended an all-party meeting held by the Union home minister Amit Shah the same day.At the hospital, he had been on intermittent oxygen to manage the symptoms. He had developed pneumonia, a known complication of Covid-19. The minister, who has no comorbidities, started getting breathless and giddy on Friday morning.The infection usually causes severe symptoms in older people and those with comorbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney or heart disease. His CT scan on Friday afternoon showed that the pneumonia patch in his lungs had increased. He was moved to the intensive care unit of the hospital in the morning.As his symptoms worsened, the minister was shifted to Max hospital, Saket. Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday had tweeted, “Praying for the speedy recovery of Shri Satyendra Jain, Health Minister of Delhi who is battling with COVID-19 infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/health-minister-satyendar-jain-s-condition-improves-after-plasma-therapy/story-vbJmq9Hvl8WP7jShxOEGjL.html
21-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt plans to augment its ambulance fleet to up to 1,000||New Delhi: With the number of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rising in the city, the Delhi government plans to expand its ambulance fleet to 1,000 by June-end to meet the increasing demand. To augment the fleet, the government has also requested the police to provide 100 PCR vehicles to be used as ambulance. Four other companies have been asked to provide more ambulances to help the government reach the fleet strength of 1,000.In its communication to the companies and the police, the government has said, “Due to increasing number of calls in view of Covid-19, the fleet of ambulance is required to be augmented to up to 1,000 by June 30. Department of Health and Family Welfare is striving to arrange for this additional requirement of ambulances at the earliest.”Currently, the state government through its Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) runs about 200 ambulances. Another 170 ambulances have been added through contracts with private ambulance companies and the Army.Of these, 163 are currently on ‘Corona duty’ ferrying patients from home to hospital, transfer between hospitals, and take people who don’t have personal vehicles to testing centres.As per data provided by the government in the daily health bulletin, there were 243 request calls for Covid-19 ambulances.“The requirement for ambulances has dipped a little after the lockdown. This is because now most people can use their own vehicles to take patients to hospitals. However, the requirement is likely to pick up with the number of Covid-19 patients increasing and several needing hospitalisations,” said a health department official, on condition of anonymity.So far, Delhi has 53,116 cases of Covid-19 and 2,035 people have died of it.The government anticipates that the number of cases is likely to touch 1 lakh by the end of the month and 5.5 lakh by the end of July. To prepare for the surge, the government is planning to create makeshift hospitals in hotels, banquet halls, and stadiums.Not only is the government working on increasing the number of ambulances, they are also working to increase the phone lines for the services. It has contacted WIPRO, the company that helped the government set up the modern control room in Laxmi Nagar to increase the number of telephone line to 60 from the current 30, “to minimise the call-waiting time for a citizen in need of ambulance services.”People can call for an ambulance on the number ‘102’ or on 7291000071, 7291000078, 7291000093 and 7291000094.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-plans-to-augment-its-ambulance-fleet-to-up-to-1-000/story-vPH2HmOXswWAMLhSVN8JSL.html
21-06-2020||Gurugram||State forms task force to study Covid-19 deaths without co-morbidities||With nearly 66% of the Covid-19 deaths from Haryana were due to co-morbidities that the patients suffered from, doctors from PGIMS, Rohtak will partner with those from AIIMS, New Delhi to set up a task force to study the cause of death in the rest. Researchers across the world have reported that patients with co-morbidity conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cancer or any respiratory illness are at a significantly higher risk of being critically ill once they contract the coronavirus disease. The rest, given their age and immunity, have a good chance to make a full recovery.On Saturday, Haryana reported 10,223 cases (480 fresh cases) and 149 deaths (5 new deaths), resulting in a mortality rate of 1.45%. At 4,307 (171 new) Gurugram has 37% of the total case load in the state, and 59 deaths.“Two-thirds of the deaths we have seen are of patients who suffer from some form of comorbidity,” said Dr. Dhruv Chaudhary of PGIMS Rohtak, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 tertiary care (for critical cases) in the state. “One way to cut down deaths is to reduce the number of those moderate cases from becoming critical.”Although they are still trying to figure out the medical reasons where patients without any co-morbidities are succumbing to the disease, Dr. Chaudhary points to two possible reasons.“Time is wasted, after the onset of symptoms, on figuring out where to admit them after they test positive -- people run between government and private hospitals. In this process, a patient with moderate symptoms turns into a critical care patient,” said Dr. Chaudhary “Second, a patient with moderate symptom is scared of institutional quarantine and are avoiding it. Majority of the positive patients are struggling to understand the disease. We are trying to address these issues that can help in controlling the rising death numbers.” “Our team is collecting reports prepared by Covid-19 death audit committees in different districts. What we are seeing as a critical issue is the poor continuity of medical care in some of the cases,” he added.The reports prepared by the death audit committee shows that people who have succumbed to the disease were admitted directly to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Most of them died within a day or two after suffering a heart attack or kidney failure, especially those who had no co-morbidity issues.“A task force has been set up who are coordinating with the doctors in AIIMS to study the cause of deaths in such cases,” said a senior state official, privy to matter. Dr Chaudhury confirmed this to HT.Currently, at least 80 patients in Gurugram are under critical care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-forms-task-force-to-study-covid-19-deaths-without-co-morbidities/story-yvQqLxCTGk6jv2KRa6TJ4H.html
21-06-2020||Gurugram||Insurance may not be enough to cover Covid treatment: Data||A medical insurance policy may not be enough to cover the costs of Covid-19 treatment at a private facility in the district, suggests industry data compiled by the General Council of Insurance (GIC). The data shows that patients in Gurugram have been spending an average amount close to half their treatment costs out-of-pocket, per claim. Industry insiders and employees of private hospitals attributed this discrepancy to the cost of ‘overhead consumables’, such as PPE kits, which aren’t liable to be covered under existing health policies. They also spoke of increased operating costs being borne by private hospitals which are, in turn, driving up the cost of treatment—resulting in a tussle between insurers and hospitals, but ultimately impacting patients.Manish, who wished to be identified only by his first name, and whose parents were both admitted to a corporate hospital in Sector 29, received two bills for their treatment. “For my mother, I was charged about ₹1.5 lakh for a week of stay. She did not require any intensive care, just isolation, and insurance covered almost 90% of the bill. But my father has been on the ventilator and received plasma therapy. His bill is more than three times the amount. My insurer is not willing to cover more than 60% of the bill.” A private insurer said that they are not receiving substantially high claims for the treatment of mild or asymptomatic cases. “But when it comes patients who have been in the ICU, for example, the bills can be as much as ₹7 lakh-₹8 lakh. The number of patients requiring intensive care in Gurugram has not been as high as in Delhi, going by the claim amounts we are receiving.”Even so, data shows that there is a large discrepancy between what insurers are willing to pay, and what patients are having to spend out-of-pocket. A total of 459 insurance claims were made in the district up to June 17, to the tune of ₹8.8 crore. While 266 of these claims have been settled, the amounts disbursed by insurance companies is less than half—about ₹3.1 crore. The average claim size—or the amount claimed for treatment by a single patient—comes to ₹1.93 lakh in Gurugram (based on data for 459 claims filed with private insurers up to June 17). The average settlement size is ₹1.15 lakh, indicating that patients in Gurugram are paying an average cost of ₹78,000 out-of-pocket per claim. “Our liabilities include the cost of the beds, medicines, and so on, but don’t include items not used in the direct treatment of the patient. PPE kits, for example, are used by a healthcare worker. The cost should be borne by hospitals, and most insurers will be opposed to footing it,” said an underwriting officer at a leading national insurance company, which has processed over 100 insurance claims in Gurugram. The employee of another private sector insurer, on condition of anonymity, said, “Consumables form a major portion of surgical cases amounting to almost 10% of the total bill. But for Covid-19 cases, even mild ones, they constitute a much a larger share, sometimes as much as 50%, depending on the hospital.” The employee added that insurers typically have a cap on bed rents and ICUs, the cost for which has been driven up due to increased demand. “A typical Arogya Sanjeevani health product caps the room rent payable by the insurer at ₹5,000 per day, but in Gurugram and Delhi, room rents at some hospitals are exceeding ₹20,000 a day,” the employee added.Data shows that across Haryana, too, patients are paying close to half of their treatment costs out-of-pocket. Of 384 claims for Covid-19 treatment (till June 9), Haryana’s total claim size was ₹5.99 crore. The average amount settled (up to June 9), however, comes to ₹2.23 crore (about 37% of the amount claimed). Haryana’s average claim size amounts to ₹1.56 lakh, while the average amount settled comes to ₹84,000, indicating an out-of-pocket expenditure (borne by the patient) of ₹72,000 per claim. A senior physician dealing directly with Covid-19 patients at a prominent corporate hospital in Palam Vihar explained that private hospitals across India have had to invest heavily in logistical changes to keep patients and employees safe from Covid-19. “We are putting up health care workers in alternate accommodations, reserving separate dialysis machines for patients, setting up negative pressure isolation rooms, spending on PPEs, increasing the health cover provided to doctors and nurses, and so on. Operating costs are up by at least 20%, so naturally, treatment costs are up, too,” the doctor said. Experts, on the other hand, criticised this response and stressed on the need to not just cap prices, but also more transparent billing. “Figures compiled by GIC show that Covid-19 treatment is prohibitive even for persons who are covered by insurance, because of huge out-of-pocket expenditures. In general, hospitals are levying higher charges on patients due to increased operating costs, but this is disingenuous because costs for PPE and biomedical waste disposal were anyway being offloaded on to patients,” Malini Aisola, co-convenor at the All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN), said.Aisola added that this practice of straddling patients with additional expenses amid a pandemic requires official intervention as is being done in several states—through fixing Covid-19 treatment charges based on cost analysis. Moreover, while the IRDAI has instructed general and standalone insurers to redraft their policies (to include consumables) by September 30, Aisola said this date may be too far down the line to help patients in need of immediate relief.VS Kundu, the nodal officer for Covid-19 monitoring in Gurugram, said, “We have instated a committee to specifically address the high cost of treatment at private hospitals. Their report should be out in a day or two. That should provide some clarity to all stakeholders, whether hospitals, patients, or insurers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/insurance-may-not-be-enough-to-cover-covid-treatment-data/story-SBf1f8awIALsTOteo24mjP.html
21-06-2020||Gurugram||Nine ‘most-wanted’ ATM lifters, including former Delhi cop, arrested||The Nuh police team arrested nine “most wanted” men, including a suspended Delhi Police assistant sub-inspector, on Thursday and Friday in connection with investigations into over 300 ATM thefts across the country.Police identified the Delhi Police officer as 50-year-old Aslup Khan who had gone missing in 2016 and was allegedly involved in over 100 such cases in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Police claim Khan was the mastermind of the spate of thefts.The other suspects were identified by their first names as (all between 25 to 52 years of age) Shaukat, Shahid, Farukh, Shahjid Shorab, Jamshed alias Pittal, Shahid alias Polo, Sher alias Sadar and Sadruddin of Sikharpur village. All were carrying reward of ₹50,000 on their arrest, said police adding that they have recovered uprooted ATM kiosks and ₹10 lakh from them.Narender Bijarnia, superintendent of police (SP), Nuh, said they had received a tip about Aslup Khan and raided his villages Shikarpur on Thursday and thereafter raided Nagina and Punhana villages on Friday from where they caught the other eight.“Khan in December 2016 had gone on leave but never returned. He was suspended and his salary withheld. Later, his involvement was discovered in a few ATM thefts. Our investigation revealed he had formed a gang of more than 20 people who were actively involved in thefts and carjacking,” he said.During interrogation, he allegedly told the police about their involvement in over 300 ATM thefts across eight states. “He stole more than ₹15 crore in the last four years and revealed the modus operandi of his gang,” said Bijarnia.Khan and his associates used to travel in flights to different states to conduct reconnaissance of targets before uprooting the ATM kiosks. Police said special police teams from Kerala, Delhi, and Haryana were formed to arrest Khan but he managed to evade them each time.“There are more than 100 gangs operating from Nuh who are actively involved in uprooting ATMs. We have formed teams and are targeting all the proclaimed offenders and have started operation clean up in the district,” said the SP.After much resistance from residents, the team managed to apprehend suspects while they were resting at their respective homes after allegedly returning from their operations of uprooting ATMs from Uttar Pradesh during lockdown in the last three days.Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said, “We have not been informed about any such arrest. The information will be verified as and when it comes and further action would be taken accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nine-most-wanted-atm-lifters-including-former-delhi-cop-arrested/story-Mk8qjogFPOnynZsdxZjI4N.html
21-06-2020||Noida||Noida extends date for rescheduling of land dues for developers||In the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the Noida authority on Saturday said it has extended the date to reschedule pending land dues owed to the authority till September 30. The authority’s finance controller, Sudhir Singh, has issued an order asking developers to take benefit of this opportunity to reschedule their outstanding amount as per rules and start paying pending dues. According to the earlier order issued on February 19 this year, developers were asked to get their dues rescheduled by the end of April. But they could not do so due to the national lockdown.“Therefore, we have now extended the date to September-end for developers and other allottees such as industrial and institutional plot owners,” said Singh.The authority had allotted housing land to developers after accepting 10% down payment of the land cost, and the builders were supposed to pay remaining 90% cost in instalments. But due to slowdown in the real estate sector, several builders failed to pay dues on time. As a result, they were asked to get their outstanding rescheduled and start paying up in instalments.According to officials, the authority struggles to recover about Rs 25,000 crore in land dues from at least 100 developers. NO PENAL INTEREST ON DEFAULTERSThe authority has also decided to stop imposing penal interest against defaulting builders, as the UP government has waived it off in the wake of the pandemic. On June 9, the state government had asked the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authorities to reduce the interest rates on land dues for builders and other allottees in view of the coronavirus crisis.“Developers need to deposit dues without penal interest, restart construction and deliver flats to aggrieved homebuyers. The authority has waived off penal interest for developers. But realtors will have to submit an affidavit stating they will pass on the benefit to homebuyers,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.Earlier, defaulter builders had to pay a penal interest of up to 20% on dues, thereby increasing the total default amount. The state government has asked authorities to levy simple interest on financial dues as per the marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) revised by the Reserve Bank of India, said the officials. Now, the authorities shall levy simple interest of 8% on dues, said the officials. “It was a long standing demand of developers that the authority should not impose exorbitant penal interest up to 20% on dues as it affects the realty project’s economic viability. Now, the Supreme Court also directed the three authorities to levy only simple 7-8% interest on dues. It will revive the sector and enable developers to deliver stuck projects,” said RK Arora, Uttar Pradesh president of National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a developers’ group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-extends-date-for-rescheduling-of-land-dues-for-developers/story-nhCS3JCjMoAOryWgvHS8NL.html
21-06-2020||Noida||Noida admin reaches out to civil society for help in fight against Covid||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has asked all residents welfare associations (RWA), apartment owners associations (AOA), village heads and other socially active residents or interested individuals in the district to come forward to and help in the fight against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in their respective areas.Officials said under this initiative, socially active citizens or groups in each residential sector, housing society or village would be encouraged to take on the role of ‘monitoring volunteers’ to help health workers in contact tracing of positive patients and screening processes. Officials said RWAs and AOAs have been told to buy pulse oximeters (small, handheld devices used to measure oxygen levels in the body) to screen suspected Covid patients. This is aimed at screening large numbers of people as soon as possible.“The idea is to detect Covid-positive patients at an early stage and provide them treatment without any delay. Six hundred teams of the district, each of which has two health workers, are engaged in door-to-door screening. We want that RWAs, AOAs, village heads or other interest individuals work together with these health workers in their respective areas so that the job is finished at the earliest,” said Narendra Bhooshan, the Greater Noida authority chief executive officer who is the nodal officer for the Noida district to handle the Covid-19 outbreak. The Uttar Pradesh government has appointed nodal officers at various levels to work effectively to reduce the death rate and also for better handling of the coronavirus cases across the state.By Saturday evening, there were a total of 1,303 positive coronavirus cases in the district. The tally includes the 41 new cases reported in past 24 hours.“With the help of a pulse oximeter, AOA or RWA office-bearers can check the oxygen level of a Covid-suspected person. If the oxygen level is between 95 and 100, it is considered to be normal. However if the oxygen level is below that, coupled with breathlessness, then those persons should get a Covid test done and treatment should be started. With this kind of help, AOAs, RWAs, and the like can play a very crucial role in fighting Covid-19 effectively,’ said Bhooshan.Residents’ bodies welcomed the move, with some having purchased pulse oximeters and other equipment already.“We welcome this step by the administration and will support the health teams identify those who need immediate medical help. We will coordinate with the administration accordingly. We have already purchased a pulse oximeter and an oxygen cylinder to help those who need it in the time of crisis. Many AOAs or RWAs have done this,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of AOA, an umbrella body with at least 70 housing societies under its wing. RWA bodies and social activists, meanwhile, said officials should keep them informed, for best results.“We are ready to work in coordination with the administration to fight Covid-19. But the administration must keep all RWAs in the loop while taking action related with Covid-19 operations in any given sector,” said NP Singh, president of Gautam Budh Nagar district development RWA, a residents’ body.“Awareness about Covid-19 is paramount to effectively fight the spread of the disease. And I as a socially active citizen am ready to extend help to the administration to contain the infection’s spread,” said Tikam Singh, a social activist from Sector 135.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-admin-reaches-out-to-civil-society-for-help-in-fight-against-covid/story-dS8DZdHxW9qCbiN7T99ucK.html
21-06-2020||Noida||Noida cop accused of assaulting Delhi health official at DND||A Noida police sub-inspector allegedly assaulted a deputy health officer with the Delhi government on Friday evening at the Delhi-Noida Direct Flyway border.The deputy, Dr. Saurabh Mishra, DHO with the west zone, was on his way home in sector 137 from Rajouri Garden, when the incident happened, according to Namrata Narayan, his wife.“It was around 6.30 pm when he passed the border. They have been travelling across the border for almost three months and have all the necessary documents. But yesterday, the driver was stopped by a constable while my husband was asleep in the back seat. The cop started harassing the driver asking him why the passenger was asleep,” said Namrata Narayan, his wife, adding that Mishra was unavailable to speak to the media.The doctor was then woken up and the constable allegedly told him also that this was no way to travel in a vehicle. According to Narayan, Mishra told the police constable that it was his vehicle. “By then he was out of the car. Suddenly, a sub-inspector came from behind who pulled my husband’s collar and started manhandling him. They even threatened to turn his vehicle away. They were behaving this way even though there was no problem with their documents or ID cards.Later, the sector 20 station house officer R K Singh came and sorted the matter. But this is no way for police to behave with an official or any person,” said Narayan.Mishra later filed a written complaint with the sector 20 police against the constable and the sub-inspector.Police officials have launched an inquiry in the matter while CCTV footage of the incident is also being scanned.“ACP 1 is handling the enquiry after which necessary disciplinary action will be taken,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.Noida’s border with Delhi has been sealed since April with only essential services personnel or medical professionals being allowed to travel while Noida police claims to maintain checks for passes on both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-cop-accused-of-assaulting-delhi-health-official-at-dnd/story-ZQI3gVVRA76VnWlYMsKLCN.html
21-06-2020||Mumbai||Charity commissioner files affidavit in HC on beds for the poor||Despite reserving 90 beds for patients from indigent and economically weaker sections, KJ Somaiya Hospital and Research Centre treated only four poor patients for Covid-19 since the imposition of the lockdown, Maharashtra charity commissioner RN Joshi said in an affidavit filed in Bombay high court (HC) on Friday.The charity commissioner, however, expressed difficulties in making any comment on the specific complaint of the petitioners of not being provided free of cost treatment at the hospital under indignant or weaker section categories, as none of them presented documentary evidence to reveal their income status.The affidavit was filed pursuant to an order passed by a bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar after seven slum dwellers from Bharat Nagar, Bandra (West), in a petition alleged that the hospital, run by a charitable trust, collectively charged them ₹12.5 lakh for their Covid-19 treatment between April 11 and 28.In the petition filed through advocate Vivek Shukla, the residents said they were also charged for anaesthetic services, even though it was not required for their treatment. Their petition also alleged that after their discharge from the hospital, they found that though the hospital is run by a charitable trust, owing to which it availed several facilities from the state government, but did not provide the mandatory free treatment to patients belonging to the lower strata of the society.The petition is scheduled to come up for further hearing on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-reserving-90-beds-charitable-hospital-provided-covid-treatment-to-only-4-poor-patients/story-h89CWYe1rLTUaK3C5OvjrN.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana annuls tenders of two Chinese firms||The BJP-led Haryana government has decided to put in effect a trade ban on Chinese companies by annulling two tenders for installation of flue gas de-sulphurisation (FGD) system at their thermal power plants in Hisar and Yamunanagar.The works under the two tenders carried a financial implication of about ₹780 crore.Top officials said the lowest bidders (L-1) for both the tenders were Chinese firms – Beijing SPC Environment Protection Tech for Yamunanagar power plant and Shanghai Electric Corporation for the Hisar power plant. The prices quoted by the Chinese bidders were quite competitive, officials said.“We are going for a fresh tender with changed conditions. Only companies registered in India will be eligible to participate as per the terms and conditions of the new tender,” said a top official.The environment, forest and climate change ministry had in December 2015 issued new environmental norms for thermal power plants mandating installation of pollution control equipment. The state government decided to install the FGD system at its power generating plants in Hisar and Yamunanagar. National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) was appointed as the consultant. The Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL) invited applications through international competitive bidding route.A total of five bids, including three from Chinese companies, were received for Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Thermal Power Station in Yamunanagar. Indian bidder EPIL also participated in collaboration with a Chinese firm and M/s BHEL applied jointly with a non-Chinese foreign firm. Three companies, including two Chinese firms, participated in the tender for Hisar power plant. The third bidder was M/s BHEL which made a bid in foreign collaboration.“In the prevailing economic situation due to Covid-19 and in line with the Central government’s policies to encourage indigenous companies, it has been decided to scout for Indian firms for the project using the domestic bidding pattern,” said HPGCL managing director Mohammad Shayin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-puts-trade-embargo-on-chinese-firms-annuls-two-tenders/story-9Qydd3qT0gCEwp9XjOH3HN.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||6 people, including constable, health worker, test positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula||A Haryana police constable and a health worker were among six persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Saturday, taking the district’s count to 84.The 47-year-old constable from Yamunanagar had recently returned from training in Gurgaon and was to join the traffic police station in Sector 4. The 30-year-old health worker with the district health department was commuting daily from Ambala to Panchkula on duty.Other patients include two men aged 40 and 43 years from Kalka and Vikas Vihar Colony, respectively; and two women aged 42 and 28 years from Jaloli in Barwala and Kalka, respectively.Of the 84 persons who tested positive in the district , 41 have been discharged and the rest are under treatment, said Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.Apart from this, 44 persons who had travelled to Panchkula from other districts had contracted the infection.Confusion over numbersMeanwhile, a bulletin issued by the Haryana government said of the 87 cases testing positive in the district, 40 had been cured and 47 remained active. And even as the district health authorities said six persons tested positive on Saturday, the press note issued by the district administration said 12 cases were reported from different parts of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-including-constable-health-worker-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-p-kula/story-CBDdPMhEDg69qMPBELkgpK.html
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Domestic help makes off with cheques for ₹2.8 lakh in Chandigarh||Police have booked a female domestic help for stealing two cheques from her employer’s house in Manimajra.Hargopal Arora of Modern Housing Complex (MHC), Manimajra, alleged that their help, Kiran, a resident of Manimajra, stole two cheques for Rs 2.8 lakh in all.After she failed to return the cheques, they terminated her services in May, and filed a complaint at the public window at police headquarters, Sector 9. On his complaint, a case under Sections 381, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Manimajra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/domestic-help-makes-off-with-cheques-for-2-8-lakh/story-8S132AmRMiJEC5VMqPcVDP.html
