22-06-2020||Gurugram||Four men loot ₹3 lakh from store employees on Golf Course Road||At least four men allegedly robbed ₹3 lakh from two employees of a departmental store on last Saturday after threatening to stab them on Golf Course Road in DLF Phase-1, said the police on Monday. The police said one of the employees was injured in the incident and rushed to a hospital for treatment.According to the police, the incident took place on Saturday at 10.30am when the staffers of a departmental store in DLF Phase-1 were on their way to a bank in Sector 44 to deposit cash. The police said their car had reached Arjun Marg and was about to take a turn when another white car blocked their path. One of the staffers, Sanjay Singh, said that the white car had been following them and trying to push them to the side of the road for several minutes. “I had signalled to the car driver to maintain distance. But suddenly, he parked the car in front of us at the turning. At least four men, two of whom were masked, alighted from the car. One of the suspects, who had a blade in his hand, snatched the car keys. He attacked my colleague, Swaminath, with the blade and snatched the bag containing the cash. Swaminath suffered a cut on his arm and neck. The other suspects threatened to stab us with a knife. They fled after stealing the bag,” Singh said, adding that the bag contained ₹3 lakh cash. Swaminath was discharged from the hospital on Sunday evening, said the police. The police on Monday recovered the car used by the suspects from Sohna. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “An initial probe suggests that the suspects had done a recce and were aware that the employees of the departmental store routinely deposited cash in the bank. We are probing if an ‘insider’ was involved in the planning. The suspects’ car was found abandoned from Sohna.”The police said they have retrieved footage from CCTVs on Golf Course Road and efforts are on to trace the suspects. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 379 B (punishment for snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at DLF Phase-1 police station on Sunday, said the police. In another incident, several armed men allegedly stole at least 125 cases of liquor from a liquor store in village Khutpuri in Sadar Sohna on Saturday night. The police said the suspects allegedly held a liquor store employee hostage at the gunpoint before loading the liquor cases onto their car. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that the suspects took several rounds in their car and transported the liquor to an unidentified location. “The suspects are yet to be identified. An FIR has been registered,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/four-men-loot-3-lakh-from-store-employees-on-golf-course-road/story-HvWcQxzaydTSJ1TOVyqAgM.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Virus takes 99 days to infect over 11,000 people in Haryana||Covid-19 cases in Haryana on Monday went past the gloomy 11,000 mark with 390 fresh infections, pushing the tally to 11,025, a health bulletin stated. The state also recorded nine deaths, taking the fatality count to 169 (116 men, 53 women). Faridabad saw 176 infections, which took the district’s tally of cumulative cases to 2,413, while Gurugram, another badly hit NCR district, recorded 85 cases. So far, Gurugram has logged total 4,512 Covid-19 infections, 1,819 of which are active. On Monday, Rohtak witnessed 31 cases, Rewari 22, Bhiwani 19, Ambala and Karnal 10 each, Panchkula nine, Mahendergarh and Jhajjar seven each, Jind four, Kurukshetra and Sirsa three each, and Hisar and Kaithal two each.While fresh infections were detected in 15 districts, Sonepat, Palwal, Nuh, Panipat, Fatehabad, Yamunanagar and Charkhi Dadri didn’t report any new case. As per the health department data, 5,151 samples were taken on Monday, increasing the number of samples so far taken to 2,22,948. On Monday, 359 patients (134 in Faridabad and 102 in Gurugram) got discharged. While 5,916 patients have recovered from the infection, there are 4,940 active cases of the Covid-19 in the state. The doubling rate of the infection has now gone up to 12 days.MISMATCH IN FIGURESWhile the health bulletin put the number of fresh cases in Bhiwani at 19, the local administration said 69 people tested positive in the district. Two sweepers and as many private factory workers were among seven new patients registered in Jhajjar. Similarly, the bulletin said no case was recorded in Sonepat, but district authorities said 35 people had tested positive for Covid-19, followed by seven in Mahendergarh. Ten persons, including three members of a family, were found infected in Karnal. Meanwhile, an official spokesman said the state-level control room set up to exchange information related to Covid-19 pandemic received 4,78,369 calls during the nationwide lockdown and 4,54,000 calls were answered between March 24 and June 21, 2020.Of the total calls received, 1,40,096 were related to health while 3,06,684 were general. At least 95% calls were successfully answered within an average waiting time of less than 10 seconds, the spokesman said, adding that telecounselling was also made available to 31,592 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-takes-99-days-to-infect-over-11-000-people-in-haryana/story-6hLQatASdf2QtOSI2w8OIN.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor trade in Punjab: Dullo seeks CBI probe into nexus, political patronage||A day after Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa questioned the state government’s move to adopt the two-year fixed tenure rules for IAS officers, his Rajya Sabha counterpart Shamsher Singh Dullo on Monday sought a probe by CBI or a sitting high court judge into rampant liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illegal distillation of liquor in Punjab.In a strongly worded letter to chief minister Amarinder Singh, Dullo said, “A fair probe is the need of the hour so that the real kingpins causing harm to our cash-strapped exchequer face stringent action.”Dullo, who also raised the liquor smuggling and illegal distribution issue in March, said it may not be feasible for the special investigation team (SIT) set up by the state government to investigate inter-state illegal activities against the political and influential persons at all levels. “No kingpin has been arrested so far except some low-level functionaries. You are also aware that a large number of politicians, including some MLAs of different parties and police officials directly or indirectly are alleged to have been involved in this trade,” the former Punjab Congress president wrote to the CM.Amarinder had on June 5 set up the three-member SIT under water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria to investigate the racket.Dullo said the liquor mafia was growing in the state with active connivance of district police officials and administration, and patronage of local political leaders. He said the illegal distilleries, production and sale of liquor had increased manifold during the recent years, and particularly during the curfew period, in violation of rules and regulations, citing the unlicensed distilleries unearthed at Ghanour, Khanna, Rajpura and Phagwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-trade-in-punjab-dullo-seeks-cbi-probe-into-nexus-political-patronage/story-vzMzYlcZG5vZAjikwaKq7J.html
22-06-2020||City||In a first for Punjab, Ludhiana MC to launch compulsory registration of pets||Pending for around nine years, the Ludhiana municipal corporation(MC) is finally commencing online registration of pets in the city and residents will now have to shell out Rs 400 per annum as registration charges for a pet. The owner will also have to bear the expenses if the pet bites anyone.The Ludhiana MC is the first to commence pet registration in the state. Only pet dogs and cats will be registered in the first phase and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal is expected to start the process on Tuesday.As per the terms and conditions laid down by the MC, it is mandatory for every dog/cat owner to get the pets registered with the MC by December. Otherwise, the owner will have to pay Rs 4,000 as penalty on being caught without registration. According to officials, a pro forma has been finalised and uploaded on the MC’s official website (mcludhiana.gov.in).Pet owners will have to visit the MC’s website and fill in the pro forma giving details and uploading photographs of the pet and the owner.Following this, a licence will be issued online and the owner will have to take a copy of that to the Zone A office of the MC, for getting a token for their pet. MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “It will be mandatory for the owner to tie the token around the neck of the pet and, if any pet is caught without token, the pet would be taken into custody and the owner would have to pay a fine of Rs 100 per day till the time he/she gets it registered. ““The licence will be renewed every year in April. The owner will bear the expenses on medication, if the pet bites anyone. Pets will not be allowed to defecate on public places and the owner would be responsible for cleaning the area if the pet defecates,” he added.The MC would cover animal breeders, cattle and other animals in the next phase, said Dr Dhalla, adding that the MC finds it difficult to locate the pet owner in absence of registration.He said an abandoned pitbull dog has been in custody of the MC since April 3 and the MC is struggling to find the owner. The MC General House had approved a resolution regarding the registration, proper control of stray animals and compensation to the victims of dog bites in September last year and the local bodies department approved the same in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-a-first-for-punjab-ludhiana-mc-to-launch-compulsory-registration-of-pets/story-ECDJKiHXkmW3SfJlOs4H9H.html
22-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad starts mega drive for early detection of ILI and SARI cases in non-containment areas||Ghaziabad: In a bid to enhance surveillance activities in non-containment areas and also to detect influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) cases early, the district administration has roped in more than 3,000 block level employees who will carry out house-to-house survey on the basis of the voters’ list. Also, 237 district administration officials have been deployed to supervise the survey, officials said on Monday.The officials said that it is for the first time that the activity of such a large scale has been taken up in the district in order to contain the rising Covid-19 cases. The strategy has been formulated in order to pre-empt the suspicious cases and bring them to health care facilities for early treatment, they said.“Taking help of voters’ list, the teams will conduct survey of residents having health complications or having ILI and SARI symptoms in their respective areas. They have been given prescribed form to note down details of people who are having symptoms. The teams will spread awareness and also have been tasked to find out suspicious cases and inform senior officials who will bring such cases to health care facilities,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.The decision has been taken up in the wake of recent visit of two state government-appointed nodal officers who had also vouched for increased surveillance activities and early detection of ILI and SARI cases.Ghaziabad has been battling with rising number of Covid-19 cases. Of total 46 Covid-related deaths till June 21, about 42 fatalities have taken place since June 1 in the district.The officials of the district health department said that due to delay in detection of ILI and SARI cases, many Covid-19 cases met with fatalities. The total number of Covid-19 cases stood at 918 till June 21.“Such exercise will also be initiated soon for containment areas with bigger number of teams, which we will draw out from the immunization programme. A work plan for this will be chalked out soon,” Pandey added.Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), has also stressed on new improved surveillance activities and said that four teams are proposed to be deployed in category 1 containment zones and 16 teams for category 2 containment zones. “The detailed protocol for the work plan is being chalked out. This will help us detect suspicious cases and prevent any complications in patients,” Prasad said.In Ghaziabad, there are 244 category 1 containment zones and another set of 35 category 2 zones, according to the latest list of June 18 issued by the district authorities. With the proposed work plan for enhanced surveillance in the containment zones, 976 teams would be required for category 1 zones and 560 for category 2, the officials said.At present, the health department is having 260 teams engaged in surveillance activities in containment zones. “We will be drawing out more teams for the purpose and total strength of our teams is likely to go up to 400,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The areas where containment zones have increased are in Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Khoda and Vaishali, among others.Till May 30, the district had 65 category 1 containment zones and only seven category 2 zones.Meanwhile, state officials said that the chief minister has directed for formation of one lakh teams for finding out suspicious cases with the help of surveillance.“The CM has said that every household should be covered geographically. Covid help desks should come up at every government office -- at block level, tehsil level, police stations, district hospitals -- and at primary health centres and community health centres. We are also aiming for 25,000 tests per day. The new antigen testing will also be implemented soon,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).The state officials said that it is being taken up initially in five cities of Lucknow, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Varanasi and Kanpur City, and will be implemented in NCR areas of western Uttar Pradesh in the next phase.The antigen tests are presently prevalent in the national capital. The tests are quicker than the laboratory-based RT-PCR tests and also cheaper. The test also differs in technology as it looks for specific protein associated with Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The lab tests, on the other hand, look for the exact nucleic signatures of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-starts-mega-drive-for-early-detection-of-ili-and-sari-cases-in-non-containment-areas/story-CvC1ymD62knCxntkTaMofO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||GNDU to offer PhD course on online studies soon||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, on Monday decided to start a doctorate course on online studies soon with the demand of web-based learning at an all-time high in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The decision was taken in a meeting of the syndicate, said vice-chancellor (V-C) Jaspal Singh Sandhu.“Amid this scenario, the University Grants Commission (UGC) is also promoting online education. As per the criteria, category I and II university or those ranking in top 100 can offer courses on online education. The university’s directorate of online studies will also start functioning soon,” said the V-C who presided over the meeting.Sandhu informed the syndicate that the centre for interfaith studies was approved as a major initiative of the central government to celebrate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. “A detailed project report (DPR) was submitted to the ministry of human resources and development (MHRD) with a financial proposal of ₹482.12 crore which was revised to ₹439.00 crore. The first annual installment of ₹49.11 crore has been sanctioned by the Union ministry”,” he said.The university, Sandhu said, is getting repeated requests from the Punjabi community and the alumni to start some online courses, especially in Punjabi language and culture. He said the GNDU is going to be the “first paperless working university” shortly.“Examinations of the students studying in the final year of their courses will be held as per the decision taken by UGC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gndu-to-offer-phd-course-on-online-studies-soon/story-hk2IXhjUsIfypCRVI2h1fJ.html
22-06-2020||City||Monsoon may arrive in Noida, Ghaziabad in next 48 hours||Noida: The monsoon is likely to cover parts of western Uttar Pradesh, including Noida and Ghaziabad, in the next 24 to 48 hours, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday.According to IMD officials, there are highly favourable conditions of a further advancing of the monsoon with parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh already covered. The region of Noida and Ghaziabad will also see pre-monsoon rain over the next two days and the temperatures are likely to drop by up to three degrees Celsius.“Weather conditions are favourable for the further advancing of monsoon over some more parts of Uttar Pradesh. The monsoon is likely to reach the Noida-Ghaziabad area within next 24 to 48 hours and subsequently across other regions of Delhi-NCR,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Announcing the early arrival of monsoon, the IMD officials pointed out that this is first time in the past four years that due to the favourable weather conditions, the monsoon is likely to arrive earlier than usual.“For the past four years, the arrival of monsoon in this region had been on or after June 29, and this year we had expected it around June 27. However, this time it is arriving three to four days before the expected date,” Srivastava said.The IMD expects the monsoon to be at the higher end of the normal range (which is 96% to 106%) this year, unlike deficient last year for NCR region. “There is no separate assessment for Noida and Ghaziabad. So, if we draw conclusion based on the records of Delhi, there was a deficit rainfall last year by 40%. Under the normal range, the average rainfall is 60 cm. However, this region last year saw 38-40 cm of rainfall. This year, however, we expect a rainfall of 102-103%, also because of the early arrival,” said Srivastava.According to the IMD, the maximum temperature is also likely to fall by two to three degrees Celsius during the next four days over entire northwest India. The region may also see heavy rains on Thursday.The maximum temperature in Noida on Monday was 36.7 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season’s average, against 39 degrees a day earlier. Tuesday may see a maximum temperature of 35 degrees Celsius, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-may-arrive-in-noida-ghaziabad-in-next-48-hours/story-0VrFTM8eRnRqLPLaD0njHJ.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||PUDA to acquire 1,764 acre land of closed Bathinda thermal plant||The Punjab cabinet on Monday gave the go-ahead for redevelopment of 1,764 acre land of the closed Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Power Plant in Bathinda. The land belonging to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) will now be acquired by the Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA).The cabinet in a meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh also mandated PUDA to raise loan up to ₹100 crore for development and sale of the site.The plant was shut down in 2018 as per the recommendations of a sub-committee set up a year earlier in view of the Central Electricity Agency (CEA) guidelines to cease functioning of non-viable thermal power projects having exceeded the 25-year life span.Last month, a cabinet sub-committee was set up to work out the modalities of redevelopment.The PSPCL board had passed a resolution to hand over the land (barring the areas under a residential colony spread over 280 acres) to PUDA for appropriate development and sale. Under the plan, 80% profit from the sale of the developed land, over and above its notional value, will go to the owner (PSPCL) and 20% will be shared by PUDA as developer. PUDA will rope in the services of professional agency to advise it on the best possible utilisation of different parcels of the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/puda-to-acquire-1-764-acre-land-of-closed-bathinda-thermal-plant/story-lYFN2AqilrQZCtE9uLnojP.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Protest at Rohtak varsity: ‘Govt should roll back its decision, promote all students’||Three days after Rohtak-based Maharshi Dayanand University announced the exam dates for final year students enrolled in 37 graduate, postgraduate and diploma courses, students’ bodies on Monday flayed the varsity’s decision, claiming it to be against the best interests of students. As per the Haryana government’s notification issued on June 12, which was followed by the Rohtak varsity, the local students studying in the final year will have to appear for exams. For the students from outside Haryana, the average of all previous exams may be taken or they can opt either for taking the exam or improvement of grades later on by physical examination, if they haven’t taken any exam earlier. The university will be conducting final year exams between July 6 and July 26. Protesting against university vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh, the Indian National Students’ Organisation’s (INSO’s) vice-president, Deepak Malik, said the authorities made their decision while ignoring the health concerns of thousands of students. “The V-C took the decision to conduct final year exams for local students without examining the ground report. Many of the university students belong to Sonepat, Jhajjar, Bhiwani and Rohtak, the districts which are witnessing a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases. Many of students’ localities have been declared as containment zones. How they will come to appear in the exams? The varsity and government should roll back their decision and promote all students,” he added.Calling the move unfair, Raman Dhaka, general secretary of INLD Students’ Organization (ISO), asked, “How can the government and varsities frame different rules for students studying on the same campus on the basis of their region? What is the guarantee that Covid-19 cases will not increase in July and all local students will be able to appear in the exams?”Meanwhile, BS Sandhu, university controller of examination, said they had released the datesheet on the directions of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/protest-at-rohtak-varsity-govt-should-roll-back-its-decision-promote-all-students/story-2NqKdFwqBlU5cax9yTlF0J.html
22-06-2020||City||Delhi High Court stays FIR against Ganga Ram hospital||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday stayed the FIR registered against Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on a complaint by the Delhi government for allegedly not following protocols for testing patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The court, in its interim order, said that the FIR does not suggest any “obstruction, annoyance or injury” or “any impediment to human health”.“I am, therefore, convinced that, tested on the principles of existence of a prima facie case, balance of convenience, irreparable loss, and public interest, the process of investigation, consequent to the registration of the impugned FIR against the applicant, deserves to be stayed, pending final disposal of the present writ petition,” Justice C Hari Shankar said in the interim order.The hospital authorities had moved the high court on June 13, seeking quashing of the FIR and also seeking a stay on the case. The order comes while deciding the stay application while the main plea would be heard on August 11.Justice Harishankar said that the only allegation in the FIR is violation of the directions issued by the Delhi government on April 30 and May 6 which required the collection of samples, for Covid-19 testing, to be done only through RT-PCR.The judge said that for the violation of government orders, criminal process cannot be initiated, against an institution, merely on the ground that such violation has taken place.“There is no other allegation in the FIR. There is no reference, in the FIR, to this infraction, on the part of the petitioner, in collecting samples through the RT-PCR app, having caused or obstruction, annoyance or injury, or risk of obstruction, annoyance, or injury, to any person lawfully employed, or having caused, or attempted to cause, danger to human life, health or safety, or riot or affray,” the court said.The court said that the FIR does not so allege, either expressly or by necessary implication; consequently, it has to be held that the allegations in the FIR do not disclose the commission of a cognizable offence.The FIR was filed on June 5 on the basis of a complaint by the deputy secretary of Delhi’s department of health and family welfare, Amit Kumar Pamasi. The FIR was registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) that mandates a punishment of one month’s simple imprisonment and/or ₹200 fine or six months imprisonment and/ or ₹1,000 fine if the offence puts human life at risk. The section of the IPC can be invoked under the Epidemic Diseases Act that has been in force in Delhi since mid-March as the city is battling the Covid-19 pandemic.The plea by the hospital authorities had contended that the FIR was “vague” and does not show that any offence was committed under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It had also said that the FIR was silent “how disobedience, as alleged by the Delhi government, is causing obstruction, annoyance or injury to any person.”Earlier on June 17, the court had put the proceedings under the FIR in abeyance till June 22 while reserving its order on the stay application.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel (criminal) for the Delhi government, had told the court that if prima facie an offence is visible to have been committed, law permits them to register an FIR and investigate the same. He said that the hospital had violated the norms and hence an offence had been committed.After hearing lengthy arguments, the court had reserved its order and said that it would pronounce the judgment on June 22.On June 3, the hospital had been asked to stop Covid testing, citing violations of ICMR guidelines. However, on June 17, the Delhi government had granted the hospital permission to resume testing.Ajoy Sehgal, public relations officer, Ganga Ram hospital. said that the matter is sub-judice and he would refrain from making any comments. The Delhi government did not respond to queries from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-high-court-stays-fir-against-ganga-ram-hospital/story-Y18W9gYzXF9wrdRaHNYVyH.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet nod for 4 more labs to ramp up Covid testing capacity||The Punjab cabinet on Monday approved setting up of four new Covid-19 laboratories in the state with a view to ramping up the daily testing capacity from the current 9,000 to 13,000.Also, the cabinet in a meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh gave the go-ahead to recruit 131 employees to run these laboratories that will come up at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana; Punjab State Forensic Sciences Laboratory, Mohali; Northern Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar; and Punjab Biotechnology Incubator, Mohali.At present, viral research and diagnostic laboratories in three Government Medical Colleges at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot are conducting coronavirus tests in the state.The cabinet also cleared the proposal of the medical education and research department to create and fill four posts of assistant professor (microbiology) on ad hoc basis in the new viral testing laboratories.Besides, approval was given fill to 300 ad hoc posts in the medical education department, 100 each in the three government-run medical colleges to handle the critical patients of Covid-19. Directions were given for an expeditious recruitment of medical and technical staff as well.Regular faculty forBathinda vet collegeThe cabinet also decided to fill all vacancies as per the regulations of the Veterinary Council of India (VCI) for the Veterinary College, Rampura Phul (Bathinda), to ensure its optimal functioning. This move would lead to regular appointments of a dean, 17 professors and 23 associate professors on full salary by the academic year 2022-23.New chemical labin JalandharTo bring down the pendency of reports of samples of viscera, blood alcohol, etc in the chemical examiner laboratory, Kharar, the cabinet accorded approval to establish a new chemical laboratory in Jalandhar, with creation of 21 posts involving annual financial liability of ₹42.31 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-nod-for-4-more-labs-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-capacity/story-pab48x9rYlEWBZqJfcH4DO.html
22-06-2020||City||As cases rise, Ghaziabad health department shifts focus to opening bigger L1 hospitals||As the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to rise at a rapid pace in Ghaziabad, the district health department is now shifting its focus to opening bigger L1 category Covid hospitals.Till June 22, the district had 958 Covid-19, out of which 653 cases were reported since June 1 alone. District health officials expect the tally to cross 1,200 by June-end at this pace. Officials said as around 75-80%of Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic and given the workforce shortage, the health department needs bigger L1 facilities where more patients with no symptoms can be looked after by the same number of doctors and health care workers that are deployed at smaller L1 Covid hospitals.The district has already identified 13 educational institutes which will be converted into L1 facilities in phases as and when the need arises to accommodate new patients.To treat asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, the district currently relies heavily on the 76-bedded L1 category ESIC Hospital at Sahibabad and another 60-bedded L1 facility (government acquired St Joesph’s Hospital) in Nandgram . Besides this, the district has a 100-bedded L2 Covid facility in Sanjay Nagar (District Combined Hospital) and another 400-bedded L3 category facility near the Old Bus Stand (government acquired Santosh Medical College). Under the Uttar Pradesh government’s three-tier health care structure, the L1 hospitals are meant for treating asymptomatic patients, while L2 hospitals cater to patients with moderate complications and the L3 hospitals treat critical cases.“We are now focussing on starting bigger L1 hospitals which have a capacity of around 200-400 beds. This is because 75-80% of the Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic and need to be taken to L1 Covid hospitals as per the present norms. Unlike Delhi, we don’t have any guidelines which allow home isolation for asymptomatic patients. As a result, with the rising numbers of cases, we are forced to shift our asymptomatic patients from L1 facilities to L2 and L3 hospitals. So, now our strategy is to come up with bigger L1 hospitals and not open smaller ones,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO). The district has 376 active cases currently.Each team of 25 doctors, nurses, and other health care workers deployed at smaller L1 hospitals currently, has the capacity to cater to patients at a 200-bedded L1 hospitals, health officials said.“With the pace at which new cases are being reported, we are likely to open a 200-bedded L1 Covid facility at Divya Jyoti Ayurvedic Medical College & Hospital in Niwari in the next two or three days. This hospital will be able to accommodate new cases for about 15-20 days. As cases will continue to rise, we will also open another L1 facility in Modinagar at the SRM University campus which has 400 beds out of which 100 beds are already ready for Covid patients. After this we will open a 250-bedded l1 facility in a private college in Dasna),” the CMO said.The officials said with the available workforce, they can cater to nearly 1,426 beds in different category hospitals, of which doctors can nearly manage over 926 beds in L1 facilities. The officials said that they have submitted these figures to the UP government-appointed nodal officers who had recently visited Ghaziabad during a week long-tour to assess the pandemic situation and the infrastructure available to deal with rising cases.“Once we have 1,426 beds occupied with Covid patients, our workforce will be exhausted and to cater to more infected persons we will need to shut down primary and community health centres, government health care facilities to make up for the lack of doctors, nurses. This is not a practical option, but even if it comes to that, we will be able to cater to a maximum of 2,000 occupied beds”, the CMO said. Officials said if all the 13 educational institutes are converted into L1 facilities, they will have a total capacity of 4,000 beds, and the district health departments will need help from other UP districts with a lower caseload to look after at the patients when these facilities reach full capacity.“We will continue using the L1 facility at Sahibabad as the ESIC hospital (a central government-run entity) has deployed their own staff. We are, however, likely to shut the L1 facility at Nandgram in the next 10-15 days or so. The hospital management had approached us recently to allow them to resume normal operations there, Dr Gupta said. Earlier in May, a 30-bedded L1 facility in a community health centre in Muradnagar was shut down, and its health team will be now be deployed at the upcoming facility in Niwari.In another development, the health department has received the estimates of the charges that would be applicable in a private hospital in Vaishali which was among five private facilities in Ghaziabad authorised to give Covid treatment.The hospital will charge ₹7,500 for a private room, ₹ 7,000 for a semi-private room, ₹ 6,200 for general ward, ₹10,000 for ICU and ₹ 6000 for isolation. “The rates are on per day basis for a hospital in Vaishali and it is according to their regular charges and they haven’t hiked their prices. The patient will pay for consumables. We have three more hospitals that will soon come up with separate Covid-19 wards in Kaushambi (50 beds), Nehru Nagar (30 beds) and Vasundhara (30 beds). The list of charges from them will be received shortly,” the CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-cases-rise-ghaziabad-health-department-shifts-focus-to-opening-bigger-l1-hospitals/story-F6UQk1mZDnseoo2NhCQfSO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Short of funds, Punjabi University banks on fees to pay staff salaries||With no funds available to meet its committed expenses, Punjabi University, Patiala, is banking on fee collection from students to pay the salaries to its faculty members and other employees.The university has failed to release the salaries and pensions to its nearly 5,800 serving and retired staffers for the month of May.Even the Punjab government failed to provide any financial relief after the varsity management took up the issue related to severe financial crisis being faced by the institution.“In such a scenario, the university has no option than to depend upon fee collection from students already admitted in undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The last date of submitting fee is June 23,” said a senior official.The monthly salary budget of the university is pegged at ₹33 crore. As per the budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects to generate ₹250 crore from its own resources out of the total annual revenue of ₹380 crore, including government aid.These resources mainly include examination fee, tuition fee, funds and security amounts of students, fee from distance education courses, registration and revaluation charges, etc.Varsity registrar Prof Manjit Singh Nijjar said they are making every possible effort to generate or get funds to pay salaries and pensions to the employees.“The funds generated from fee collection are a major source of income for the university. With Tuesday being the last day of fee submission, we expect good collections and the expenses will be met accordingly. The salaries will be paid at the earliest,” he added.The university has also directed its regional centres and constituent colleges to deposit parent-teachers association (PTA) funds and security to the tune of ₹1.35 crore submitted by students while getting admission in these institutions.Punjabi University Teachers’ Union (PUTA) secretary Gurnam Singh Virk said a letter on the institution’s financial condition and their demand for the release of special grant has been sent to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.“The vice-chancellor has not been able to mobilise funds for the timely release of salaries and deposit of deductions,” Virk said.PUTA president Prof Jaswinder Singh Brar said the chances of release of salary and deposit of deductions are quite dim.“Moreover, the provident fund (PF) deductions for the last three months and the National Pension Scheme (NPS) contribution for the last two months have not been deposited,” Brar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/short-of-funds-punjabi-university-banks-on-fees-to-pay-staff-salaries/story-5iZBtj3xb5w7H7cWYKLo0L.html
22-06-2020||City||Mohali-based Congress leader’s son sent to Ludhiana jail in attempt to murder case||The son of a Congress leader, who was arrested for allegedly firing at his 22-year-old friend, was sent to Ludhiana jail on Monday by a local court here.Davinder Singh, alias Damni, was held on June 19 and sent to one-day police remand. He told the police that the victim, Jagdeep, was allegedly flirting with his fiancée, thus infuriating him.Mohan Singh, the victim’s father, said that the allegations levelled by Damni against his son were false, adding that the accused’s family was pressuring them for a compromise. Gurveer Singh, the victim’s counsel, argued before the court that the police should also add charges against Damni’s father whose weapon was used in the crime.Police said that they were investigating the role of the accused’s father and will take action as per law.On June 16, Damni was travelling with Jagdeep on the airport road when he stopped his car and an argument broke out. He shot Jagdeep in the back and chest with his father’s licensed 12-bore gun, leaving his friend seriously injured. Jagdeep was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.A case of attempt to murder was registered against Damni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-based-congress-leader-s-son-sent-to-ludhiana-jail-in-attempt-to-murder-case/story-AuK5GiP1PQr9PT02JWGSLJ.html
22-06-2020||City||Missing newlywed woman ends life in Ludhiana, husband, in-laws booked for abetment||Missing since June 17, a newlywed woman of Shimlapuri here, allegedly committed suicide in Baddowal after consuming some poisonous substance while she was on way to her maternal home on June 20.After her death, the police have booked her husband and other members of her in-laws’ family for abetment to suicide.Her husband had also filed a missing complaint at the Daba police station of Ludhiana. However, the Mullanpur Dakha police have lodged an FIR against her husband, mother-in-law and brother-in-law.The case was registered on a complaint by mother of the victim, a resident of Balmiki Colony of Mullanpur Dakha.The complainant stated, “Her daughter got married two months ago. Soon after marriage, her husband and in-laws started harassing her for dowry. Her daughter had told her about this several times.”“On June 17, I received a call from her husband saying that my daughter had gone missing and that he had lodged a missing complaint with the police. On June 20, I again received a call from an unknown number telling me that my daughter had consumed some poisonous substance and is lying unconscious in Baddowal,” she said.“When I reached there, I found my daughter lying on the roadside. I rushed her to hospital, where she died on Sunday,” she added.Inspector Prem Singh, SHO of the Mullanpur Dakha police station, said the case was registered under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The police have launched a manhunt for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-newlywed-woman-ends-life-in-ludhiana-husband-in-laws-booked-for-abetment/story-oszvwc1IU9lW57j8OSIXBK.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Physical training instructors’ recruitment: Hooda should face probe, says Dushyant||Accusing former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda of allowing irregularities to take place in the appointment of sacked physical training instructors (PTIs), Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday said there should be an investigation and FIR should be registered against the senior Congress for the “fraudulent appointments”.“It is not about the 1983 PTIs who lost their jobs, but it is about 16,000 youths who had applied for these posts as they could not get the job due to the wrong policies of the then Congress government,” said Chautala in an interaction with mediapersons in Karnal. “As per the court’s verdict, the rules were changed. Papers were cancelled, extra marks were given in interviews and the Supreme Court later declared the appointments fraudulent. Wasn’t it a scam? Hooda should himself come forward for a probe in this scam and FIR should be registered against him,” he added. Responding to a question about the missing liquor case, the deputy CM said it was not a scam, but a theft. An SIT has been formed to investigate the allegations, he added. On the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Dushyant said, “We cannot predict the number of cases emerging in the next three months, but the government is ready to deal with any situation in the future.”Reacting to the campaigns being launched on social media to boycott Chinese goods, he said there was a need to make the country self-reliant as the people cannot survive without the items being imported from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/physical-training-instructors-recruitment-hooda-should-face-probe-says-dushyant/story-yHWBrQ0GnX2Xf1y6HXY08M.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pay for power bill of up to ₹20,000 by cheque in Panchkula||Power bills of up to Rs 20,000 will again be payable through cheque in Panchkula, nearly six months after the service was discontinued on December 1, 2019.The move followed directions by the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) while disposing of representations against discontinuing of cheque payments by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN). “In the era of Covid-19 more and more reliance has to be placed on digital platforms, the concerns of certain sections of society, particularly senior citizens, also need to be addressed. Therefore, a judicious balance has to be struck,” ruled HERC while directing that any amount exceeding ₹5000 shall not be accepted by cash. However, payments of up to ₹20,000 can be made through cheque.SK Nayar, president, Indian Citizen Forum, Panchkula, had approached HERC, saying UHBVN had abruptly and unilaterally stopped accepting cheques for electricity bills for an amount below ₹10,000. Disposing of the representation HERC said, “Transaction charges for payment through payment gateway on the website of the Discoms by way of credit card, debit card, net banking and also the transaction charges for payment through point of sale machines at the Discoms counters and e-wallets etc shall be borne by the Discoms subject to a maximum of ₹150.”UHBVN, while justifying its decision to not accept cheques had cited misuse of the payment facility by industrial consumers who blamed banks for delay in cheque clearance. Dependency on manual work and non-availability of clearing house in rural areas resulted in late credit of revenue in the Nigam’s account, it had said.“The decision has come a major relief to many senior citizens in Panchkukla,” Nayar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-for-power-bill-of-up-to-20-000-by-cheque-in-panchkula/story-rXbP5oPhOayJEMhBRQrlnK.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray opposes mining near Tadabo Andhari Tiger Reserve||State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has opposed the Centre’s proposal to conduct an auction for mining at a site near Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Maharashtra.Thackeray has written to union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, urging him to withdraw the proposal, as it will harm the tiger reserve.Thackeray on Monday said this auction was cancelled twice before in 1999 and 2001. “When we are aware that such a move will spell disaster in the Tadoba and Andhari Tiger Reserve, what is the point in spending our time and resources on such a project?” he said.Bander coal block, located close to TATR in Chandrapur district, is one of the 41 mining sites in the country, for which the Centre has invited bids for an auction.He said that 10 years ago, the then union environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, had ordered a survey and the results concluded that the site was not suitable for mining. Thackeray has requested Javadekar for survey of the proposed site again.Both Aaditya and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray are well-known wildlife enthusiasts. The duo had also opposed cutting of trees in Mumbai’s Aarey Colony for Metro-3 project.Environmentalists have supported Thackeray’s stance. “We are only encroaching on the space of the wildlife and increasing the man-animal conflict,” said Debi Goenka, an environmentalist. However, he said that being in the government, Thackeray has the power to derail the project.“The state government needs to emphasise that they will not give any approvals required for the project and this itself will dissuade the bidders from entering the project,” he added. Another environmentalist Stalin Dayanand said mining is a highly polluting industry which destroys the wildlife. “This will be a disruptive move, as studies point out that mining causes irreparable damage to forests. The wildlife is also is threatened considerably,” said Dayanand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-opposes-mining-near-tadabo-andhari-tiger-reserve/story-qxRtulZ3BOmMYrnsXWu4YP.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad: NIA wants to question Gautam Navlakha again||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has moved an application to once again obtain the custody of civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha who was arrested in the Elgar Parishad case after he surrendered at the agency’s Delhi office on April 14.The application was moved before the special NIA court through special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty claiming that the chief investigating officer in the case had not questioned him when he was in NIA’s custody and that he needs to question him over the statement given by witnesses.“We have made an application before the special court to question Navlakha for his alleged role in the Elgar Parishad case. Navlakha was earlier interrogated in Delhi, but the investigating officer (IO) was not there due to lockdown. He was brought to Mumbai last month, and now a fresh application has been made for his custody so that he can be questioned in Mumbai,” said an NIA officer, requesting anonymity.Navlakha, along with other activists, has been accused of having links with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad gathering that happened on December 31, 2017, which allegedly triggered caste-based violence at Bhima Koregaon in Pune, the next day.Navlakha has been booked under various sections of the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), which allows an investigating agency to have custody of the accused of a period of 30 days, and gives the agency 180 days to file a charge sheet with prior permission from the court, and under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Navlakha was first arrested by the Pune police on August 28, 2018, but the Delhi High court had quashed his arrest on October 1, 2018. The prosecution had alleged that till August-2018 he was a member of CPI (Maoist).While arresting Navlakha, Pune police had cited several letters, recovered from the computer of one of the accused exchanged between the accused booked in the case. It was alleged that Navlakha and some of the other activists who are also arrested in the case, had direct access and communication with central committee members and senior leaders of CPI (Maoist). Pune police had also alleged that Navlakha was part of the conspiracy and the police were probing if there was a larger conspiracy of seizing the political power, armed revolution by mobilizing masses.Since his release in October 2018, Navlakha had approached courts for anticipatory bail fearing that he would be arrested again by the police. In the meanwhile, the probe of the case was transferred from Maharashtra police to NIA in January this year, while the order on the anticipatory bail plea was still pending before the Bombay High court. The plea was rejected, and later Apex Court too refused to grant him any protection and had directed him to surrender before the agency.Following the order of the Apex court, Navlakha had surrendered on April 14 at Delhi. He was later remanded to NIA custody. The NIA questioned him over the allegations of his links with the banned organizations and his involvement into the incident of Elgar Parishad. Navlakha was under NIA custody for fourteen days after his arrest before he was remanded to judicial custody. He was lodged in Tihar jail since he was remanded to judicial custody.Even as an interim bail plea citing the spread of COVID-19 was pending in the Delhi High Court, NIA on May 26 transferred Navlakha from Tihar jail, with the permission of a court, and brought him to Mumbai by train. Navlakha since then has been lodged at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai.Meanwhile, Navlakha has sought bail as the agency has failed to file a charge sheet within 90 days. “We have moved a bail plea for Navlakha as the investigating agency has failed to file charge sheet against him within a stipulated time of 90 of his total custody,” said Navlakha’s lawyer, Yug Mohit Chaudhry.Both the applications are scheduled for hearing on June 26 before the special NIA court. Interestingly, the developments come at a time when Navlakha, who is in judicial custody till July 3, spoke to his partner Sehba Hussain alleged that the conditions where prisoners are kept under quarantine in the jail were overcrowded and unhygienic“We are very worried about the conditions under which Navlakha is kept. We are requesting the government to put him under the proper facility. If there was no place and proper arrangement in prisons and quarantine centres of Mumbai, why was he shifted to Mumbai from Delhi? We will be urging courts to consider the conditions,” Husain said.Interestingly, Navlakha before he surrendered had in an open letter written, ‘I can now begin to face the actual legal process, which accompanies cases where provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act are invoked. Such Acts turn the normal jurisprudence upside down. No longer is it the axiom that ‘a person is innocent unless proven guilty’. In fact, under such Acts, ‘an accused is guilty unless proven innocent’. ‘Draconian provisions of UAPA are not accompanied by stricter procedures regarding evidence, especially electronic, considering the stringent punishment provided for under the Act; the procedures, which otherwise provide tighter rules regarding evidence, are instead made elastic. Under this double whammy, jail becomes the norm, and bail an exception. In this Kafkaesque domain, the process itself becomes punishment,’ he had further gone on to write.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-nia-wants-to-question-gautam-navlakha-again/story-wa01w6qyxgJ4nBy6vGzOqO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC starts clearing drains ahead of monsoons, locals not satisfied||The municipal corporation has started work on a war footing to clear up drains and sewer lines before the monsoon hits.With stormwater drains not laid out and old sewer lines under pressure due to low capacity, most areas in the city, including premium zones such as Model Town Extension and Sarabha Nagar and the old quarters and outskirts, are prone to waterlogging.The MC is for the first time getting the city’s main drain, Buddha nullah, desilted by a private firm. The process however was delayed and could only begin in the last week of May.Residents living in areas close by, however, have said that in the last few years work was not carried out satisfactorily. During the rain the nullah overflows at a few points including New Kundanpuri area, Upkar Nagar, Shivpuri and surrounding areas.“The desilting work is not managed well and silt is not removed from the centre and whatever is dredged out is dumped on the banks. All of it gets into the drain after rain,” says Narinder Malhi, former BJP councillor.The authorities are also working to increase the capacity of the Talab Bazar drain by removing the pipes in it.However, the locals are not too pleased with the MC’s drain cleaning drive.“New sewer lines were laid out in our area in November last year, but the drains are already choked. The MC staff had cleaned the lines a few days back but the problem persists,” says Sahil Khurana, resident of Bishan Enclave in the Civil City area. MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, however, said, “Buddha nullah and road gullies are being cleaned up. The MC is also working to clear a drain in the old city areas which has remained choked for years. I had also inspected the ongoing work few days back and the staff at sewer treatment plants has been told to operate the plants efficiently to avoid rain water accumulation. A dedicated control room will soon be established in the coming days to deal with waterlogging woes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-starts-clearing-drains-ahead-of-monsoons-locals-not-satisfied/story-vj0PC1gocsFwTa4XrY80GL.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Potholes in your area? Talk directly to BMC’s engineers||With the onset of monsoon, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday issued WhatsApp mobile numbers of civic engineers, for citizens to complain about the potholes problem during the monsoon.In a public notice issued on Monday, the BMC said, “The BMC has provided the facility on MCGM 24x7 app to enable citizens of Mumbai to register complaints about potholes on the roads. This app can be downloaded from Play Store. Apart from this, citizens can also register complaints on toll-free number 1800221293 and on WhatsApp directly.”A BMC official said, “We have issued WhatsApp numbers for all the 24 wards for citizens to complain, and we plan to attend all the complaints between 24 to 48 hours. This year, road repair work in several areas was impacted due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus. We have stopped work in the area around containment zones.”Last year, the BMC had announced a pothole challenge, announcing cash prize for citizens over reporting of potholes. The challenge invited people to click pictures of potholes or take selfies with them and upload the images via Fixit app. The images were automatically geo-tagged in the app.According to terms and conditions set by the BMC, a person can report two potholes and he or she will get an award up to ₹500. However, the catch is that the person got the money only if the BMC failed to repair the pothole within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/potholes-in-your-area-talk-directly-to-bmc-s-engineers/story-uPZ0v7DmkK0jb8PxzYgvwM.html
22-06-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 58 new Covid-19 cases, total count rises to 2,402||Uttarakhand recorded 58 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the Himalayan state’s count to 2,402. The state also reported the death of a Covid-19 patient.A bulletin released by the state health department on Monday evening mentioned the death of a 68-year-old Covid-19 positive patient in Pauri Garhwal district. “The deceased was referred from district Rudraprayag. The actual cause of death is awaited from the hospital.”Of the cases reported on Monday, two were of health workers from Dehradun and Haridwar districts, four cases were close contacts of those earlier detected positive while many were migrant workers who had returned from places like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Delhi-NCR, according to the state health department bulletin.A total of 11 patients were also discharged from hospitals on Monday. Overall, Dehradun district has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases at 607, followed by Tehri Garhwal (377), Nainital (368), and Haridwar (288).Champawat district is the least affected by the viral outbreak, as it has reported 48 Covid-19 positive cases to date.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 56,000 samples of which results of over 3,900 are awaited.The state now has a recovery rate of 62.93% while the rate of infection stands at 4.77%. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days stands at 23.09 days in the state, the bulletin added.The hill state has 106 containment zones spread across five districts, including Haridwar (57), Dehradun (36), Tehri Garhwal (10), Udham Singh Nagar (2), and Uttarkashi (1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-reports-58-new-covid-19-cases-total-count-rises-to-2-402/story-VmyycAH5OXKiq5jh6AA7zO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda admn, army to sign MoU for state’s 1st AC bus stand next week||The district administration and the army authorities in Bathinda Cantonment are expected to sign an MoU (Memorandum of Understanding) to start construction on Punjab’s first air-conditioned bus stand, the Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) on the Bathinda-Chandigarh road in Patel Nagar on the outskirts of the city, within the next 10 days, deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said on Monday. The facility will ensure that movement of buses in the city area in checked to a certain extent. The development comes after Bathinda Cantonment authorities approved the new design of the four-storey project. The DC added that the army had reservation, mainly to the entry point of the ISBT and not its basic design. Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had laid the foundation stone of the project in 2016, but the army had objected to its proximity to the cantonment area.“The Bathinda Improvement Trust will execute the project. As per a communiqué that the cantonment authorities have shared with us, a draft MoU has been sent to the army headquarters for final approval. We hope that the development project will start soon,” said the DC.Bathinda Improvement Trust (BIT) executive officer Neeru Bala said the reworked design of the project had been accepted by the authorities. Of 18 acre, eight acre will be used for busways, two acre for workshop and a commercial complex will be developed on the rest of the eight acre. An air-conditioned waiting hall for passengers and restaurants will also be built. Parking will be built for 200 cars and similar number of two-wheelers.Strap/BlurbAgreement could be inked within 10 days, says DC; the development comes after Bathinda Cantonment authorities approved the new design of the four-storey project to be built on 18 acre on the outskirts of the city||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bathinda-admn-army-to-sign-mou-for-state-s-1st-ac-bus-stand-next-week/story-qLKNtexsAtSJXK2qWDvTQL.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra goverment puts on hold 3 MoUs with Chinese companies||After the Galwan Valley standoff, the Maharashtra government has decided to put on hold the process to allow three Chinese companies to set up plants in the state. State industries minister Subhash Desai said in a statement on Monday: “We have decided to put the memoranda of understanding (MoUs) signed with three Chinese firms worth ₹5,020 crore on hold. However, this doesn’t mean that they have been cancelled. We will wait for a clear policy from the Central government on this issue.” On June 15, the state government signed 12 MoUs worth ₹16,300 crore with major global companies. Of them, MoUs worth over ₹5,000 crore were signed with three Chinese firms — Hengli (₹250 crore), Great Wall Motors (₹3,770 crore) and PMI Electro Mobility Solutions, a joint venture with Foton (₹1,000 crore). Soon, clashes were reported between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.Earlier, amid standoff, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) cancelled the bids to manufacture 10 monorail rakes received from two Chinese companies – CRRC Corporation Ltd and BYD Co Ltd. MMRDA on Saturday said the Chinese firms were constantly seeking revision in terms and conditions. “As the two Chinese companies are dictating us to change the tender conditions, MMRDA has decided to look for technology partners in India. As we do not require large quantities, it is possible for Indian firms to manufacture and supply [the coaches] in less time,” MMRDA metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said.Six Chinese companies are involved in infrastructure projects in Mumbai with the 337-km Metro project, which has an estimated cost of ₹1 lakh crore. Of these, Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co Ltd (STEC), China Railway Tunnel Group Co Ltd (CRTG) and Continental Engineering Corporation (CEC) are undertaking civil and tunnel works for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz). The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is building the fully underground Metro, has appointed the SJEC Corporation, a Chinese consortium, for system works.CRTG in a joint venture with J Kumar Infraprojects Ltd, is also building parts of Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli). Another Chinese company, China Harbour Engineering Company Ltd (CHEC), is building part of Metro-4 (Wadala-Kasarvadavali) in a joint venture with Tata Projects.A senior MMRDA official said the involvement of the Chinese companies “stands as it is”. “So far, there is no advisory [against the involvement of Chinese companies],” said the official, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-goverment-puts-on-hold-3-mous-with-chinese-companies/story-BmppvGhRNH8WGYNCdg0IXN.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Skinners stop lifting carcasses, epidemic fears in dairy complexes||Even as the coronavirus pandemic rages, there are fears of another disease outbreak at the Tajpur and Haibowal dairy complexes as skinners, protesting against the fine imposed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), have gone on strike and refused to lift animal carcasses.At least 70 carcasses, including those of buffalos, cows, oxen and calves, are lying at both dairy complexes and decomposing rapidly due to hot weather conditions.According to dairy owners, the skinners stopped lifting carcasses on Saturday. If the carcasses were not removed from dairies, another epidemic would break out in the city.Concerned over the situation, dairy owners met mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Monday over the issue.President of the Tajpur Road Dairy Association DS Oberoi said that dead animals have been lying in the dairies since Friday. The problem will aggravate soon after carcasses will start decomposing. They would meet the deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu to intervene in the matter.The NGT had issued notices to skinners in March this year, following which they had stopped working in protest. However, following an assurance of mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, they had again started lifting the carcasses.A skinner, Happy Kainth, said five families are involved in dumping carcasses in Ladhowal near the Sutlej. Following a complaint of a local, the NGT formed a committee. After the committee submitted a report, the NGT imposed a fine of Rs 2.28 crore on each family.The NGT had also ordered them to stop dumping carcasses near the Sutlej as it led to water as well as air pollution.Happy added, “As we have no resources to pay the fine, we stopped lifting carcasses from the city.”“We usually lifted 40 to 50 carcasses daily from dairies and nearby villages and disposed of them at the carcass dumping ground. Now, we have been forced to stop lifting carcasses,” said Suraj.Paramjit Singh Bobby, chairman, Haibowal Dairy Complex, said they are holding a meeting with skinners to resolve the issue to save the situation.Mayor Sandhu said dairy farmers raised the issue with him on Monday.“We would not allow people to cause any kind of pollution, but we cannot let the carcasses decompose in dairies. I have asked the MC to complete the carcass plant at Noorpur Bet, which is already under construction, as soon as possible,” said the mayor.“I have also asked dairy owners and skinners to hold a meeting to resolve the issue. We will try to find a permanent solution of the problem later,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/skinners-stop-lifting-carcasses-epidemic-fears-in-dairy-complexes/story-98pHBQrjpGJCm8yw5aHa7J.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Consumers take to social media over inflated power bills in state||Many power consumers in the state took to social media to complain about inflated bills after distribution companies started meter-reading recently. However, power companies have stated that there is no error and consumers are receiving bills as per actual consumption in the last two months.“Meter reading was discontinued in March-end, owing to which consumers were being sent bills as per average consumption of December, January and February. However, consumption was much more in the months of April and May owing to summer and the lockdown,” a senior official from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said.An MSEDCL consumer from Kharghar, Saurabh Marathe tweeted, “The bill appears to be inflated as our electricity consumption is not as high as ₹9,270. Our average bill every month is about ₹2,000. I request MSEDCL to look into the matter.” Another user stated that their average bill is ₹600 per month, but they have got a bill for ₹2,200 for May.In Mumbai, Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) and the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking have also started actual reading except in containment zones and sealed buildings. An AEML spokesperson said that electricity consumption normally increases from April till the onset of monsoon. BEST officials said that they are resuming meter reading as per staff availability.“Both domestic consumers as well as commercial ones are straining under the huge power bills charged by electricity companies. The companies have sent bills for three months at a go, in many cases these charges have not been subtracted from the average bill charged monthly when the power companies were under a lock down. The state government needs to address this issue immediately. They should consider waiving off bills for consumption of 300 units or at least allow consumers to pay in instalments,’’ said former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Fadnavis has also written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to address this issue.MSEDCL had appealed to consumers to send actual reading during the lockdown. Of its 2.30 crore consumers, only 2.65 lakh sent readings, officials said. Consumers can also visit https://billcal.mahadiscom.in/consumerbill to get information on their bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consumers-take-to-social-media-over-inflated-power-bills-in-state/story-wOGRUM0I2gJ9v8wAI1FEQN.html
22-06-2020||City||KT-1 tiger dies at rescue centre in Nagpur||The KT-1 tiger from the buffer area of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), who killed five persons from Kolara, Bawanwada and Satara, died at Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur, Monday morning.Prima facie, the post mortem of the aberrant tiger revealed that he died due Septicaemia(a severe bloodstream infection leading to inflammation) also known as blood poisoning, the team, including experts and veterinarians, from the Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC), National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), and Gorewada rescue centre, said based on preliminary analysis.The tiger was noticed in distress in the morning hours by forest guards. Doctors declared the animal dead at 7 am. “Though the cause of death appears to be septicaemia, the final post-mortem report is awaited,” said Nandkishore Kale, divisional manager of Gorewada Project.Dr Madhuri Hedau, assistant professor, NVC who led the post-mortem examination, said “The tiger was two-and-half to three years old. We found the presence of abscesses (collection of pus buildup within the tissue) on the tiger’s left hind leg that could have spread the infection leading to Septicaemia as per our tentative assessment. We have collected tissue samples and sent them for further examination, and we will have more clarity on the cause of death after the lab results and toxicology report.”The big cat, KT-1 was brought to Gorewada Wildlife Rescue Centre on June 11. The tiger was then quarantined, as per directives by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The beast showed poor appetite since arrival and failed to acclimatise to captive life. The team of experts from Wildlife Research and Training Centre, Gorewada, were observing the tiger. The KT-1 was, however, active and showed no signs of any core illness, said Nandkishor Kale, divisional manager, Gorewada Project, Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kt-1-tiger-dies-at-rescue-centre-in-nagpur/story-O5gDkVM8RZD0ik8b62T8gM.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Coastal Road Project: Tree felling inevitable, but project will reduce pollution, flooding, says BMC||In response to 176 suggestions and objections by citizens on cutting of trees for the Coastal Road, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said tree felling is inevitable. The civic body has also defended the Coastal Road Project on grounds that it will reduce flooding, pollution and increase the green cover.BMC, replying to the queries, said, “It is inevitable to cut few trees falling in the alignment of Coastal Road to construct it. Though few trees are affected, compensatory afforestation with the ratio of 1:3 is proposed. Further, green areas will be created along the Coastal Road. The Coastal Road Project will benefit the public at large in various aspects. It will reduce pollution, save time and increase the green cover etc. The transplantation/cutting of trees will be carried out as per the guidelines and approval by the Tree Authority.”The BMC had called for suggestions and objections from citizens for cutting and transplantation of trees between Princess Street Flyover and Worli for construction of around 9km long Coastal Road project in February 2020.The BMC had received around 176 suggestions and objections for the same. On Saturday, the civic body uploaded responses to these suggestions.According to BMC, around 600 trees will be affected during the construction of the ambitious Mumbai Coastal Road, which is proposed to link Marine Drive to the southern end of Bandra-Worli Sea Link. Of these 140 trees are proposed to be cut, while 460 are to be transplanted. Between Princess Street Flyover and Priyadarshani Park, 31 trees are proposed to be cut and 127 transplanted. Between Bhulabhai Desai Road and Tata Garden, 61 are proposed to be cut and 79 transplanted. Lastly, from Haji Ali to Lotus junction at Lala Lajpatrai Road, 38 trees are proposed to be cut and 49 transplanted, while at Worli Seaface, 10 trees are to be cut and 205 transplanted.Zoru Bhathena, citizen environmentalist, who had filed the objection over cutting and transplanting of trees said, “I do not understand why 600 trees are affected for a road that is being built on reclaimed land? The BMC has to come out clear on how so many trees are being affected. We could understand five-10 trees being cut or transplanted, but 600 is a huge number. Also, BMC claims Coastal Road will result in the reduction of flooding conditions, however, it looks like BMC follows their made-up theories on physics, geography, history and environmental studies. This is just a classic example of all that is wrong with BMC.”The coastal road project was originally conceptualised to connect the suburbs and the city and is likely to unclog Mumbai’s roads. Of the total 90 hectares (ha) that will be reclaimed for Phase-1 of the coastal road between Princess Street Flyover and Worli, 20 ha is allotted for the project, while the remaining 70ha is reserved for green cover, in which BMC plans to undertake the plantation.Meanwhile, Pradip Patade, marine conservationist from south Mumbai said, “I doubt that flooding conditions will reduce due to construction of a Coastal Road. This is a general logic because the more you fill in the sea, the more will come out. I have seen pictures of how water has been hitting the construction site, and somehow I doubt whether flooding conditions will reduce due to coastal road.”Responding to the same, Vijay Nighot, chief engineer, BMC’s coastal road project said, “We are yet not at the stage where tree cutting or transplantation can start for now considering we are yet to get the final nod from the BMC’s tree authority. Also, when we say flooding will reduce, it is because we are going to build a sea-wall, and due to this comparatively flooding will reduce. We have not claimed that there will not be any flooding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coastal-road-project-tree-felling-inevitable-but-project-will-reduce-pollution-flooding-says-bmc/story-wsFTNyMui64ju9ktH26ewJ.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hindi as official language of courts: HC notice to Haryana on plea challenging move||The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of the Haryana government’s move to make Hindi the official language for lower courts in the state.The high court bench of Justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh has sought the state’s response by June 29.As per the recent amendment carried out by the government, Section 3-A of the Haryana Official Language Act, 1969, mandates the use of Hindi as “sole official language” for work in civil and criminal courts as well as other courts and tribunals in the state.The objective sought to be achieved from the promulgation is not clear, the court was told adding that the move is ‘arbitrary and unreasonable’. The provision creates barriers to justice for non-Hindi-speaking citizens, constraining advocates ill-versed with Hindi from appearing before courts. It acts as a restriction upon the right of an advocate to practise before any court within the territory of India, the court was told adding that the law provides for training to court-staff and officials, but not for advocates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hindi-as-official-language-of-courts-hc-notice-to-haryana-on-plea-challenging-move/story-OzVXERRLCeqE8rKNmqHu1K.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Chandigarh admin on former chief secretary’s plea on rent penalty||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh administration was issued a notice by the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Monday for charging a penalty on rent from HS Dhesi, former Haryana chief secretary, for overstaying in a government accommodation in 2010. In his plea to HC, Dhesi, who retired as chief secretary in June 2019, sought the quashing of March 2011 and October 2019 letters from the administration which said a penal rent 50 times that of the normal fee was imposed on him for overstay in a Sector-7 accommodation upon his transfer to Delhi in June 2010.Dhesi told the court that he was being charged ₹3.23 lakh penal rent out of a total of ₹ 6.59 lakh by the administration for overstay in the accommodation. He had not been able to vacate it as his official accommodation was not ready, he pleaded.HC was told that as the administration had not issued him a no dues certificate because of which his gratuity of ₹20lakh had not been released by the government.HC was told that six months of Dhesi’s retention period from June 2010 had not been calculated. A government servant had reasonable expectation of being dealt with justly and fairly in receiving rights granted to him under government residence Chandigarh administration general pool allotment rules, 1996, Dhesi told the court, adding that government accommodation was a statutory benefit a government servant was entitled to.Citing a similar case of a Haryana cadre official in December 2019, he said the administration waived the penal rent for the man who was allotted house in Sector 16 in his capacity as deputy commissioner. The HC has sought the administration’s response by June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-chandigarh-admin-on-former-chief-secretary-s-plea-on-rent-penalty/story-PfkkmZxWswn6TtWmMJeKaM.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Can’t pay staff salaries due to delay in release of Post-matric Scholarships, says Punjab unaided colleges’ association||The joint action committee (JAC) of Punjab Unaided College Association (PUCA) and Punjab Unaided Technical Institutions Association (PUTIA) said the delay in disbursement of post-matric scholarship (PMS) by the Punjab government has resulted in unaided colleges being unable to pay salaries to staff.A meeting of the JAC was held at Rayat and Bahara University, Kharar, Mohali, on Monday. In Punjab, over 2.5 lakh students belonging to the schedule castes are the direct beneficiaries of the scheme. Under the scheme, the scholarship (mainly as academic fee waiver) is paid to the students whose parents and guardians’ annual income from all sources does not exceed ₹2.5 lakh.PUCA president Anshu Kataria said, “The Covid-19 crisis has added to the misery of unaided colleges and due to excessive delay in the release of PMS funds, we are facing acute shortage of funds. We are unable to bear operating expenses of which staff salary is a major component.” Raising questions on the working of the state government, members of the JAC said, “When some of the funds have already been released by the Centre, there is no valid reason for the state government to not disburse the amount to the institutions.”Manjit Singh, senior vice-president of PUTIA said colleges are waiting to be paid for the last three to four years. He added colleges are paying the fees for SC Students to affiliated universities and boards from their own pocket without charging fees from them as per directions of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/can-t-pay-staff-salaries-due-to-delay-in-release-of-post-matric-scholarships-says-punjab-unaided-colleges-association/story-L5WuqZ1sEYZLo0aOa6hOcM.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana hospital nurse tests Covid-19 positive, paramedical staff hold protest||Day after a staff nurse of the Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib Charitable Hospital in Model Town here was tested positive, the paramedical staff of the hospital went on a rampage and staged a protest against the authorities of the hospital on Monday.The protesting staff closed the entrance and raised slogans against the authorities.The staff accused the authorities of not providing personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, which resulted in the spread of the virus among the paramedical staff. They said it was due to the callous attitude of the hospital that the nurse came into contact with the virus.“She (the nurse) had been complaining of fever and cough for the past one week and had requested for leave. But, she was forced to attend duty. Despite being tested positive, she was on duty on Sunday and it was after her reports arrived that the authorities woke up from the slumber and quarantined her and her family,” said ward helper Nanak Singh.“We do not know how many of us would have been infected. Now, the authorities have ‘locked’ the fellow nurses in the hospital,” he added.‘DOCTORS PROTECTED, NURSES NEGLECTED’The protesters also accused the hospital of protecting doctors and neglecting the nursing staff.Another ward helper Hardeep Singh said, “We are treated like second-rate citizens as if our life does not matter. When we demanded N-95 masks and PPE kits, we were given cotton gowns. There is discrimination in everything. Threats are being given to deduct our salaries. Our annual leave has also been cancelled.” Staff nurse Gurpreet Kaur said, “The strong lobby of doctors is helping each other and oppressing the nursing staff. Doctors are not even visiting the hospital and are, instead, treating patients through video calls. If some doctors come to the hospital, they do not go even near patients and tell us to diagnose them.”Dr Parveen Sobti, director of the hospital, however, said the paramedical staff were being provided protective gears as per the direction of the ICMR.She said it was not yet clear whether the nurse came into contact with the virus in the hospital or outside.“We have not locked anyone forcibly. Colleagues of infected patients have been quarantined as a preventive measure and their reports are awaited,” said Dr Sobti.She added that discussions were on with the staff and the matter would be resolved soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-hospital-nurse-tests-covid-19-positive-paramedical-staff-hold-protest/story-9q2KlS6a11Hc1StDwfZofN.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Visitors to Ludhiana’s main vegetable market ignoring precautions||Despite coronavirus cases on the rise in the district, people are, surprisingly, not bothering to observe precautions at public places.Visitors to the main vegetable market, situated near the Jalandhar Bypass, which was allowed to open for six days a week on June 15 -- Monday to Saturday on the demand of arhtiyas -- are often seen without masks and violating the social distancing norm in the market.Despite tall claims of the administration, the market committee and the police have failed to keep a check on the illegal entry of street vendors to the mandi and they could be seen entering the mandi by scaling the boundary walls as well.The committee has allowed only the listed vendors, who supply vegetables and fruits to street vendors in every ward of the city, to enter the market.An arhtiya, requesting anonymity, said, “We had demanded mandi operations for six days a week due to the losses we were facing. The market committee has allowed only around 150 listed vendors to enter the market. The arhtiyas, however, also call their unauthorised customers, including street vendors, to the market and they enter the market through different ways, which results in a rush of visitors.”District mandi officer (DMO) Jaswinder Dhaliwal said, “The market committee staff and the police are taking action against the visitors violating the social distancing norm and not wearing masks. We are also planning to shift the retail vendors, who install their vends inside the mandi, to another site to avoid rush in the market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-visitors-to-ludhiana-s-main-vegetable-market-ignoring-precautions/story-h2n2gx6QMzu4qay8fAqsgO.html
22-06-2020||City||City reports 8 deaths, 212 fresh positive Covid cases on Monday||PUNE The city reported eight Covid-19 (coronavirus) deaths taking the death count to 518, on Monday. Also, 212 fresh positive cases were reported within 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune to 12,686, according to officials of the health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)The number of patients in critical care on Monday went to 280. As many as 255 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 7,672.Of the eight deaths reported on Monday, three deceased patients were from the Ruby Hall Clinic, two from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and one each deceased patient was from Naidu Hospital, AICTS Hospital and Bharati Vidyapeth Hospital.The youngest deceased patient was a 30-year-old male who had pneumonia along with Covid infection who was reported dead at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital.Other deceased patients include 84-year-old female patient from Deenanath Hospital, a 77-year-old male patient from AICTS Hospital, 69-year-old female patient and 61-year-old female patient both from Ruby Hall Clinic, a 59-year-old male patient from Naidu hospital, a 55-year-old male patient from Bharati Vidyapeth Hospital and 44-year-old male patient from Ruby Hall Clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-reports-8-deaths-212-fresh-positive-covid-cases-on-monday/story-ZyT4cYcUKhuyt9vTfYXdzL.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank Fraud: Court refuses to release properties sealed by CBI||The special CBI court rejected the plea of Yes Capital (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited to release properties sealed by CBI while probing case registered against Rana Kapoor, founder of Yes bank.The two had filed separate applications for release of their office premises. Morgan Credit Private Ltd has sought the release of office premises in Lower Parel, while Yes Capital (India) had sought de-sealing of their Elphinstone Road office. The two companies have claimed that they need to file statutory returns till June 2020, for which they require access to the office premises.The court rejected the plea and directed the companies to approach the investigating officer for permission to access the data, as required by the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-court-refuses-to-release-properties-sealed-by-cbi/story-auAU664loNTz5MVWT0h4IP.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Doctors protest working conditions at ESI hospital||Between Sunday night and Monday morning, the doctor on duty at the emergency ward of the 200-bed ESI Hospital in northwest Delhi’s Rohini Sector 15 attended patients outside in the open compound. The senior resident had set up his desk, chair and a bed outside the emergency wing, even as it rained, as a mark of protest against the inadequate facilities at the hospital, including a non-functional air conditioning system and unhygienic conditions in the duty room.Doctors in the emergency wing, which receives at least 70-80 patients throughout the day, say it is unbearable to sit in the stuffy room in hot and humid conditions for 13-14 hours with the personal protective equipment (PPE) coveralls on. They have been working in such conditions for almost three months now.The hospital is not a dedicated Covid-19 facility but has two isolation wards for suspected and stable cases to observe and test them. If patients test positive or develop any kind of complication, they are referred to Covid-19 hospitals or other Covid-19 care facilities depending on the case.“I moved my workstation outside when I could no longer breathe properly inside the room. Doctors on duty can fall unconscious in such circumstances. Besides attending to emergency patients and taking rounds, we are required to check on patients in Covid-19 isolation wards. We have to make notes, take samples, make files and discharge reports of patients sitting in the duty room, which has no ventilation and is poorly kept,” Dr Shashank Srivastava, who sat outside through the night until his shift got over at 9.30am on Monday, said.Even as it rained heavily in the morning, Srivastava saw 8-10 patients. “I made sure they stood under the roof and I checked them right outside the emergency entry. Two of them came with Covid-like symptoms. Only after that the hospital administration asked me to move inside and assured me they’d look into the issues,” Srivastava said.Another senior resident doctor, who did not wish to be named, said that since April, they have been requesting the hospital administration to at least fix the air-conditioner but to no avail. “It is just not humanly possible to wear the PPE kit for so long and sit in that room without falling sick. Also, there is a staff crunch and work hours tend to get stretched. Having proper ventilation and clean surroundings is the least we could ask for,” he said.Against the sanctioned strength of 8-9 senior residents to be posted in the emergency wing, only three doctors are there at present, the doctor quoted above said. “There were five doctors until earlier this month, after which two moved out to join services elsewhere. Now, there are only three of us, while there are no junior residents,” he said.The doctors said they will continue to work outside if their issues are not addressed at the earliest.According to officials in the hospital administration, the medical superintendent met emergency doctors on Monday morning and assured them they would address the issues at the soonest.However, the medical superintendent did not respond for comment despite repeated calls and texts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/doctors-protest-working-conditions-at-esi-hospital/story-i4zGFBMocGogLzu2XccetK.html
22-06-2020||City||Three civil defence volunteers hurt in attack by residents of containment zone||New Delhi: Three civil defence volunteers were injured in a clash with residents of a containment zone in West Delhi’s Naraina on Sunday afternoon over distribution of food packets, the police said after registering a first information report (FIR) and arresting a man.Deepak Purohit, the deputy commissioner of police (west), said while a quarrel over serving of food is said to be the reason for the violence. The police also received complaints from some residents that the quarrel began after the volunteers were accused of selectively letting out some people from the sealed zone.DCP Purohit said the clash happened around 12.15 pm on Sunday while food packets were being distributed to the needy in the containment zone. “According to the volunteers, some residents demanded non-vegetarian food, which wasn’t available. The volunteers then said they should be allowed to leave the containment zone. That led to a group of 10-12 residents turning violent,” the officer said. They allegedly tore off a tin sheet meant to seal entry and exit points of the containment zone and beat up the volunteers. “Three volunteers were injured in the incident. They are out of danger,” the officer said. The police registered a case of assault and disobeying an order given by a public servant. One of the alleged attackers, Sampurnanand Bharti, was arrested from the spot itself after the volunteers called the police for help. “Bharti’s mother and another woman were involved in the attack. We will arrest them also soon,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-civil-defence-volunteers-hurt-in-attack-by-residents-of-containment-zone/story-pUgkopfI6EReLc1B9MttdJ.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Allow pvt labs to use rapid antigen tests: HC to govt||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Delhi government why it was not allowing private labs or private hospitals dealing with Covid-19 patients to conduct rapid antigen tests, which might ease their work, while also observing that the government had failed to meet its own target of conducting 22,000 rapid antigen tests in 11 districts of the city every day.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said that it was “abysmal” for the government to set such estimates after the Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam said that they had targeted conducting 22,000 rapid antigen tests per day (2,000 tests in each of the 11 districts), only in the containment zones.Advocate Satyakam, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told the court that on June 18, a total of 15,012 samples were collected in Delhi, of which 7,040 samples were tested through the rapid antigen detection test and 7,972 through the RT-PCR test. He submitted that as on June 21, 13,345 samples were collected, of which 9,356 samples were tested through the rapid antigen test and 3,989 samples through the RT-PCR test.To this, the court said, “This is even less than 50% of the estimated amount. Your estimates should be reasonable. Why can’t you allow antigen testing in all private places?” Rakesh Malhotra, the advocate for the petitioner, also submitted that patients coming to the emergency department should also be tested using the antigen method.The counsel for the Delhi government sought time from the court stating that the new testing procedure has been started on a trial basis and a week’s time be given to understand its functioning.The court was hearing a plea filed by a lawyer, Sanjeev Sharma, through his counsel Rakesh Malhotra, who contended that there have been several instances where non-Covid patients needing surgery or other procedures were asked to undergo testing, but the hospital concerned did not conduct the test since they did not have the government’s permission.The government also filed a status report in the matter addressing several issues raised by some private labs. In the report, it said that Sir Ganga Ram Hospital “insisted on being treated differently” while blaming the hospital for its non-registration on the RT-PCR portal.the government said that the reason for the hospital’s non-registration on the RT-PCR portal was that the hospital had issues with human resources as its employees were not able to report for work due to travel restrictions imposed by neighbouring states.“It was sheer reluctance on the part of the hospital to follow guidelines; in fact, they stopped processing samples only after an FIR was filed, and not after the notice dated June 3. The hospital, curiously, wanted an exception by virtue of being a big hospital while advocating that the rules be followed by “small labs”. The hospital only relented after the government was forced to take stringent measures in the form of an FIR,” the government told the court.The government report said that it was compelled to take action and after adequate assurance and action, the lab has been permitted to process samples.“A similar order in respect of other labs were remedied within three days but for this establishment, because it insisted on being treated differently. It is submitted that the action taken by the government was imperative as it is the duty of the government to ensure compliance of the rules and guidelines…[sic],” the report read.The Delhi government also told the court that private labs in the city had promised to test 7,220 samples per day, however, they have been testing only 2,030 samples per day. On the last date of hearing (June 19), the court had asked the committee constituted by lieutenant governer Anil Baijal to look into the grievances of the private labs.The court directed that fresh affidavits be filed by the concerned authorities and posted the matter for hearing on June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/allow-pvt-labs-to-use-rapid-antigen-tests-hc-to-govt/story-f53N4bkKbTItNhVIgJKyjO.html
22-06-2020||City||Nepal blocking anti-flood measures, Bihar seeks Centre’s help||MuzaffarpurWith the monsoon picking up and Nepal creating hurdles in the anti-erosion work on its side, an alarmed Bihar government has written to the Centre to take up the matter with the Nepalese authorities for special permission to complete the remaining flood protection work on the Gandak barrage and the embankment along Lal Bakeya river, which originates from the neighbouring country and cuts through parts of north Bihar.During peak monsoon season, rivers flowing from Nepal into downstream Bihar have been a bane for the state, as it happened last year and also during the Kosi disaster of 2008, when the Kosi river breached its embankment in Nepal.As preventive measures, Bihar has been repairing embankments on such rivers in Nepal itself every year. This year, however, Nepalese authorities have refused to allow flood prevention work.Bihar’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Monday wrote to minister for external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to intervene at their level and talk with the Nepalese counterparts to resolve the issue.“The work on the Gandak barrage is crucial. It has 18 gates on the Indian side and 18 on the Nepal side. For decades, Bihar’s water resources department has been carrying out restoration work on both sides. There has never been any issue. But this time, Nepal has put up barriers to prevent anti-erosion work on their side,” Jha said.Jha said that even on Saturday, there was discharge of 1.50 lakh cusecs of water from the barrage and in case of heavy rain, heavy pressure could lead to breach. “For plugging the breach and monitoring the situation, WRD officials and engineers have been going there every year with equipment and material, but this is the first time Nepal side has objected to it,” he has said in the letter.Similarly, the minister said, on the ride side embankment on the Lal Bakeya river, work has been stopped for about 500 metres connecting India with Nepal. “Nepalese authorities are claiming it to be no-man’s land, while there have never been any issue here in the last 30 years,” he said.In April, the Nepal government had given its nod to the Centre for carrying out anti-erosion work on its side in the midst of lockdown. The Bihar government had taken up the matter with the Centre after there were hurdles created in carrying out routine anti-erosion work at vulnerable points on the Kosi river before monsoon.Meanwhile, India’s Sashashtra Seema Bal (SSB), which guards the Indo-Nepal border, has denied permission to Nepalese for repairing the left flank of the embankment on Lal Bakeya river near Tikulia village under Bairgania block in Sitamarhi district.“The left flank of the embankment was breached for nearly 150 metres by floods in 2019. It has to be repaired by the end of May this year. We tried to repair it so that it does not damage harm human lives or standing crops. But our efforts have gone in vain as SSB officials has stopped us,” said Ajay Kumar Gupta, mayor of Gaur Nagarpalika of Rautahat district in Nepal.Pramod Rai, a resident of Tikulia village in Indian territory, said Indians would benefit more if the embankment is repaired. “Once the embankment will be repaired, the standing crop in nearly 10,000 hectares would be saved from floods. We have already informed the district administration as well officials from water resource department (WRD), which is responsible for its maintenance since its inception. But they are silent,” said Rai.When contacted, Suresh Kumar Ram, sub-divisional officer of the WRD at Bairgania, said he could do nothing until ordered by his superiors. “I have informed our superiors and waiting for their response,” he said.Sitamarhi’s district magistrate Abhilasha Kumari Sharma could not be contacted despite several attempts.Division commissioner Pankaj Kumar said he was not aware of the matter. “I will seek information from the DM and officials concerned from the WRD,” he said.India’s ties with Nepal have, of late, turned for the worse after the Himalayan neighbour staked claim on Indian territories. Earlier this month, an Indian was killed by the Nepalese guards at the border in Sitamarhi border, a first such incident in the area. State at the receiving endDuring peak monsoon, rivers flowing from Nepal into Bihar have been a bane for the stateAs preventive measures, Bihar has been repairing embankments on such rivers in Nepal itself every year This year, however, Nepalese authorities have refused to allow flood prevention workEarlier this month, an Indian was killed by the Nepalese guards at the border in Sitamarhi borderBihar shares over 700-km-long boundary with Nepal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nepal-blocking-anti-flood-measures-bihar-seeks-centre-s-help/story-18vf0wX8A1z1ppy5jPHRhN.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Beopar Mandal opposes proposal to decriminalise cheque bounce offence||Suspecting a rise in fraud cases, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal has opposed the proposal of the Union finance ministry to decriminalise the cheque bounce offence.Members of the Mandal took up the matter with district president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Pushpendra Singal and Punjab general secretary Jeevan Gupta at a meeting here on Sunday evening.General secretary Sunil Mehra and district president of the mandal Arvinder Singh Makkar said, “The Union government has sought suggestions/objections on the proposal till June 23, but this proposal should not be implemented at any cost as it will increase cases of fraud. If the offence is decriminalised, traders will have to file a lawsuit against the offender and it will take years to claim the amount.” He said the decriminalisation of economic offences, especially cases of cheque bounce, will adversely affect the working of business entities dealing on credit or postdated cheque basis, said Makkar, adding they have submitted an objection with the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-beopar-mandal-opposes-proposal-to-decriminalise-cheque-bounce-offence/story-Bul5vhpFJQcy02CRdldg3H.html
22-06-2020||City||Death toll crosses 100-mark in Punjab, 170 fresh cases surface||Jalandhar/Amritsar/Ludhiana Three Covid-related deaths were reported in Ludhiana even as 170 fresh cases were reported from across Punjab on Monday. With this, the state’s Covid-19 death toll has gone up to 102 and the total infections to 4,244.A woman was among the three casualties reported from Ludhiana hospitals, taking the death toll in the district to 17. All the three patients were suffering from comorbidities, including hypertension and diabetes, officials said.In Jalandhar, 47 new coronavirus cases, including five police personnel, were reported. A station house officer was among 35 cases reported in Amritsar. Civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “The district reported 35 Covid-19 cases on Monday. Among them, 28 cases are fresh community transmission cases and 7 patients are the close contacts of the Covid-19 patients.” Seven people tested positive for Covid-19 in Pathankot district on Monday, while two each in Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts.Eighteen new patients surfaced in Sangrur on Monday. As per health officials, the patients were from Malerkotla, Saron, Bahadurpur and Sangrur areas of the district.Seven people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ferozepur district and two in Faridkot on Monday.Five infected five men are aged 30, 32, 36, 35 and 60, while two women are aged 26 and 32.Two migrant labourers tested positive in Faridkot. In Bathinda,10 fresh infections were recorded on Monday. Among the patients are a police sub-inspector and a constable.Patiala district recorded five fresh cases, including a bank manager and a police constable.Four women were among the five patients found positive in Muktsar district.According to the spokesperson of the district administration, four patients are from the same family. (With inputs from Patiala, Bathinda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/death-toll-crosses-100-mark-in-punjab-170-fresh-cases-surface/story-BCPHkEbXaZK1C1vTWQNuFI.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Career Advancement Scheme: Panjab University teachers’ body asks varsity to conduct pending interviews||Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Monday sought that pending interviews of teachers who are eligible for promotion under Career Advancement Scheme (CAS), formulated by the University Grants Commission (UGC), be held by the university.The teachers’ body wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar seeking interviews to be fixed either physically or virtually to avoid further delay. Interviews of many teachers were delayed after the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. According to PUTA, there are around 40 teachers whose promotions are pending currently under CAS.“Conducting interviews at the earliest will serve as a huge moral boost for teachers who are approaching PUTA out of anxiety and stress,” the letter to the V-C states.“Experts from neighboring universities/areas may be invited, since they can travel to Chandigarh by car and return the same day. In case outstation experts indicate their inability to travel, rather than holding the whole meeting virtually, it would be more appropriate to have the main venue at Panjab University, with outstation experts joining online,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/career-advancement-scheme-panjab-university-teachers-body-asks-varsity-to-conduct-pending-interviews/story-5Wl8CRdgRNWqokK0a8saAO.html
22-06-2020||City||Monsoon to hit Punjab on June 25||Ludhiana The Southwest monsoon is expected to hit Punjab on June 25, a week ahead of its normal date, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, has said, adding that this will be a boon for most paddy farmers in the state.Professor of agricultural meteorology at PAU KK Gill said, “Conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon in entire Haryana, including Chandigarh, and most parts of Punjab during the next 48-72 hrs. On Monday, the monsoon advanced into most parts of Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and adjoining areas.” She added that light to moderately pre-monsoon showers are likely to commence from north-eastern parts of Punjab and Haryana around late June 23/24. She added that the early monsoon would benefit those paddy farmers who had used the Direct Seeding of Rice (DSR) technique in the first week of June, but would worry other farmers who had sown paddy through DSR on or around June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-to-hit-punjab-on-june-25/story-GFaS9EwFv7sav6D2DdmuQO.html
22-06-2020||City||Prepare draft for civic polls: State election commission to KDMC||The State Election Commission in a letter to the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has asked to carry out the preliminary works for the civic polls which was slated to be conducted in October- November. With the Covid-19 pandemic, the preliminary works which was supposed to be carried out in April- May, was delayed.“We have received a letter from the election commission to prepare the draft for the civic polls, carry out the preliminary works. The civic body is discussing on the same and a decision will be taken soon,” said Sanjay Jadhav, secretary, KDMC.In the notification dated on June 19, the election commission has clearly stated that with the lockdown relaxations, carrying out the preliminary works with proper preventive measures was possible. The commission has asked the civic body to follow all the protocols laid under the Unlock 1.0 – Mission begin Again.“This notification is only for carrying out the draft works which is required to be done before the civic polls, however, there is no such word on when the elections will be conducted. The commission has given us the permission to carry out the preliminary works, “said Jadhav.The commission has asked to carry out those works which can be done in the civic offices and without contacting the public, voters. The civic body has been asked to carry out the work for finalizing the ward delimitation, reservations, changes in reservations as per the population and inform the commissioner once the work is completed.The KDMC had its previous civic polls in November 2015 for its 122 wards.This directions from the election commission has however raised eyebrows among the elected representatives as in March the state government had announced that Out of the 27 villages which are a part of KDMC presently, a separate municipal council for 18 villages will be established, while the remaining 9 villages will continue to be a part of KDMC. The announcement was made by the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in the state assembly. “Now since the state has decided to remove 18 villages from the civic body, the design of wards will change. The civic body will have to demarcate the wards. This will take a lot of time and efforts. However, the civic body will figure it out soon and the directions from the election commission will be followed,” said Vinita Rane, Mayor, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prepare-draft-for-civic-polls-state-election-commission-to-kdmc/story-qjOjyWhVUTFkyFcVXT8grO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mission Fateh: Mohali police honours 80 volunteers||The Mohali district police on Monday honoured 80 public volunteers for their contribution towards ensuring the success of Mission Fateh, by presenting them with badges. The volunteers assisted police at nakas and check points in spreading awareness regarding safety precautions to be undertaken in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, including wearing masks in public, maintaining social distancing and washing hands with soap for 20 seconds as often as possible.A Mohali police spokesman said that as per directions of senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal, the district police is actively involving civilians in the fight against Covid-19, and in the process, encouraging them to be a part of Mission Fateh. He said the district police under the SSP’s guidance is also rendering valuable service in ensuring the success of Mission Fateh by ensuring strict action against those not wearing masks, spitting in public places and failing to maintain social distance in accordance with government guidelines. Between May 20 and June 21, the district police has issued challans to 2,202 people for various offences which resulted in collection of Rs 6.73 lakh.As many as 2,155 people have been challaned for not wearing a masks in public, from which Rs 6.61 lakh has been collected; for spitting in public places, 43 persons have been challaned and Rs 4,300 has been collected. Also, for not maintaining social distancing, four persons have been challaned and Rs 8,000 has been collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mission-fateh-mohali-police-honours-80-volunteers/story-VK8IZU1cSsBj1e6AvBD8LL.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to get online data from colleges seeking affiliation this year||For grant of temporary affiliation, Panjab University will seek data from colleges online this year as physical verification is not possible amid surging cases of Covid-19.PU has more than 190 affiliated colleges and over 100 colleges are granted temporary affiliation every year. Usually, inspection committees of the university visit these colleges for inspection in April and May, following which reports are submitted to the PU syndicate. During inspections, the number of faculty members, necessary equipment and infrastructure is verified.PU’s dean college development council (DCDC) said, “We have decided to seek online data from colleges for grant of affiliation without further delay.”The data received will be placed before the affiliation committee of the university.PU syndicate had already given its nod to get data online from colleges this year. Members of the affiliation committee have also been proposed by the syndicate which includes members Ashok Goyal, Navdeep Goyal, HS Dua, Iqbal Sandhu and Emanual Nahar.A syndicate member, on condition of anonymity, said, “A template will probably be formed that will be sent to the colleges who seek affiliation. The document will include conditions which a college has to fulfill.”PU senator Rajat Sandhir said, “This is a welcome step. It was being debated and demanded in the senate and syndicate for the last couple of years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-get-online-data-from-colleges-seeking-affiliation-this-year/story-nZ5XuiUpeQb7y9MpJZHgrI.html
22-06-2020||City||Zadoo family deaths: Will escalate matter if justice not done, says brother||Days after cousins Vimal and Vipin Zadoo died at a cremation site here, the latter’s elder brother on Monday said if justice is not done with their families, they will escalate the matter and go to any extent.Based in Greater Noida, Mimic Zadoo said, “When this tragedy took place, I didn’t know how to tell my old father because nine months ago we had lost our mother. First we told him about my cousin Vimal’s death and then about my younger brother Vipin’s.”“My 75-year-old father was unable to fathom what had happened with his son and nephew and how they could have died during their uncle’s cremation,” added Mimic.Stating that they haven’t planned to move the National Human Rights Commission, Mimic said, “We are waiting for the Jammu administration to share the magisterial report with us. If they are not sensitive enough to come out with the report, we will escalate this matter to whatever level it’s possible.”When contacted, ADC Tahir Firdous said he was busy with the report and won’t be able to share the findings as of now.Meanwhile, L-G G C Murmu has approved total financial aid of ₹30lakh for the next of kin of the deceased cousins and one Kamal Kumar who died at a quarantine centre in Kathua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zadoo-family-deaths-will-escalate-matter-if-justice-not-done-says-brother/story-xQWLnyDNeipXVyuhKupxtK.html
22-06-2020||City||State cabinet nod to ‘Digital Punjab’ for grievance redressal on single platform||Chandigarh To give relief to entrepreneurs amid the covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab cabinet on Monday decided to extend the One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme for clearance of dues with the Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC) and Punjab Financial Corporation till December 31, 2020.The move help in releasing blocked industrial investment and assets and enable the state to put the same to productive use and help in reducing litigation with respect to loans. PSIDC and PFC are also expected to recover Rs 10 crore and Rs 2 crore, respectively. A comprehensive public grievance redressal policy of all departments under the ambit of ‘Digital Punjab’ has also been approved. The department of governance reforms and public grievances has built an IT portal for this and will conduct training of relevant stakeholders.The cabinet also decided that sanctions and approvals pertaining to building plan, completion certificate, trade license registration, land use change, fire department No-Objection Certificate (NOC), factory building plan approval (except for industries involving hazardous process), as well as registration of shops or establishments, would be granted by the District Level Nodal Agency that the deputy commissioner heads. HOMAGE PAID TO SOLDIERS Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh led the council of ministers in paying homage to 20 Indian soldiers killed while protecting India’s borders and territorial integrity. SUBORDINATE RANK RULES APPROVED FOR POLICEThe Punjab Police Investigation Cadre Subordinate Ranks (Appointment and Condition of Service) Rules, 2020 to govern the recruitment/appointment and the conditions of service of subordinate ranks (constables to inspectors) of the Punjab Bureau of Investigation Cadre were also approved.BEBE NANKI UNIVERSITY COLLEGE (GIRLS) CLEAREDThe cabinet decided to transfer the regional campus of Guru Nanak Dev University, Fattu Dhinga, to the Bebe Nanki University College (Girls) as constituent college of GNDU, as part of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.NEW WEEKLY LOTTERY SCHEMES TO STARTAmendments were cleared to the Punjab State Lotteries Rules, 2015, by inserting the definition of ‘Discount’ and ‘Face Value’. This amendment would help in starting new weekly lottery schemes in the state to enhance its revenue.12 POSTS FOR TRANSPARENCY COMMISSIONApproval was given for 12 posts in The Punjab Transparency and Accountability Commission which was formed in 2018. The panel aims to develop a culture of delivering public service within stipulated time limit, and monitoring of such works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-cabinet-nod-to-digital-punjab-for-grievance-redressal-on-single-platform/story-keXifw3L5mfwNHxZSMG6eL.html
22-06-2020||City||26 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally rises to 727||Twenty-six more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 727, officials said. With 28 more infections on Sunday, Himachal had breached the 700-mark in 94 days. Seven cases were reported in Kangra district, five in Bilaspur, four each in Una and Solan, three in Shimla, two in Sitapur and one in three in Mandi. Seven members of three families from Nagrota Bagwan sub-division of Kangra district tested positive for the virus. Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 58-year-old woman from Serathana village of Nagrota Bagwan sub-division, her 33-year-old daughter-in-law and granddaughter, aged six, have been infected.The family had returned from Mumbai. A 24-year-old man and his 16-year-old sister from Hatwas village are also among the fresh cases. They have a travel history to Delhi. Besides, a 42-year-man from Panjlehar village and his daughter, 11, with travel history from Faridabad are among the new patients. Three cases were reported from Rampur of Shimla. All three had returned from Sonipat of Haryana and were under home quarantine. Authorities have started their contact mapping. Five cases were reported from Bilaspur. Two of them are members of a family who returned from Delhi. They were under institutional quarantine. On Sunday, Himachal Pradesh witnessed the steepest single-day spike as 45 people tested positive for the virus. Sixteen cases were reported in Hamirpur, fourteen in Kangra, nine in Una, three from Solan, two from Sirmaur, and one from Chamba. Himachal’s tally crossed the 700-mark within two days of recording the cases. 279 ACTIVE CASES Active cases in the state stand at 279 and 429 people have recovered. Six people have died and eleven migrated out of the state. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 191 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 182 cases. Una has recorded a total of 93 cases, Solan 81 cases, Chamba 44, Bilaspur 37 cases, Sirmaur 34, Shimla 33, Mandi 24, Kullu five, and Kinnaur three cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only Covid-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-727/story-xwubpKCS04EMxY4OrjtRKM.html
22-06-2020||Kolkata||‘Why this apathy’: TMC questions Centre on excluding Bengal from migrants’ employment scheme||The Trinamool Congress on Monday questioned the Centre’s criterion for selecting districts to be covered under the recently-launched Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan and sought an answer as to why West Bengal has been left out of the scheme.Abhishek Banerjee, senior party leader and nephew of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, posted a tweet on Monday afternoon questioning the Modi government’s “apathy towards the people of Bengal.”“Shri @narendramodi Ji, why have you blatantly ignored the concerns of 11 Lakh migrant workers from #Bengal who’ve recently returned to their homes. Why has WB been left out of the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan? Why this apathy towards the people of Bengal?” tweeted Banerjee. Shri @narendramodi Ji, why have you blatantly ignored the concerns of 11 Lakh migrant workers from #Bengal who’ve recently returned to their homes. Why has WB been left out of the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan? Why this apathy towards the people of Bengal? https://t.co/wW86ntqCoVThe Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan was launched on June 20 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide employment to migrant workers affected by the Covid-19 lockdown,. It will cover 116 districts spread across six states - Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. All these districts have received more than 25,000 migrant workers during the lockdown.Bengal’s Panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee alleged that the state had been left out “intentionally”.“The Centre could have simply checked the details provided by people who returned to Bengal in the Shramik Special trains. It is apparent that Bengal was left out intentionally,” said Mukherjee.On Sunday, TMC’s member of Parliament Mahua Moitra had also criticised the Centre. “Much hyped Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana sounds suspiciously like watered down version of MNREGA,” Moitra had tweeted.The ruling TMC is not the only party in the state to have criticised the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party on this issue.CPM politburo member Md Salim believes this is a “mock fight between the TMC and the BJP.”“The BJP government has never catered to the interests of the poor so this is not a surprise. Since the assembly polls will be held next year, this will add to the mock fight between the TMC and BJP. The BJP is not bothered about employment,” he said.Defending the Centre’s decision to not include Bengal in the scheme, party national secretary Rahul Sinha hit back at the state government, saying it had “never shown any interest in the welfare of the poor.”“The TMC government has not implemented important Central schemes such as Ayushman Bharat that benefits the poor. This government was reluctant to call back migrant workers and treated them with apathy once they came home. Has the TMC government ever shown any interest in welfare of the poor?” said Sinha.The issue of Bengal’s exclusion from the scheme is likely to figure at an all-party meeting that CM Banerjee has called on Wednesday to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and related issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/why-this-apathy-tmc-questions-centre-on-excluding-bengal-from-migrants-employment-scheme/story-zNYHMG4s9XZpfX50429C8I.html
22-06-2020||City||3 deaths, 30 new Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana today||With three casualties and 30 new Covid-19 infections, Ludhiana witnessed its deadliest day yet on Monday. The city’s death toll now stands at 17, while the number of active is 184.Giving details, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the three, one patient had been tested positive posthumously. “Rakesh Kumar Garg of Beant Colony, who had been rushed to the civil hospital in a critical condition on Sunday night, died in the emergency ward of the Fortis Hospital. As per protocol, his samples were collected and sent for testing. He tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously,” said Bagga.Joginder Singh of Shivpuri, who had been rushed to the SPS hospital on June 19 with symptoms of shortness of breath, died on Monday morning. He was on ventilator support but his condition continued to deteriorate, said medical superintendent Dr Rajiv Kundra.A 42-year-old woman Satwinder Kaur, who was tested positive of Covid-19 on Saturday, suffered a cardiac arrest this afternoon and died at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.All the three patients were suffering from comorbidities, including hypertension and diabetes.COP, HOME GUARD JAWANS TEST POSITIVEAssistant sub-inspector (ASI) and two police home guard jawans have tested positive for Covid-19. Out of the 30 cases reported today, as many as 16 cases were reported for containment zone of Prem Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-deaths-30-new-covid-19-cases-in-ludhiana-today/story-699iMC0jLOa16Emxfk9FSM.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pay money, get police protection: Ludhiana man held for extortion, false claims||A labour leader purporting to have police contacts and extorting money from people after promising to get them justice or protection to carry out illegal activities such as sand mining was arrested on Monday.Akshwar Nath Mishra alias AN Mishra of Urban Estate, Jamalpur, was arrested and an FIR lodged against him at the Shimlapuri police station after Surinderpal Sharma, an advocate, complained that he had extorted ₹50,000 from his client Suresh Kumar, said Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2).Mishra is president of a labour welfare organisation. He had allegedly assured Kumar that he would help him get his sister Pooja’s in-laws arrested after she lodged an FIR against them for aborting her pregnancy on April 7, 2019, at the Shimlapuri Police station. Mishra had taken ₹50,000 from Kumar to get a chargesheet filed against them.Teja said investigations had also revealed that Mishra had taken ₹2lakh from Jatinder Kumar for police protection to carry out sand mining and ₹70,000 from Sandeep Sharma for illegal lottery trade.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO at Shimlapuri police said a case under sections 384 (extortion), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC has been registered against the accused. Investigations are continuing to ascertain if he had extorted money from others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-money-get-police-protection-ludhiana-man-held-for-extortion-false-claims/story-3L6TjvyhVEKNgyNJeIPaKO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Passengers wary of letting anyone touch their luggage, say porters at Chandigarh railway station||With just two passenger trains making a stop here, porters at the Chandigarh railway station are struggling to find work, especially as passengers are now wary of letting anyone touch their luggage, fearing the spread of Covid-19. “We used to earn around Rs 500 a day in off-season. Now, we are lucky even if we earn Rs 50 a day,” says Vijay Meena, one of the two presidents of the porters’ body at the station. He says that seven of the total 39 porters at the station have already left for their hometowns and those who are left behind are struggling to make ends meet. “I barely have any money to pay my house rent, which has been due for the past four months, and now I am unsure if I will even be able to send my children to school this year,” Meena says. Most of the porters live close to the station in Daria village, Manimajra and Mauli Jagran. Divided into two groups of 15, the porters work on alternate days, taking precautions such as wearing masks and sanitising their hands.But rarely finding any work, most of them sit in a room allotted to them near the parking. Sawar Khan, the other president of the porters’ body, says that people are reluctant to hire porters as they don’t want anyone handling their luggage amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Another reason, he says, is that the trains line up on platform number one, from where people can easily drag their luggage to the exit. “We would get more work if the two trains, Jan Shatabdi and Paschim Express, line up on other platforms.” RAILWAY AUTHORITIES MULLING COVID NEGATIVE CARDS FOR PORTERSSympathising with their condition, station superintendent of the Chandigarh Railway station, Anil Aggarwal said, “We are thinking of making cards for porters assuring people they are Covid negative after screening them at the railway hospital so that people are more confident of hiring them.” He added that the railway authorities were also helping the porters and Northern Railways Women’s Welfare Organisation had recently provided ration to 35 porters a week ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/passengers-wary-of-letting-anyone-touch-their-luggage-say-porters-at-chandigarh-railway-station/story-Kbc0ijbGGB7NmsD78RIsCI.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 test at Chandigarh’s private labs capped at Rs 2,000||The UT administration on Monday put of cap of at Rs 2,000 on Covid-19 tests at private labs in the city. Currently, the only private lab in the city that has authorisation for conducting the test, SRL Laboratory, charges Rs 4,500 per patient.The UT officials, led by adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, met the representatives of SRL Laboratory on Monday, as per the directions of the Indian Council of Medical Research.“After taking into account the cost of kits and consumables and on the basis of procedure in other states, UT administration, in exercise of the powers bestowed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, directed that no private laboratory should charge more than Rs 2,000 for Covid-19 test, inclusive of GST/taxes, if any,” said a UT official privy to the development.The prescribed cost would include the cost involved in pick up, packing and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting in UT, the official added.For conducting the test, the lab requires three documents from a person requesting Covid test -- prescription for Covid-19 test from a qualified physician, government photo-id and duly filled specimen referral form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-test-at-chandigarh-s-private-labs-capped-at-rs-2-000/story-exykafALBw2z4AlS531muI.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Low-intensity rain to continue, heavy showers not expected till weekend: IMD||The city is likely to witness intermittent light to moderate rain spells over the week but intense heavy showers are not expected till the weekend, the weather bureau said.The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) district rainfall forecast for the next four days showed light to moderate rain for Tuesday followed by very light to light rain from Wednesday to Friday.“Reduction in rain intensity is due to the lack of prominent weather systems developing over Bay of Bengal that aids the monsoon current, strong wind pattern and allows the offshore trough to be active. However, none of these factors are there at the moment for the Konkan coast, especially the Mumbai region,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, IMD director-general. “Over the next four to five days we are not expecting any intense rain activity for the Mumbai region.”So far there has been only one intense rain spell on June 18 that led to 41 mm rain in the suburbs and 44 mm in south Mumbai. After that, only sporadic showers mostly during the night or early morning have been witnessed.Between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm Monday, south Mumbai 5.2 mm rain while negligible rain was recorded in the suburbs. Over the last 24 hours (8.30 am Sunday and 8.30 am Monday), 12.5 mm was recorded in the suburbs and 0.6 mm in south Mumbai.After a lull in rain intensity, total rain recorded so far since June 1 was 7.3 mm below normal or deficient rain for the suburbs. The Santacruz weather station has so far recorded 303.4 mm rain against the normal of 310.7 mm for the period June 1 to June 22. However, south Mumbai has recorded 26.3 mm excess rain with 369.5 mm against the normal of 343.2 mm for the period.Independent meteorologists said the Mumbai Metropolitan Region would witness sultry weather throughout the week along with a partly cloudy sky. “There will be passing light rain until June 23, following which further reduction in the rain activity will occur. Showers might increase during the weekend,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom adding that the offshore trough (weather system) had weakened. “There is a significant reduction in moisture levels over Mumbai. In addition, a break-monsoon type situation (period when intense monsoon rainfall activity shifts to the foothills of the Himalayas) is expected in India this week, which would keep rainfall in Maharashtra (including Mumbai) on the lower side,” said Deoras.The maximum temperature in the suburbs was 2 degrees Celsius above normal at 33.3 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was 25.6 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal. South Mumbai recorded 32.8 degrees Celsius as the maximum temperature and 27.7 degrees Celsius as the minimum, both a degree Celsius above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/low-intensity-rain-to-continue-heavy-showers-not-expected-till-weekend-imd/story-MgCwXprP1bDwVxZQBSVTDK.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||AAP leaders stage stir, demand revival of Bathinda thermal plant||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs and other leaders on Monday staged a protest near finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence against the state government’s move to dole out hundreds of acres of land of Bathindra Thermal Power Plant, which was shut down two years ago, to its “loved ones”.The party members led by leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema demanded revival of the power plant, which, they said, was lying shut due to the wrong policies of successive governments.The protesters marching towards the Badal’s official residence were detained by the Chandigarh Police. As per a press release, AAP MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Gurmit Singh Meet Hayer and Jai Krishan Singh Rori, state political review committee chairman Harchand Singh Bursat and youth leader Sandeep Singla participated in the protest among others.Cheema said they wanted to meet Manpreet Badal to remind him the election promise of reviving the thermal plant.MLA Sandhwan said if the government has taken the unfortunate decision of closing down the thermal plant permanently, the land should be restored to the farmers from whom it was acquired in 1969.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-leaders-stage-stir-demand-revival-of-bathinda-thermal-plant/story-qFdMBZSSWkIksXI6JUeeGK.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD chief urges Centre to bring down fuel prices||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday urged the Union government to bring down fuel prices to give much needed relief to farmers, industry and common man.Punjab government should also roll back the hike in state VAT on fuel, he said.In a statement here, the SAD chief said the huge hike in fuel prices over the last 16 days was causing a lot of stress to the country’s economy which was still reeling from the effects of Covid-19 lockdown. He said the consecutive hike had made petrol dearer by ₹9.21 per litre and diesel costlier by ₹8.55 per litre.He said pricier fuel had hurt farmers and common man the most. He said farmers were already bearing a huge increase in labour charges for transplantation of paddy, and now had to reckon with an unprecedented hike in fuel prices.Sukhbir said the Congress government should also reverse the hike in state VAT on fuel in the interest of consumers. He said the state had affected an increase of ₹3.20 per litre in the price of petrol and ₹2.53 per litre for diesel.“In view of this scenario, the government should come out with a financial package to revive the economy, but instead it is putting fresh burden on the people. The hike in state VAT on fuel should be withdrawn immediately,” he demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-chief-urges-centre-to-bring-down-fuel-prices/story-MMMKtOkKlGYzycCRgnys6L.html
22-06-2020||City||In 106 days, J&K crosses 6,000-mark with 132 fresh Covid-19 infections||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 132 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 6,088, officials said. The UT crossed the 6,000 mark in 106 days. The first few cases were reported on March 9.Of the new infections, 122 were reported from Kashmir and 10 from Jammu division. Among these, 25 patients have a travel history.Also, three more people succumbed to the virus in Kashmir on Monday. With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 85—75 people have died in Kashmir and 10 in Jammu division.Two men, aged 58 and 65, from south Kashmir, died at two city hospitals late on Sunday and Monday. Both the patients had bilateral pneumonia. A 60-year-old woman from Kulgam, with a liver disease and septic shock, who was admitted at SKIMS hospital,Soura, died on Sunday evening.Meanwhile, the active cases in the UT stand at 2,472 after 149 more patients recovered on Monday. Officials said 45 people were discharged from Jammu division and 104 from Kashmir. “13 Covid-19 patients were discharged from SKIMS Bemina (JVC), after they tested negative, an official at the hospital said. “With this, the number of recovered patients has reached 419 out of total 543 admitted till date. The recovery rate at present is more than 77% and the mortality rate is 0.73%,” he said.So far, 3,531 people have been cured in Jammu and Kashmir, taking the recovery rate to 57.99 %.The highest jump in cases in Kashmir was witnessed in Srinagar and Shopian districts with 22 new cases each in both districts. In Budgam, 20 more people tested positive for the virus. In Jammu division, single digit increase was witnessed in the districts.Till date, 2.57 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 39,718 in home quarantine, 30 in hospital quarantine and 46,853 under home surveillance. Besides these, 1.68 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-106-days-j-k-crosses-6-000-mark-with-132-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-xKXfqj5kxQDo4KXdhBkrfN.html
22-06-2020||City||Official apathy row: SOPs being modified in light of hot weather in Jammu, says Dr Jitendra||Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh on Monday said he has spoken to J&K lieutenant governor G C Murmu and that the pandemic guidelines are being modified, keeping in view the hot weather conditions in Jammu division.This comes after the public outcry over the alleged administrative apathy that led to the deaths of three men – two Kashmiri Pandits who died during the cremation of their relative in Jammu and a 47-year-old Kathua resident who passed away at a quarantine centre after testing negative for Covid-19 twice on Sunday.“Spoken to L-G GC Murmu regarding the death of a person in quarantine centre at Kathua. Guidelines being immediately modified, keeping in view the severe heat conditions, so that no person is held back from going home at the earliest,” the minister posted on his Twitter handle.Kathua district commissioner (DC) Dr O P Bhagat said, “Re-sampling of the deceased was done on Sunday and he was tested negative for the second time. His post-mortem was conducted on Monday by a board of doctors and thereafter cremated at his native place.”The DC informed that the autopsy report was expected in a day or two.Following the quarantine centre death on Sunday, the DC had ordered a magisterial probe and appointed ADC Atul Gupta, who is supposed to submit the report within 15 days.Meanwhile, after Congress and National Conference opened a front against the administration following the three deaths due to alleged official apathy, senior BJP leaders called upon L-G Murmu on Monday and apprised him of various issues regarding the Covid-19 pandemic SOPs.Led by J&K BJP general secretary Vibodh Gupta and party vice-president Dr Narinder Singh, the delegation demanded a judicial probe into the three deaths, ₹15 lakh ex-gratia and a government job each to their next of kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/official-apathy-row-sops-being-modified-in-light-of-hot-weather-in-jammu-says-dr-jitendra/story-vJhuVuKsLrTjl8w5npCgiJ.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon expected to hit Chandigarh by Thursday||After 10mm rain on Monday morning, light rain is expected in the city on Tuesday, with monsoon likely to be declared by Thursday, as per India meteorological department (IMD) officials.In a communication sent out on Monday, the IMD said that monsoon has advanced into most parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on Monday. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and most parts of Punjab in the next two days. It will start in the north-eastern parts of Punjab and Haryana at first and rainfall over 40 mm is possible in the city from Wednesday.Officials added that Tuesday is likely to see only light rainfall, while the intensity of rain is likely to rise in the city between Wednesday night and Thursday morning. Maximum temperature in the city went down from 33.7°C on Sunday to 34.5°C on Monday, three degrees below normal due to the rain at night. The minimum temperature went up from 22.8 degrees on Sunday to 23.6 on Monday, one degree below normal. In the next three days, maximum temperature in the city will remain between 33°C and 35°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 23°C and 25°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-expected-to-hit-chandigarh-by-thursday/story-0Q2jdYNGvN2e3nO54w2juN.html
22-06-2020||City||L-G Murmu launches e-application-cum-issuance of domicile certificate||Lieutenant governor, Girish Chandra Murmu on Monday launched e-application-cum-issuance of domicile certificate, developed by Jammu and Kashmir e-Governance Agency (JaKeGA), here at the Raj Bhavan.With the launch of this service, the count of the Government to Citizen (G2C) online services reached 27. It is an addition to the UT administration’s e-governance initiatives to speed up the public delivery mechanism through minimal human intervention, besides ensuring efficiency, transparency, and reliability of such services.Aaliya Tariq, daughter of Tariq Ahmad Langoo from Sopore, Baramulla became the first recipient of domicile certificate through e-mode on Monday.The PRC holders and other applicants can apply for the issuance of a domicile certificate online by providing Aadhaar number and receive the certificate through online mode. PRC holders will be able to receive their domicile certificate through this application without visiting any office.Murmu observed that the UT administration has taken this people-friendly initiative to provide a domicile certificate through online mode across the Union territory.Domicile certificates must be issued within a stipulated time frame and any laxity or malpractice on the part of the issuing authority shall invite strict administrative action, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-murmu-launches-e-application-cum-issuance-of-domicile-certificate/story-jVOw1Eh3whSp8PoXUwjlMJ.html
22-06-2020||Patna||Covid +ve man found hanging at AIIMS hours before testing -ve||Hours before testing negative, a 38-year-old man, a suspected Covid-19 case, hanged himself at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, Monday evening.“The patient was admitted to the AIIMS on June 15, and had tested positive for the virus. He, however, tested negative during the repeat test done on Monday, hours before his death,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the AIIMS-Patna.“The patient was undergoing treatment in the isolation ward. He, however, went inside an adjoining room and locked himself before hanging himself from a ceiling fan,” said Dr Kumar.“The police have taken the body into custody,” said Dr Kumar.Efforts to reach additional director general of police (headquarters), Bihar, Jitendra Kumar, proved futile as he did not respond to phone calls or text message.This is the first reported case of a Covid-19 patient ending his life while undergoing treatment at a government facility in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-ve-man-found-hanging-at-aiims-hours-before-testing-ve/story-4cTjxp1BU60PPJkLf1WhTP.html
22-06-2020||City||Punjab-origin landlord billed £16,000 as illegal unit’s demolition cost in UK||The Ealing Council has handed a Punjab-origin landlord in Southall a £16,000 bill after it demolished an illegally constructed structure in his property that he refused to dismantle after being requested to do so by the council over two years.Rapinder Sehajpal has been described by the council as a ‘slum landlord’, which refers to landlords letting out parts of their properties illegally to tenants in conditions that may or may not be hygienic.It said on Monday that Sehajpal now owes the council £16,000 as the cost of demolishing the illegal outbuilding in her property.“The 45-square-metre outbuilding had been built without planning permission and then illegally let to a family. The demolition came after several rounds of legal interventions by the council over a two-year period were disregarded by Sehajpal,” the council said.The council began the proceedings after receiving a tip-off in May 2017. The owner was issued planning enforcement notice and after several exchanges and warning letters, the structure was knocked down by the council.Councillor Joanna Camadoo-Rothwell, the council’s lead member for community safety and inclusion, said: “This gentleman chose to ignore repeated requests to obey the law, continuing to rent out this illegally-built outhouse. It is totally unacceptable in a modern, civilised society for a cramped building at the bottom of a garden to be used as a family home.”“As we have seen in many cases across the capital, illegal outbuildings are damaging to our neighbourhoods and pose a very real health hazard for those living in them. I am therefore pleased to see a robust approach to enforcement in this case, with Sehajpal paying a heavy price for flouting planning regulations,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-landlord-billed-16-000-as-illegal-unit-s-demolition-cost-in-uk/story-dINQ25aYEIMbFOrKF3cJmK.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar govt to set up mineral water plant||Haryana government has decided to set up a bottled mineral drinking water plant under the brand name ‘Haryana Fresh’, an official spokesperson said on Monday. The public health engineering department will set up this project and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the department to chalk out the modalities for setting up the plant. Initially, the bottled mineral water from the plant would be made available to the government institutions. Later, mineral water reverse osmosis (RO) plants would be set up in the educational institutions to provide clean and fresh drinking water to the students. This decision was taken in the meeting of water supply and sewerage board of public health engineering department held under the chairmanship of the chief minister here.It was also decided that the first rural sewerage system under the Mahagram scheme will be inaugurated in Sotai village in Faridabad on August 15. Khattar said to provide clean and adequate drinking water facility to the people was among the top priorities of the state government.Directing the department to ensure that there was no shortage of drinking water supply in urban and rural areas, especially during the summer season, he also sought the detailed plan prepared by the department for the drinking water supply in different areas of the state.In the meeting, the board also approved Rs 1,314 crore for the improvement of drinking water supply facilities, sewerage system in rural and urban areas and storm water drainage facilities in urban areas, besides allocating funds for 5,185 ongoing schemes and 595 new schemes. Of about 30.73 lakh rural households in the state, functional household tap connection (FHTC) has been provided to 23.73 lakh households.Haryana is aiming to cover 100% eligible rural households with FHTCs by 2022, well before the national target of 2024. A sum of Rs 265 crore has been allotted under the Central Plan.PORTAL FOR SAFAI KARAMCHARISHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched a new portal for resolving the grievances and complaints of safai karamcharis (sanitation workers).Vice-chairperson of Haryana State Commission for Safai Karamcharis, Krishan Kumar, said the new software has been designed and developed to help the workers register their grievances and problems online at www.hscsk.org.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-govt-to-set-up-mineral-water-plant/story-mVMTF6w61QvUGd0adW1VHI.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dining out gradually picking pace at Chandigarh’s restaurants||Two weeks after the administration allowed eateries to resume dine-in services, restaurateurs say more customers were now coming in to eat out.As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the UT administration, restaurants were allowed to open from June 8 with an 8pm deadline and only 50% capacity to maintain 6 feet distance between customers. Tables have to be sanitised before every new customer, and use of disposable menus and contactless payment has been encouraged.Neeraj Bajaj, proprietor of Sindhi Sweets and president of the Chandigarh Business Council, said, “There is about a 30% increase in patrons, but several more were unable to come in due to weekend restrictions in Punjab.”On the sales’ front, he said people were overall definitely spending lesser on the total bill.In Sector 10, the dine-in business is thriving as most outlets here have opened now. Annu Bains, proprietor of Brooklyn Central here, said, “The number of customers is gradually going up. We have a loyal clientele that is venturing out more and preferring dine-in over takeaway or home delivery.”Joint owner of Nik Bakers, Nitin Mittal said, “Once all restaurants reopen, normalcy will be restored. So, it’s important for the businesses to stay open.” The 8pm deadline is however eating into the sales of some restaurants. Pal Dhaba in Sector 28 is doing better on home deliveries compared to dine-ins. “People don’t venture out in the summer before 8pm. It’s impractical to expect customers to visit a dhaba in the searing heat,” said proprietor Amit Pal Singh.Meanwhile, several restaurants are still not providing dine-in services. “More eateries will open up fully when more customers feel comfortable in stepping out of their houses,” said Ankit Gupta, president of the Chandigarh Hospitality Association, and owner of Himani’s Vertigo Lounge in Sector 35, where they are offering only home delivery and takeaway for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dining-out-gradually-picking-pace-at-chandigarh-s-restaurants/story-WnjgcS4L6YVKhr3PFp3nUM.html
22-06-2020||City||Frequent mobile internet gags during militant encounters irk Kashmiri students||The frequent suspension of 2G internet during militant encounters in Kashmir has irked college and university students who are appearing in their online internal examinations these days.Already bearing the brunt of slow speed internet during the Covid-19 lockdown, the student community said snapping of mobile internet whenever a gunfight takes place between militants and security forces, leaves their examination schedules in disarray.Majid Lone of Islamia College of Science and Commerce (ICSC), Srinagar, woke up to no cellular internet service on Sunday as an encounter had started in Zadibal area of the city. “When I made some calls, I came to know about the encounter and postponement of the exams. Mobile internet was suspended in south Kashmir on Thursday and Friday too after encounters erupted there,” he said.While three militants were killed in Zadibal encounter on Sunday, eight militants were killed on Thursday and Friday in two separate gun battles in south Kashmir’s Pulwama and Shopian districts. A militant was also killed in Kulgam on Saturday. Another encounter erupted in Anantnag on Monday.A computer science student of Islamic University of Science and Technology (IUST) in Pulwama district said their internal viva exams were scheduled online on Thursday when the internet was suddenly snapped.“Out of 80, barely three students managed to give the exam. The whole schedule got disrupted as the internet was restored on Saturday when the exams were held again,” she said.IUST student Abrar Ahmad, who is doing his BTech in electronics and communication engineering, said students were suffering a lot due to the internet issues in the valley. “Our exam was scheduled on Sunday, but due to internet suspension it could not be held. Our next paper is on Tuesday, so the university may squeeze in the rescheduled exam a day before or after, which adds to our burden,” he said.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said, “We try to localise internet suspension in rural areas, but in the city, there are technological constraints. We will look into the issue.”When contacted, higher education secretary Talat Parvez Rohella’s phone was switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/frequent-mobile-internet-gags-during-militant-encounters-irk-kashmiri-students/story-kmn8B6mFmQ4GM5IMcCTotK.html
22-06-2020||City||Patti-Makhu rail link hanging fire for 7 years||TARN TARAN Seven years after the rail budget of 2013 gave the green signal to the Rs 1,000 crore, 25km Patti-Makhu link to connect the Majha and Malwa regions of the state, the project has been hanging fire for want of clarity on land acquisition among the Centre and the state. Each wanted the other to buy land. The railways had cleared about ₹300 crore for the project during 2017-18. In March 2019, the state government had sanctioned ₹40 crore for land acquisition.Farmers stand to benefit from the link as they could send vegetable and fruit to markets in Mumbai and Gujarat much faster. The distance between Amritsar and Mumbai will reduce by 240km, as the project will also link Punjab with the trade capitals of Gujarat and Maharashtra. The project will also reduce distance between Amritsar and Ferozepur from the present 118km to 86km.Around 165 acre land will be acquired for the project — 70 acre by Tarn Taran administration, and 95 acre by Ferozepur administration — between Gharyala railway station on the Amritsar-Khemkaran line at Patti in Tarn Taran and Mallanwala railway station on the Ferozepur-Jalandhar line in Makhu.The project had got a lease of life in February this year with the Punjab government announcing that it would start the process of Social Impact Assessment (SIA) for acquiring land, but the lockdown due to covid-19 stalled the plan. In the most recent development, the administration, on Tuesday, will write a letter to experts to begin the process of SIA. “The SIA was to be conducted by a team of experts from a particular university, but it could not be started due to the lockdown,” said Rajesh Sharma, Patti SDM, who is also the competent authority for land acquisition. BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Amritsar Shwait Malik said, “The project is being delayed deliberately. The state government had sanctioned Rs 40 crore for land acquisition, but has failed to release the funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patti-makhu-rail-link-hanging-fire-for-7-years/story-ar6L73s6YN9lzCMv2py6WM.html
22-06-2020||City||Cong leader Bagul is party head in PMC||PUNE: Aba Bagul will be the Congress party leader in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) after the party announced changes in its Pune unit. Bagul has replaced Arvind Shinde, according to a statement released by Congress state unit president Balasaheb Thorat on Monday.The party leaders were seeking a change in local leadership, a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity.Bagul said, “I am thankful to the Congress party’s national and state leaders for giving me the opportunity to represent the party in civic body for a second time. I will try my best to discharge my responsibility as an opposition leader with the support from our party’s elected members.”Other leaders were also aspiring for the key post in PMC. Bagul said, “I am going to take charge on Tuesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-leader-bagul-is-party-head-in-pmc/story-0p7iSjbUI3Pl3dfvlIcLuK.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Branches of two Ferozepur banks closed after employee tests positive||The branches of two banks were closed down after a woman working at a nationalised bank tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The branch of a private bank where her husband works had also tested positive.A notice pasted outside the Ferozepur city branch of Punjab & Sind Bank says the branch had been closed down till further orders following reports of a coronavirus case. Customers may contact Ferozepur Cantonment branch of the Punjab and Sind Bank.Meanwhile, a branch of the IndusInd Bank in Ferozepur was also closed down with a notice saying ‘the branch will remain closed for sanitation’.Though the 32-year-old woman’s husband’s Covid-19 test results are awaited, authorities closed down the branch for sanitation.Meanwhile, a private hospital in Ferozepur City was also closed down as an official in the office of the Ferozepur divisional railway manager, who reportedly died due to Covid-19 in Ludhiana, had been taking his medicine from the private hospital.Earlier in the day, seven people had tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Ferozepur, taking tally to 67.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/branches-of-two-ferozepur-banks-closed-after-employee-tests-positive/story-UqxGPbaGu2OWGXKjttPTLN.html
22-06-2020||City||Heli-taxi services resume in Himachal but with low passenger turnout||The heli-taxi services resumed on Monday in Himachal Pradesh amid poor response in wake of Covid-19. Only three passengers flew in two flights operated by the National Helicopter Carrier Pawan Hans Ltd. A company official said a passenger travelled on the Chandigarh-Shimla flight and two passengers on Shimla-Kullu route. All domestic flights, including helicopter services, were suspended in March due to the nationwide lockdown imposed in wake of Covid-19 outbreak. The flights on Chandigarh-Shimla-Chandigarh route will be operated six days in a week except for Sunday. Flights on Shimla-Kullu route will be operated on Monday, Friday and Saturday. On Shimla—Dharamshala route, flights will operate on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. The heli-taxi service is being run under the Udan-II scheme of the Centre to provide regional air connectivity.As per the state government guidelines for heli-taxi services, the passengers with valid address proof in Himachal Pradesh will be allowed to travel by air and that too after obtaining the mandatory e-pass from the district magistrate of the area.The mandatory quarantine guidelines, which require 14-day paid or institutional quarantine for anyone coming from a high-load infected city, will be applicable to all passengers entering the state. The fare for one-way journey on Chandigarh-Shimla route is ₹3,445 per person while on Shimla-Kullu route the one way trip will cost ₹3,828. The fare is highest at ₹4,750 on Shimla-Dharamsala circuit. As per the standard operating procedure, the 10-seater helicopter will operate with 50% capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heli-taxi-services-resume-in-himachal-but-with-low-passenger-turnout/story-DBwooCSQjNl4QoKNe3NeGM.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL in trouble as govt holds back subsidies for free power to farm sector||The government’s failure to pay subsidy to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to make good its free power promise to the agriculture sector is draining the coffers of the corporation.Not paid the subsidy for the last five fiscals, PSPCL is taking loans from banks to survive. It has as of now taken a loan of ₹500 crore and is planning to apply again for ₹ 260 crore as demand peaks in summer. According to information available with Hindustan Times, till June 15, out of the ₹3,923 crore subsidy it had to pay, the Punjab government gave ₹1,840 crore in cash to PSPCL.“Both PSPCL and Punjab Government are in a vicious circle over subsidy and interest payment. In the recent tariff order, the power regulator has imposed ₹418 crore interest on the Punjab government for delayed/partial payment of subsidy to PSPCL. At the same time, due to non-payment of full subsidy, PSPCL is taking loans to meet its expenses and paying interest to banks. Both PSPCL and Punjab government are paying interest, but ultimately this money comes from the pocket of the public”, said a power engineer who did not wish to be named.What the government will do about this year’s bill of ₹16,400 crore amid the Covid-19 pandemic is anybody’s guess.When contacted, A Venu Prasad, chairman-cum-managing director (CMD), PSPCL, said the corporation was getting a much better amount in subsidy than in previous years, but it was “not enough” as most of PSPCL’s power was purchased in summer. This meant that teh corporation had to make maximum payments during summer. “To meet the shortfall, we have take a loan of ₹500 crore and another Rs. 260 will be needed,” he added.BOXPSPCL gets cheap power from GridWith power available for cheaper rates at the National Grid because of lower demand in India, PSPCL purchased 100 MW power each day on Saturday and Sunday from it. Thanks to the efforts of CMD A Venu Prasad the Northern Grid too has allowed PSPCL to import 200 MW additional power. “PSPCL is cutting down operational costs by purchasing cheap power from grid whenever possible,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-faces-financial-crunch-as-govt-holds-back-subsidies-for-free-power-to-farm-sector/story-Z0iFx14AFbDQdfuRH3Iq8N.html
22-06-2020||City||Coronavirus situation in Himachal is under control: CM Jai Ram Thakur||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said that the Covid-19 situation in the state was under control as out of the total 701 cases, 420 have been cured. He said that initially there was only one Covid-19 case in Himachal, but the number rose when two lakh people stranded in different parts of the country returned to the state. While addressing a virtual rally of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Mahila Morcha from Shimla, CM said that the state government was committed to the welfare and empowerment of women in the state as several schemes have been launched for their economic upliftment and social empowerment. Thakur said that free gas connections have been provided to 2.76 lakh families under the State Scheme Grihni Suvidha Yojana and 1.36 lakh connections under Ujjawala Yojna, ₹500 each have been deposited in the accounts of 5.90 lakh eligible women under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana during the months of April, May and June.CM lauded work done by State Mahila Morcha in preparing and distributing face masks to people and said that they have also played a key role in providing ration and cooked food to the needy at the time of curfew in the state. He said that Himachal Pradesh was the first state in the country to provide 50% reservation in the Panchayati Raj Institutions and Urban Local Bodies. National President Mahila Morcha Vijaya Rahatkar while addressing the rally from Aurangabad said that Mahila Morcha has also played a major role in the Covid-19 pandemic, by sensitising people regarding the importance of social distancing in checking the spread of the virus. President of state Mahila Morcha Rashmi Dhar Sood detailed various activities of the morcha and said that about 28.50 lakh face masks were prepared and distributed by the women associated with them. A two-minute silence was also observed in honour of the Galwan martyrs.Make home quarantine mechanism more effective: CMHimachalis stranded in different parts of the country willing to come back must apply online to the concerned deputy commissioner and they will be allowed to enter after complete scrutiny, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday. He said this at a video conference with deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers from Shimla on Monday.Thakur said that DCs have been authorised to declare any institutions within their jurisdiction as Covid care centre so as to facilitate the Covid-19 patients. He said that e-passes must be given only on medical ground and in case of death in families.Thakur said that the home quarantine mechanism must be made more effective and constant vigil must be kept on the people so that the persons do not jump home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-situation-in-himachal-is-under-control-cm-jai-ram-thakur/story-ydRbAaEplXhxa47XWSYSON.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala’s Government Rajindra Hospital medical superintendent quarantined||Government Rajindra Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Paras Pandove was quarantined after a clerical member tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday.Two Rajindra hospital staffers, including a nurse and clerk tested positive, on Sunday. After receiving the results, the district administration started tracing the contacts of Covid-19 positive patients and found that the clerk had met the medical superintendent.Sixteen Rajindra hospital staffers have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said, “We have taken the medical superintendent’s sample for testing and have quarantined him.”Earlier, authorities at Government Rajindra Hospital had said doctors and other staffers of will face disciplinary action if they contract coronavirus ‘due to their negligence’. The move came days after 13 staffers of the hospital were found positive for Covid-19. The order read: “If anyone gets infected due to his or her own negligence, he/she should be personally responsible for this. Disciplinary action will be taken against him/her under the Disaster Management Act.”Civil surgeon had said some staffers don’t use protective gear and ignore social distancing. Doctors took up the issue with Government Medical College principal on Friday.Medical superintendent Dr Paras Pandove too had said, “It is just an alert for the safety of doctors and employees. We have provided safety gear to all. Those not using them and get infected, it’s their fault.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rajindra-hospital-medical-superintendent-quarantined/story-ybOOQJWK6zSJkB8YUZGqcK.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Released after being abducted, two staffers of Indian high commission in Pakistan return via Wagah||Amritsar: The two staff members of the Indian high commission in Pakistan, who were abducted and tortured by the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), and framed in a case of road rage in the neighbouring country recently, returned to India via the Attari-Wagah border, 32 km from Amritsar, on Monday.The two staff members, Paul Selvadhas and Dwimu Brahma, who were working as drivers in the Indian high commission in Pakistan, were accompanied by three Indian officials on their return.“Five members of the Indian high commission crossed over to India at 1pm,” a senior Border Security Force (BSF) official said.Selvadhas and Brahma were abducted by 15 armed men from a fuel station near the Indian high commission in Pakistan on June 15. They were kept in detention for 12 hours and beaten up with rods and lathis and made to drink dirty water.According to sources, the three officials who accompanied Selvadhas and Brahma are on leave and will return to work.According to officials at the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan and movement of passengers from India to Pakistan and vice-a-versa, injury marks were visible on Selvadhas and Brahma.They were taken away in a separate vehicle from the ICP, which was escorted by a team of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), while the three other staff members left the ICP in another car.Sources said the high commission of India had written to the ministry of foreign affairs (MFA) in Islamabad for the movement of the five officials via Wagah on June 18. The MFA had granted permission on June 19.The two staffers were interrogated regarding the role and function of all high commission officials.Reports in the Pakistani media claimed that the Indian officials had been arrested after their car allegedly hit a pedestrian near the diplomatic enclave. The Indian officials had said that their kidnappers made multiple videos in which the two staffers were forced to confess under duress that they were involved in the accident.The two men were handed back to the Indian high commission at 9pm on June 15. They were released after the Pakistani charge d’affaires in New Delhi was summoned to the foreign ministry of India and a strong protest was lodged.A first information report (FIR) by Islamabad police claimed fake Pakistani currency was found in the car in which the two were travelling. The Indian authorities refuted the charges.The incident took place a fortnight after the Indian government expelled two officials of the Pakistan high commission who were apprehended on charges of spying on May 31. Both men were declared “persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission” and asked to leave India within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/released-after-being-abducted-two-staffers-of-indian-high-commission-in-pakistan-return-via-wagah/story-AxQ2D1qOVByZQsK2HwmWeI.html
22-06-2020||Pune||Couple dies by suicide in Pune; second such case in 24 hours||A woman is believed to have died by suicide after finding her husband dead in their house on Sunday morning. Her body was found by her teenage brother who had come to help her when she discovered her husband’s body, according to his statement to the police.The incident comes to light a day after a 23-year-old footwear businessman was found dead in his house. The man is believed to have died by suicide.The couple had married around a year ago and were having domestic issues, he told the police in his statement.While the husband worked as a security guard at a society, the woman and her younger brother lived with him in the outhouse of the society, where he worked. The three had been living there since several months.“He is not able to give many details, but he told us that the husband-wife duo were involved in a fight last night (Saturday). After the fight, the husband asked the brother-sister duo to sleep outside, as he wanted to be alone. In the morning, he wakes up at 5am to wash cars in the society. On Sunday as he did not wake up, the woman went in to find him dead inside the house,” said police sub-inspector Pradeep Palande of Samarth police station who is investigating the case.The teenager rushed to Camp area, where the deceased man’s elder brother lived, when they discovered the body, according to the police.“When he came back, he says he found his sister dead,” said PSI PAlande.The family members are natives of Nepal. However, the woman’s parents live in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/couple-dies-by-suicide-in-pune-second-such-case-in-24-hours/story-zdDX8NfP2iBsIv3qO3TilL.html
22-06-2020||Pune||Pune records highest tally of 620 fresh cases in 1 day on Sunday||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Sunday reported 620 fresh positive cases, highest one day rise till now in Pune with six deaths within 24 hours. With latest figures, Pune’s Covid tally has reached upto 12,474 and overall death toll to 510.While a total of 171 patients were completely cured and discharge from the hospital with total number of cured patients to 7,435. The number of critical patient on Sunday rise to 290.In neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits which had thrown 381 cases a day before, reported 98 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally of this industrial town to 1768. The previous highest one-day number of positive cases in PMC jurisdiction was on May 25, when 399 positive cases were recorded. The six deaths reported on Sunday were of people above 50 years of age.Meanwhile, the PMC has completed a recruitment process for new doctors and nursing staff. “At least 20 nurses have been given appointment letters and the waiting list for doctors will be published on Monday.”Earlier this month, the civic body had initiated the process to fill 97 posts for 13 persons in class 1 and class 2 category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-records-highest-tally-of-620-fresh-cases-in-1-day-on-sunday/story-pgWIYujqIfwOhQOlwBWe2J.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two people commit suicide in Himachal’s Solan district||A 30-year-old man and 21-year-old woman committed suicide by hanging themselves in Solan district. The man, a resident of Sirmaur district’s Pachhad tehsil, was an emergency response officer (ERO) at 108 GVK , Dharampur. A friend found him hanging from the ceiling fan in his rented accommodation and called the police and an ambulance. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. No suicide note has been found.In another incident, a 21-year-old girl committed suicide by hanging herself in her room in Solan on Sunday night.She was found by her brother and was rushed to the Solan Hospital where she was declared brought dead.Bodies of both the deceased have been handed over to their families after conducting a postmortem.Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Solan Shiv Kumar confirmed the report and said the police are conducting the investigation.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. You can reach Mental Health and Rehabilitation Centre, Boileauganj, Shimla, at 0177-2633601 or visit www.hhmhrshimla.org.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-people-commit-suicide-in-himachal-s-solan-district/story-UMWqO6nZMfvTq12uoiJttL.html
22-06-2020||Pune||Re-living the monsoon as a nightmare waiting to become a dark reality… again||Several local residents that HT reached out in the worst-affected areas of the 2019 flash floods are worried and fearful.For residents of Tangewala colony in Sahakarnagar, where the flash floods claimed seven lives, the monsoon is now a nightmare they are being forced to re-live.“Last year, when rain created havoc, almost every house in the colony was damaged. We slowly repaired and rebuilt our houses. Despite no Covid case in our colony, neither the PMC nor the state government officials have built a retaining wall. We are on our own,” said Sanjay Shinde, a resident of Tangewala colony. “The sharp curves on the canal caused damage in last year’s Ambil Odha tragedy. When water flows in force, it flows straight, can’t take turns. These unnatural turns on the canal are very dangerous. The PMC should look into it”, said Nitin Kadam, resident and NCP president of Parvati constituency.Residents of Katraj, where the Ambil Odha originates, and the worst-affected area along with Sahakarnagar, said no work has been carried out by civic body in the area.Kishore Jadhav, a resident of Katraj, said, “Because of the flash floods along the Odha, water entered our houses. We have repeatedly demanded that the walls along the stream be re-built before this year’s monsoon. Nothing has been done. Now, the rains have started and we live in fear… if there is heavy rain we will have to run out of our houses just like last year.”Bairobha nallah resident Sangeeta Ghorpade said, “Our lives were destroyed by the flash floods last year, and this year too, the rains are likely to impact our area. We request the authorities to carry out proper cleaning of the nallah and construct the protective wall without fail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/re-living-the-monsoon-as-a-nightmare-waiting-to-become-a-dark-reality-again/story-HFzlKIS3c2bDGE5K1O0tCM.html
22-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19 data management has PMC managing a new doubling rate||As patients from outside of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are also being treated in the city hospitals for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, data management has become a daunting task for the civic body.On Saturday, PMC officials said names of 47 patients were duplicated in fatalities list. “These patients were from other neighbouring districts undergoing treatment here. Every day, our staff is spending hours to omit names with duplication as their details are included in other lists as well,” said Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner.Most of these patients, according to Gaikwad, came to Sassoon Hospital for undergoing treatment for other ailments, but test positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus.Recruitment of doctors, nursing staff in progressAccording to Gaikwad PMC has completed the recruitment process of doctors and nursing staff. “At least 20 nurses have been given appointment letters and the waiting list for doctors will be published on Monday.”Earlier this month, the civic body had initiated the process to fill 97 posts for 13 persons in class 1 and class 2 category which includes neurosurgeon, cardiologist, medical superintendent (Kamala Nehru Hospital), assistant medical officer, paediatrician, radiologists, neonatologist, chest specialists, residential physician, physician, pediatric surgeon, intensivist and residential medical officer.All six deaths of persons above age of 50The city, on Sunday, reported 620 fresh positive cases, highest one day rise till now in Pune with six deaths within 24 hours, according to officials of PMC health department. The total positive cases currently are 12,474, while the death count is 510.The six deaths reported on Sunday were of people above 50 years of age. The deceased patients include 62-year-old female patient from Sukhsagarnagar area in Katraj admitted to Kashibai Navale Hospital, a 60-year-old female patient from Bibwewadi admitted to Sasson Hospital, a 77-year-old female patient from Parvati Darshan area and 67-year-old male patient from Budhwar peth area both admitted to KEM Hospital, an 83-year-old female patient from Shukrawar peth admitted to Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and 55-year-old male patient from Kondhwa admitted to Inamdar Hospital.In neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits which recorded 381 cases a day before, reported 98 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally of this industrial town to 1,768.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-data-management-has-pmc-managing-a-new-doubling-rate/story-pacBnhbkufgzfhk8PCbqlJ.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||With 55 new cases, Maharashtra Police’s Covid-19 tally reaches 4,103||With 55 more Maharashtra police personnel tested Covid-19 positive in the last 24 hours, the total count of the cops infected with the virus has climbed to 4,103 on Monday.As many as 48 policemen have died due to coronavirus in Maharashtra. “In the last 24 hours, 55 policemen in Maharashtra were found corona positive. So far, 48 policemen have died due to coronavirus in Maharashtra. The number of coronavirus positive policemen in Maharashtra has reached 4,103, including 1,016 active cases,” Maharashtra Police said on Monday.As many as 3,039 policemen have recovered from the illness and returned to their homes, police said. Meanwhile, the first death of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel due to coronavirus was reported in Mumbai. The SRPF personnel, posted at Seven Hills Hospital in Mumbai, died on June 21.Moreover, Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state by the contagion with 1,32,075 Covid-19 cases and 6170 deaths, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-55-new-cases-maharashtra-police-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-4-103/story-0lb9DZPeDmmlMY6r4KCayM.html
22-06-2020||Pune||Monsoon woes, part 1: Why Pune not ready for repeat of 2019 rain fury||Residents of Sahakarnagar in particular, and the areas of Katraj, Sinhgad road, Satara road, Kondhwa, Camp, Wanowrie, Bairobha nallah and Bibwewadi, in the intervening night of September 25-26, 2019, faced flash floods from an overwhelming outpouring of monsoon rain. These residents fear a repeat of the flood fury, as work on Ambil Odha, a stream that burst its banks, has only been partially completed.An overflowing Ambil Odha – it originates at Katraj lake and flows six kilometres through the city to merge with the Mutha river –claimed 26 lives and damaged public and private property on a scale had not witnessed in Pune in decades. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), post the 2019 monsoon disaster, said it would spend Rs 300 crore, primarily, to build a retaining wall along the Ambil Odha and repair sections where the bank and barriers had collapsed. On the ground though, work on the retaining wall hasn’t begun and the civic body has only partially completed its pre-monsoon cleaning of drains and nallahs.2019’s flash floods were borne out of incessant rainfall and came without forecast or warning. The city received 100 mm rainfall in just two hours.During the flash floods, residential societies located in Katraj, Sahakarnagar, Padmavati, Ambegaon and Sinhgad road were the worst-affected as flood water entered societies, shanties and houses situated in low-lying areas. At least 2,700 vehicles – two- three- and four-wheelers - were destroyed or washed away from these localities; such was the current and depth of water over-flowing.The 2020 monsoon has begun and Pune has already completed its June quota of normal rainfall – 151.6mm in 20 days received, as against the normal mark being 137mm.The cash-strapped Pune civic body, during the first week of November 2019, had cleared a proposal to build a three-km retaining wall with culverts at 45 locations along the affected areas of the stream at an estimated cost of Rs 78 crore, for which a tender was passed. Even before the Covid-19 pandemic reached Pune in March, no work on Ambil Odha had begun.PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, who recently visited the flood-hit areas, said, “We have so far completed construction of the retaining wall at three places, though at most locations where there are housing societies, PMC will not be able to build walls. To ensure the city does not witnesses a flash-flood like incident, PMC has cleaned Ambil Odha and constructed new outlets for Katraj lake. These outlets will allow discharge of water automatically once the lake starts filling up in the monsoon.” Pune’s member of parliament (MP), Girish Bapat of the BJP said, “I had taken review meeting of the issue with the PMC commissioner and it was decided to earmark funds for the work. Right now due to the corona crisis, adequate work has not been done. However, I had directed deeper cleaning of nallahs and stormwater drains for facilitating smooth flow of rain water.” Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We have spent ~100 crore on battling the Covid-19 crisis and currently no additional funds are available . Walls must be constructed, but it would require ~70 crore. The state must fund the project.”Ground realityPMC officials on the ground have accepted that work along the Ambil Odha, and other affected areas, has not been completed.Kanhaiylal Harilal Lakhani, ward officer, Dhankawadi- Sahakar nagar ward office, said “Ambil Odha’s cleaning work has been stopped now due to the monsoon. The construction of the retaining wall work is yet to be completed, as the administration is looking into the matter.”Sambhji Khot, ward officer, Sinhgad road, said, “We could complete works worth Rs 10 lakh, only. Currently, 10 per cent of the work is complete and lots still needs to done. We have a limit of Rs 25 lakh and the current work of constructing a retaining wall and other flood prevention measures will cost crores of rupees. A lot of work needs to be completed and it is being directly done by the PMC administration.”Santosh Warule, ward officer, Warje, said, “Most affected areas had private fencing which fell down during the deluge. The residents want that PMC re-construct the walls, but the PMC cannot do it as it these walls are private property.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monsoon-woes-part-1-why-pune-not-ready-for-repeat-of-2019-rain-fury/story-TF26nqmtV2gdPymMl227eN.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC launches ‘Mission Zero’ rapid action plan to combat Covid-19||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday launched ‘Mission Zero’ rapid action plan at Shahaji Raje Bhosale Sports Complex, in a bid to combat coronavirus outbreak situation in the city, which is severely affected by the contagion.Under the programme, 50 mobile dispensary vans will cover various parts of Mumbai for 2-3 weeks to conduct a preliminary examination of patients.“BMC launches ‘Mission Zero’ Rapid Action Plan at Shahaji Raje Bhosale Sports Complex, Andheri. 50 mobile dispensary vans will now visit Mulund, Bhandup, Andheri, Malad, Borivali, Dahisar and Kandivali areas for 2-3 weeks to conduct a preliminary examination of patients,” said BMC.Meanwhile, State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray called the new initiative “chase the virus” for worst-affected regions of the city.“The BMC is launching is “chase the virus” drive for Mulund, Abha duo, Andheri, Malad, Borivali, Dahisar and Kandivali. Mayor Kishori Pednekar, MC Chahal and as guardian ministers, my colleague MLA Aslam Shaikh and I are doing everything we should for you,” Thackeray tweeted.Till Sunday, the BMC had reported 66,507 Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai. Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state by the contagion with 1,32,075 cases and 6170 deaths, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-launches-mission-zero-rapid-action-plan-to-combat-covid-19/story-gpeTVaGMU1qPmtjUO9at5N.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two police personnel among six test positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda||Bathinda: Six people, including two Punjab Police personnel, tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda on Monday.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nanak Singh said a sub-inspector and a constable posted at Raman police station had tested positive. He said the primary contacts of the two are being traced.“The medical protocol is being followed to sanitise the police station and track the source of infection,” he said.On June 17, four police personnel tested coronavirus positive in the district.Meanwhile, the district administration spokesperson said one of the patients from the district who tested positive on Monday is undergoing treatment in Ludhiana.Two other patients said they had undertaken inter-district travel recently, while the third denied any travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-police-personnel-among-six-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bathinda/story-2qlJFmhwwsNQD6S5oRYuCN.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three BSF personnel, cop among 19 to test positive in Fazilka||Nineteen Covid-19 cases have been reported in Fazilka district in the last twenty-four hours, including three BSF personnel and a cop. Fazilka civil surgeon Chander Mohan Kataria said the cases include two boys, aged 15 and 17, a 42-year-old man and three women, three BSF jawans, one Punjab Police jawan, a person who had returned from Delhi and one who had returned from Uttar Pradesh. Seven patients had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient in Fazilka.“One of the men hails from Kappanwali village and had returned from Jaisalmer, two are from Abohar and had come from Kutch (Gujarat) and Delhi, respectively. Two of the women are from Fazilka and one had returned from Sri Ganganagar,” he said“District authorities have started contact mapping,” said the Fazilka civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-bsf-personnel-cop-among-19-to-test-positive-in-fazilka/story-4KIOvXeemsXcbaKIdDlQpN.html
22-06-2020||Lucknow||4 Lucknow boys charged with sedition for ‘burning tricolour’ while recording TikTok video||Four boys were booked on charges of sedition for allegedly burning the tricolour while recording a video on popular mobile app TikTok in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow on Sunday night, police said on Monday.Police have arrested one of the accused and are on a lookout for others after the incident in Bazarkhala area of the state capital at around 9pm on Sunday.“A local resident, one Ravi Kant, was cycling near Tikait Rai Talab when he saw the boys burning the tricolour. Ravi Kant along with others who were playing near the park asked the boys to stop and called the police,” Anil Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner of police of the area, said.Based on the complaints by Ravi Kant, police lodged a first information report (FIR) under several sections, including 124(A) for sedition, of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the boys.“Only one of the minor boys who was later arrested has been named in the FIR. The three others who managed to flee from the spot are booked as anonymous. Our teams are trying to identify and arrest them,” Yadav said.All the accused are believed to be the residents of Bazarkhala area. The police have sought help from locals to identify the accused and for help in the investigation.Yadav said beside sedition police have also slapped section 153 (promoting enmity between different groups), 504 (intentional insult) 505 (statement conducing to public mischief), 352 (punishment for assault), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.“The accused have been booked as per the complaint submitted by Ravi Kant. Our teams are investigating the matter and the charges can be reduced or increased as per the findings in the investigation,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/4-boys-charged-with-sedition-for-burning-tricolour-while-recording-tiktok-video/story-2WThrYsCeczkfneTWMq7hP.html
22-06-2020||Patna||Senior civic body functionary in Bihar’s Gaya tests Covid-19 positive||A senior elected functionary of the municipal corporation in Bihar’s Gaya town tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, officials said.The public representative was tested on Sunday after he complained of cold and body ache for the past two days. Following that, he was tested for the coronavirus disease through a TrueNat machine for an antibody test. The Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC) functionary had recently visited Patna, said sources.“We collected his swab sample on Sunday and sent it today for the confirmatory test to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna,” Dr Brajesh Kumar Singh, Gaya’s civil surgeon, said.“We will wait for 24 hours to get the confirmatory report before following the laid down procedure of trying to ascertain the infection trail of the virus and also do his contact tracing,” Singh said.The Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH) in Gaya, one of the three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the state, does not have the facility for RT PCR test. So, samples are sent to IGIMS in the state capital for a confirmatory test. The public representative has been put under home isolation, on request, said government officials.Municipal authorities on Monday initiated the process to fumigate the Gaya municipal headquarters, which is near the office of the district magistrate in the heart of the town.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended the use of TrueNet machines for Covid-19 testing, which will enable rapid testing.This is the third case of a noted public representative from Bihar testing positive for Covid-19.Last week, a former Union minister and national vice-president of a leading opposition party had tested positive for the virus. A day later, a former member of Parliament from Banka also tested positive in Delhi. While the former Union minister is undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, the ex-MP is at AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/senior-civic-body-functionary-in-bihar-s-gaya-tests-covid-19-positive/story-MrovG8CxjxiKCJEZbot9pO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||70-year-old succumbs to Covid-19 in Ludhiana||A 70-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 at SPS Hospital here on Monday. The victim, Joginder Singh of Shivpuri, was rushed to the hospital on June 19 with symptoms of shortness of breath. He was provided ventilator support but his condition continued to deteriorate, said medical superintendent Dr Rajiv Kundra. The patient was suffering from comorbidities, including hypertension, diabetes and renal failure, said Dr Kundra.So far, 560 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the city, of which 156 patients were from other districts and states. A total of 15 people have succumbed to the disease, of which 13 were from outside the district. SIX POLICE PERSONNEL HOSPITALISED Six police personnel, including a woman constable, an additional station house officer and two assistant sub-inspectors, were among the 44 persons to test positive for Covid-19 here on Sunday.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Dr Sachin Gupta, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Raghbir Singh, 53, posted at Sahnewal police station; Amandeep Singh, 32, a Munshi at Sahnewal police station; ASI Surinderpal, 49, a constable; Kulwant Singh, 49, and Shimlapuri police woman constable Sushmarani were hospitalised after their reports came in.”COVID-19 PATIENT ESCAPESThe health department faced resistance when they arrived to pick up people who had tested Covid-19 positive in Prem Nagar on Sunday evening. Three patients refused to go to the hospital. After the police were called in two agreed to visit the hospital while the third patient escaped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/70-year-old-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-uTRBc1nkLLesFcON9xylPL.html
22-06-2020||Lucknow||National Security Act invoked against two accused in Kamlesh Tiwari murder case||National Security Act (NSA) has been invoked against two persons arrested in connection with the murder of Hindu Samaj Party leader Kamlesh Tiwari, officials said on Monday.District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash slapped NSA on two accused in the matter.According to prison officials, the NSA notice was served to Yusuf Khan and Syed Asim Ali, both of whom are lodged in a Lucknow prison in the matter today.Tiwari, who was shot in Naka area of Lucknow on October 18 last year, had succumbed to his injuries at a hospital during treatment.Uttar Pradesh Police has already filed a charge sheet against 13 accused in connection with the murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/national-security-act-invoked-against-two-accused-in-kamlesh-tiwari-murder-case/story-OjFruKIit4I438UbVlpqWO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana deploys final-year MBBS students on Covid-19 duty amid spike in cases||Chandigarh: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Haryana government has said final-year MBBS students studying in government and private medical colleges will be deployed for effective management of the pandemic.The toll due to Covid-19 in Haryana on Sunday rose to 160 with 11 fresh fatalities, while the infection tally climbed to 10,635 as 412 more people tested positive for the disease, a health department bulletin said.The director general of medical education and research in Haryana said that 1,106 final-year MBBS students of 11 government and private medical colleges in the state have been assigned Covid duties and they shall report to civil surgeons of the districts concerned.There has been a surge in the number of Covid positive cases in Haryana.The government is in the process of creating additional healthcare facilities to effectively manage the Covid-19 cases which required additional manpower, the order dated June 19 said.The government has decided that all final-year MBBS students of all government and private medical colleges in the state shall be deputed with the health department with immediate effect, it said.REPORTING ON DUTY TODAYThe directors of medical colleges and civil surgeons shall ensure that the students are provided all necessary training, it added.According to the order, the students have been asked to report to the civil surgeons concerned by June 22.If needed, the civil surgeons shall also ensure boarding and lodging arrangements for the students, the order said.GURUGRAM, FARIDABAD WORST-HITCoronavirus cases in Haryana have risen sharply during the past three weeks, with Gurgaon and Faridabad accounting for majority of the cases as well as fatalities.Of 11 fresh fatalities on Sunday, Gurgaon and Faridabad, among Haryana’s worst-hit districts, accounted for nine fresh fatalities.The toll in Gurgaon and Faridabad, which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), has now climbed to 64 and 56, respectively.The state health department bulletin said with 11 more Covid-19 deaths the total number of fatalities in the state has risen to 160.Of the total fatalities in Haryana, 109 are men and 51 women.With 412 fresh infections, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana rose to 10,635 on Sunday, the bulletin said. Gurgaon alone accounts for 4,427 cases in Haryana, while Faridabad has 2,237 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-deploys-final-year-mbbs-students-on-covid-19-duty-amid-spike-in-cases/story-4Dl5Is3o2kqxW2SnobovHK.html
22-06-2020||Patna||Covid-19: Death toll in Bihar increases to 50||The number of Covid-19 deaths in Bihar increased to 51 on Sunday after two fatalities were reported, while coronavirus cases in the state rose to 7,665 with 162 people testing positive for the disease, the health department said. One death each was reported from Begusarai and Gaya districts.The health department, however, did not provide details like age, sex and travel history of the two deceased and whether they died before or after testing positive.Out of the 51 Covid-19 deaths across the state, Darbhanga has reported highest number of five fatalities. Following the detection of the fresh cases, the districts with high incidence of coronavirus cases were Patna (400), Bhagalpur (360), Begusarai (347), Madhubani (341), Rohtas (314), Siwan (313) and Khagaria (296). Cases have been reported from all 38 districts of the state.According to the health department’s bulletin, the state has a total of 7,665 positive coronavirus cases with 51 fatalities. Altogether 5,631 patients have recovered from the disease in the state and there are 1,983 active cases. The number of migrants who have tested positive since May 3 is 4,941 while the number of samples tested till date is 1,56,926, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-death-toll-in-bihar-increases-to-50/story-uYGj4w4cXwTOOFNotd2OpI.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant labourers among nine to test positive for Covid-19 in Ferozepur, Faridkot||Seven people tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Ferozepur district on Monday, taking tally to 67.Those affected include five men aged 30, 32, 36, 35 and 60 and two women aged 26 and 32.“Four patients hail from Mallanwala, a rural town in Ferozepur district; two from Ferozepur City and one from Khere Ke Uttar village,” said Ferozepur sub-divisional magistrate Amit Gupta. Gupta said, “We received the results of 308 people, of which 301 tested negative.” Of the 67 patients in Ferozepur, 44 have recovered and three have succumbed to the disease. After Ferozepur ADC (Development) Ravinder Pal Singh tested positive for Covid-19, 23 staffers at the local Zila Parishad were home quarantined.FARIDKOT TALLY CLIMBS TO 97 Two migrant labourers tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot district on Monday, taking the district tally to 97. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said two women, who hail from Uttar Pradesh, tested positive. “One woman was staying in Bajakhana, while the other was staying in Jaito. Both of them were admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot. With this, there 11 active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrant-labourers-among-nine-to-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ferozepur-faridkot/story-oeSeC0Ihn763kcAztq8vEM.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Pulse oximeter for home quarantined Covid-19 patients in Delhi: CM Kejriwal||Noting that one of the problems being faced by coronavirus patients in home isolation is the sudden drop in oxygen levels, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that all those patients will be provided pulse oximeters to monitor their oxygen levels. Coronavirus affects the respiratory system leading to breathlessness and all those patients will be regularly monitored by teams through calls and be provided assistance with oximeters to help them stabilise. “The Delhi government will provide pulse oximeters to all home quarantine cases,” said the CM at a press conference today. He added once the patient has recovered, the oximeters can be returned.Experts too have recommended the use of this relatively cheap device at home that can forewarn you about any impending crisis. A pulse-oximeter costs between Rs 1,000 to 3,000.As reported by HT earlier, the government is procuring 1 lakh pulse-oximeters - a small clip-on device that has to be attached to the finger-tip to check the amount of oxygen in the body. Current guidelines say that Covid-19 patients have to be admitted to hospitals if their oxygen saturation drops to 90% or below (normal is 95 to 100%).The CM informed that there are 25,000 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi and around 12,000 people are presently under home isolation. The testing has increased by three times in the city, the CM said, adding from 5,000 tests per day, it is now around 18,000 per day. He asserted that people will not face any issues in getting tested in the city.Appreciating the support extended by the Central government in Delhi’s fight against Covid-19, Kejriwal reiterated that this is not the time to do politics or fight among each other. “If we do not unite, coronavirus will win,” he said.At a meeting chaired by home minister Amit Shah on Sunday it was decided that contact tracing would be scaled up in the city-state and would be diligently followed for all Covid-19 patients using the Aarogya Setu app.There will be fresh delineation of containment zones in Delhi and a serological survey will be carried out from June 27 to ascertain the scale of the spread of the infectious disease in the city, the MHA said in a statement.Amit Shah, according to a statement by the home ministry, has further directed that there should be an analysis pertaining to every deceased person, including the number of days he was in hospital and his place of residence; whether the person was in home isolation or being treated in a hospital. Emphasising earlier that coronavirus positive patients do recover from the highly infectious disease, Kejriwal had said “more than 80 per cent of coronavirus positive patients either have no symptoms at all and most people recover in about 17 days if they follow proper home isolation guidelines”. The CM had urged people not to panic if they test Covid-19 positive and follow all health protocol and isolate themselves completely at home in a separate room with a separate washroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pulse-oximeter-for-home-quarantined-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-uX14tu4a5Elgv7xIMAx9lO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Post Galwan standoff, Himachal PWD takes over construction of strategic road||With the tensions mounting between India and China after the violent face off in Galwan valley in Ladakh, the government has sped up the repair and construction of strategically important national highways running through Himachal Pradesh that connect frontier regions in Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts.Dissatisfied with the poor maintenance of NH 505 that connects Kaza-Sumdo and Gramphu, the Himachal Pradesh Public Works department has taken over the road from the Indian military’s road construction wing, the Border Road Organisation (BRO), which is responsible for construction and maintenance of roads in border areas.The government took over the road from the BRO on the orders of the principal secretary of the government of India. The Kaza PWD executive engineer will be responsible for the maintenance of the highway. ABOUT THE PROJECTPWD to improve connectivity to NH 505 that connects Kaza-Sumdo and GramphuHighway to be upgraded to 210kmAn estimate of Rs 4 crore prepared by PWDHighway opened to vehicular traffic on June 15“The restoration work is still in progress. The PWD department has spent approximately Rs 13 lakh on clearing snow from the road,” said national highways’ chief engineer Archarna Parmar Thakur. The national highway had remained snowbound till May-end as the BRO had shifted the snow clearance machinery to other roads abandoning the work halfway.160KM STRETCH OPENED TO TRAFFICIn the wake of escalated tensions between Chinese and Indian troops in Ladakh over the boundary dispute in Galwan valley, the Himachal Pradesh Public Works department swung into action to clear the road that was buried under 15 to 20 feet of snow. The 160-kilometre road stretch was finally opened to vehicular traffic on June 15. The roads is used by the defense to ensure movement of its vehicles to forward areas.The public works department has drawn an estimate of Rs 4 crore for the construction and maintenance of the highway.The PWD drew up the estimates on the basis of a survey conducted by SATRA Infrastructure Management Services.A detailed project report has already been submitted to the government for upgrading the highway to 210km.“Tenders to upgrade the highway will be floated shortly,” she said.The ministry of surface transport has also approved the proposed alignment the road that was submitted to the PWD through the BRO.TENDER AWARDED FOR PATCH WORKThe national highway authority has also assigned patch work on the highway stretch connecting Shimla –Kalka-Wangtoo and the stretch connecting Shalaghat to the road junction link near Panthaghatti in Shimla . The work has been awarded to MVD Cementation and Construction Private Limited.Pending work on NH-22 will be completed by July- end. The scarcity of skilled labour, particularly from Rajasthan, has slowed down work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-galwan-standoff-himachal-pwd-takes-over-construction-of-strategic-road/story-8ylxC3FU7xp5bRIIf732uO.html
22-06-2020||Bhopal||Bhopal’s Covid-19 tally nears 2,500-mark, 40 new cases reported||40 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Bhopal on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 2,497, the Health Department said.“According to the sample report received today, forty people have been found positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal,” the Health Department said.The department said that 33 people from Viva Hospital and 26 from Government Homeopathic Medical College And Hospital will be discharged after recovery.According to the Union Health Ministry, the state has reported 11,903 Covid-19 cases including 2,373 active cases, 9,015 recovered and 515 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bhopal-s-covid-19-tally-nears-2-500-mark-40-new-cases-reported/story-cUibm7fvAG7uNbjbyin2UK.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 10 new Covid-19 cases, taking state’s coronavirus positive count to 10,645||Chandigarh: Haryana on Monday saw 10 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the state’s tally of positive patients to 10,645.All new cases were reported from Karnal district, taking the total cases in the district to 231.A total of 160 people have succumbed to the virus in the state.With the new cases, the number of active patients in the state has risen to 4,928.A day earlier, 412 coronavirus cases were reported in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-reports-10-new-covid-19-cases-taking-state-s-coronavirus-positive-count-to-10-645/story-0F9koKufRBl2NO39haEIEI.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Traffic jam at Delhi-Noida border due to e-pass checking||Delhi-Noida border witnessed traffic jam on Monday morning due to checking of e-passes required to enter Uttar Pradesh.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageCommuters are not allowed to enter Utter Pradesh without passes amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Police force is deployed at the border to foresee the security.With an increase of 14,821 new cases and 445 deaths, India’s Covid-19 count reached 4,25,282 on Monday, said the Union Ministry of Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-jam-at-delhi-noida-border-due-to-e-pass-checking/story-hoY0nmda5tGibtYoqVnakI.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sikh abducted in Afghanistan, Afghan American community seeks India’s help to free him||Washington DC: An Afghan Sikh was abducted from the Paktia province in eastern Afghanistan four days ago, the community living in the United States has confirmed.The man, Nidhan Singh, hails from Tsamkani district in the Paktia province and was employed as a gursewak (helper) at the local gurdwara.Post his abduction, the Afghan Sikh community in the United States has urged the Government of India to help in the resettlement of Sikhs living in Afghanistan .They have appealed to India to make special arrangements under the Vande Bharat Mission to provide a safe haven for more than 600 Sikhs.“I have spoken to Sikh member of Parliament Narinder Singh and he has confirmed that officials in the Afghan government have promised to help and find Nidhan,” Paramjit Singh Bedi, the chairman of the Afghan Sikh community in New Jersey said.“Narinder Singh has also reached out to Taliban leaders and has been assured that all efforts will be made to ensure his release,” Bedi said.Bedi and other community members will send written appeals to former diplomat and Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, the external affairs minister S Jaishankar and the Indian envoy to the United States, Taranjit Singh Sandhu.HOME AWAY FROM HOMEWorried for the lives of the Sikh minorities living in Kabul, Jalalabad and Ghazni, the Sikh community, has been constantly seeking support from India.Encouraged by steps taken by the Indian government, leaders of the Afghan Sikh community leaders have made several appeals to India to accommodate the Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan and grant them legal entry with long-term residency multiple-entry visa.The community leaders living in the United States said it is imperative to alleviate the dire situation of religious minorities in Afghanistan who look to India as the only safe haven in the region.FEWER THAN 100 FAMILIES LEFTIn May, expressing concern over the safety and security of religious minorities in Afghanistan, 26 US Congressmen urged secretary of state Mike Pompeo to take steps to facilitate the “safe and expeditious relocation” of members of the Sikh and Hindu communities trapped in the war-torn country.In a letter on May 4, Congressman John Garamendi, co-chair of the Sikh Caucus, and 25 others stated that the Sikh community continues to be under “grave” threat from Islamic State terrorist attacks directed at Sikhs.Once a thriving community of nearly 2.5 lakh people, the Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan has endured years of discrimination and violence from extremists, and the community is now estimated to comprise fewer than 100 families across the country, the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-abducted-in-afghanistan-afghan-american-community-seeks-india-s-help-to-free-him/story-M5LhA6pllv7Z4Xue3cv9EK.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three dead, four injured as vehicle plunges into gorge in Shimla’s Chopal||Three people were killed while four were injured after the vehicle they were travelling in skidded into a deep gorge in Shimla’s Chopal sub-division on Monday.The accident took place on Sunday around 8:30pm near Okhad Nala, Chopal, after the driver lost control over the vehicle.The deceased were identified as Rahul, 30, Praveen ,25, and Suniel, 34, while Rony, 23, Suresh, 30, Pankaj, 18, and Pawan, 23. All victims are residents of Chokia village, Chopal.The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Chopal. Rony and Suresh have been referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, for further treatment. The bodies of the deceased will be handed over to their relatives after a postmortem is conducted.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Chopal Varun Patial confirmed the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-dead-four-injured-as-vehicle-plunges-into-a-gorge-in-shimla-s-chopal/story-MmJWrEU6bCODUNG1b37fCO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal sees steepest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, state’s corona count breaches 700-mark||Dharamshala: The number of Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh breached the 700 mark after 28 more people tested positive, officials said on Monday.The state’s tally has now reached 701 of which 265 are active cases.Sixteen cases were reported from Hamirpur district, nine from Una and three from Kangra.In all, 45 people tested positive for the contagion by Sunday night, the highest single day spike after May 21 when 42 cases were reported in the state.70 ACTIVE CASES IN HAMIRPURHamirpur chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Archana Soni said that five cases each were reported from Nadaun and Tauni Devi medical block.“Three cases each have been reported in Barsar and Bhoranj blocks,” she said. With this, the total tally in the district has climbed to 182. There are 70 active cases, while 111 people have been cured.SIX OF FAMILY TEST POSITIVE IN UNASix members of a family were among the nine people who tested positive in Una district. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said that a 54-year-old woman, her son, her daughter-in-law and two grand-daughters aged one and four years had tested positive. The family had returned from Sonepat in Haryana.Apart from the family, one case each has been reported from Haroli and Bangana sub divisions and Una town.THREE TEST POSITIVE IN KANGRAThree people, including a 15-year-old boy, tested positive in Kangra district. Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that a 41-year-old man is among the patients. His wife and daughter have already tested positive. The 15-year-old boy is the son of a positive patient. The third patient is a 38-year-old man. All three have returned from Delhi.700 CASES IN 94 DAYSHimachal breached the 700-mark on 94th day of reporting its first case, which was detected on March 20. It took just two days for the tally to reach 700 from 600—steepest spike of 100 cases. The 600-mark was reached on Friday June 19.The first 100 cases were reported in 61 days. The corona positive count reached 200 in 65 days; 300 in 71 days and 400 in 79 days.There are 265 active cases in the state, while 417 patients have recovered; eleven migrated to other states and six succumbed to the contagion.Sixteen patients were discharged on Monday.Till date, Himachal Pradesh has recorded 701 cases.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 184 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 182 cases. Una has recorded a total of 89 cases, Solan 77 cases, Chamba 44, Bilaspur and Sirmaur 32 each, Shimla 30, Mandi 23, Kullu five, and Kinnaur three cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-sees-steepest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-state-s-corona-count-breaches-700-mark/story-OEY1c2HkzMNQdE2qytRW6M.html
22-06-2020||Pune||Unlock 1: Sex workers in Pune seek to resume work with caution, SOPs||With the lockdown being eased, some sex workers in Pune’s red light area want to get back to business by taking all precautions and following the standard operating procedures to stay protected against Covid-19.The livelihood of nearly 3,000 sex workers in the Budhwar Peth area here in Maharashtra has been affected by the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, following which several of them moved back to their hometowns, according to an NGO working for their welfare.Now, with the lockdown being relaxed, some of them are gearing up to resume work and are even ready to explore options of services like “phone sex”, Tejasvi Sevekari, executive director of city-based NGO Saheli Sangh, told PTI.She said the NGO, which is a collective of sex workers, has chalked out some standard operating procedures (SOPs) for them and is training them on how to take extra precautions while soliciting customers.All these SOPs and guidelines are for sex workers across the country who are connected through the National Network of Sex Workers, she said.“As no Covid-19 case was reported from the red light area here, the containment zone tag and barricading have been removed. While majority of the sex workers are still not ready to start their work, a handful of them have resumed business as they are facing financial crunch due to the long lockdown,” said Sevekari.The NGO has started imparting training through audio and video clips to the sex workers on what precautions they need to take during customer visits.“Since there will be physical contact with customers, we have chalked out SOPs and guidelines. While condoms are mandatory, now masks and gloves are also a must during sexual activity. They have been asked to use hand sanitisers and disinfectants,” Sevekari said.Some of the sex workers have bought thermal scanners and foot-operated sanitiser dispensers and placed them outside their premises, she said.“It has been advised to ask the customer to take a shower before the activity and not to entertain any customer having cough or fever,” she added.The NGO is also encouraging them to explore the ‘phone sex’ option and asking those who are already into virtual sex business to teach others, Sevekari said.“Phone sex is quite normal in high-end call girls, but it is a new thing for sex workers here. There are some sex workers who are already using the medium and they are sharing their experiences with others,” she said.The objective is to allow them to earn their livelihood without being exposed to any physical contact with customers, thus keeping the risk of Covid-19 at bay, she said.Inspector Jagannath Kalaskar from Faraskhana police station, which has jurisdiction over the Budhwar Peth red light area, said they had a meeting with NGOs working in the area and asked them to ensure all precautions are taken.“Sex workers have been told not to stand or sit outside their rooms, and those are ill or infected with HIV have been asked to stay away,” Kalaskar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unlock-1-sex-workers-in-pune-seek-to-resume-work-with-caution-sops/story-sh5QbcpVHE3105hQwpOnuM.html
22-06-2020||Noida||Noida’s Sector-50 Metro station to be dedicated to transgender community||Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) will make Noida’s Sector-50 Metro station a dedicated station for the transgender community, said Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari on Sunday. Maheshwari said that employment will be provided to the members of transgender community so that they get a chance to connect with the mainstream. The station will be open for all commuters, she added.“This initiative has been taken to uplift and provide employment to the transgender community. Under this initiative, they will be employed for some activities such as ticketing counter and housekeeping,” said Maheshwari.“Various NGOs that work for the transgender community are helping in carrying forward the initiative. This comes after we dedicated two stations as pink stations while considering facilities for women,” she added.She further informed that in order to facilitate the transgenders, required up-gradation (such as toilet facilities) will also take place at the station. The transformation is expected to be completed in one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-metro-station-to-be-dedicated-to-transgender-community/story-HbIKCgWbJL8pWS2MAKpxhM.html
22-06-2020||Ranchi||62 more Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand on Sunday||As many as 62 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Jharkhand on Sunday, as per the information provided by the State Health Department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith this, the total number of coronavirus cases in the state now stands at 2,089, including 672 active cases.Two recovery cases were also reported in the state, taking the total recovered cases to 1,406, while the death toll stands at 11, as per the Health Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/62-more-covid-19-cases-reported-in-jharkhand-on-sunday/story-XhplPA6RtrQFkVgANOvsAI.html
22-06-2020||Lucknow||UP Police face a tough task to convince people over kanwar yatra||A day after the Uttar Pradesh government suspended the annual Kanwar Yatra in the wake of prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, officials in Meerut and Saharanpur regions — the two main pilgrimage centres of the yatra — said they have a tough task ahead to convey the decision of suspension of the yatra to devotees and convince them. “Spreading the message and convincing devotees would be a big challenge in the coming days,” said additional director general ( ADG) of police, Meerut zone, Rajeev Sabharwal.The state government, in consultation with the Haryana and Uttarakhand governments, on Saturday decided to suspend the annual pilgrimage of Lord Shiva devotees that takes place in the Hindu holy month of Shravan. The yatra was to start from July 5-6 and conclude on July 19. Jagmohan Shakal, who has been organising a camp for providing food and lodging to ‘Kanwarias’ for over two decades now, supported the decision and said that camp organisers were worried about the safety of devotees. Every year, three to four hundred thousand devotees come to the Meerut’s Kali Paltan temple during the yatra every year. Temple’s management committee’s secretary Satish Kumar Singhal expressed his dismay over the suspension of the yatra. On the other hand, the temple’s chief priest Sridhar Tripathi supported the government’s decision and said, “Life is above all and devotees should understand it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-police-face-a-tough-task-to-convince-people-over-kanwar-yatra/story-1WYNoMsMZBUncksmTmYxiI.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Parts of Delhi, NCR wake up to heavy rain, strong winds||Heavy rain accompanied by strong winds lashed parts of the national capital early morning on Monday.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cloudy sky with light rain for today.The national capital has been witnessing thunderstorms, accompanied by rains for the past two days bringing relief to all, after temperature soared above 40 degrees Celsius.IMD on Friday said that conditions may become favourable for advancement of SW Monsoon in Delhi and Haryana around June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-ncr-wake-up-to-heavy-rain-strong-winds/story-EK73Eir1NLBIK4pjJkJP9N.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: X-raying an artist||How to describe her? Painter? Production designer? Photographer? Producer or film maker?Oh well, Aradhana Seth is an artist. And like most members of this restless species, she is able to rustle out pieces of creativity even under the most trying circumstances. Despite being home-bound due to the coronavirus pandemic, the lady is still occupied in her primary pursuits. Recently, she sorted out the thousands of photographs she had accumulated over the previous years. And currently she is painting with... attention please, here’s some corona-era story! You’ll agree that the usual paint colours are not exactly the ‘essential commodities’ of these troubled days that one can get from the neighbourhood grocer. So, Ms Seth is sourcing her colouring ingredients from fruit, vegetables and flowers. For instance, she gets her red from beetroot, carrot, pomegranate and red wine; yellow from haldi and tesu ke phool; and green from papaya leaf and palak ke patte.“See, I made my Fish on Zoom with beetroot, red cabbage, neem juice and sesame seeds,” she says, showing a panel of nine painted fish, each to its small box—the artwork is looking exactly like the laptop screen Zoom meetings of our new-normal interactions. Ms Seth is chatting on WhatsApp video from the isolation of her home (which has partially been turned into a studio!) in Noida where she shares the “dinner arrangements” daily with father, Prem Nath, and brother Vikram. “With a great amount of help as well as oil” from their cook, Basanti.Ms Seth has a house in Goa, too. “Dreaming of the sea while landlocked in Delhi,” she soon plans to fly to her other home.She gamely agreed to become a part of our Proust Questionnaire series in which we nudge folks from diverse backgrounds to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore the lives, thoughts, values and experiences of Delhi’s citizens.Your favourite virtue or the principal aspect of your personalityIntuition. Independence of thought. Finding beauty in small things.Your favourite qualities in a manHumility. Intelligence. Humour. TendernessYour favourite qualities in a womanCreativity. Intelligence. Humour. SensitivityYour chief characteristicA visual and visceral mindWhat do you appreciate the most in your friends?Warmth. Honesty. Non-judgementalYour main faultImpatience and being over-sensitiveYour favourite occupationExperimenting with new materials, ideas and thoughtsYour idea of happinessBeing in water: walking in the rain, at the beach, snorkeling Your idea of misery or what would be your greatest misfortune?At the moment, it would be living in a Covid facilityIf not yourself, who would you be?DolphinWhere would you like to live?Where I mostly live—in GoaYour favourite colour and flowerWhite. Gardenia and PeonyYour favourite birdParrot. Beautiful, intelligent—and they mimic human speech!Your favourite prose authorsVirginia Woolf. Jane Austen. Beatrix Potter. Satyajit Ray Your favourite poetsMichael Ondaatje. Leonard Cohen. Vikram Seth. Bob DylanYour favourite heroes in fictionThe Little Prince in The Little Prince. Maan Kapoor in A Suitable Boy. Snoopy by Charles M. Schulz. Dorian—though an awful human in The Picture of Dorian Gray, he gives me an insight and understanding into temptation and destructionYour favourite heroines in fictionAmmu in The God of Small Things. Charulata in the novella/Ray Film. Miranda Priestly in The Devil Wears Prada (the film version of it more than the book. Meryl Streep is so good and horribly real!)Cleopatra Piyali Roy in The Hungry TideYour favourite composersGiacomo Puccini. Shankar and Jaikishan. Naushad Ali. The BeatlesYour favourite painters/artistsVermeer. Jamini Roy. Zarina Hashmi. Salman Toor. Anslem Keifer. Egon Schiele. Hasegawa Tōhaku.Your heroes/heroines in real lifeAlbert Einstein. Rosa Parks. Martin Luther King. Golda Meir. Thich Naht HanhWhat characters in history do you most dislike?Those that are inhuman, narcissistic, fascists, dictators: sadly there are so many… dead and aliveYour favourite food and drinkSushi and Saki. Curd Rice and fish pickle. CampariYour favourite namesTara. Ayesha. Noor. Purnima. GraciellaWhat do you hate the most?Dictatorial behaviour. Unfairness. The caste system. Religious intoleranceThe military event you admire the mostI don’t. I feel that it is a form of legalized killing.“Imagine there’s no countriesIt isn’t hard to doNothing to kill or die forAnd no religion tooImagine all the people living life in peace, you…You may say I’m a dreamer”—John Lennon/ Paul McCartneyThe natural talent you’d like to be gifted withTo be able to singHow do you wish to die?Unaware and oblivious. In a flash!What is your present state of mind?Tortured and calm. Tortured about the world we are living in. Calm when in a cacoon!Faults for which you have the most toleranceJealousyYour motto in lifeSimplicity is the ultimate sophistication||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-x-raying-an-artist/story-rdWjXT6tLxJtT9DT7hbFdI.html
22-06-2020||City||Parents on Twitter say students till Class 2 have #righttolearn||Parents from across the state took to Twitter and posted tweets using #righttolearn to urge the Maharashtra government to allow regulated online learning for students up to Class 2. According to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) released by the state, online learning is banned up to Class 2.“As a parent, as a teacher, I want my children to have the right to learn. Let the children open the wings of their knowledge and let this pandemic not stop them from learning. I support online classes,” read a tweet by one of the parents in Mumbai. Parents of students from Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh also joined the Twitter storm to protest against the decision to ban online classes up to Class 5 by their respective state governments. Several parent bodies from across these states participated in the campaign and tweeted on Sunday afternoon.On June 17, the Members of the International Schools Association (MISA) wrote to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad, recommending two 30-minute sessions for pre-school students everyday, with adequate breaks in between. “The joy and benefits of online education should not be taken away from students,” the association stated in the letter.“In families where both parents work, children need some learning stimulus and social interaction with their peers for some time, for their psychological and physical well-being. For this, we are hoping that a few minutes of interaction are allowed by the state,” said Pradnya Shinde, a parent from Malad.Some parents, however, were of the opinion that attending online classes will be extremely stressful for students.“Beyond the dangers of screen time for students, online classes will also cause stress for parents, as children as young as three and four years can’t sit alone for classes and need constant hand holding. For a couple of months, schools can trust parents with their children instead of bombarding them with instruction-based learning,” said a parent from Dadar.Officials from the education department in the past said that the decision to not hold online classes for students until Class 2 was taken after several complaints from parents about the ill effects of screen time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-on-twitter-say-students-till-class-2-have-righttolearn/story-rJ77oc0nvbpj9bvv5InyQJ.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||I’ve braved death, and came out more determined to cure people and help them live, says Mumbai pulmonologist||It was almost after two-and-a-half months of tending to Covid-19 patients at Lilavati Hospital that I first felt the symptoms. On June 11, I started getting back and body aches with no fever, cough and breathlessness.After taking doses of Ivermectin and Doxycycline, the weakness increased, and one night I felt I was dying. It was on June 13 that I was rushed by the Lilavati administration to the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) in emergency. I did not know what was happening and my situation kept deteriorating. I never thought I would make it.A day later, I saw my wife being wheeled into the ICU, to the bed next to mine.I thought of my son, and asked myself, “What will I answer to him if anything happens to his mother. And to me?” This single thought gave me the strength to fight. I wanted to be out of this space – the ICU – which had become a mess.What was once a nice clean pleasant place, was struggling with overburdened staff – nurses who are spending countless hours in PPE [personal protective equipment] kits without water, tea, coffee and worse, without visiting the toilet. There are only two-three people to clean and give bedpans for 48 beds. Hats off to them for doing this day in and day out, going beyond their brief with a risk that they might be infected, and without complaints. ICU patients are being taken in irrespective of whether they are rich or poor or from any religion – everyone is equal and provided necessary help and medication.After doses of Iv Rocezulimab and Iv Remdesivir over the next 10 days, I have finally made it home. Unfortunately, my doctor colleague who attended to me is now occupying my bed.This experience led me to think about all the noise outside and react.Firstly, the government has to stop going behind private institutions that are bleeding, and in fact help by providing necessary medication, which is not available. Do they want these institutions to shut down?Patients want to file cases for being administered certain medicines, despite saving them, following ICMR’s [Indian Council for Medical Research] diktats. How fair is that? Especially when there is no vaccine or fixed line of treatment that can be applicable to all patients?I also feel that managements of hospitals have to consider incentivising frontline Covid-19 health workers, such as ward boys and nurses, considering the amazing work they do.There is too much stigma that people are attaching with Covid – housing societies showing high-handedness, exploiting their positions of power, not allowing house helps, vendors and other essential workers to visit people who genuinely need help. They are preventing people from leading a normal life. I appeal to authorities, the police and ministers to take cognisance of such people.Today as I still lay weak in my bed at home, I am continuously getting calls for prescribing treatment and to seek help at the hospital. I feel thankful for the prayers and blessings of my people, and the hospital management, that my wife and I are alive.I am hoping to get better soon, and back on my feet to be at the service of the people, to help them live. But I hope we can change a few things to help us get through this difficult phase. I have braved death, and came out more determined to do what I have left behind- cure people, and help them live.(Dr Jalil Parkar, pulmonologist, department of chest medicine at Lilavati Hospital and Research Centre)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/i-ve-braved-death-and-came-out-more-determined-to-cure-people-and-help-them-live-says-mumbai-pulmonologist/story-flo1437dZQRm0zmrksxtJN.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt start free hemophilia treatment||In a relief to hemophilia patients, the Punjab government on Sunday decided to start treatment by anti-hemophilia factors in 18 integrated care centres across the state.Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that to provide quality treatment to needy hemophilia patients, the government has established 18 care centres in state. Besides, three centres in government medical colleges, 15 centres have been set up in district hospitals. Soon, four more centres would be opened in other districts of state, he added. At these centres, anti-hemophilia factors 8, 9, 7a & FEIBA are to be provided to patients free of cost so that emergency treatment services are provided to all patients. The minister said that earlier, patients were helpless and had to spend Rs. 18 to 80 lakh annually for the treatment. Now, all expenses are to be borne by the state government. For this purpose, registration of patients is going on. Sidhu said the training has been provided to the staff by specialist doctors from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, and other experts through webinars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-start-free-hemophilia-treatment/story-FKtFdf2dzeCWgs4LrbFkgM.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Amid lockdown, 75 rescued kids in Mumbai wait to be reunited with families||took a mammoth effort from the government machinery to help migrant workers from Maharashtra to get back home. But, at the Children’s Home at Dongri unfolds another story of minor children whose loneliness, anxiety and cries, to be reunited with their families, remain confined to the four walls of the children’s home.There are 75 children, rescued from child labour and trafficking, waiting to be reunited with their families. Some of these children had also been missing or had run away from their homes. “Usually once the children are rescued, their parents come and take custody. But the lockdown made it difficult for these poor families to obtain an e-pass for Mumbai. Only one family has managed to take custody of their child in the past three months,” said Rahul Kanthikar, superintendent, Dongri Children Home.A man from Mumbai who frequently travelled to Uttar Pradesh had offered job to the teenage sons of a villager from Ballia district, Uttar Pradesh. He promised his sons aged 17 and 15 years that the job would fetch them ₹6,000 a month. The brothers, however, were made to work in a bangle manufacturing unit at Malad. Within a few days, the 15-year-old could not cope up with 14-hour shift and he returned home. But the 17-year-old was forced to continue with his job at the unit.In February this year, a team of police officials raided the bangle unit and rescued the 17-year-old, along with other children, and sent him to the Children’s Home in Dongri. The rescue was communicated to his family and they expected their son to come back home.In another case, a 13-year-old boy was kidnapped from Mysore, Karnataka, and brought to Mumbai by a man who had sedated his drink. The man along with his accomplices had kept the child in a small room from where he managed to escape. He, then, went to a police station and narrated his ordeal. Counsellors at the Children’s Home say that the child is bright and is worried about his studies. All these children, from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Punjab, West Bengal, are staring at an uncertain future now.Uncertainty due to Covid-19 outbreakThe other arrangement made by the concerned authorities was to send these rescued kids to children’s home of their respective state. Then, the Children’s Welfare Committee of that state would help these children reunite with their parents. But there was no approval from the respective states due to the spread of the Covid-19, said Kanthikar.To make matter worse, a nurse and two kids at the Children’s Home tested positive for the virus. “Many kids were anxious, and faced sleep-related issues, loss of appetite, mood-swings, drop-in daily activities etc,” said Kadambari Dube, a counsellor at Dongri Children’s home. “The kids are anxious about the uncertainty this pandemic has brought. They are anxious about their academic year, exam results, condition of their parents, etc. It is very difficult to make the kids understand what exactly Covid-19 is and why the lockdown was necessary,” Dube said.Signs of anxiety and depression seen among childrenWhile officials at the children’s home help the rescued children by enabling them to talk to their families over the phone, but counsellors say that longer stay of a child at the children’s home harms the child’s psyche. “We have observed signs of anxiety and depression among the children, and ask us about their families, and are adamant that they be reunited with their parents in the shortest possible time,” said Sachi Maniar, director of Ashiyana Foundation, that works with Dongri Children’s Home.‘Home states are reluctant to accept rescued children’Urmila Jadhav, one of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) members, Mumbai, said, other states are not willing to accept children back easily. “It is a known fact that the CWCs of other states are reluctant to accept these rescued children and now they are giving an excuse of the spread of a contagious disease. We are ready to send the kids after conducting their Covid tests, but they are delaying the paperwork.”Hrishikesh Yashod, commissioner of Women and Child Development, Maharashtra state, said, “It’s a stressful situation for everyone. Children are even more vulnerable, and they need care and protection. There is no denial to the fact that kids in Children Care Institutions [or children homes] are anxious, panicked and are in stress because of the lockdown. Usually other states approve, but because of the lockdown the procedure is affected.”“One cannot deny the reluctant approach of administration of other states. Unavailability of a police escort party is also an issue. But the department is taking all possible measures to reunite the kids,” Yashod added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-lockdown-75-rescued-kids-in-mumbai-wait-to-be-reunited-with-families/story-KRhfiKgvHQ9ArHTIPW6cfI.html
22-06-2020||City||53-year-old Kalyan doctor dies of Covid-19||Kalyan A 53-year-old doctor from Kalyan succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Sunday. This is the first death of a doctor reported owing to Covid-19 within the areas under the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).The doctor was initially admitted to Meera Hospital in Kalyan, from where he was later shifted to a hospital in Thane. He was then taken to Jaslok Hospital in Mumbai and kept on ventilator for 15 days, where he passed away. The doctor is survived by his wife and two daughters. The doctor was a part of the Kalyan Doctors’ Army, which comprises of several private doctors from the city, who work with the corporation to fight the outbreak and attended patients at a fever outpatient department (OPD) in the city.“The demise of our team member is saddening, especially because he used to take all the possible guidelines and preventive measures while attending the patients. It is not sure how he contracted the virus. “He was taking treatment for almost 25 days. His elder daughter was also infected earlier. She was discharged from Holy Cross Covid Hospital after recovery,“ said Prashant Patil, spokesperson, Kalyan Doctor’s Army.Municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi also expressed his condolences over the doctor’s demise. “He was dedicatedly working with the doctors’ army and used to work for the civic body before the outbreak. His demise is extremely saddening and the civic body will stand by his family in acquiring the insurance cover,” said Suryavanshi.Meanwhile, 15 doctors who were infected earlier, were discharged after recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/53-year-old-kalyan-doctor-dies-of-covid-19/story-5quURLvS2M2UKn3kkHgSHL.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||State’s Covid-19 toll goes past 6,000; tally 132,075||Maharashtra on Sunday went past the 6,000 Covid-19 fatalities mark with 186 more deaths, pushing the toll to 6,170. According to the state, barring Mumbai, reconciliation of deaths in all districts/municipal corporations has been completed.The state also recorded 3,870 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 132,075. Mumbai recorded 1,159 more infections, taking its tally to 66,488, while it reported 41 deaths in the past 48 hours. Areas around Mumbai, including Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar, are seeing an increase in daily cases for a few days. On Sunday, Thane recorded 180 cases, while Kalyan-Dombivli saw 267 new cases, Navi Mumbai 173, Mira-Bhayander 141 and Vasai-Virar 157.Pune city, which has been the worst-affected city after Mumbai, recorded 507 new cases on Sunday, taking the city’s tally to 13,267. Nashik city and parts of the district, too, have seen an increase in cases. On Sunday, Nashik city recorded 83 new infections, while the district saw 20 new cases.Looking at the rising number of cases in Nashik city and district, the local administration has taken steps to augment the health infrastructure. A 500-bed Covid Care Centre (CCC) will be erected on ground in Nashik city to cater to new cases. Chhagan Bhujbal, guardian minister of Nashik district, said that the Covid Care Centre (CCC) will be erected at Thakkar Dome ground in the city. Nashik city and district, including Malegaon, has so far seen 2,762 cases. Kalyan-Dombivli, which saw 302 cases on Saturday, is now going to add a 400-bed CCC soon.A senior official from the state government said that the trajectory of cases will remain as expected as the state will continue to see a rise and minor falls in the number of daily cases. He added that the rise is cases can be tackled with strengthening health infrastructure in urban and rural areas.Maharashtra, according to officials, is going to see a “steady” rise in cases for a few more days. “The trajectory of the cases has been more or less on expected lines, especially after restrictions were lifted even in red zones. We can tackle the rise of cases with early detection and application of drugs. Concerns are the rise in deaths. We are pushing for remdesivir and other drugs. The chief minister and the health minister have already put in a request for anti-viral drugs and more ventilators with the Centre,” the senior official, said requesting anonymity.Although 170 deaths were added on Sunday as per the data reconciliation process, 69 of them had occurred from May 7 onwards and not added earlier in the data, the official said.The first case recorded in Maharashtra was on March 9. The month saw 302 Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths. In April, the state saw 10,196 cases and 449 deaths, while in May, 57,157 cases and 1827 fatalities were recorded. In June so far, 64,423 cases and 3,793 fatalities. The cases in June so far account for 48.77% of the total cases in the state.Meanwhile, the recovery rate of the state has slipped marginally below 50%. On Sunday, 1,591 patients were discharged across the state, taking the total people who have recovered to 65,744. The active cases in the state stand at 60,147. The death rate in the state is 4.67%, which is much higher than the national percentage of around 3.28%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-s-covid-19-toll-goes-past-6-000-tally-132-075/story-jJhhM9qBMB8oBg5krB0fTJ.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Online final semester exam for Central University of Punjab students||The Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda, has decided to allow students to write their final semester exams scheduled from July 6 to July 17 online from their homes. Registrar Kanwar Pal Singh Mundra said on Sunday said the students can choose exam dates and available time slots to appear in a particular examination.Mundra clarified that online mode is meant only for about 500 students of the final semester to allow them to take up further academic or professional pursuits. Examinations for other classes will be scheduled after the Covid-19 situation eases, he said.“There will be two slots in a day in which 140 students can appear for examinations in each session. Efforts are being made to declare the results within three days of conducting each test. This will help avoid delays in completion of the examination process,” said Mundra, who holds the dual charge of controller of examination.If a student fails to appear for the online examination for any valid reason, she or he will be eligible to sit for the exam on the university campus once normalcy is restored.Mundra said that one mock test of the online examination system was conducted successfully on Friday to help students check internet connectivity and ease of use.Around 400 students had participated in the maiden event and another dry run would be conducted on June 26 to make students more familiar with the online mode of taking examinations, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-final-semester-exam-for-central-university-of-punjab-students/story-d8llLSIMlnIwxSA2wmQxdP.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||8,000 hectares of Punjab’s forest land in illegal occupation, govt drags feet||Nearly 8,000 hectares of Punjab’s forest land is in the possession of illegal occupants with the state government dragging its feet on framing a policy on its demarcation and afforestation, the 2019-20 audit report of the accountant general (AG) has pointed out. These encroachments are causing huge revenue losses to the state exchequer, says the report which was sent to the additional chief secretary (forest and wildlife) for clarification. Despite the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s 2018 decision to transfer the land to the forest department, 8,012 hectares still remains occupied by the encroachers, the report adds. The revenue department had received ₹116.77 crore for the purchase of non-forest land for compensatory plantation from the financial year 2013-14 to 2018-19, but it spent only ₹10.84 crore till 2013-14 for procurement of land for afforestation, it says. The chief conservator of forests’ records showed that 5 out of 16 divisions did not have continuous working plans between 2016-17 and 2018-19. The annual reports of the Punjab State Financial Development Corporation (PSFDC) for 2013-14 to 2018-19, revealed that the forest department raised loans worth crores of rupees without the approval of the state assembly for office use, which is a contravention of the constitutional provisions.The report adds that 9,814 hectare of forest land under the jurisdiction of Mohali, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur wildlife divisions had not been demarcated and the department had not completed legal procedure to mark the boundaries of protected areas. This had led to problems like encroachments, road accidents, man-animal conflict and vulnerability to cattle borne diseases.UNAUTHORISED CONTROL OVER WILDLIFE SANCTUARYThe report says after the declaration of the wildlife sanctuary in Abohar, the local people started to convert their land (tibbas) into agricultural fields that led to degradation of habitats of endangered species and black bucks were killed by stray dogs. The people did so as the area in the sanctuary was private in nature.The failure to transfer the control of the sanctuary to the wildlife wing defeated the very purpose of creating protected areas, it adds.Additional chief secretary (forest and wildlife) Ravneet Kaur did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8-000-hectares-of-punjab-s-forest-land-in-illegal-occupation-govt-drags-feet/story-DFLTigy5uhLozk9LDVff1O.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pak Sikhs condemn former minister’s remark against Maharaja Ranjit Singh||The Sikh community in Pakistan has strongly objected to the derogatory remark made by Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N) leader and country’s former railway minister Khawaja Saad Rafique against Maharaja Ranjit Singh, the founder of the Sikh Empire, and demanded an apology from him. Rafique, who is facing trial in corruption cases in Pakistan’s courts, in a tweet termed Ranjit Singh as an “authoritative looter”, held him responsible for the desecration of mosques during his regime and the domination of the Dogras in the Kashmir valley. “The science minister should apologise to the nation for calling Ranjit Singh’s era the golden age and terming him the greatest hero of Punjab,” reads the tweet written in Urdu.The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) has lodged protest against the statement. “The words used by the former railway minister are highly objectionable. The Sikh community in Pakistan and the gurdwara management committee strongly condemn these words,” said PSGPC president Satwant Singh.He said, “It is sad that Rafique has not read history of Sikhs who have always favoured human values. As far as Maharaja Ranjit Singh is concerned, we don’t have any single instance from his 42-year-long regime that he ever committed any atrocity against any person. The biggest evidence of this is that nobody was sentenced to death in his rule.” “Leaders of Sikh community had never been dacoits or robbers. He should apologise for this,” he added. Also, Gopal Singh Chawla, a Khalistan sympathiser, said in a video that Maharaja Ranjit Singh was their hero and words against him are not tolerable. “Had he (Rafique) been a good politician, he would not face so many cases. Maharaja Ranjit Singh never differentiated between people on the basis of religion,” he said.Besides, some liberal Muslims in Pakistan have condemned the remark. “He has no right to use these kinds of words,” said Shahid Shabir, an activist working for the preservation of Sikh heritage in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pak-sikhs-condemn-former-minister-s-remark-against-maharaja-ranjit-singh/story-3rLcK3ZSTI97tPi4fUlnxM.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Student from Mumbai loses ₹67,000 after ordering headphones for online classes||A 16-year-old student fell prey to cybercrime and lost ₹67,495 from his father’s bank account while purchasing a headphone and webcam. The student’s father, Shrinivas Pankala, 51, filed a complaint at Santacruz police station.With classes being conducted through video-conferencing due to the lockdown, Pankala’s son was looking to buy headphones and a webcam for attending online classes. On June 13, the student found an anonymous website while searching for high-resolution devices and contacted the number mentioned on the site to inquire if there was any discount on the devices. A police officer said, “The accused told him he is selling these products on special discounted rate. The teenager asked him to dispatch the products and agreed to settle the bill through online payment.”According to the police, the accused contacted the student after sometime and said he has dispatched the products. The accused also sent a QR code to the student which, he said, needs to be scanned for the payment. After the student scanned the code, ₹67,495 was deducted from his father’s account.The teenager then informed his father about this, after which they tried to contact the seller, but failed. His father then approached the police. The police on June 18 registered a first information report (FIR) against an unknown person under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 (C)(D) of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/student-from-mumbai-loses-67-000-after-ordering-headphones-for-online-classes/story-tuxpiE6s2iNGqMQutGjrzJ.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Regulator raps PSPCL for failing to move 5.5 lakh meters off the premises||The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has given the Punjab State Power Corporation (PSPCL) a rap on its knuckles for failing to shift as many as 5.47 lakh electricity meters outside the premises of the consumers. The regulator has asked the corporation to file a compliance report by September 30.In its tariff order for the financial year 2020-21 announced on June 1, the power regulator noted that the meters on the consumers’ premises were prone to tampering and they are one of the contributing factors for distribution losses. In its tariff order issued last year, the commission had given the PSPCL the November 26 deadline to shift all the meters out to the pillar boxes or the poles outside the consumers’ premises. As per PSPCL figures, the state has nearly 92 lakh power connections of which 13.5 lakh are of agriculture tubewells and 70 lakh are domestic. The rest are in the industrial and commercial sectors. From January 1 to December 1, 2019, 1.25 lakh electro-mechanical meters were shifted out in the state under the integrated power development scheme, Deen Dayal Upadhayay Gramin Jyoti Yojana and restructured accelerated power development and reforms programme. In an undertaking given to the PSERC before finalisation of the annual tariff, the corporation had assured that work of shifting meters will be completed by March 2020, but details on this are awaited. The process of shifting of meters out of the consumers’ premises started in 2007 on pilot project basis and losses were brought down from up to 80% to 12 %.Bhupinder Singh, a retired deputy chief engineer of PSPCL, said he led the pilot project in 2007 and on its basis a loan of ₹2,500 was sanctioned by the rural electrification corporation to start shifting of meters across the state. “Until 2012, the programme was carried at a good pace but it lost steam in 2013-14,” he said.“We are shifting meters in a phased manner. There is resistance from the consumers to new meters in some areas. We hope to complete the process soon,” said PSPCL director (distribution) DIPS Grewal.4.36 LAKH METERS NEED REPLACEMENT As many as 4.36 lakh meters fitted with outdated electro-mechanical technology are also waiting to be replaced with electronic meters. The electro-mechanical meters are still in use in violation of the metering regulations of the central electricity authority and the state power regulator. “The utilities in other parts of the country are contemplating smart metering but the PSPCL is still continuing with obsolete technology of electro-mechanical meters,” said the power tariff of June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/regulator-raps-pspcl-for-failing-to-move-5-5-lakh-meters-off-the-premises/story-dson0Cjyl35HTrTz4Rh8FK.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Confusion persists on home isolation rules for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms||A day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), headed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, scrapped its order mandating five days of institutional quarantine even for those with mild Covid-19 symptoms, but said that every person who tests positive be taken to Covid Care Centres (CCC) for an assessment of their clinical conditions, some district administration officials in the city are calling the move impractical on the grounds that it would increase the risk of the infection. Meanwhile, with no new standard operating procedure (SOP) issued yet, there was confusion on how to deal with new cases on Sunday, and some other district officials said they continued with the previous protocol — sending health officials to the patient’s residence for a clinical diagnosisThe order on Saturday night, issued by principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt, said “all individuals who are positive will be referred to the COVID Care Centres for assessment of clinical conditions, the severity of illness and presence of comorbidities”.To be eligible for home isolation, a patient’s house needs to have a separate room with an attached bathroom, and space for isolation for a dedicated caregiver and other family members.As of Sunday evening, 12,106 Covid-19 patients in the city are under home isolation.But, senior officials in the government said that another problem had emerged because of a Friday order that coincided with the one in which five days’ institutional quarantine was made mandatory for all patients — the scrapping of the contract of the company that was handling the contact and management of all home quarantine patients.A senior government official said that on Saturday, when the LG withdrew the mandatory five-day institutional quarantine rule, he allowed Portea Medical to operate for the time being, until an alternative was given by the Delhi health department. The rule, however, has a catch, the official said. “The company has been allowed to operate, but it has not been allowed to take any new Covid patient since Friday’s order. So, they are tracking only the old 10,490 patients that were in home isolation until Friday. As a result, there is no one now to follow up on the new asymptomatic and mild patients in home isolation,” the officer added. An analysis of government data revealed that since Friday, 9,767 new Covid-19 cases have been added in the Capital. Of these, about 1,600 were admitted in hospitals, Covid Health Centres and Covid Care Centres.“The company used to make calls twice a day to every patient under home isolation. The patient’s temperature, signs of any symptoms and other factors were recorded. In case anyone reported of any symptoms, the information was sent to the district surveillance officers (DSOs) for shifting him/her to a Covid facility,” another government official said.At Monday’s DDMA meeting, the health department is likely to inform the LG that it is going to rope in medical students to make the phone calls. It is also being planned that the surveillance teams will be made responsible for tracking these patients, a government official said. “However, with districts already facing a major staff crunch, the chief minister’s office has raised concern as to who will follow up with every patient for 14 days,” the official said.In any case, the decision to send all patients to care centres for assessment has district officials worried at a time when the Capital is recording an average of 2,652 new Covid-19 new cases a day for the past week. “How will they travel to a care centre? We don’t have enough infrastructure to take all new cases, there are logistical issues. And we can’t allow them to go to a centre on their own, as it will increase the risk of transmission,” said a district magistrate.“While the ambulance fleet has been augmented and 500-odd more ambulances will be added to the existing fleet soon, it won’t be possible to take all patients to CCC for clinical assessment,” a Delhi government official said.A second district magistrate said: “The order doesn’t say all new cases have to be taken to CCC. Our teams are going to the homes of people who have tested positive and doing the assessment there.”But a senior Delhi government official said, “The order is clear and has to be implemented. There will be no separate SOPs, which will be issued.”Saturday’s order said: “All individuals who are positive will be referred to the COVID care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities.”According to a Delhi government official familiar with the matter, the DMs in all 11 revenue districts will be in charge of the management of patients under home isolation in localities under their jurisdiction. The health department will submit a plan for the same to the DDMA by Monday afternoon, the official said.Meanwhile, several Covid-19 patients who were under home isolation were shifted to institutional quarantine following Delhi L-G’s order on Friday, which was then revoked on Saturday.A doctor with a district surveillance team said: “After Friday’s order, we had shifted a few people from home isolation. Now they will be shifted home only after a proper physical assessment of their house is done as per the new order.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital said, “Bringing them to centres for clinical assessment will only increase the risk of transmission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/confusion-persists-on-home-isolation-rules/story-mnb8raoBYHEsAvzkx0sjNO.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||6 sites in MMR are now wetlands||The Maharashtra forest department has approved and published an official document showing six ecologically sensitive areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as wetlands.The Thane creek flamingo sanctuary (TCFS) management plan 2020-2030, sanctioned by the state’s chief wildlife warden (CWLW) on June 18, has officially designated six sites – Bhandup (11 ha) in Mumbai, Panje (124 ha), Belpada (30 ha), Bhendkhal (8 ha) in Uran, Training Ship Chanakya (13 ha), NRI Complex (19 ha) in Navi Mumbai – as wetlands.The areas have been listed as ‘satellite wetlands that need to be protected within a 50km radius of TCFS’, the document read. This is the first time the state has also officially declared its intent to protect each site as either conservation or community reserves. HT has a copy of the approved management plan, while the mangrove cell confirmed the development.Virendra Tiwari, the additional principal chief conservator of forest, state mangrove cell, said the identification of these six sites as wetlands was done based on a report by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) - Coastal Wetlands and water birds of Navi Mumbai 2019.“The report has been made part of the official document (TCFS management plan), which was approved by the CWLW under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. This is the first step. It is our endeavour to follow up with competent authorities (district administration and state bodies) to declare these sites as protected areas,” said Tiwari.The proposed action plan for these six sites include understanding the linkages between TCFS and its satellite wetlands in the radius of 50km, to work with research organisations to monitor the status of these wetlands, the mangrove cell to liaise with agencies concerned to formulate necessary policies for conserving identified wetlands, and finally to declare them as conservation or community reserves (protected areas). “Six satellite wetlands have been identified and flamingo movement will be monitored with the help of experts. Flamingos are itinerant species (travelling from place to place) adapted to respond to changes in local environment by moving, and depend on a network of suitable sites. Conservation of satellite wetlands around TCFS is also equally critical for the long-term survival of flamingos in the region,” the document read.Wetland sites such as TSC, NRI, and Panje had witnessed large flocks of flamingos from March to May. BNHS estimated that there were over 1.5 lakh flamingos visiting MMR wetlands this migratory season. “Protecting these wetlands will help us achieve our sustainable development goals and commitments to the global community on Central Asian Flyway that the Prime Minister had announced during the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species (CMS COP 13) in Gandhinagar in February,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS. “They are vital migratory bird habitats and their protection is crucial from the air safety point of view for the Navi Mumbai International Airport.”Prior to the latest development, HT had reported on April 29 about a letter issued by the mangrove cell to the Raigad and Thane district administrations, City Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco), and Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) for a no-objection certificate and comments on declaring these six zones a Conservation Reserves. While both district administrations are yet to respond, JNPT had said the sites under their jurisdiction, Belpada and Bhendkhal, were not wetlands, but commercial and agricultural lands. Cidco, that had plans to construct an 18-hole golf course over NRI and TSC, has not officially responded to the mangrove cell, but told HT that they had ‘no clarity’ on the fate of the golf courses at the moment.“With large-scale destruction reported from all these sites already, this decision by the forest department will help protect the last surviving major wetlands in MMR, safeguard city areas from flooding and defend losses to local livelihood,” said environmentalist Stalin D.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-sites-in-mmr-are-now-wetlands/story-7bjQTy3CoLdn8dXZmfwqUI.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman kills her 2-year-old daughter in Kaithal||A 25-year-old woman was booked for allegedly killing her two-year-old daughter in Kakot village of Kaithal, police said on Sunday. Surender Singh said his wife Rajkumari killed their elder daughter and fled the house on Saturday. She also took my younger daughter with her, he told the police. As per the complainant, he had married Rajkumari about five years ago. Cops associated with the investigation said the father had buried her body before filing the complaint.The police dug out the body and sent it postmortem examination. Titram police station in-charge Raj Kumar said they have started an investigation.An FIR was registered against the woman, a native of Patna, and a manhunt was launched to nab her, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-kills-her-2-year-old-daughter-in-kaithal/story-7bRrdizVs6Nl3R9erQY00I.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Rare marine life sighted from Mahalaxmi shoreline||South Mumbai residents and a marine biologist have requested the state to protect areas around the Mahalaxmi Bay, as Coastal Road reclamation work has begun in the area.A report on the intertidal biodiversity along the Mahalaxmi shoreline in south Mumbai by independent marine biologist Gaurav Patil has identified two species of hard corals (Paracyathus and Cladangia exusta). Corals are protected under schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the same protection status as that of a tiger or an elephant. Rare species such sea urchins, honeycomb moray eel, 12 species of sea slugs, six species of crustaceans along with gastropods and echinoderms were all documented across Mahalaxmi Bay between September 2019 and March 2020.“The environment impact assessment report only had brief details of marine biodiversity along the south Mumbai coastline and did not document specific areas that have rare and protected species. We need to have an overall perspective of what is at stake before commencing development activities,” said Patil.Meanwhile, residents from the Maha Goolestan Co-op Housing Society on Bhulabhai Desai Road shared a letter they wrote to environment minister Aaditya Thackeray last week. “We have requested the state to avoid reclaiming the Mahalaxmi Bay area which is an economically important and sensitive fishing zone, home to corals, gastropods, bivalve species, and a roosting area for migratory birds. However, some of these zones have already been reclaimed over the weekend,” a residents said.“Work on the coastal road may have gone too far to stop the project itself, but even now, if done sensitively, we can save essential portions of our scenic coastline and along with it the livelihood of fishers.”The 9.9-km current phase of the ₹12,969-crore project, will include an eight-lane highway, which will connect Marine Drive to the southern end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. Reclamation activity has been undertaken from Nariman Point to Worli. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said they would ensure the biodiversity in the area is protected. “We are in constant consultation with the National Institute of Oceanography and ecologists appointed by our contractor who is guiding us to avoid environmentally sensitive zones during reclamation,” said Vijay Nighot, chief engineer, BMC’s coastal road project||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rare-marine-life-sighted-from-mahalaxmi-shoreline-as-coastal-road-reclamation-inches-closer/story-s6RnlSNVKAEUcIHEYAy3zN.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Shame on those supporting Hisar market committee secy: Sonali||TikTok star-turned BJP leader Sonali Phogat on Sunday said the people backing Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh are those who can’t respect their sisters and mothers. In a veiled attack on Binain Khap, Phogat said it was a shame that some people were supporting a culprit. “He (Sultan) is being supported by those who cannot respect women at their homes,” she added.On June 17, a court in Hisar had granted bail to Phogat who was arrested for thrashing Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh in full public view. Meanwhile, Raghubir Nain, spokesperson of the Binain Khap, said the khap condemned Phogat’s statement. “Her comments are baseless and everyone knows about the incident. She is making last-ditch efforts to save herself,” he added. WILL LODGE FIR AGAINST SULTAN: WOMEN COMMISSION Haryana commission for women’s chairperson Pratibha Suman said they will lodge a first information report (FIR) against the people belonging to Binain Khap who used indecent language against the BJP leader at a khap body meeting a few days ago. “We had received some evidences which proved that some people used abusive language against Phogat,” she added.Bhagat Ram Nain, vice-president of Binain Khap, said they will launch a statewide agitation against the Haryana government if Sultan Singh is arrested. “If police arrest Sultan Singh, we will launch an agitation against the government and teach them a lesson,” Bhagat Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shame-on-those-supporting-hisar-market-committee-secy-sonali/story-n7WvbOpO6SBFhb2YGu0HjO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Solar eclipse: A low-key affair at Kurukshetra||With the coronavirus pandemic casting its impact on the solar eclipse fair this year, limited groups of sadhus, few politicians and some officials from the district administration were able to take part in the religious ceremony organised on the banks Brahma Sarovar in Kurukshetra on Sunday. Due to the prohibitory orders, the district administration had cancelled the fair and even imposed a three-day curfew. Directions to ban the movement of people were issued keeping in view the huge influx of people during the solar eclipse fair every year.As per local sadhus, they didn’t remember when was the last time that Brahma Sarovar wore a deserted look during the solar eclipse.BJP’s local MP Nayab Saini and Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha participated in the ceremony and took holy dip in the sarovar.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also witnessed the religious programmes via videoconferencing.According to Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata, the restrictions were imposed till 4pm on Sunday to avoid gatherings at the religious places of the district.PEOPLE WITNESS MAGNIFICENT ‘RING OF FIRE’People in Kurukshetra district witnessed the rare celestial event in which the Sun looked like a ring of fire. As seen from the Bhore Sayada village of the district, 98.95% of the sun was covered by the moon at 12:01 pm. Telescopes were installed by the department of science and technology at Bhore Sayada village and Brahma Sarovar in Kurukshetra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/solar-eclipse-a-low-key-affair-at-kurukshetra/story-9KSkBLAE1i1JJaFVmlNQuL.html
22-06-2020||Dehradun||Movie shooting in Himalayan state amid Covid-19 outbreak? Follow Uttarakhand govt’s SOP||Preparing to welcome producers and film shooting unit, Uttarakhand government on Saturday issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for film shooting in the state with reference to Covid-19, highlighting physical and social distancing, regular thermal scanning and frequent sanitisation.The SOP was released by Uttarakhand Film Development Council and Department of Information & Public Relations, Government of Uttarakhand. The SOP with separate instructions has been divided under categories like generic preventive measures, health and safety rules at location and film sets, disinfection/sanitisation of facilities, make-up, hairdresser and vestry, food arrangements and catering services, transport and logistics, accommodation and filming at private locations.District administrations have been asked to ensure that mechanism is put in place for the monitoring of film shooting activities and in case of any violation, the district administration shall ensure enforcement of concerned sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Production houses have also been asked to ensure thermal screening of all crew members or staff on a daily basis, using a non-contact thermometer or fever guns.Film shooting will not be allowed in containment zones and the head of the film shooting unit or audio-visual sector must ensure that no member of the team or crew belong to the containment zone of the district. Indoor shoots will have a maximum capacity of 15 people while outdoor will have maximum of 30 people.As per the SOP, all the production units or film shooting units or audio-visual sectors working in Uttarakhand shall take suitable measures to restrict the transmission of Covid-19, while hiring various services. The generic measures include physical distancing of at least 6 feet, use of face covers or masks to be made mandatory, frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) even when hands are not visibly dirty, using of alcohol-based hand sanitizers (for at least 20 seconds), wherever feasible, respiratory etiquette like covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing or sneezing, self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest to state and district helpline. Installation and use of Aarogya Setu app is also advised to all by the state government.All employees, technical crew, characters or performing actors or actresses (wherever feasible) must wear masks, gloves and other personal protective gears at all times and are also sensitized to strictly adhere to the norms. Members of the production unit must not mingle with locals or roam around in public places unnecessarily.Before entering the state or while moving from one district to another within the state, producers or line producers have to mandatorily get themselves and their entire crew registered on the web portal mentioned in the government’s SOP. For those above the age of 65 years, pregnant women or those with previous medical such as high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic lung diseases, cancer or any other serious illness, will not allowed to attend the workplace or shooting set. However, if any exemption to the above condition is required, then that must be intimated duly to the district administration for approval. The general public will also not be allowed to witness shooting.The SOP further states, “If any member of the film shooting unit is found exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19, it shall be the responsibility of the unit head to intimate to the nearest health centre/ local police/ control room to ensure requisite medical treatment for the concerned. If any member of the production unit or film shooting unit or audio-visual sector is found Covid positive, the head of the unit must inform the concerned district administration or health authorities” who will follow the guidelines issued in such cases by the Central government.The head of the production company or Film Shooting Unit or audio-visual sector also have to submit an undertaking to the Director General, Information and Public Relations of the state government regarding the compliance of all safety norms or SoPs issued by the state government and Central government. They also have to provide details like name of film production house, name and mobile number of the team leader visiting the state, name and mobile number of compliance officer, name of the cast, list of crew members containing name and other details, mobile number of crew members, number of days and date of shooting in the state, name of the hotel/accommodation where cast will stay during shooting, name of the hotel/accommodation where crew members will stay during shooting, name of shooting locations and mode of travel. A copy of permission of shooting will be given to district administration also.The production companies must ensure the disinfection of facilities, sets, and locations as many times as necessary and especially at the time of opening and closing, strictly adhering to the guidelines of the ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Special attention should be paid to cleaning and disinfection of areas like furniture, railings, counters and other surfaces that are frequently touched. Washrooms and restrooms should be cleaned after every use.All catering personnel should wear appropriate protective gears at all times, while preparing and handling food, however, staff is advised to carry home-prepared food, wherever possible and maintain social distancing at eating points or cafeteria.Vehicles used for shooting shall be properly sanitized before and after movement, as per guidelines of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/movie-shooting-in-himalayan-state-amid-covid-19-outbreak-follow-uttarakhand-govt-s-sop/story-p0t33k7bfdlE9EXnYL0M4K.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||11 deaths, 412 fresh cases in Haryana||Eleven patients suffering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) succumbed to the infection on Sunday in Haryana even as the virus infected 412 people of 18 districts in the past 24 hours, the health bulletin said. While 160 people have died of the Covid-19 in the state so far, the tally of coronavirus cases has reached 10,635 (7,271 males, 3,363 females and one transgender). On Sunday, Five patients lost their battle to the virus in Gurugram, four patients succumbed in Faridabad and one each died in Palwal and Panipat districts. As per the health bulletin, Faridabad recorded the maximum (137) fresh cases of Covid-19, followed by Gurugram (120) and Sonepat (40).Among other districts where new infections were detected included Bhiwani (24), Hisar (17), Panipat (16), Nuh and Rohtak (6 each), Jhajjar (5), Ambala, Karnal and Palwal (4 each), Jind (3), Kurukshetra and Kaithal (2 each), and Sirsa and Fatehabad (1 each).While there were 4,918 active cases in the state, 429 patients were discharged on Sunday from 12 different districts. 211 patients walked out of hospital in Faridabad, 116 in Gurugram and 32 in Sonepat. At least 5,557 patients have so far recovered, the bulletin stated. There were 67 patients in critical condition— 46 on oxygen support and 21 on the ventilators. Meanwhile, samples a 62-year-old woman of Rewari, who died of cardiac arrest on Sunday at a private hospital, were tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said. The Sonepat administration put the number of fresh cases at 53 against 40 mentioned in the bulletin. Seven members of a family, including three children aged 1, 3 and 7, from Rai area were among the patients. Panipat district witnessed sixth death as a 41-year-old woman suffering from thyroid succumbed to the infection. In Karnal, four people were tested positive for the coronavirus on Sunday, taking the number of those infected to 221 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-deaths-412-fresh-cases-in-haryana/story-No3xPOZuaWcRb36JNb4l8O.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Buyer challenges MahaRERA circular allowing 6-month extension to developers||A flat buyer has filed a petition in the Bombay high court (HC), challenging the May 18 order of the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulation Authority (MahaRERA), in which it had extended the validity of all registered projects by six months, whose completion, revised completion or extended completion dates expired on or after March 15. The petitioner has claimed that MahaRERA’s decision favoured certain defaulting promoters at the cost of thousands of flat purchasers. The court will hear the petition on Tuesday.The petitioner, Sagar Sarjerao Nikam, had purchased a flat on January 12, 2017, for which he had paid around 95 % of the total amount to the promoter. In his petition, filed through advocates Manish and Nilesh Gala, Nikam has stated that the promoter had promised to deliver the possession by December 2017, but failed to do so as an occupancy certificate (OC) for the flat was rejected owing to a default. The petitioner and his family have been staying on leave-and-license basis, paying rent, owing to which he has been suffering financial difficulties.Nikam’s petition has further stated that on April 2 this year, MahaRERA had extended the registration validity of projects by three months. The authority further extended the validity by three more months on May 18 by invoking the ‘force majeure’ (unprecedented event) clause, stating that the Covid-19 outbreak is a calamity which is adversely affecting the regular development of real estate projects.The petition further added that MahaRERA’s order has also exempted errant developers from paying compensation in case of failure to deliver the property under the law, even for those cases that had lapsed before March 15. The plea said that the decision was taken arbitrarily and would lead to hardships and losses to allottees, who have invested in real estate projects and have been waiting for years together to get possession.Nikam has claimed that the decision illegally granted extensions and relaxations to errant promoters, depriving purchasers of their statutory rights of being heard. In view of this, the plea has sought direction from the court to declare MahaRERA’s decision to invoke force majeure and to treat it as a ‘moratorium period’ to calculate the interest under RERA law, as illegal and be quashed. The plea has also submitted that the decision was completely arbitrary and violative of the mandate of the RERA law.As the bench led by chief justice Dipankar Datta could not hear the case owing to paucity of time on Friday, the petition will now be heard on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/buyer-challenges-maharera-circular-allowing-6-month-extension-to-developers/story-DDWdAIpRNzVP9u5Xf1cClI.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Aarey, a part of SGNP, state body admits before SC; calls it a ‘forest’ in its affidavit||The chief executive officer (CEO) of the Aarey administration and representing the dairy development department in a counter-affidavit filed in the Supreme Court (SC) said the green lung in Goregaon is part of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). This is the first time any state body has put on record that Aarey is contiguous to the national park. The submission clarifies that while Aarey is not a notified forest, necessary actions against encroachments and tree felling were taken up in ‘forest areas’. Aarey, one of the last remaining green lungs in the city, has been a bone of contention for the last four years, ever since a proposal to build a car-shed for the Metro 3 line (Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ). Environmentalists have been fighting the matter at the National Green Tribunal, Bombay HC, and now SC calling the area a ‘forest’ home to a rich biodiversity, which will allegedly be destroyed due to development projects. There are 27 tribal hamlets within Aarey Colony with nine hamlets across Force One, Film City, Veterinary College and SRPF areas. A qualitative study using maps showed how Aarey lost its green cover periodically since the late 1940s. The study by Kamla Raheja Vidyanidhi Institute of Architecture and Environmental Studies (KRVIA), Mumbai, reported only 800 of 1,300 ha of Aarey, originally allocated as ‘No Development Zone’ will remain as a ‘Green Zone’ leading to a loss of approximately 40% original area due to ongoing and proposed construction activities. Public and private projects are likely to sever the contiguity with SGNP affecting wildlife movement, disrupting hydrological processes and the natural drainage pattern of the green lung, the report said.The counter-affidavit was filed on May 5 by Aarey CEO Nathu Rathod in response to an interim application filed by environment group Vanashakti during the last week of April (in other Aarey-related petitions before the SC) against various state bodies including the forest department and Aarey administration. Vanashakti alleged illegal tree felling, forest fires, and rising encroachments at Aarey despite there being a lockdown and sought the protection of the area and action against wrongdoers. The counter-affidavit was received and made public by co-petitioner Zoru Bhathena on Sunday.Calling for the dismissal of the application Rathod’s affidavit read, “Aarey Colony is a part of SGNP. The area of SGNP (including Aarey Colony) has been notified as an eco-sensitive zone under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. The forest department has administrative control over the area of SGNP whereas Aarey administration and dairy development department has administrative control over Aarey, and the forest department cannot take any legal action in respect to illegal activities in Aarey Colony.”Rathod confirming his submission said, “Aarey is an extension of SGNP. Though the area is not a declared forest, these forest patches home to several animals and birds are being protected by us. Any cases of tree felling, forest fires and encroachments are being tackled by us,” said Rathod. “Encroachers and tribal residents have tried to take advantage of the lockdown and encroach upon forest areas.”In his affidavit, Rathod identified cases of tree felling and illegal encroachment reported from units 5, 13, and 16. “In each case, our security staff took stock of the issue and filed a detailed complaint before the local police. So far three first-information-reports (FIRs) have been filed but nobody has been arrested. We have identified a few more violators, and informed the police,” said Rathod adding, “The forest fires were reported on April 17 and 20 from areas under the control of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), where we do not have access.”On June 16, the SC bench comprising Justice Arun Mishra and Justice Krishna Murari while hearing Vanashakti’s application called for a report from the state forest department on alleged illegal activities and action taken.The forest department said they would be filing their response soon as the matter will be heard in six weeks from the date of the order (June 16).Petitioners and environmentalists welcomed Rathod’s submissions. ““If one state body which is the land owner can honestly disclose that Aarey is a part of SGNP and it is a forest, then it is the state’s responsibility to notify and protect the green lung. This will end this six-year-long battle,” said Rohit Joshi, environmentalist.“This is the first time the state has submitted an honest response to the SC on factual details on Aarey. The submissions further say that the administration is helpless as the area has not been declared a forest, and they cannot take help from the forest department,” said Bhathena.Of the 1,287 hectares (ha) of Aarey, 165 ha was excluded from SGNP’s eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) by the Union environment ministry in its December 2016 notification to allow construction, including the Metro-3 car-shed. On June 16, a separate SC bench of justices Arun Mishra and S Abdul Nazeer dismissed a plea by Vanashakti challenging this exclusion stating, ‘Mumbai was already a congested city’. Of the 165 ha, projects across 161.6 ha have already been slotted (see box). “If not the Metro car depot, the latest affidavit is proof enough to save remaining portions of Aarey,” said Bhathena.A qualitative study using maps showed how Aarey lost its green cover periodically since the late 1940s. The study by Kamla Raheja Vidyanidhi Institute of Architecture and Environmental Studies (KRVIA), Mumbai, reported only 800 of 1,300 ha of Aarey, originally allocated as ‘No Development Zone’ will remain as a ‘Green Zone’ leading to a loss of approximately 40% original area due to ongoing and proposed construction activities. Public and private projects are likely to sever the contiguity with SGNP affecting wildlife movement, disrupting hydrological processes and the natural drainage pattern of the green lung, the report said.What’s at stake?3,166 acres (1,287 hectares) – Total area of Aarey Milk Colony407 acres (165 hectares) – excluded from eco-sensitive zone notification (issued on December 5, 2016) of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) from Aarey, aimed at allowing construction activities, including the Metro projects and allied activitiesProjects at Aarey cover 393.67 acres (161.6 hectares) of land1.5 acres (33 hectares) – Taken up by Metro 3 car-depot construction led to the alleged felling of 2,141 trees according to the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd28.17 acres (11.4 hectare) – Total buildable area for the Metro Bhawan, according to the state government, including 5 acres (2.03 hectares) area on which Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA) will build the 32-storey Metro Bhawan, operation control centre, permanent re-servicing station, temporary labour camp, steel machinery yard, and metro related technical offices190 acres (76.8 hectares) – Zoological park of ‘international standards’ being built based on an agreement between the Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The forest department issued a government resolution on October 9 approving a grant of ₹60 lakh for a construction wall for the zoo built between Marol and Aarey90 acres (36.42 hectares) – Identified by the Maharashtra government to rehabilitate encroachments in the form of shanties from within and around Sanjay Gandhi National Park and the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) has been appointed for this4 acres (1.61 hectares) - Maharashtra Motor Vehicle Department (MMVD) has sought the area for its regional transport office (RTO) on a lease basis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aarey-a-part-of-sgnp-state-body-admits-before-sc-calls-it-a-forest-in-its-affidavit/story-UoavwBmq5Qf9grhzs9dGhM.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Nagpur bizman booked for exploiting, harassing 45-year-old woman||Sahar police have registered a first information report (FIR) against a 35-year-old Nagpur-based businessman for allegedly sexually assaulting a 45-year-old woman from Andheri. The case was registered last week after police received a written application from the woman stating that the accused had been sexually exploiting her for the past two years with false promises of marriage.The woman told police that she became friends with the accused via social media in 2017, after which they used to meet at hotels in Andheri. The accused sexually assaulted her and borrowed money from her on various pretexts. This year, when the woman stopped giving him money, he threatened to leak her photos and videos on social media.According to the complainant, in 2018, the constant sexual exploitation had pushed her to attempt suicide, but she survived. At the time, out of fear of social ostracism, she did not file any complaint. The woman’s advocate Ali Kaashif Khan said, “The accused was not ready to return the money he had borrowed and was blackmailing her time and again, after which she decided to file the complaint.”A police officer said the accused has been booked under sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). No arrest has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nagpur-bizman-booked-for-exploiting-harassing-45-year-old-woman/story-1cLZINJCn2LJvS3Ebehn9N.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana plans its own anti-corruption watchdog||The Haryana government is actively mulling a proposal to set up a powerful and autonomous anti-corruption watchdog on the lines of central vigilance commission (CVC).“A brainchild of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the state vigilance commission (SVC) will greatly help in ensuring clean and transparent administration. The idea is to send a loud and clear message to the corrupt elements,” said two top government functionaries, who are privy to the development. As vigilance bureaus/organisations are directly under the control of state governments, often there are allegations of these departments being used to settle political scores and checkmate opponents. An overarching autonomous vigilance institution free from the control of the state government and political influence will create an effective deterrence against corruption, said one of the functionaries.The SVC will also bolster the image of the CM whose slew of measures, including online transfer policy, have already brought a lot of transparency in the government functioning.Notably, clean governance has been Khattar’s poll plank in the assembly and Lok Sabha elections. “The CM wants to have SVC in place at the earliest, but not before building a consensus and seeking support of the Opposition,” a state BJP leader said, adding that discreet discussions are on with some key political leaders. Some trusted bureaucrats in the chief minister’s office are also in the loop.“The SVC will have eminent members from diverse fields, including judiciary, to ensure vital checks and balances,” said the second official.LEGAL FOOTINGLegal experts say a proper legislation needs to be enacted to set up the SVC. “It should not be based on the executive order and must be identical to the CVC,” they added.“How the SVC panel is selected will indicate the intentions of the government. While appointing the SVC panel, the government must adopt the same methodology, standards and procedures as followed by the Centre,” say legal experts, adding that there was no scope of diluting the appointment process.PULLS & PRESSURESA similar plan mooted by the neighbouring Punjab government some years ago came a cropper due to the pressure mounted by the IPS lobby that was opposed to the SVC. The government functionaries cited above admitted the possible backlash from the “IPS brigade” in the state too. Box: State vigilance commissionKhattar wants to put in place an overarching autonomous vigilance institution free from political influence to ensuring clean and transparent administrationThe SVC will have eminent members from diverse fields, including judiciary, to ensure proper checks and balancesImmediate challenge before the CM will be to bring on board home minister Anil Vij and neutralise the opposition from police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-plans-its-own-anti-corruption-watchdog/story-J2d0rzR67Ir0fh0mi7EU2K.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Satyendar Jain’s health improves, may be shifted out of ICU soon||Delhi minister Satyendar Jain’s condition has been improving, and he is likely to be moved from the intensive care unit (ICU) to a ward by Monday, hospital officials said on Sunday.Jain is being treated for Covid-19 at Max Healthcare Hospital in Saket, and is being monitored by a team of critical care specialists. He was administered convalescent plasma therapy on Friday, after his health deteriorated.“His condition is stable, and he is currently under observation in the ICU. His condition has continued to improve, and there is a high possibility he will be shifted to a ward by Monday,” said an official from the hospital who asked to stay anonymous.He has no fever at the moment, and his oxygen levels have also significantly improved, the official said.Convalescent plasma therapy is an experimental medical procedure, where critical Covid-19 patients are treated using plasma collected from those who have recovered from the viral infection. Max Healthcare has the Central drugs controller’s approval to treat people using plasma therapy under clinical study mode as an experimental therapy.The minister had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was admitted to the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur on Monday night after he ran a high fever and was found to have low oxygen saturation levels.He had tested negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday. But another test the next day confirmed that he had contracted the infectious disease.His condition was stable and he was put on oxygen support at the government-run hospital intermittently.However, the minister, who is known to have no co-morbidities, had later developed pneumonia (lung infection), a known Covid-19 complication, and also complained of breathlessness and giddiness on Friday morning.On Friday, he was shifted to Max Hospital , where he was put on oxygen support at the ICU. Later in the day, a CT scan revealed that the pneumonic patch in his lungs had expanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/satyendar-jain-s-health-improves-may-be-shifted-out-of-icu-soon/story-zVEvwJzEgiAWZI9K25KUNI.html
22-06-2020||City||Two men hurt as car rams into truck, divider||Two people suffered major injuries after their car rammed into a truck and then a divider in front of Bombay Dhaba near Bhiwandi on Mumbai Nasik Highway around 10am on Sunday. Both the injured, an MMRDA (Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority) official and his driver, have been admitted to a hospital.Narpoli police has filed a case of rash driving against the driver Prathamesh Kilje, 21. The accident took place when the passenger, Sunilkumar Rahane, 36, was on his way from Kalyan to Mumbai for office work. Assistant police inspector V Shirsat said, “Kilje was speeding and could not control the car and rammed into a truck and later a divider. The truck driver is uninjured, but Kilje and Rahane have sustained major injuries. Rahane was taken to the private hospital in Thane whereas Kilje, who had head injuries, is in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa. We have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt), 338 (causing grievous hurt by doing any act rashly) of the Indian Penal Code and section 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-hurt-as-car-rams-into-truck-divider/story-TRHWFaHZqPmymhXEwlddPJ.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Agriculture minister poses as a farmer, raids fertiliser shop||State agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse on Sunday raided a fertiliser shop posing as a farmer. As the shopkeeper refused to give him fertiliser despite having stock, Bhuse ordered action against him. He also sent the local quality control officer on compulsory leave with immediate effect.Following complaints from farmers that they were not getting fertiliser despite shopkeepers having stock, Bhuse went to Navbharat Fertilizer, a shop in Aurangabad, to verify the plaints. When the minister, posing as a farmer, asked for ten bags of urea the shopkeeper denied having stock despite the notice at the shop which mentioned urea was available there. Bhuse then asked for the stock register but the shopkeeper said he left it at home.The minister then called the district superintendent agriculture officer and ordered a panchnama, following which the officer found 1,387 bags of urea from the shop. Bhuse also said that quality control officers need to work efficiently so that farmers don’t face such difficulties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/agriculture-minister-poses-as-a-farmer-raids-fertiliser-shop/story-7fYcBVN838FiUF19ytDAoL.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt ramps up Covid Health Centre beds capacity to around 17 times||With the city reporting an average of 2,652 cases every day over the past one week, the Delhi government is working to augment bed capacity in its Covid health centres (CHCs) in order to ensure that maximum hospital beds can be kept free for critical patients. In order to achieve the task, a rearrangement of beds from Covid care centres or CCCs was being done and, according to officials, the government has reduced capacity of its 10 Covid care centres (CCC) by more than 93% to enhance the bed capacity in its CHCs to around 17 times.While CHCs cater to patients with symptoms ranging between moderate and severe, the CCCs are supposed to isolate patients with mild symptoms. The CHCs are required to have beds with oxygen facility, dedicated team of doctors, nurses and paramedics working in shifts, tie-up with a nearby Covid-19 hospital for assistance and at least one dedicated ambulance with oxygen support, among other requirements drafted by the Union health ministry, senior government officials said.With Covid-19 patients who have mild or no symptoms no longer needing mandatory institutional quarantine after the revision of an order to this effect by the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) on Saturday, the government has embarked on its plan to rearrange beds from CCCs to CHCs. The rearrangement of beds had stopped soon after the L-G’s order on Friday but was restarted on Saturday soon after a revised order was issued. Senior government officials said bed capacity at CCCs will also be enhanced in the days to come as the government acquires more banquet halls, sports complexes, etc – facilities that may not be suitable for being converted into CHCs. The CCCs are simple isolation wards with beds without oxygen support, they have nurses and paramedics deployed, and health officers visit the centres every day to check on the health status of those lodged. Doctors are kept in the loop only for emergencies.Most patients lodged in the CCCs are individuals who do not have the facility of a separate room for isolation in their residence or those sharing the residence with elderly people, pregnant women or relatives with co-morbidities, said a senior government official.Other than the 10 CCCs, which are managed by the government and are free, several hotels in the city have also been offering paid isolation facility to Covid patients with mild symptoms.WHAT’S THE REARRANGEMENT?According to Delhi government records, till Saturday, when the rearrangement was finalised, Delhi had 5,974 beds spread across 10 Covid care centres – the infrastructure ranged from a hotel and a community centre to several unoccupied apartments under different government agencies. The Capital also had 344 beds spread across three Covid health centres – one of them an Ayurveda college, one a hospital and the other a dharamshala.Before the rearrangement on Saturday, less than 20% beds in the 10 CCCs were occupied, compared to more than 40% beds occupied in the three CHCs, the records showed.“With the home isolation management system working fine, the occupancy percentage of Covid care centres in the city dropped. Most of them are patients with mild symptoms who do not qualify for home isolation for some reason or the other,” said a senior official in the Delhi health minister’s office.After the rearrangement on Saturday, government records showed, the Capital now has 344 beds spread across the same 10 CCCs as large parts of them have been separated, upgraded in terms of infrastructure requirement and converted into CHCs. So, now there are 13 CHCs in the city in total, including the three which already existed earlier. The CHCs cumulatively have as many as 5,909 beds.WHY WAS IT DONE?“The rearrangement was necessary because, in the days to come, the city will need more beds in Covid health centres so that more hospital beds can remain free for severe patients. And not all temporary facilities in sports complexes and banquet halls will be suitable for being converted into CHC. So, those can be turned into new CCC facilities,” said a senior official in the Delhi health minister’s office.He further said, “At this stage, we have adequate oxygen facility and all required resources available with us to run Covid health centres with augmented capacity.”The official further said, the rearrangement exercise was in the final stages but it had to be stopped on Friday evening when the L-G issued an order making five days of institutional quarantine mandatory for all individuals who test Covid-positive. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government protested against the order and, on Saturday, Baijal rolled it back.“The government wasted no time and finalised the rearrangement on Saturday night. The patients with some symptoms were moved to the CHCs for the remaining period of their quarantine and around 10% of them who have no symptoms are still in the CCCs with few days of quarantine left,” the official said.After the rearrangement on Saturday, around 43% of beds in the CCCs are occupied against around 19% in the CHCs, the government records showed.Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “It is a good move to augment the capacity of CHCs as long as the government can ensure that the quality of service does not drop and there is no compromise on the parameters set by the Union government. The government should also have trained staff for the CHCs. It should be treated as a semi hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-rearranging-beds-to-augment-capacity-for-treatment-of-serious-covid-patients/story-dKqG0oHxFh3h9H28xaHAyJ.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi schools set to continue online classes after summer break||While schools in Delhi will reopen after the summer break next month, classes are likely to continue to be conducted virtually, amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Officials at both government and private schools said that with infections surging in the national capital, chances of calling students to school are bleak for July. While junior classes (nursery to class 8) enjoyed a summer break from May 11, classes for the rest shut from May 29. With the country going into a lockdown to contain the spread of the virus on March 25, schools too were shut.Schools switched to learning via video conferencing, recorded video and audio lectures over WhatsApp, and activities on emails.Both the CBSE and the NCERT are revising the syllabi and the assessment process for the academic year 2020-21 in view of the disruption brought about by the pandemic. Several private schools in Delhi are conducting teachers’ training programmes next week to prepare them for online classes. Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International, said that the school will first conduct two-day class-wise orientation for the students. “On July 1 and 2, we will speak to our students via video conferencing to brief them about the situation. It’s not a normal situation and we’ll have to inform them about the changes CBSE and NCERT will bring to the syllabus and assessment process this year. This will be followed by regular online classes. Earlier in April, we had to suddenly switch the mode of learning. Our teachers are preparing themselves to better use technology now,” she said.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School, said, “From Monday onwards we will hold a week-long training session for our teachers to prepare the pedagogies of online classes. We will try to make them as inclusive and interactive as possible. The school will resume online classes in the first week of July.”Following complaints from parents about their children spending a lot of time in front of the screens, some schools are also planning to increase offline activities. “We have reduced the screen time by 25--30% for all the classes with more activities-based work to the students. Now, teachers will send them briefings and the students will do the work at home. We are even ready with the timetable also,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School in Rohini. The school will resume online classes from July 1.The Directorate of Education (DoE) also plans to resume online activities in their schools from July first week. Binay Bhushan, director of the DoE, said the government schools will resume online classes through video conferencing and activities through WhatsApp and SMS. “This time we will come up with a wider outreach programme to cover maximum students. We have also distributed books to the students. It will be easier for them now, comparatively,” he said. The government has been planning to rope in a TV channel to broadcast classes.The schools under the east civic body have also been asked to prepare worksheets for students who do not have access to devices and the internet. Vibha Singh, principal of an east MCD school in Gandhi Nagar, said, “The teachers have been asked to prepare the worksheets so that parents whose kids do not have access to online learning can collect them from schools. In this way, we can engage the students at home without devices.” Some parents fear that their students will be excluded from the education system. “The pandemic has taken a huge toll on the poor. My two sons could not attend any online class in April and May due to the lack of a device. The situation is still not favourable to open schools. How will kids like my sons study?” said Joginder, a mason, whose two sons are enrolled in a government school in Karawal Nagar.Others such as Darshan Ram,17, a class 12 student at Bluebells School International, misses going to school. “I had ever imagined that I would not get a chance to wear my uniform even once in the final school year. I miss my friends. I miss the classroom environment and the hundreds of activities we used to do in school. I am just hoping I get a chance to wear my school uniform just for once before graduating. There is so much uncertainty about the reopening of schools,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-schools-set-to-continue-online-classes-after-summer-break/story-1yWzPCDmdGVFeow7vVmmFL.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Two boys drown at Marve Creek, one still missing||Two boys drowned while taking a bath at Marve Creek on Sunday. Six boys from Azmi Nagar in Malvani had gone for a walk at Marve Creek and decided to go into the water to a bath. According to the fire department, the incident took place on Sunday evening around 5.30pm, following which Malvani police and the fire department were informed.A team deployed for rescue operation found one of the two teenagers, Ashraf Mohammad Ali Choudhari, 13, around 8pm. Choudhari has been admitted to hospital for treatment. However, the rescue team continued searching for the other boy till late in the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-boys-drown-at-marve-creek-one-still-missing/story-LhT1MEWNlV8ZroTalTcAtK.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Traffic on key Metro stretches higher than before lockdown||With Delhi Metro services shut since March 22 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a significant rise in traffic volume, particularly on stretches where the Metro was the preferred mode of transportation, after lockdown restrictions were eased. According to estimates by the Delhi Traffic Police, since June 1, when travel rules were relaxed, the traffic volume on at least 12 key stretches is much higher than what it was before the national lockdown was imposed.For instance, at the main Rajouri Garden intersection (below the Metro station) in west Delhi, the average traffic volume recorded during peak hours was consistently between 80,000 and 85,000 vehicles since 2018. However, over the last 20 days, traffic police have been recording around 180,000 vehicles crossing the junction during peak hours every day.Before the Rajouri Garden Metro Station was converted into a connecting station between the Blue (Dwarka Sector 21-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) and Pink (Maujpur-Shiv Vihar) lines in July 2018, the intersection used to get a traffic volume of around 125,000 vehicles every day.Officials said this direct correlation between the Metro and traffic volume was visible in other areas as well.“The traffic volume on the entire Najafgarh Road was eased to a great extent after the Metro began operations. This is primarily because the stretch is not well connected on public bus service routes. In the absence of the Metro, anyone who owns a vehicle is now forced to use those,” said a senior traffic official, who asked not to be named. Similarly, at the Uttam Nagar crossing (near the bus terminal) in east Delhi, traffic volume has increased from 110,000 vehicles to nearly 200,000 vehicles every day.In Mukarba Chowk, barely 200 metres from the Jahangirpuri Metro station, the traffic volume has gone up to 75,000 vehicles during peak traffic rush. Before the lockdown, the volume used to be between 50,000-60,000 vehicles a day, according to official data.Police personnel stationed in these areas said that in the absence of commuting options, shared services such as gramin sewas, mini-buses and other unauthorised commuting services have gained prominence, adding to the traffic load.Other stretches where the traffic movement has increased are Dwarka Road near Sadar Bazar (Delhi Cantonment), the Ring Road near Delhi Cantonment Metro station, Dilshad Garden intersection near the Jhilmil Metro station, Munirka crossing, and Hauz Khas crossing on the Outer Ring Road and the Nehru Place intersection (towards Greater Kailash). Traffic experts said the Delhi Metro, when functional, reduces vehicular volume on several busy stretches. Sewa Ram, professor of traffic engineering at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said that with fewer viable and dependable public transport modes available now, people are forced to use their personal vehicles.“A lot of offices have resumed, and several people who own vehicles but used the Metro for travel are now forced to use their vehicles instead. The passenger restriction in public buses has also increased the number of two-wheelers on the road,” he said.Buses in Delhi were allowed to ply from May 19, but can only carry up to 20 passengers at a time.Ram also emphasised that traffic volume would continue to increase in the coming months, and that people who own vehicles may prefer to shun public transport, for health reasons. Delhi recorded 3,000 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total in the city to 59,746. Of these, 2,175 people have died, and 33,013 have recovered.“In public transport, there is always a fear of contracting the infection. Even after the Metro reopens, there is a chance that the ridership will remain low and the use of private vehicles will shoot up,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-on-key-metro-stretches-higher-than-before-lockdown/story-ZabeqoQAH89wDZ0fMbK1bO.html
22-06-2020||City||ED books 20, including two Pak nationals, for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has booked 20 persons, including at least two Pakistanis, under money laundering charges in the case of seizure of 532-kg of heroin and 52-kg of mixed narcotics at the Attari border in June 2019. The Customs had seized the contraband, being smuggled in a consignment of rock salt from Pakistan, at the Integrated Check Post (ICP).The accused have been identified as Ranjeet Singh, alias Rana (kingpin); Tariq Ahmad Lone; Farook Lone; Sohaib Noor and Amir Noor, the Pakistan nationals; Jasbir Singh; Nirbhail Singh; Sandeep Kaur; Ajay Gupta; Iqbal Singh; Amit Gambhir, alias Bobby, a resident of Amritsar and others. Sources privy to the development said the ED would seek documents, including bank accounts and investigation details, from the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting the probe. “We have been tracing the money trail in the drugs network and will question the accused soon,” a senior ED official, not authorised to speak to the media, told HT. In July 2019, the NIA had taken over the probe and filed two charge-sheets against 17 persons, arrested for their alleged involvement in this case in the NIA special court at Mohali under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.In May this year, the NIA and police of Punjab and Haryana, in a joint operation, had arrested Ranjit Singh alias Rana, the kingpin of the racket, and his brother Gagandeep from their hideout at Begu village in Sirsa. In a supplementary charge-sheet the same month, the NIA had said that investigation had revealed evidence of generation of funds through the sale of narcotics smuggled across the international border for funding terrorist activities in Jammu & Kashmir.In its first charge-sheet filed in December 2019, the NIA had said, “This is a case of narco-terrorism, having national and international implications with evidence of generation of funds through the proceeds of sale of narcotics smuggled from across the international border.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/headshoulder532-kg-heroin-haulheadline-ed-books-20-including-two-pak-nationals-for-money-laundering/story-pSGeGh4wNlfTIMqRMcMabI.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||AAI completes trials for aircraft surveillance tech||India will soon make further forays into space-based technologies through an application for surveillance and safety by providing automatic and constant updates of aircraft location while flying over oceanic regions. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has successfully completed backup trials with the space-based Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B), used in all aircraft, technology that allows an aircraft to automatically send its location updates via satellites to air traffic controllers. Currently, unless a pilot himself updates his location (send timely signals) while flying in oceanic regions, the location of an aircraft remains unknown to controllers. Experts said that with this technology, chances of incidents like the disappearance of Malaysian airline aircraft can be avoided. After successful trials, AAI plans to start using the technology to keep surveillance over complete oceanic traffic within the Indian airspace.Space-based ADS-B is a technology made by a company named Aireon which has been certified as an air navigation service provider (ANSP) for ADS-B by the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), an agency of the European Union with responsibility for civil aviation safety. Aireon has been providing their service to NAV Canada (the country’s civil air navigation), Seychelles and the United Kingdom. AAI will be the first ANSP in South Asia to start operating space-based ADS-B.When ADS-B is in use, an aircraft broadcasts its position with the help of its on-board computer system while the ground-based sensors receive these ADS-B signals which are then picked up by the local air traffic control (ATC) for keeping surveillance over an aircraft. Since these reports are accurate, it not only enhances passenger safety but also lets ATCs to efficiently use the reports to apply optimum separations between two aircraft flying in the same region, which also results in increasing the capacity of a given airspace. Officials privy to the development said some security concerns with the ADS-B signals were initially raised, but these doubts have been cleared gradually and ADS-B is gaining confidence from ATCs and pilots to be used as a surveillance tool across the world. Many countries have mandated this technology as an essential equipment for aircraft. Similarly India’s regulatory body, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), from January 1, 2020 mandated all Indian aircraft to be equipped with the technology. Following this, AAI entered an agreement with the company and has been testing the technology in their back-up system. Currently Chennai and Mumbai airports are running the trails. “We have already started receiving the signals and we are running trials in the back-up system. We keep cross-checking data received via satellites, and till date we have found all the information to be timely and accurate for the aircraft. The system gets refreshed every eight seconds, which means that we get an updated location along with various other details of all the aircraft flying in the oceanic region every eight seconds. This technology is also able to give the latest location details with a maximum delay of just two seconds,” said a senior Delhi-based AAI official. The official added, “We have a system in place called as ADS-C (used by 60% aircraft) which sends automatic messages through satellites every 27 minutes, and hence raises concern on aviation safety due to excessive time difference in receiving updates.”To ensure maximum air safety to passengers, the Indian continental air space is now covered by ADS-B receivers that are placed all over the country for keeping continuous surveillance over any aircraft flying within the Indian airspace. “This technology does not need a line of sight; no hindrances can affect the accuracy and speed of the signals received by an ATC. A link between their US-based station and Mumbai has been established and that’s how ADS-B signals are being received by the ATCs,” said a Mumbai-based AAI official. “The date of running this technology in full-fledge is being negotiated,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aai-completes-trials-for-aircraft-surveillance-tech/story-7PG5CzI4cZya2MBLYMhyMN.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B designs electronic neuron to make devices faster||A team of researchers led by the Indian Institute of Technology- Bombay (IIT-B) have designed an electronic neuron that mimics the nerve cells or the neurons of a human brain and can help devices make faster decisions.The study, published in the journal APL Materials of the American Institute of Physics in September last year, proposes a theoretical framework of neural networks - an active field of research in machine learning - that can enable computers to perform everyday tasks such as image, voice and pattern recognition. In simpler terms, the neurons will improve the results of facial recognition, voice recognition and understanding of languages.For instance, currently, electronic gadgets such as computers and mobile phones are based on Complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) technology. In this technology, the device will go through millions of possibilities before reaching an answer when prompted for facial recognition. The neural network proposed by the team can bypass the possibilities and reach an optimal answer much more quickly.“Today, a lot of neural networks are focussed on software that runs on the cloud, which has ample energy to work as they are supported by dedicated server farms,” said Udayan Ganguly, principal investigator and professor from the electrical engineering department, IIT-Bombay. “Unlike most computer hardware designed over the past few decades that served well with simple programs to perform functions such as counting, today complex problems such as searching for an optimal route for a drone need programs with artificial stochastic neurons,” he added.“Neurons or activation functions are essential components for neural networks, and their realisation such as the one demonstrated in this study, is a valuable development from the perspective of hardware implementation,” said Manan Suri, assistant professor at IIT Delhi and lead, non-volatile memory and neuromorphic research group, who was not a part of the study.Essentially, the team at IIT-Bombay comprising faculty, undergraduate and postgraduate studentsalong with engineers from Intel have designed a resistive random access memory (RRAM) that uses artificial neurons to build a network which can help computers solve problems such as finding the optimal route for a drone.The team considered an existing theoretical framework of neural networks called a Boltzmann machine - a deep learning model to optimise a solution to a problem.“A Boltzmann machine can enable everyday tasks like image, voice and pattern recognition,” said Ganguly adding that the stochasticity (randomness) in Boltzmann machine results in the ability to statistically estimate the output, which is unnatural for deterministic machines. The project was funded partly by the Department of Science and Technology’s Nano Mission and Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY).The RRAM was built using a crystalline manganite (PrxCa1−xMnO3) which can act as a memorydevice. Researchers tested and compared the performance of the newly designed RRAM with that of conventional silicon-based hardware. Results showed their hardware design solved a problem with 98% accuracy and needed just one-tenth of the area of conventionalsemiconductor-based hardware. Its power efficiency was also found to be four times better than CMOS.“This implies that a Boltzmann machine chip, based on RRAM may be computationally more powerful and energy-efficient,” Ganguly said. Researchers have filed for a patent on this work. “The devices are in the experimental stage, but the chip design needs to be implemented in devices. Such systems are of great commercial interest and would be interesting for high-tech start-ups,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-designs-electronic-neuron-to-make-devices-faster/story-8C5FSuTl7oNFepIfH1MCzM.html
22-06-2020||City||Over 57,000 apply for undergrad courses at DU on Sunday||New Delhi: As many as 57,312 applicants registered for admissions to undergraduate courses at Delhi University (DU) by 5pm on Sunday. While 18,837 had registered online for postgraduate courses and 2,071 registered for PhD, university officials said.DU on Saturday started the online registration process for admission to its various undergraduate, postgraduate, Mphil, and PhD courses. Applicants will get a two-week window ending on July 4 to register for the courses. There are over 64,000 undergraduate seats available in DU colleges.In 2019, applicants got an over three-week window from May 30 to June 22 to register for admissions and the first cut-off list was announced on June 28. This year, however, the Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the admission schedule. The dates of the first cut-off are yet to be decided as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to conduct its twelve main class 12 papers. The exams are due to be held between July 1 and 15. Although some applicants had complained about the university’s website crashing on Saturday, the registration process went smooth on Sunday. “There was some issue yesterday which was later fixed after the university contacted the service provider last night. No issue was reported on Sunday,” said a senior university official.Several changes have also been introduced in the admission process this year due to the Covid pandemic. While the admission under the extra-curricular activities quota, except for NCC and NSS, has been scrapped, sports admission will be based on certificates. The entire admission process will go online this year with students not having to go to the colleges for the verification of the documents, unlike previous years. The verification will be done online.The university has made a provision under which candidates will be applicable to take admission in any course if they meet the cut-off. “Earlier students had to select the courses of their choice while applying. But this time students are considered in all courses by default. They can take admission in any course if they meet the cut-off,” said Dean of admissions Shobha Bagai. Instead of ‘Open days’ sessions, the university will conduct webinars this year to help answer the questions that candidates have regarding the admission procedure. The first such webinar will be held on Tuesday between 11 am to 1 pm. “Candidates aspiring for admission in undergraduate courses and their parents can attend the live webinar and understand the admission process. The colleges will also organise their counselling sessions during the admission process,” the university said in a statement on Sunday.The University has also issued helpline numbers for the candidates -- 9899179530, 9971155832, 9311307156, 9149002539, 8595760622 and 9311380716.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-57-000-apply-for-undergrad-courses-at-du-on-sunday/story-5mT7YJ3Ne93jC0RLh0dYaO.html
22-06-2020||City||Builder’s live-in partner steals ₹4.07 lakh, sends police chasing fictitious burglar||A Kopar Khairane-based woman, living in with a builder, sent the police on a wild goose chase after concocting a fake burglary story claiming ₹4.07 lakh was stolen from their house. The woman’s live-in partner had given her the money for safekeeping.The 48-year-old complainant builder approached the Kopar Khairane police on Wednesday, claiming the amount was stolen from his second-floor apartment. A case of house break-in theft was registered against an unknown person based on the builder’s complaint.According to the complainant, his live-in partner was admitted to hospital on Monday, and when he went to pick up the money from the house, he realized it was missing.“The woman told the builder that someone may have stolen the money through the window as they were in the hospital for two days. She thought the man would not approach the police due to the coronavirus lockdown. When we investigated, we did not find any foul play. No one suspect was seen on the CCTV footage entering the building,” said an officer from Kopar Khairane police station.Officers then inquired with the woman about the money, after which she confessed to spending the amount to repay her mortgage. She had mortgaged her jewelry and also taken a ₹3 lakh loan. Using the builder’s money, she recovered her jewelry and repaid the loan, said police.Police are yet to decide if the woman will be booked under the same charges of theft or for cheating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/builder-s-live-in-partner-steals-4-07-lakh-sends-police-chasing-fictitious-burglar/story-x2ldNmoDGe970xQI60QyqL.html
22-06-2020||City||Despite 500 Covid-19 recoveries, no donor for plasma therapy in Amritsar||Even though over 500 persons, including youngsters, have successfully recovered from covid-19 in Amritsar, authorities at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar are finding it difficult to find plasma donors for treatment of critical coronavirus patients. Officials say that those who have recovered are reluctant to come back to hospital, also fearing that the donation of plasma might make them weak. The district has 224 active cases. Under this promising, but yet unproven treatment called convalescent plasma therapy, the antibody-rich blood plasma of patients who have recovered from covid-19 is preserved for transfusion into critical patients.On June 19, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowed the GMCH to treat covid-19 patients with plasma therapy, but the hospital had started a hunt for donors around 15 days ago. ICMR stipulates that plasma of only those who had been critically-ill before recovering can be used.  Blood bank in-charge at GMCH Dr Neeraj said, “For the past 15 days, specialist doctors and I have been regularly contacting recovered patients, but no one is ready to be a donor. We have a list of around 20 eligible recovered persons, who can donate plasma. Just three have shown some interest, but have also sought 10-15 days to think.” He added, “There are misconceptions about the process. We have also roped in hospital counsellors to persuade recovered patients. Hopefully, we will find donors soon to start treatment.”“It is not possible to harvest plasma from patients, while they are undergoing treatment. It has to be done about two weeks after recovery, at which stage people are reluctant to come back to hospitals. The hospital has approached family members of former Golden Temple hazuri ragi Padma Shri Late Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, but they categorically refused. A 24-year-old resident of Jandiala Guru also refused,” said a senior doctor of GMCH, who did not wish to be named. “GMCH Amritsar has treated covid-19 patients from Hoshiarpur and Pathankot too. They have also refused,” he added. To date, the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, has conducted Punjab’s only convalescent plasma therapy as part of novel treatment modality for coronavirus. GMC Patiala is scheduled to start the therapy soon. STRAP/BLURBGovernment Medical College, Amritsar, has got approval to start this promising, but unproven treatment and has been looking for donors for critically-ill patients for past 15 days without success||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-500-covid-19-recoveries-no-donor-for-plasma-therapy-in-amritsar/story-5ewaMI7In7fT6199RG3FnK.html
22-06-2020||Real||Realty firm Puravankara to invest Rs 1,100 cr on 2 new housing projects in Bengaluru||Realty firm Puravankara will invest around Rs 1,100 crore to develop two new housing projects in Bengaluru as the company has decided to continue with planned projects despite the Covid-19 pandemic. It planned to launch these two projects in January-March quarter of the last fiscal, but deferred it because of the coronavirus outbreak in India and the subsequent nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25. Puravankara recently launched the two projects on digital platforms, the company’s MD Ashish R Puravankara told PTI. In the first project, ‘Provident Woodfield’, the company will develop 356 plots, mostly residential, on a 25 acre land parcel at Electronic City in Bengaluru. The total investment in this project is around Rs 80 crore and will be delivered by 2023-end. The plots are available in a price range of Rs 21 lakh to Rs 76 lakh, he said. In the second project, ‘Purva Atmosphere’, which is spread over 13 acres at Thanisandra in Bengaluru, the company will construct 939 units, priced Rs 95 lakh onwards. The project is expected to be completed by March 2025 with an estimated investment of Rs 1,000 crore, Ashish said. “Both our projects were planned to be launched in Q4FY20. In the past few months, we saw a steady rise in customer sentiment veering towards homes as their safe investment option. Seeing this latent demand, we accelerated our plans and process, which helped us in planning these launches,” he added. In the current situation, he said the aim is to make it convenient for buyers to access projects at the click of a button from anywhere in the world. “Puravankara Group has always believed in presenting the right product at the right location and right price. Extensive research and assessment are done in identifying locations,” he said. He mentioned that the company’s quasi book building method to sell properties has proved to be successful for price discovery. In the last four decades, Puravankara Ltd has completed and delivered more than 40 million sq ft area. It has presence in southern and western parts of India. The company sells premium apartments under the Puravankara brand and affordable homes under the Provident brand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/realty-firm-puravankara-to-invest-rs-1-100-cr-on-2-new-housing-projects-in-bengaluru/story-TTJykoEiEM8ukg6j1TXjzN.html
22-06-2020||City||Noida Golf Course fined ₹25 lakh by NGT for illegally extracting groundwater||Noida: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has slapped an interim fine of ₹25 lakh on the Noida Golf Course for allegedly illegally extracting groundwater through tube wells and using the same for horticulture purposes to meet its 500 kilo litres-per day (KLD) demand. The final assessment of total environmental damage is yet to be assessed, which is the reason the fine imposed by NGT is interim. The next date of hearing is in November.An NGT bench, headed by NGT chairperson and Justice Adarsh Goyal, in a hearing through video conferencing on June 19, the order of which was available on Sunday, observed that the Noida Golf Course (NGC) situated at Sector 43 had been drawing groundwater through five different tube wells illegally and using it for the horticulture use (watering the grasses and plants, etc.).Noida is one of those regions where water resources are scarce, with a groundwater depletion rate of around two metres per year. According to the district ground water department’s assessment last year, the average availability of water in Noida is 24 metres deep, while the availability at Sector 39, which is near the golf course, is 29.58 metres.“We direct the Noida Golf Course, Noida, Gautam Budh Nagar to pay interim compensation of Rs 25 lakh which may be deposited with the CPCB within one month from today. The payment of compensation will be a condition for continued operation of the establishments. The said establishments are given liberty to present their viewpoint before the Committee and this Tribunal which will be duly considered while finalising the compensation and other directions,” said the bench in its interim order against a petition filed by Noida-based environmentalist Vikrant Tongad.The tribunal stated that the groundwater has been over-exploited for commercial purposes despite Noida falling under the critical and semi-critical zone for water sources. “This Tribunal has held that ground water cannot be used for playgrounds like cricket grounds, particularly in over-exploited, critical and semi-critical areas, which observation also applies to Golf Course. In view of depleting ground water, there is threat of irreversible damage to the acquifiers and salinity of the water. Moreover, it is leading to scarcity of drinking water, thereby depriving a section of the society from access to potable water which is already scarce,” the green court stated. The officials at the golf club, however, asserted that while the club had been closed due to the lockdown, they are switching to alternate water resources.“We have already stopped the use of groundwater by extraction, and currently are using treated water through the Noida authority. I am yet to see the NGT order for now,” said BS Dagar, manager, Noida Golf Course.The Tribunal also observed that the quality of water conserved through rain water harvesting system in the golf course was also not up to the mark in terms of hardness. Its contents like Calcium, Arsenic, Copper, Lead, Chromium, Nickel, Iron and Manganese were also exceeding the BIS standards.“In Noida Golf Course there are five tube wells for supplying ground water for drinking, domestic and horticulture purposes, in which two tube wells are dismantled and abandoned. In the rest three tube wells, two tube wells are operational and one is in maintenance. The water meters are not installed on the tube wells and log book is also not maintained for operation of tube wells. So the quantity of ground water withdrawal cannot be known,” the NGT order stated.According to the petitioner, ground water exploitation is a key issue that’s not given enough attention. “Gautam Budh Nagar is already water stressed and such irresponsible behaviour is making it worse. Examples have to be made so that issues like groundwater depletion are taken seriously,” said Tongad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-golf-course-fined-25-lakh-by-ngt-for-illegally-extracting-groundwater/story-azECS462C7jw3YAtdIj7qM.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||CISF staffer dies of Covid-19, 6th death in the force in city||A Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel who was being treated for Covid-19 at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital succumbed to the infection on Sunday.Senior officers said the constable belonged to the CISF’s 8th reserved battalion (Jaipur), and was deployed in Delhi for law and order duty. This is the sixth death in the force due to Covid-19.“On June 10, after he fell ill, the constable was admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. He was put on ventilator support on June 12. His condition deteriorated and he died on Sunday,” said a senior officer who asked not to be named.The constable belonged to Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh, and his family has been informed, the officer added. So far 602 CISF personnel have contracted the infection, of whom 347 have recovered so far.There are 79 active cases of Covid-19 among CISF personnel in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cisf-constable-dies-of-covid-at-rml-hospital/story-bLHMGtlswUGJOiWN3Oa8LK.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||3,000 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, total at 59,746||Delhi added 3,000 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, taking the total infections in the city to 59,746. The government in its daily health bulletin on Sunday also added 63 deaths to the city’s toll. So far, 2,175 people in the city have succumbed to the infectious disease.The national capital has consistently recorded 3,000 or more Covid-19 cases for three days now. Over the past week, Delhi has recorded an average of 2,652 cases every day.The Capital breached the 50,000 mark on Friday, and saw it’s highest single-day rise on Saturday, when the city 3,630 new infections to its total.Delhi has a case fatality rate of 3.64%, compared to the national average of 3.2%.The national capital currently has a doubling rate of nearly 13.As per Sunday’s bulletin, 33,013 patients have recovered, which leaves the city with 24,558 active cases. Of the active cases, 6,054 are in hospital with severe symptoms of the illness. However, more than half the city’s beds were vacant, as of Sunday, even as the government continues an augmentation programme, to ensure the city can meet its projected estimates for hospital beds by the end of July.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier this month said that Delhi would need at least 150,000 beds for Covid-19 patients, if the facilities were to treat patients from across the country.According to the bulletin, Delhi has 261 containment zones, up from 249 a day earlier||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3-000-new-covid-cases-in-delhi-total-at-59-746/story-JKGytNHeuLjO9Z2GBKz4eL.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 120 new Covid-19 cases; Faridabad cases at 137||The district reported 120 new cases on Sunday - the lowest since June 18 - taking Gururgram’s total tally of Covid-19 positive cases to 4,427. This is up from 4,307 cases the previous day. Sunday’s reported case load was almost equal in number to the 116 people who recovered from the disease and were discharged on the same day.Meanwhile, the district’s total number of active cases stands at 1,839, while 2,408 people have recovered from Covid-19 so far. Of the total number of active cases, two-thirds or 1,239 people are under home isolation, while 102 people are hospitalised at dedicated Covid hospitals. Another 434 people are being monitored at dedicated Covid healthcare centres,while 64 have been admitted to district covid care centres.The district reported five new deaths on Sunday, taking Gurugram’s mortality toll to 64. Of these patients, 36 died with comorbidities while 28 passed away without any co-morbid conditions. The city has witnessed a total of 61 deaths in June itself with a mortality rate of 1.4% as of June 21.The neighbouring district of Faridabad, meanwhile, has now exceeded Gurugram’s daily growth rate in reporting new cases. On Sunday, for the second consecutive day, Faridabad reported more new cases than Gurugram, at 137. Faridabad now features among the 20 most-affected district’s in India, from the point of view of reported case load and has the quickest doubling-rate of about 8 days, closely followed by Gurugram at 13 days.Meanwhile, Haryana reported 402 new positive cases on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 10,635 cases. Of these, 5,557 patients have recovered, with 429 new recoveries taking place on Sunday. The state’s death toll stands at 160, of which 11 patients have succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-120-new-cases-faridabad-cases-at-137/story-toI6QUr778wFbgse7nzRHM.html
22-06-2020||City||7,300 candidates appear for nursing exam in Punjab||Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, 7,381 candidates appeared for the nursing staff recruitment exam in 14 districts of the state on Sunday.The state health department is looking to fill up 411 posts of staff nurses, who would be deployed at different government hospitals in the state. As many as 8,547 candidates had registered for the exam but 1,166 remained absent.The written exam was conducted by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) and 84 exam centres were set up at Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Hosiarpur, Jalandhar, Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazilka, Ludhiana, Mohali, Patiala, Ropar and Sangrur. BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said that social distancing norms were strictly followed during the exam. “We conducted thermal scanning and all candidates wrote the exam wearing masks. It was very important due to Covid-19 outbreak. We were able to conduct the examination successfully. A separate exam centre was set up at the isolation ward of Rajindra hospital in Patiala for two candidates who tested positive for Covid-19 and were under treatment there.“We did not let any candidate miss the exam even if they tested positive. Two candidates were allowed to give the exam at a special examination centre set up at the isolation ward of Rajindra hospital. The invigilator deployed there wore a PPE kit and the exam paper was collected in a special bag to contain the spread of the virus,” he said.The result of the exam was announced in the evening and it was displayed on the university website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-300-candidates-appear-for-nursing-exam-in-punjab/story-nTXecmBrEJNPpf6A8lUkjK.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||CISF commandos take to online videos to hone their skills||For these Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) men, mornings have changed.The early morning whistles, which beckoned them to the parade ground for physical exercise training or to the armoury for weapons training, has been missing ever since the raging Covid-19 pandemic started taking a toll in Delhi-NCR.The commandos of the quick reaction teams (QRT) of the CISF are these days practising their daily drills through tutorial videos sent to them by their supervisors over smartphones.From assembling weapons to use of bomb-detecting equipment and from yoga tutorials to cardio exercises as a substitute to their daily running drills, the videos explain everything. These videos promptly land every morning at the usual training time, with the commandos expected to follow them and practice while staying inside their barracks.  The commandos even record their own videos, practising physical training, and send it back to their supervisors in-charge.At present, the Central force — that has around 20,000 personnel guarding Delhi Metro, IGI airport and government buildings in Delhi — has recorded 79 positive cases of Covid-19. All the infected jawans are either in isolation at the force’s facility in outer Delhi’s Narela or have been sent to AIIMS Jhajjar, Haryana, for treatment.In Delhi Metro, CISF has 110 QRTs, each having six personnel. Another senior officer said because Metro operations are shut, only 30% strength of QRTs is being used. “We are deploying them on alternate days so that chances of infection are less and we have a backup team ready at any given time,” the second officer said.Ever since a nationwide lockdown was put in place in March this year to contain the spread of Covid-19, and operations of Delhi Metro shut, these CISF men were pulled out and sent to different barracks across the city to ensure social distancing. Since the lockdown, only minimum strength of personnel, including the QRTs, is being used for the security of Metro stations.Metro services in Delhi have remained suspended since March 22, when the Janta curfew was observed. While other modes of public transport have been allowed, with restrictions, during the gradual easing of lockdown norms, Metro services continues to remain shut for now.Senior officers said the tutorial videos are being circulated among the QRTs because these commandos haven’t undertaken any rigorous physical activity or arms training since the last week of March owing to restrictions put in place as part of safety guidelines to contain the spread of coronavirus.“The assembly of these commandos is not possible for their regular training sessions, like earlier, on a daily basis. So we have started circulating videos. While videos of stripping and assembling of weapons, which they can watch and revise, are sent thrice a week, videos of Krav Maga, the martial arts they are trained in are sent every day along with videos of physical training,” said a senior officer, who wished not to be named. The officer said QRTs are made up of the best of the best commandos and they have the minimum reaction time to any situation. “We train our men and women in QRTs to strip and assemble an INSAS rifle in 20 seconds. For an AK-47 they take about 30 seconds and only 8-10 seconds for a Glock pistol. Because their training sessions have been suspended, the tutorial videos help them refresh and revise the procedure at least three times a week, like earlier,” the officer said.Similarly, videos of bomb-detecting equipment are also sent to the commandos so that they remember the technicalities.The officer said that this is important so that their response time is not affected. He added that apart from tactical training, because the commandos can’t go for their daily run, they are sent videos of yoga sessions and cardio exercise everyday which can be an absolute substitute for running. “They have been asked to practice their daily physical training on their own. We also randomly ask them to send us their recordings while practising physical exercises to keep a check on them,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-times-of-pandemic-cisf-commandos-take-to-online-videos-to-hone-their-skills/story-50YIHhFekRcwktXEqtpITI.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||First Covid-19 death in Delhi jail prompts panel to order rapid test on all new entrants||A 62-year-old convict n Mandoli jail died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on June 15, the first Covid death in city’s prisons, prompting the high powered committee constituted to decongest the jails in Delhi to issue a slew of measures, including conducting “rapid tests” on the new inmates and installation of oxygen concentrators at the jail hospital, officials said on Sunday. Director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel informed the committee about the death of the inmate on Saturday. The committee headed by Justice Hima Kohli was told that 62-year-old Kanwar Singh passed away in his sleep. His Covid test came out positive on Saturday. Kanwar Singh was serving life imprisonment in a 2016 murder case registered at the Aman Vihar police station and was sent to jail on July 6, 2018. Goel said he was sharing the jail cell with 28 other inmates “who were doing fine”. The committee directed the officials to test the 28 inmates immediately to prevent the spread of the disease in the prison complex.The DG (prisons) also informed the committee that till Saturday, 36 jail staffers and 20 prisoners in Mandoli, Tihar and Rohini, the three prisons in Delhi, have been found Covid positive. The DG said that all Covid positive jail staff were relieved of their duties and asked to remain in home quarantine, as all of them were asymptomatic. He said all those who had come in their contact were also tested. Goel said of the 36 jail staff who were found positive (till June 20), seven have already recovered and tested negative. Only two of those jail staff required hospitalisation, two are in institutional quarantine facility whereas the remaining 25 are in home quarantined, Goel said. He also said that till Saturday, 20 inmates had tested positive out of which 16 have recovered and one has died.Following this, the committee resolved that new prisoners between 18 and 21 years of age be kept in isolation wards and asked the DG (prisons) and special secretary (home) of the Delhi government to turn the 360 vacant police quarters, situated close to Mandoli jail, into a temporary jail to create isolation ward for new prisoners and those who test positive.The committee also said that all jail hospitals must be equipped with oxygen concentrators and two such machines for each of the two jail hospitals must be procured at the earliest.The committee also sought to know about the availability of some other space which can be converted into a ‘temporary jail’. DG (prisons) Goel stated that in consultation with Delhi Police, they have identified police quarters in Mandoli are being used as government’s medical quarantine facility for Covid patients.He said that they have spoken to the Delhi government for making the quarters available for making a temporary jail. He informed that the quarters comprises of 12 towers with 30 flats each. He said the flats can be used for holding 1800 new inmates.The committee directed the DG (prisons) as well as special secretary (home) to make concerted efforts for getting the nod from the Delhi government at the earliest. It also added two new category of prisoners—undertrial prisoners facing jail in 498A (domestic violence) and 304B (dowry death) --who can be now released on interim bail.The committee was told that till date 4,129 inmates/ convicts/undertrial prisoners have been released on parole/interim bail. Despite that, the prison population continue to be 13,677 as on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-death-in-delhi-jails-prompts-panel-to-order-rapid-test-on-all-new-entrants/story-5SDiBDbNdvajgNvKTiCW7N.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Extortion racket being run from Tihar jail busted, three held||The Delhi Police on Sunday said they arrested three men who were allegedly running an extortion racket from Tihar Jail in Delhi. The police said the arrested men included the mastermind who would allegedly demand money from builders and businessmen over the phone from inside the jail and then direct his men outside to threaten the targets until they paid. The man had recently asked a builder in Karol Bagh to pay him ₹20 lakh.The police have identified the arrested mastermind as Mahesh alias Mannu, 39, a resident of Karol Bagh. The police said he was previously involved in two murder cases, one attempt to murder case and several cases of assault and illegal possession of arms. He has been lodged in Tihar Jail since 2014. His two aides were identified as Bhanu Pratap, 21, from Sangam Vihar and Ashok Kumar, 40, from Karol Bagh.According to the police, on November 28, 2019, one Jugal Kishore, 62, of Karol Bagh, who ran a construction business, alleged that he was receiving multiple WhatsApp voice calls by some Mahesh asking him to pay ₹20 lakh as extortion amount. He said the caller asked him to pay the amount in instalments of ₹50,000 each and also threatened him against reporting the matter to the police and said he would face dire consequences if he did so. The police said that when the builder refused to pay, two men fired a bullet outside his house the next week. Mahesh then called him again and told him that if he didn’t pay the money he’d be shot dead, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said that during the investigation, call records of the number from which the builder had been called and of many connected numbers were checked. During technical surveillance, a team from the Karol Bagh police station finally zeroed in on one Ashok Kumar suspected of being involved in threatening the builder. He was immediately arrested. “His interrogation further revealed that another man, Bhanu Pratap, was also involved in the extortion bid. Our team raided a hideout in Karol Bagh and arrested Pratap. During questioning, the duo disclosed that both of them were promised good monetary returns and that they were acting on Mahesh’s directions. They also admitted to having opened fire outside the builder’s house,” Bhatia said.The DCP said that further probe revealed that Mahesh has been operating the extortion racket from inside the jail. “Mahesh who was already in jail was arrested in this case also after obtaining permission of the court. His remand has been sought to probe how he was able to access phones inside the jail. Jail authorities are also being informed,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/extortion-racket-being-run-from-tihar-jail-busted-three-held/story-Bcmw6GrcKsA0Sa4l3jWN0O.html
22-06-2020||City||Cloudy skies play spoiler as people gather to watch the rare ‘ring of fire’||New Delhi: Cloudy skies played a spoiler for star gazers who came out to witness the annular solar eclipse in the national capital on Sunday. Many complained that they could not get a clear view of the eclipse due to the overcast in Delhi, owing to the pre-monsoon showers. Around 10.20am on Sunday when the sun started appearing like a ‘ring of fire’ in the cloud, many people who were anxiously waiting to view this rare sight complained of low visibility because of a cloudy sky. Unlike in a total eclipse, the moon in an annular, or ring-like, eclipse is unable to completely cover the sun, leaving a thin halo of light at its maximum phase. Such an eclipse happens when the moon is farther away in its elliptical orbit around the Earth, appearing smaller as a result.OP Sharma from Delhi’s Nehru Planetarium, where arrangements were made to watch the eclipse, said that because of Covid-19 the planetarium restricted the entry of general public but hosted scientists, researchers and media houses. The eclipse was also broadcast live on TV channels for the convenience of the people.“The sun, moon and the earth come in a straight line but because of the distance between the moon and the sun, the moon did not completely cover the sun and that is how we saw the ring of fire,” explained Sharma.At 12.10pm, Delhi saw 94% obscuration of the sun by the moon. Sunday was also a rare occasion because it was day of the summer solstice, the first day of the summer. June 21 also marked the longest day of the year. The summer solstice occurs between June 20 and 22 every year. Solar eclipses on the summer solstice are rare. The last one was in June 2001. According to a Reuters report which quoted NASA data, a “ring of fire” eclipse that falls exactly in midsummer - whether in the northern or southern hemisphere - is even more uncommon. There have been none in at least 100 years. The next one is in 2039, and then in 2392. Rakesh Kumar, an astronomy enthusiast, said he had arranged for a telescope in terrace of his house to witness the eclipse but the overcast skies did not allow a clear view.“I could witness it because the telescope wasn’t powerful enough and view was not very clear too. There were people who were trying to click pictures through their cameras and got a hazy photo because of the clouds,” Kumar said.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Delhi witnessed a cloudy morning and afternoon on Sunday with light rain in some parts of the city.“We have been witnessing cloudy skies because of pre-monsoon showers. This meant that even though the eclipse was visible, it was not very clear,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cloudy-skies-play-spoiler-as-people-gather-to-watch-the-rare-ring-of-fire/story-7rN7Q8y1vHCb6XIyLJCfYN.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Robbers target elderly Delhi couple, 88-year-old murdered||An 88-year-old woman was stabbed to death at her house in south Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave on Saturday evening during a robbery attempted by a security guard she had hired about a fortnight ago. The woman’s husband, 94, a retired officer from the Ministry of External Affairs was also attacked by the guard and his two associates who made away with valuables and cash from the house. However, by Sunday afternoon, a police team arrested the trio and a fourth associate from Gauriphanta in UP (near the Indo-Nepal border) while they were on their way to Nepal. The men had hired a taxi two days in advance to escape after the “planned heist”, the police said.“Four accused have been arrested connection with the murder of an 88-year-old woman in Safdarjung area yesterday. With their arrest, robbed cash of ₹55,000, jewellery and knife used in the commission of crime have been recovered. Further investigation is in progress:,” the Delhi Police said in a statement.One of the arrested men has been identified as Rajesh alias Dimu, 19, the security guard who hails from a village in Nepal. The police said Rajesh had been working in the neighbourhood for the past year and the couple was familiar with him. They had hired him on the recommendation of their maid, who also hails from Nepal. The maid, however, is not involved in the crime, the police clarified.The other three arrested men are Gyanender, 23, Om Singh, 18, and Pramod Pragya, 26, all from Bajhang district in Nepal. All the men worked as security guards in Delhi. Om is Rajesh’s cousin, the others are friends. None of them have a criminal record, the police confirmed.According to the police, the incident took place between 8.20pm and 8.45pm. “The CCTV camera footage from the area established that Om and Gyanender, led by Rajesh, entered the upper ground floor of the four-storey residential building roughly around 8.25pm. As they rang the call bell, Kanta Chawla opened the door. As soon as she let Rajesh into the living room, the other two men followed. The trio overpowered the couple,” an investigator, who did not wish to be named, said. The officer said that when the trio headed for the wardrobe in the bedroom, Kanta Chawla objected and tried to raise an alarm. “This triggered a scuffle and the three men stabbed the elderly woman in the throat. She died on the spot. The men picked up all the cash and valuables from the couple’s bedroom and fled the house,” the officer said. He said the husband somehow alerted those living on the upper floors. They alerted their neighbours and informed the police.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Devender Arya said a police team that reached the spot sent the woman’s body to a hospital for an autopsy. “A forensics team was called in to inspect the crime scene. The woman’s husband is 94 years old, he cannot speak much. The house has no CCTV cameras, but footage from a CCTV camera nearby showed three men entering the house around 8.25pm and leaving at 8.47pm. Preliminary probe shows the entry was not forced. But because all of them were wearing surgical masks, we couldn’t identify them,” Arya said. The DCP said that during initial questioning, neighbours told them that the couple had recently hired a security guard on June 5 for round-the-clock assistance. “The guard was missing. His phone was also switched off. Technical surveillance revealed that he had switched his phone off around 6.30pm. We also found that he was of Nepali origin and was hired about a fortnight ago on the recommendation of the couple’s househelp, who also belongs to Nepal,” he said.Arya said that when they interrogated the domestic help, she revealed the details of Rajesh’s hometown and his family. “Meanwhile, a team that was surveilling Rajesh’s phone found that he was in regular touch with one Gyanender, who had also switched off his phone at the same time,” he said.The DCP said this brought Gyanender also on their radar and a team immediately rushed to Tanakpur in Uttar Pradesh (UP), a route usually taken to escape to Nepal. They sent other teams to ISBTs and railway stations to look for the suspects. “Meanwhile, we also alerted the Uttar Pradesh Police. All routes that led to Nepal were put on high alert and vehicles were thoroughly checked. We had also picked up one of Rajesh’s friends who lives in RK Puram to help us identify him. Around 4pm we had a breakthrough when a joint team comprising the UP Police and Delhi Police arrested the foursome from Gauriphanta,” the officer said.He said that during initial questioning, Rajesh and others confessed to have killed Kanta Chawla. “They said they had planned the heist in advance and had also contacted a taxi driver on Thursday. They had told him they want to go to Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday and that they’d meet him at Safdarjung Hospital. Pramod was not at the crime scene, instead, he was at Safdarjung Hospital coordinating with the hired taxi driver. The driver was paid ₹12,000 with the robbed cash. The driver, who was unaware of their involvement in the crime, dropped them at Lakhimpur Kheri and from there they planned to escape to Rajesh’s village in Nepal,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/88-year-old-woman-stabbed-to-death-in-safdarjung-enclave-4-arrested/story-ZuLdQgQSFnZSJauOPHpJSL.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram ‘undertesting’ for Covid-19, say experts||Even with a recent upgrade in testing capacity, Gurugram is not testing enough to reign in the spread of Covid-19, leading to a recent uptick in mortality in the district, according to experts who reviewed an analysis of the health department data. They added that this data point was an indicator of the district’s test positivity rate (TPR, or the number of positive results per test expressed in percentage), which of late has surged in Gurugram.In April, Gurugram was testing an average of 192 samples per day (total tests 4789) and clocked an average TPR of 1 percent. While the samples increased to 257 per day in May (total tests 7958), TPR grew to 9 percent. The number of samples tested, however, need not necessarily equate to the actual number of individuals being tested, as some patients may have given multiple samples to be tested. By May 31, Gurugram had 774 positive cases and 3 deaths. In June, like the rest of the country, these numbers surged and the city had 4427 positive cases and 64 deaths on June 21.While an average of 414 samples per day were tested in June thus far, the TPR has surged to 42.7 percent. Gurugram’s doubling-rate (about 13 days) is among the quickest of India’s 20 worst affected districts.“With rising positivity, one can say that transmission of the virus has not been curbed,” said Dr Lalit Kant, an independent public health consultant and former head of the ICMR’s epidemiology division. Kant added that there is no set benchmark for how many tests need to be conducted in a given region, “You want a lower percentage of the tests to come back positive. If you are seeing positivity at 60, 70, even 80 percent, (either) you simply aren’t testing enough.” Kant, and other experts, also said that rising test positivity may indicate a high, if not increasing, prevalence of the disease within a community. Dheeraj Singh, a Gurugram-based data scientist who has been tracking Covid-19 data in Haryana, drew attention to the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended benchmark -- a sustained TPR of 5 percent over two weeks, at which point lockdown restrictions may be eased in a given region. “Assuming that there is already a high incidence of unreported cases within Gurugram, an increase in testing is the most viable way of lowering the TPR, and widening surveillance to find unreported cases,” Singh explained.Thus, going by the current numbers and assuming that the number of new positive cases detected each day remains the same, the district should have conducted at least tested 3100 samples per day to achieve a TPR of 5 percent. “Similarly, by the same extrapolation, a TPR of 10 percent would require 1353 tests per day, while 15 percent would require 764 tests per day,” Singh added.Evidence of Singh’s projections can found in more granular, daily data. “On June 19, when we tested 790 samples, the TPR was 18 percent. The previous day, with 686 samples tested, the positivity rate was 19 percent,” pointed out Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. However, on June 20, when only 590 tests were conducted, the positivity rate rose again, touching 33 percent.Dr Rajib Dasgupta, associate professor at the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, who reviewed the district health bulletin data, agreed that there is a shortfall in the number of tests being conducted daily. However, he added a caveat to Singh’s projections. “Calculating the shortfall in testing is tricky, because you are making the assumption that the number of new daily positives will remain the same. It would be more correct to assume that the number of new positives being detected every day will increase, so these calculations are conservative estimates, at best,” Dasgupta cautioned.A senior surveillance officer in Haryana’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP), who requested anonymity, said this is indeed the case in Gurugram. “To say that we have been effective in controlling the spread, we would need to lower the TPR down to about 10 percent. This was the case in May, when we were seeing less deaths,” said the officer, cautioning that the district will likely see an increase in patients requiring intensive care, or succumbing to the disease, in coming weeks.To increase testing would mean casting a wider net, bringing unreported cases onto the health department’s radar, and enabling the contact tracing effort to catch up with some of those it hasn’t reached yet.Officials in the health department said that Gurugram’s testing capabilities are being upgraded to meet these projected capacities. “We have started RT-PCR tests in Civil Hospital. We are conducting about 50 tests per day there, but we are soon going to adopt automatic RNA extraction protocols which will increase the capacity to at least 200 to 300 new tests per day.” The surge in testing numbers on June 19 and 20, Yadav added, were a result of private labs accepting more samples, and not entirely due to an increase in government testing. With Gurugram’s first public testing facility expected to process at least 200 new samples, the district’s daily average should touch between 600 to 700 tests per day. This is about half the required number (to bring TPR down to 10 percent). Haryana’s additional chief secretary (health), Rajeev Arora, however, added that Gurugram would, by the end of the month, “Conduct close to 1000 tests per day.” Yadav, too, said, “Our target is 1000 tests a day in the foreseeable future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-undertesting-for-covid-19-say-experts/story-J0betevG6uX9GeHk76Uz4M.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||Committee sends report on capping of charges to state govt, decision soon||A decision regarding capping of charges for treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals of the district is likely to be taken in a day or two, with recommendations regarding the same having already been submitted by the administration to the state government, officials said on Sunday.Officials privy to the matter said that a report on treatment charges, on lines of Delhi, has been handed over by the committee headed by divisional commissioner, Gurugram, to the state. “Recommendations to cap the treatment cost has been sent to Haryana government and is being reviewed,” said additional chief secretary and GMDA chief, VS Kundu, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district.Amit Khatri, Gurugram deputy commissioner, on Sunday also said that the state government may consider what treatment prices are being set by other cities. on the basis of which a decision will be taken.A senior government official, who did not wish to be named or quoted, said that recommendations as per the standards set by Delhi and NCR have been sent to headquarter in Chandigarh and these are being reviewed. A decision in this regard is likely to taken in a day or two, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/committee-sends-report-on-capping-of-charges-to-state-govt-decision-soon/story-RKiFXZjy1nFUvkwNB7KqQM.html
22-06-2020||Delhi||Monsoon to hit Delhi by Tuesday, normal rainfall likely: IMD||Monsoon will hit the national capital in the next two days, as per the latest advisory by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday.The IMD forecast said with the formation of a cyclonic circulation over West Bengal and the neighbouring areas on June 19 and 20, and its movement towards southwest Uttar Pradesh, because of which monsoon has already approached eastern UP, it will hit Delhi in the next two days.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the forecast shows that “full-fledged monsoon” will arrive in Delhi from June 23.“Delhi is expected to receive light rainfall on June 21 and June 22. From June 24, monsoon will arrive in full swing,” Srivastava said.He added that along with the national capital, monsoon will also arrive in northeast Rajasthan and the eastern parts of Haryana on the same dates. Usually, monsoon arrives in Delhi around June 29, but earlier this month the IMD had issued a forecast, announcing that this time the arrival date will be advanced to June 27. Scientists also said that the city is likely to receive “normal rainfall” this season.In 2019, Delhi witnessed the driest monsoon since 2014. IMD data showed that last year between June 30 and September 30, Delhi recorded 404.1mm rainfall, as opposed to the 30-year average of 648.9mm, a shortfall of nearly 38%.HT had reported that for the first time in IMD’s monsoon forecast history, IMD has also released new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates factoring in likely impacts of climate change that have led to a change in the way monsoon progresses over India.IMD’s new onset dates are based on analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019 by scientists in IMD Pune.Govt cancels leave for PWD staff In view of the monsoon approaching the city, the Delhi government’s Public Works Department has directed that no field staff of its maintenance units will be allowed to take leave during this period without prior approval, PTI reported.The department has also directed inspection of all drainage pumps across the city, a move that is aimed at ensuring no waterlogging in the city during the monsoon period.There are around 1,250 kms of roads managed by the Delhi PWD in the national capital.During the monsoon, there are often complaints of waterlogging on roads which cause traffic jams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-to-hit-delhi-by-tuesday-imd/story-VeIHmrVo5R1Ko3sOSgumYO.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||Health workers trained on rapid antigen detection testing||A workshop was held on Sunday for health workers from across 10 districts of the state, including Gurugram, to make them aware about the Covid-19 rapid antigen detection test, which will soon be introduced. Around 30 people participated in the programme, which was organised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at the PWD guest house in the city. The state has decided to introduce the rapid antigen testing to boost the testing numbers as there has been a significant rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in Gurugram and Faridabad, particularly after the phased reopening of economic activities from May onwards. The health department has identified seven clusters in the city, which have reported half of the total cases in Gurugram. Accordingly, the rapid antigen testing would now be a prime focus in these areas, said officials.Health officials from the district, training officers, microbiologists and lab technicians participated in the workshop, which was held under the supervision of district civil surgeon Dr Virender Yadav. During the workshop, experts from ICMR, such as Dr Neeraj and Dr Nivedita, explained the nuances of standard and rapid antigen detection tests to the participants using a Power-Point presentation. Representatives from SD Biosensor, who were also present at the occasion, gave a demonstration of the testing kit, which shall be used to conduct Covid-19 tests on both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients in the containment zones. Officials said that people in containment zones who are suffering from ailments related to lungs, heart, sugar , blood pressure and other similar medical conditions would be tested between fifth and 10th day. The positive aspect of the rapid antigen test is that the report of a patient can be given with 15-30 minutes, said officials. Those tested positive will further undergo the standard RT-PCR tests for a double confirmation.Dr Virender Yadav, civil surgeon, Gurugram said that officials from all ten districts have been trained as master trainers in the workshop, who can now train lab technicians in their respective districts. Health officials present in the workshop included Dr Aprajita, Dr Jaiprakash and district training officer, Dr Kiranmeet. “The workshop was organised to train health department staff to conduct rapid antigen tests properly as these would be conducted in containment zones to ensure that high-risk patients are tested timely,” said Virender Yadav,, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-workers-trained-on-rapid-antigen-detection-testing/story-twwo4Paf7RXx2GMEWbR6GM.html
22-06-2020||City||Phone tariff plans must be easy on mind and on pocket||New Delhi: A cell phone was never as important as today, in these times of Covid-19 pandemic. As the virus continues to wreak havoc and keep us away from our friends and relatives, we find solace in virtual meetings. We use the mobile phone to connect with our offices, for social networking, for ordering daily needs and making our payments .We also use the cell phone to talk to our doctors, keep in touch with those quarantined and those who are afflicted by the virus and are hospitalised. We keep track of Covid cases around us , we get our daily dose of news and entertainment, well, today the cell phone is central to our existence, our survival, more than ever before. . And this makes it imperative that we choose service plans that are best suited to our needs and give us best value for money.In other words, in these times of economic hardships, consumers have to make an informed choice and buy tariff plans that are cost-effective. But that’s easier said than done, given the complexity of the telecom tariffs today and the opacity surrounding them. Today, let alone compare the offers of different service providers, consumers find it difficult to even compare the various plans of the same service provider and buy what’s in their best interest. The innumerable combinations and permutations, time-bound offers, discounting, bundling, packaging, , add-ons, promotional offers, Special Tariff Vouchers, Combo Vouchers, well, who can make sense of all this and make an informed choice? It’s for this reason that consumers often experience a ‘bill shock’- an unexpected credit depletion in case of pre-paid consumers or an unanticipated high bill in case of post-paid subscribers. There are also many consumers who have chosen a wrong plan and are paying far more than what they ought to, given their usage pattern-again because of lack of clarity in the tariff plans offered.This is not peculiar to India and is a worldwide phonemenon and it’s for this reason that regulators around the world have enforced or in the process of enforcing full transparency in telecom tariffs, so as to protect the interests of consumers. Given the complexities of the present-day tariffs, many of them have also introduced tariff calculators to break down the complicated tariffs into a format and language that is easy to understand. The calculator may be provided by the service provider or the regulator . In UK, for example, the Office of Communication (Ofcom) accredits agencies that provide price comparison services, to ensure the integrity of the information flow. India too needs to enforce complete transparency, full disclosure and fair play in the way telecom tariffs are structured and sold. A common format for tariffs and a tariff calculator to help consumers compare prices of different service providers and choose the best option, is also a must. And this must be available in English as well as local languages and on mobile apps too. Similarly, there is need to ensure that all terms and conditions are fair to consumers and are fully disclosed along with offers and not somewhere else or in fine print. In fact, the imperative need arises from the fact that in India 92-95 per cent of consumers buy pre-paid plans (they are far more complex) and many of them come from economically weaker sections of the society with probably just elementary education. Last year, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India took cognizance of the vulnerability of telecom consumers vis-à-vis the changing landscape of telecom tariffs and proposed several measures, including a tariff calculator. Last Wednesday, the regulator held an online Open House on the topic and from media reports, the industry has not responded very positively to all the proposals.Telecom companies have a strong lobby and unless consumers write in large numbers to the regulator, demanding full enforcement of their proposal, consumers may well lose the game.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phone-tariff-plans-must-be-easy-on-mind-and-on-pocket/story-3Nxy9T2Oq0vTYTz3RT24TI.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||17 test +ve, booked for jumping quarantine and travelling||At least 17 people, who had been deputed by a private security agency at a major automobile company in IMT-Manesar, have been booked for allegedly violating quarantine regulations and travelling to other states without informing authorities. All the 17 men had tested Covid-19 positive earlier month and put in home quarantine.According to the police, the test results of all the 17 had come back as positive on June 17, following which the health authorities had put their names on a list and submitted the same to the company. Police said that a manager had informed the authorities that all the 17 staffers were asymptomatic and had been quarantined. Police said the automobile company had given the security contract to a third-party vendor, for whom all the 17 men worked.Police said on June 18, when a medical team reached IMT Manesar to check, they found that the 17 patients had left without any information.Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Manesar, said that the workers of the automobile company were yet to resume their duties at IMT Manesar. “Some workers, who had returned to the city from other districts, got their tests done before joining work as a precautionary measure. Before the results of the tests could come in, some workers left the city. After we received a list of people who had tested positive, we contacted the concerned SHOs and officials from the districts they were in and ensured that they are put under quarantine. Health authorities have now been told to conduct their contact tracing,” said ACP.Arvind Kumar, station house officer (SHO), IMT Manesar police station, said that following the incident, a probe was initiated and it was found that the patients had gone to parts of Haryana and Rajasthan.“All the people, who had tested positive, were immediately traced and placed under quarantine at their respective primary health centres in Haryana and Rajasthan. On the complaint of the in-charge of the primary health centre in Bhangrola, Haryana, we have booked 17 people for violating quarantine rules and risking the spread of the infection,” said SHO Kumar.A case was registered against the accused persons under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code and section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act at IMT Manesar police station on Saturday, said police.On June 7, a vegetable vendor, who had tested positive for coronavirus disease and was quarantined at his home in a society in Sector 109, was booked for jumping quarantine after he had escaped to his hometown in Hisar. He was later traced by the authorities and isolated at a quarantine facility in Hisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/17-test-ve-booked-for-jumping-quarantine-and-travelling/story-v1i8i7ILyJDxShxQeX1tqN.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Rapid action plan for Mumbai suburbs||Civic chief IS Chahal will on Monday launch a rapid action plan (RAP) for the city’s suburbs to check the rise in the number of cases in areas such as Mulund, Bhandup, Malad, Andheri, Borivli, Kandivli and Dahisar. The RAP has been modelled on the lines of the strategy that helped contain the spread in Worli and Dharavi. Additions have been made to these models for the suburbs to cater to residential buildings, as opposed to the slum settlements of Dharavi and congested settlements of Worli. As part of its RAP, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to start mobile fever clinics in ambulances in these areas. The mobile clinics will drive around through the day with a team of doctors, who will carry out door-to-door screening of residents, check for fever and other symptoms, co-morbidities, and collect swabs, if there is any suspected person. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, in charge of BMC’s health department, said, “We will use a pulse oximeter in the suburbs and a thermal gun to screen patients. A team of doctors will go from door to door.”A BMC official said, “We noticed the Worli and Dharavi models proved to be very effective. The first step is mobile fever clinics.” This will be followed by quarantining suspects, tracing contacts and quarantining them at home or in institutions.Dharavi’s model of forging public private partnerships with various people’s organisations and non-government organisations to tackle staff crunch will be replicated in the suburbs too. “We are also opening up all channels of communication with residents, such as elected public representatives, citizens’ organisations, and NGOs, so we can reach more people,” Kakani said, adding, “I toured the area on Saturday and listed four to five important measures based on my observation. The idea of having mobile fever clinics is approaching residents in their homes, instead of these residents walking out of their home and coming to a fever clinic. Residents can also contact BMC’s war room and a house call can be made to the caller for screening.”Dharavi screened a large number of persons in high risk groups – senior citizens and those with co-morbidity, and in fever clinics. After early detection, these were moved to institutional quarantine centres to reduce their contact with the community. Contact tracing and institutional quarantining of high-risk contacts was done on a large scale. Many new positive cases emerged in Dharavi from those people who were already in quarantine, and were already suspected. Four wards in the suburbs, of P-North, R-Central and R-North, and T, corresponding to areas of Malad, Borivli, Dahisar, and Mulund, respectively have a doubling rate of less than 20 days. The P/North ward of Malad has 3,615 cases, R/Central has 1961, R/North has 1,349 cases, and Mulund has 1,797 cases, as of Sunday. In comparison, some of the wards earlier known for high number of cases, such as the G-South ward of Worli has 3,107 cases and H-E ward of Bandra (East) has 3154 cases. These wards in the suburbs also have a high number of active cases, in comparison to their total closed cases (cases that have had an outcome of discharge or death). While 65% of the total cases in Malad are active, 58% of cases are active in Bhandup.Since June 1, Dharavi has consistently reported less than 30 cases per day, when it had reported as high as 94 cases in a single day in May. On Sunday, Dharavi recorded 12 new cases, and no deaths. While there are a total of 2,170 cases in Dharavi, 1,057 of these have been discharged. According to Press Information Bureau, Dharavi’s success model has been touted by government of India. A PIB release, said: “Being densely populated (2,27,136 persons/ sq. km), Dharavi had 491 cases in April 2020 with a 12% growth rate and a case doubling period of 18 days. The proactive measures adopted by BMC reduced the Covid-19 growth rate to 4.3% in May 2020 and further to 1.02% in June. These measures also ensured an improved case doubling time to 43 days in May 2020 and 78 days in June 2020.”BMC relied on “four Ts – Tracing, Tracking, Testing and Treating” to put Dharavi’s high-cases in check, and 47,500 people were covered by doctors and private clinics in house-to-house screening, 14,970 people were screened with the help of mobile vans, and 4,76,775 were surveyed by BMC’s health staff.Meanwhile, yet another BMC officer succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. He was an executive engineer with the storm water drainage (SWD) department.Also, addressing 134 complaints of overcharging by 26 private hospitals, BMC has managed to reduce the disputed amount by ₹23.42 lakh. The total amount that was disputed by all the 134 complaints was ₹1.61 crore which was brought down to 1.38 crore.Dismissing rumours of lockdown in Mumbai’s zone 7, which covers areas like Dahisar, Borivli and Kandivli, BMC clarified on Sunday that these are rumours and lockdown will only be implemented in containment zones. it mentioned that in cases where a sealed area has four separate adjoining roads, three will remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rapid-action-plan-for-mumbai-suburbs/story-71WnJCYAKzHVbizYZ1g2FI.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana sports minister urges people to stay off stadiums for keeping players safe||In light of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Haryana sports and youth affairs minister Sandeep Singh on Sunday urged people not to visit sports stadiums to ensure sportspersons remain safe from the virus spread and can practice and focus on becoming battle-ready for future competitions.Singh said sports stadiums should be exclusively accessed by athletes these days. “If people start visiting stadiums, the chances of the virus spreading will be high especially given Covid-19 cases are on the rise. Players need to practice, as is needed, but the general public can manage without visiting sports stadiums,” Singh told HT.Former Commonwealth Games gold-winning boxer, Akhil Kumar, who is currently also serving as the assistant commissioner of police, Gurugram, reiterated Singh’s views on only sportspersons visiting stadiums. “Without a proper space, a coach it is impossible for a player to carry on his/her rigorous practice and thus, the stadium becomes an integral part of a player’s training. However, the same stadium can also become a health hazard if too many people are visiting it,” said the Arjuna awardee. “It is imperative that only players should be using the stadium till the time the threat of Covid-19 has passed completely,” Kumar added.Gurugram city has only two stadia currently — the Nehru Stadium, in Civil Lines, and Tau Devi Lal Stadium, in Sector 38. Both the stadiums provide facilities for different sports leaving athletes effectively with only one stadium for all their needs.The sports minister said he is personally looking into the mental fitness and emotional well-being of players in the state and is ensuring they are regularly supervised by their coaches and are not missing their training sessions.Singh said many new sportspersons were anxiously looking forward to the competitions this year, but due to Covid-19 most of them have missed some opportunities to give their career a kick-start. “I am a hockey player myself and can relate to the sentiments of the athletes. I know how difficult it is for an athlete to not be on the field and remain out of practice. I have started making phone calls to players and am in regular touch with them to boost their energy,” he said.Major sports events have been postponed across the globe amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Singh, who is the former captain of the Indian national hockey team, said he is personally taking counseling sessions of athletes and is asking them to stay strong and work hard so that they are well prepared whenever sports events are announced. The initiative was taken after many sportspersons complained of suffering from depression amid the pandemic, he said.The minister, who is an MLA from Pehowa constituency, said the state government is providing all facilities at district levels so that players in the grassroots can practice and prepare themselves. “Stadiums are the first places where athletes play and think of taking sports as a career. Players need to be monitored regularly and we have asked the coaches to give them online sessions, and plan training schedule in such a manner that they are occupied for the day and are also counseled in short intervals,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-sports-minister-urges-people-to-stay-off-stadiums-for-keeping-players-safe/story-jpdf6WueW6pE7KLpFa5oAK.html
22-06-2020||City||Gurugram: Temperature falls marginally, sporadic rain likely this week||Gurugram: The maximum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 36.5 degrees Celsius, a fall of roughly two degrees from Saturday’s 38 degrees to record. The minimum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 25.1 degrees.According to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) weekly forecast, temperature is expected to hover in a similar range with sporadic rainfall predicted until Thursday. A cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain and thundershowers has been predicted by the weather department for Monday. Spells of rain can be expected until Thursday, as per the IMD. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 43 degree and 30 degree Celsius, respectively.According to Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre in Delhi, conditions are becoming favourable for the advancement of southwest monsoon in Delhi and Haryana around June 14-25.Air quality in the city remained ‘moderate’ on Sunday, recording 149 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was an improvement from the previous day’s recording of 170 AQI in the ‘moderate’ category. The improvement in air quality was attributed largely to an increase in wind speed. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve to the ‘satisfactory’ category on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-temperature-falls-marginally-sporadic-rain-likely-this-week/story-hCA4Ng1mjY5tmiFZBWBJYL.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||One killed in hit-and-run accident in Bhondsi||A 29-year-old man was killed and his brother was severely injured in a hit-and-run case near Dhunela village in Bhondsi on Saturday. According to the police, the incident took place around 8 pm, when brothers Amit Kumar and 34-year-old Sachin Kumar were on their way to Alipur from their home in Nuh. Police said Amit was riding the motorcycle while his brother was on the pillion.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said near Dhunela village, a motorcyclist hit their motorcycle from behind.“In his statement to the police, Sachin said that they were thrown off the motorcycle and suffered serious injuries. Some passersby rushed them to civil hospital in Sohna, from where they were referred to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi, where Amit died during treatment,” said the officer, adding that Sachin was under treatment and his condition is said to be stable.Police said the motorcyclist who hit them also fell after the accident, but fled as passersby were assisting the victims. The suspect is yet to be traced. A case was registered against the unidentified accused under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code at Bhondsi police station on Saturday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-killed-in-hit-and-run-accident-in-bhondsi/story-pqkthrXUK7gZs1CtEmObRM.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||MCG to collaborate with RWAs to carry out plantation drives in city||As the monsoon supposed to hit Delhi-NCR around June 25, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is working towards collaborating with the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of the city to launch plantation drives for a period of 12 days between June 27 and August 2, said officials on Sunday. For this purpose, MCG has stocked up more than 40,000 ornamental shrubs, medicinal plants, and plants and trees of indigenous varieties at its nurseries and has appealed to the RWAs across the city to join them in this drive.The MCG will be providing these plants to the RWAs free of cost and has also prepared a questionnaire that RWAs will be required to complete if they intend to be a part of the drive. The list of questions includes details like whether they need separate space for the plantation or can they plant saplings within their own complex, the quantity of saplings they require, and the weekend on which they want to conduct the drive. MCG officials said that they reached out to the RWAs on various WhatsApp groups where a link to the questionnaire was shared.The plantation drives will take place on all Saturdays and Sundays between June 27 and August 2 in collaboration with GuruJal — a water management initiative by the government. “We have been working in close tandem with the RWAs and have realised that including them in the plantation drives will be beneficial as they will take up the onus of maintaining the saplings. We have cultivated more than 40,000 saplings in our own nurseries and are also in the process of making arrangements with nurseries within Haryana and Uttarakhand to deliver 20,000 more if the need arises,” said Devender Bhadana, executive engineer, horticulture wing, MCG.As per MCG officials, more than 70 RWAs have volunteered to participate in the plantation drive.In May 2019, MCG had formed four nurseries across all its zones in the city, namely at Kadipur village, Sector 15 Part-1, the biodiversity park near Nathupur village, and Sector 46. At that time, MCG announced that they were aiming at cultivating at least two lakh saplings in their own nurseries for the sole purpose of planting them across the city in future plantation drives during the monsoon season.Last year, MCG had started cultivating around 35,000 saplings at their four nurseries that included saplings of fruits, such as papaya, pomegranate and guava, and trees, such as babool (gum arabic tree), peepal (sacred fig), gulmohar (royal poinciana), simal (bombax ceiba), and kachnar (bauhinia variegate). Around 10,000 more such saplings were cultivated earlier this year, said officials. Bhadana said that the MCG is also carrying out an audit of all the plants, shrubs, and trees that were planted during the previous drives.“We have records of all types and quantities of saplings that were planted during previous plantation drives. The on-site audit will help us assess the survival rate of such saplings so that we can focus on ensuring their growth. It will also help us to understand the survival rate of different types of trees, plants and shrubs in local conditions. Accordingly, we will plant more of those saplings that have a higher chance of survival,” said Bhadana.Bhadana further said that apart from the plantation drives, MCG is also looking to plant saplings at all its community centres, parks, and at the embankments of water bodies that are being revived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-collaborate-with-rwas-to-carry-out-plantation-drives-in-city/story-RS8OoUyN218e3ZXQ1jeGOO.html
22-06-2020||Gurugram||Hry police to launch facial recognition app||The Haryana Police are collecting data about criminals while preparing to launch an Android application for facial recognition within a month in the state, they said.The police said the Digital Investigation Training and Analysis Centre (DITAC) team, which was set up in 2016 in Traffic Tower in Sushant Lok- 1 for digital investigation and training in a bid to enhance cyber policing and monitor social media content, is preparing a new tool and application for the state.The centre, comprising a Cyber Forensic Lab equipped with high-end tools, provides training in advanced digital investigations to police personnel from Haryana and other state police departments besides facilitating exclusive monitoring of social media content.The police said the DITAC is operated by a state police (crime branch of Haryana CID) team in collaboration with the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO).Anil Rao, the additional director general of police, Criminal Investigation Department (CID), said that they are in the process of launching the facial recognition system application. “This application will help the police personnel deployed on the frontlines to detect criminals. It will recognise human faces, typically by recording the unique ratios between an individual’s facial features, such as eyes, nose and mouth. The technology can be applied using facial features as biometric identifiers, that is, to identify individuals based on just a photo or video of their face,” he said. The application will analyse faces on a CCTV camera to catch a suspect in an investigation or day-to-day policing to combat crime on roads or public events. The technology will enable the police to scan crowds and pick out faces that match huge databases of suspects.Once the data is complete, police personnel across the state will download the application on their Android mobile phones and use it to find suspects involved in serious and heinous crimes. The application will analyse faces on CCTV cameras to catch a suspect. The technology will enable the police to scan crowds and pick out faces that match huge databases of suspects.More CCTV cameras will be installed across the cities in coming years, the police said.Rao said they are introducing new tools and technology to improve surveillance. “The facial recognition system will be connected to a network of cameras which will automatically track an individual as they move in and out of coverage, even if no other information is known about them,” he said.The DITAC will soon start training police personnel from each district, the police said, adding that they have already trained 1,292 Haryana Police personnel of various ranks and officials from other organisations such as IB, Army, NTRO, Assam Police, Goa Police, Punjab Police and Uttrakhand Police.Rao said DITAC deals with confidential matters concerning police investigations and several courses have been conducted such as monitoring social media, Cyber Forensics, Technology Acquisition of Smartphones, ATM and Netbanking fraud, Cyber Crime Investigation, Training on Technical Aspects in Investigation of Crime against Women and Children, Collection and Preservation of Digital/Electronic Evidences, Mobile and Disk Forensics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hry-police-to-launch-facial-recognition-app/story-LVRdhjdVqB54Gf3ApRzDBK.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||91-year-old beats Covid, returns home to cheers, flowers||A 91-year-old Mulund resident successfully battled Covid-19 and returned home on Saturday after undergoing treatment for eight days at KJ Somaiya Hospital in Sion. The nonagenarian’s strong willpower, active lifestyle, and healthy habits ensured that he walked the distance from the building’s main gate till the lift after returning home from the hospital.Manoharlal Gupta, who turned 91 on June 11, returned home to cheers from society members who had gathered in the compound to give him a warm welcome after he trounced the virus. They also showered flowers on him. Gupta lives with his daughter Seema Agrawal, 58, and grandson Akool Kumar, 28, in Destiny Heights building in Mulund (East). He had fallen sick with fever and cough during the first week of June. Doctor Pradip Shah, consultant and senior physician at Fortis Hospital advised him to go for a Covid test. “On June 9 the report confirmed that my father was positive for Covid-19. He was also diagnosed with typhoid. As he never went out after the lockdown, we don’t know how he got infected,” said Agrawal. “We also got tested but were not infected,” she added. “There were no beds available at any nearby hospitals, so we isolated him in the bedroom in our one-BHK flat till June 12. We were in touch with the doctor and monitored all the parameters as advised by Dr Shah,” said Gupta’s grandson, Kumar. Gupta even recorded videos about his health condition and shared them with Dr Shah.“As he had mild breathlessness, we admitted him to KJ Somaiya Hospital on June 13. He was in HDU (high dependency unit), and doctors took care of him very well,” said Kumar. “He has strong willpower. On the day he was admitted, he told me he would be coming home in two to three days and asked me to keep his 60ml peg ready,” added Agrawal. Gupta used to run a small factory in Kalyan and retired in 2010. The nonagenarian is the senior-most member of a group of 25 people aged above 55 years, who used to go for morning walks together before the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/91-year-old-beats-covid-returns-home-to-cheers-flowers/story-hoZFobt5h7mPLGHEWADlBL.html
22-06-2020||Pune||MSRTC resumes: 50 buses to ply 6 routes in rural Pune||The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has resumed its bus services in parts of the state, including Pune district where the administration has put in operation 50 state transport (ST) buses, outside city limits.The buses will ply on six routes as of now on an experimental basis, and later, will be extended to other routes. The buses will travel between Hadapsar and Baramati, Wagholi and Shirur, Chakan and Alephata, Indapur and Baramati, Saswad and Kapurhol and Rajgurunagar to Bhimashankar, all which fall under the Pune district.“We have started this bus service initially on an experimental basis and all the necessary precautionary measures like sanitising each bus, and using sanitisers and face masks for all our drivers and conductors. As of now, 50 buses are running on six routes only in the rural parts of Pune district.” said Yamini Joshi, MSRTC Pune divisional controller.MSRTC stopped all its transport operations after the lockdown was announced in late March.BOXXMSRTC buses in Pune districtThe buses will travel between...Hadapsar and BaramatiWagholi and ShirurChakan and AlephataIndapur and BaramatiSaswad and Kapurhol Rajgurunagar and Bhimashankar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/msrtc-resumes-50-buses-to-ply-6-routes-in-rural-pune/story-Tb29oTdiSv60r1tz8TkQiO.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD asks Amarinder to leave soldiering to Army||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday told Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to “leave soldiering to the army” and stand with the national government in sending a message to China that India was united in the hour of crisis.In a statement here, SAD senior leader and Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhundur said it was distressing that the chief minister politicising a matter of national security.“Such statements create divisions and are likely to be exploited by our enemies at a time when four bravehearts from Punjab have also been martyred. We request you to let the Indian army decide on the best tactical response needed to counter our adversaries on our borders,” Bhundar said.Speaking about the rules of engagements about which the chief minister had made a comment on Saturday, Bhundur said the former should know that this was part of an agreement with China signed in 1996 and ratified in 2005 during the UPA tenure. “You seem to have overlooked this fact while talking about the need to change this policy and allow soldiers the freedom to use firearms,” he added, informing that the rules of engagement were changed yesterday itself and it was conveyed to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-asks-amarinder-to-leave-soldiering-to-army/story-Pt85BaMWLUz3rxe1J1YKgN.html
22-06-2020||Bangalore||3 killed while performing stunts on bike in Bengaluru||Three people were killed on Sunday while allegedly performing stunts on a bike here at the airport road in Bengaluru.“Three men died in a road accident when they were performing bike stunts at airport road early morning today. They are residents of Govindapura area of Bengaluru, Karnataka,” the police said.A case has been registered at Yelahanka Police Station.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/3-killed-while-performing-stunts-on-bike-in-bengaluru/story-5oz7xW7wxfhgdoKbSsKZEL.html
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pending for 4 years, Punjab institutes yet to get ₹1,853 cr in post-matric scholarship||The much-hyped centrally sponsored post-matric scholarship scheme for the scheduled caste (SC) students seems to be in the doldrums as funds to the tune of ₹1,853 crore have not been released for the past four years to various educational institutions in Punjab.It was in the 2015-16 academic session when the colleges and universities in the state, both public and private, were last paid the funds under the scheme. Now, the scholarship has turned into a financial burden for these institutions due to the pendency that was ₹415 crore in 2016-17, ₹538 in 2017-18, ₹437 crore in 2018-19 and ₹450 crore in 2019-20.In Punjab, over 2.5 lakh students belonging to the schedule castes are the direct beneficiaries of the scheme.Under the scheme, the scholarship (mainly as academic fee waiver) is paid to the students whose parents and guardians’ annual income from all sources does not exceed ₹2.5 lakh.“As per the terms and conditions, the Punjab government was to take over the central scheme and had to bear the cost from 2016 onwards. Before 2016, the scheme was 90% financially sponsored by the Centre. Thereafter, the state government failed to take over the scheme and the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment stalled the funding,” an official said.Anshu Kataria, president, Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA), said the amount has been stuck in the correspondences between state and central government departments and they have failed to resolve the issue so far.“We came to know that the funds worth ₹309 crore were released to the state in March but they have not been distributed to the institutions yet as a result of which they are under huge financial stress. Also, there is no clarity on giving admissions to students under the scheme in the coming 2020-21 academic year,” he said.Punjabi University, Patiala, registrar Prof Manjit Singh Nijjar said they have repeatedly written to the state government to clear their dues to the tune of ₹46 crore under the scheme. “We have not received any funds in the past four years,” he added.Kirpa Shankar Saroj, additional chief secretary (social justice, empowerment and minorities) said talks are on with the Centre to release the pending arrears under the scheme. “It is not possible for the state government to clear arrears from its own resources. It is primarily a central scheme and therefore we have taken up the issue with the department concerned for settlement of payments,” he said.As far as adopting the scheme is concerned, the additional chief secretary said their department has prepared a blueprint to come up with a similar plan.BOXXX:SESSION-WISE PENDENCY₹415 crore: 2016-17₹538 crore: 2017-18₹437 crore: 2018-19₹450 crore: 2019-20THE BENEFICIARIESOver 2.5 lakh students belonging to schedule castes are beneficiaries of the scheme in PunjabUnder the scheme, the scholarship (mainly as academic fee waiver) is paid to the students whose parents and guardians’ annual income from all sources does not exceed ₹2.5 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pending-for-4-years-punjab-institutes-yet-to-get-1-853-cr-in-post-matric-scholarship/story-dEddUrWj3uUHUPVaAJArHL.html
22-06-2020||City||Five yrs on, Punjab govt fails to acquire land for ICAR’s horticulture institute||Five years since it was announced, the Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education (PGIHRE) in Amritsar is still a distant dream as the state government has failed to acquire land for the main campus.The site-selection committee of Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), an agency responsible for establishing the institute, had given the approval for a chunk of land at Chhiddan village on the Amritsar-Attari road.However, the Punjab government has not purchased the land till date. On behalf of the state government, the Amritsar district administration had deputed the Ajnala SDM to acquire the land.Authorities are still negotiating the rate with owner of around 30 acres of selected land. “The owner demands around ₹90 lakh per acre, which is too high. So, we have sent a report of our negotiations with the owner to higher authorities for taking a decision,” Ajnala SDM Deepak Bhatia said.Meanwhile, land owner Pargat Singh said, “Officials of state and Central governments are making rounds for the last two-three years. I don’t want to sell my land as a portion has already been purchased by the BSF for residential flats. I am a farmer and want to keep the rest for myself.”“I have suggested an alternative land which is situated at Gharinda village and land owners are interested. The government will get land there at negotiable price,” he said.Amritsar Vikas Manch, an NGO, said, “Since 2015, the year in which the institute was cleared by the then central finance minister late Arun Jaitley, the efficiency of the state government is not satisfactory, as the Punjab government could not provide land to ICAR.”Blurb:Project was being seen as crucial for crop diversification and uplifting status of Punjab’s border farmers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-yrs-on-punjab-govt-fails-to-acquire-land-for-icar-s-horticulture-institute/story-HryXOtzOhVwmliebO1yASJ.html
22-06-2020||Mumbai||Body bag ‘scam’: BMC cancels deal, to float new tender||Following allegations of a ‘scam’ in procurement of body bags, which are used to wrap dead bodies, saying that the bags were procured at more than five times the actual cost, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has cancelled the contract of the procurement and will refloat the tender for the same. The civic body also said that the price was less than what was stated on Central health ministry’s website. The controversy over body bags erupted after some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders as well as social activist Anjali Damania tweeted documents of the procurement by BMC.On Thursday, Damania tweeted a document saying BMC has given a contract of procuring body bags to Aurangabad-based Vedant Innotech Private limited for ₹6,719 per bag wherein the civic body was to procure nearly 3,000 body bags. She alleged the actual cost of body bags is between ₹250 and ₹1,200 and added that the selected firm does not have any experience in manufacturing body bags . She further said that the firm is into casting metals.Damania said, “There is a huge scam in every single procurement by BMC. This particular procurement of body bags makes me sick. How can they even think of making money from dead bodies? Also, if the BJP knew about it and had all the documents, why didn’t they hold a press conference.”Satish Kalyankar, managing director of the firm, said, “We are giving specialised body bags that have unique qualities and is anti-viral. We are giving protective equipments to the ones handling these bodies along with the bag. Also, amid shortage of labour and expensive raw material, we still have quoted much below our actual price.”Commenting on the allegations, additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “Of all the bidders, the one selected was purely on the basis of the quality as we needed leak proof bags which others failed to furnish. The bags were thoroughly checked by a team of nine medical experts and then given a go ahead. This was the third time we had floated the tenders since we were looking for the right quality of bags.” Velrasu added that fresh tenders for the bags would be floated soon.However, a war for credit broke out after BJP leaders claimed they had raised this issue of procurement before Damania did. BJP’s Mumbai unit secretary Vivekanand Gupta said, “BMC is making money out of dead bodies. The guilty should face strict action in this case. I was the first one to raise this complaint with documents. I have also shared the Twitter timelines of my tweets.”BMC, in a press statement, said tenders were floated thrice and they only got a response on the third one on May 2. They have already purchased 2,200 bags and will now float fresh tenders for more bags. “It should be noted that the price stated for body bags on the website of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is ₹7,800, whereas BMC has procured it at ₹6,700. The tender has now been cancelled on technical grounds,” the statement said.CORRECTIONIn an earlier version of this report, we had inadvertently named Vedant Infotech Private Ltd, instead of Vedant Innotech Private Ltd. We regret the error.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/body-bag-scam-bmc-cancels-deal-to-float-new-tender/story-0upsvyhZr36gLWHDhJX85L.html
