24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Miscreants steal computer, LCD, printer from govt school in Mohali||Goods worth several lakhs were stolen from Government Middle School in Raipur Kalan village here on Wednesday. As per the information, some unidentified miscreants entered the village school and decamped with three computer systems, an LCD, a printer and some other items.On reaching the school in the morning, principal Spinder Kaur and other staff members found the locks of some rooms broken. The authorities claimed this was the sixth incident of theft at the school in the recent past. Earlier, goods worth lakhs had been stolen but no action has been taken by the police, they said. Paramjit Singh, in-charge of the Seneta police post, said that the police was investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/miscreants-steal-computer-lcd-printer-from-govt-school-in-mohali/story-Csr9XXEV8nbkw7W2oCDKzM.html
24-06-2020||City||Man killed over feeding street dogs, one held||New Delhi: A 27-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stabbing a 57-year-old man to death after an argument over feeding stray dogs in central Delhi’s Paharganj on Sunday. Senior officers said when police teams raided the suspect’s house, he was wearing a face mask and tried to escape into the crowd, but was caught.Police have identified the arrested man as Ajay Chand, a resident of Nehru Bazaar in Paharganj who used to set up music systems at weddings. Police said they have also recovered the weapon, a knife from Chand, which he allegedly used in the murder.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said Paharganj police station received a call on Sunday around 10pm reporting that a man had been stabbed after a scuffle in Nehru Bazaar area.“A police team that rushed to the spot found that the injured man, Brij Mohan, 57, who works as an event manager, had been shifted to Lady Hardinge Medical College with stab wounds. The police team went to the hospital where Mohan told them that he used to feed street dogs every night near his house. He said on Sunday he was sitting in front of a park when Chand, who lives in the same neighbourhood, came there and asked Mohan to stop feeding the dogs,” Bhatia said.Mohan told police when he didn’t pay much heed to Chand’s warnings, he became furious and went home. “He said, soon Chand returned with a knife and attacked him,” the DCP said.Bhatia said, two days later, on Tuesday, they were informed that Mohan, who was under treatment, has succumbed to his injuries. “We registered a case of murder and search for the Chand was sped up. Local intelligence was developed and multiple raids were conducted. The same day, our teams received information that the suspect is hiding in a crowded place near Krishna Market in Paharganj and that he is constantly changing his location wearing a face mask,” Bhatia said.The DCP said they identified the suspect with the help of police informers, and he was arrested following a raid. He told us that he and Mohan knew each other. and that he didn’t like him feeding the stray dogs. He said he killed Mohan out of rage when he refuses to obey him to stop doing so. The weapon used by Chand in the murder, a knife, was also recovered,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-over-feeding-street-dogs-one-held/story-vnAcgY9fGrWfappFQw18jK.html
24-06-2020||City||Covid-positive man found dead at home in Loni||The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Wednesday said he ordered an inquiry after a 45-year-old Covid-19 positive man, who was a resident of a colony under the Loni Border police jurisdiction, was found dead at his residence Wednesday morning at his residence. According to the police, the case is suspected to be a suicide.“We have come to know that he had tested positive in Delhi on June 23. He was an employee of a civic agency in Delhi. On Wednesday morning, he was found dead. It seems he killed himself after getting the test results. There is no other apparent reason his family has told us as of now,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).The man lived with his family. The station house officer of Loni Border station wrote to the health department and senior police officers asking the family be tested and quarantined.“We are taking up the issue of quarantine with the health department and proper testing will also be taken up for all family members,” Jadaun said.The victim’s brother-in-law, however, said: “He was tense after his reports came positive for Covid-19 and was worried for the health of his family members,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-man-found-dead-at-home-in-loni/story-tcRzmQiyKoxK8gSB5OJqMO.html
24-06-2020||City||Greater Noida: Ten injured in clash between two families over littering||Greater Noida: As many as ten persons were injured in clashes between two families, residing in areas under the Surajpur police station, on Tuesday night allegedly over garbage disposal in the area.The incident was reported from Mubarakpur village where, on Tuesday morning, a woman from one family allegedly objected to the other family throwing garbage near their house.“My aunt merely pointed out to them that they were scattering garbage near our house which was creating problems. But they got aggressive and started threatening us,” said Pawan, one of the injured persons.He alleged his family’s buffalo died in the afternoon and they suspect the other family to be behind it. When they confronted the other family on Tuesday around 8pm, a scuffle broke out.He alleged four people from his family were injured while six from the other side sustained injuries. Neighbours intervened when both parties started brandishing knives and sticks and the matter was reported to the police.As many as 15 people from Pawan’s family were booked by the Surajpur police based on a complaint by the other family under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act.“Some of the people are undergoing treatment at the district hospital, others are in private ones and one person has been referred to a higher centre in Delhi. Both families are neighbours and the clash occurred over littering. A case has been registered against one family and we will take necessary legal action if the other party also files a complaint,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.No arrests have been made in the case yet. Pawan said his family will also file a complaint once the injured members recover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-ten-injured-in-clash-between-two-families-over-littering/story-CTWMVo4GHPEkCPwyMEFhiN.html
24-06-2020||City||Greater Noida: Two killed in separate accidents on expressways||Greater Noida: Two people, including a teenager, were killed in separate accidents on the Eastern Peripheral and Yamuna expressways on Wednesday.One incident was reported from the Rabupura police jurisdiction while the other was reported from the Dadri area.In Rabupura, the accident took place when one truck, which was stationary, was allegedly hit by another truck from behind on the Yamuna Expressway around 1.30am.“A 17-year-old boy was killed on the spot while three other people were injured and taken to a nearby hospital. The driver of the truck left the vehicle there and fled on foot. It is unclear at the moment as to what caused the accident. The driver might have dosed off or it could have been because of high speed. We will know more once we take statements of the injured people,” said Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station.He said there was no one in the stationary truck, which had broken down, and police personnel had earlier in the night called for a mechanic for its repair. The officer also said that so far no complaint has been received in the case.In the accident on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, a 23-year-old man was killed when the i10 car he was travelling in crashed through the grill of the expressway.“The accident happened around 9am. There were five friends in the car that had gone from Palwal to Haridwar and were on their way back home when the accident happened. Their car was at a high speed and the driver lost control. It crashed into the divider, crossed to the other side and fell from the expressway after breaking through the grill,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3.Locals and police extracted them and took them to a nearby hospital. The four injured friends are now out of danger, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-two-killed-in-separate-accidents-on-expressways/story-iDYFPXDM4lUvNStM5AOLKM.html
24-06-2020||City||Noida starts buying land from farmers to make land bank||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Wednesday started the process to buy land from farmers in order to prepare it for industrial use.Officials from the authority’s land department on Wednesday met with farmers and also distributed application forms which are to be filled before the land is bought in Mohiyapur village. As per process, the authority can either acquire land from farmers by implementing the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 or buy the same directly via registry.“We buy land from farmers at a rate of Rs 5,000 per square metre directly as this method consumes less time, as compared to the land act of 2013. Once the registry is done and the authority pays the total cost of the land, we will take possession and start development of roads, sewers, parks and other basic facilities, before allotting the same for industrial usage,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.The authority needs to buy land from Gulawali, Dallupura, Mohiyapur, Jhatta villages, among others, in order to develop industrial areas in sectors 151, 156, 157, 158, 159 and others located along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.“The planning for the next land bank is in progress and some unpurchased (from farmers) industrial, institutional land of around 200 acres is lying unplanned in different sectors. We will come up with a new industrial plot scheme once this land bank is ready,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.This comes after the UP government had asked the authority to ready industrial land to be allotted to private firms that shall set up industrial units to boost industrial growth in this region and create jobs.“Since the authority has included our land in their master plan, we have no option but to sell to them for development,” said Umesh Kumar, a farmer from Dullupura village.Noida is spread on 20,000 hectares of land surrounded by Yamuna and Hindon Rivers. It has around 16,000 hectares of urbanized area. Its land is divided into 47% residential and 13% industrial land, while the rest is developed for other usages that include commercial, institutional, green and others. It is left with at least 300 hectares of land which is earmarked for industrial usage but which is yet to be acquired from farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-starts-buying-land-from-farmers-to-make-land-bank/story-grrVnUG3c4sOfEeG9JLkVI.html
24-06-2020||Noida||ICMR officials give training to health workers of Meerut division ahead of massive antigen tests||Ahead of starting antigen based Covid-19 testing in Gautam Budh Nagar, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) trained health department officials and laboratory technicians in Noida on the new testing strategy.The Council on Tuesday expanded the testing norms, advising that all hospitals, offices and public sector units be enabled to conduct rapid antibody tests, and recommending the deployment of rapid antigen tests in all containment zones, and hospitals and private labs across the state.With 15,000 rapid antigen test kits in their kitty, the district administration has constituted 10 teams to identify high risk groups, influenza like illness symptoms (ILI) and co-morbidities. They have also been told to conduct massive special testing drives, particularly in the containment zones.District magistrate Suhas LY said that as per the ICMR guidelines, it is now recommended to use Standard Q Covid-19 Argentum detection test as a point of care diagnostic assay. “Since containment zones are high-risk areas, it will help there in testing in the containment zones as well as hospitals in combination with the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. All the 10 teams have been asked to identify the high-risk areas and conduct as much tests as possible to identify maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases. These dedicated teams will help in early tracking, containment and reduction of mortality rate,” he said. He further said that all the health officials have been asked to focus to test, track and treat Covid-19 patients. “Since it is imperative to explore the existing antigen-based assays as point-of-care tests for early detection of Coronavirus, the test will prove as a boon as it is very specific with moderate sensitivity,” he said.Meanwhile, with 98 new Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday in the last 24 hours, the overall count of the district has now gone to 1,673 cases.GB Nagar district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that as many as 47 positive patients were cured and discharged from different hospitals by Wednesday. “So far, altogether 996 patients have been cured and discharged from different facilities in GB Nagar. Besides, 19 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 654 active cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/icmr-officials-give-training-to-health-workers-of-meerut-division-ahead-of-massive-antigen-tests/story-IrJ1J8K4YhbEycxlrpMH1O.html
24-06-2020||City||Paid Covid treatment at five private facilities in Ghaziabad||Five private hospitals have recently started offering treatment for Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad.Le Crest Hospital in Vasundhara, Navin Hospital and Max Hospital in Vaishali, and two branches of Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi and Nehru Nagar will offer treatment to all cases of Covid-19-- from mild to critical. Together, they account for 300 beds and every Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is equipped with ventilators.Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr. N K Gupta said the facilities will be paid for by the patients and prices range from ₹6,000 to ₹12,000 per day, including ICU rates, based on the rooms that the patient chooses. The hospital can charge extra based on other facilities that the patient chooses.Except for Le Crest, which is newly-opened, other private hospitals still accept non-Covid patients, and will keep them isolated from the Covid wings that they have created.Ghaziabad currently has four government hospitals providing free treatment. There are a total of 826 beds, with L-1 (for mild cases) category centers having 326 beds, L-2 (for moderate cases) category centers having 100 beds and L-3 (for critical cases) with 400 beds. Ghaziabad is one of the 11 sensitive districts, according to the Uttar Pradesh government, that has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases ever since the Unlock 1.0 was announced from June 8. “Like in Delhi, there has been demand from residents for paid Covid-19 treatment facilities. We have authorised the five hospitals. In future, we plan to expand the facility to more hospitals,” said Gupta.Dr. Sharad Agrawal, the CEO of Le Crest Hospital said the hospital has dedicated 100 of its 250 beds for Covid-19 treatment.“We started operations on Tuesday and the first Covid patient was admitted on Wednesday. We are not admitting non-Covid patients at present. This is to avoid and infection passing on to other patients. We have general rooms, double rooms and single rooms with rates ranging from ₹7000 to ₹10,000 per day. The cost of consumables etc will be charged as per actuals,” Dr Agrawal added.Twenty of the Covid beds will be in the ICU and the 80 others will be in different category rooms.Navin Hospital offers its services for ₹6,200 to ₹10,000 per day depending on the category beds and rooms.“At present we have started with 42 Covid-19 beds and plan to add 15 more. We have different category of treatment available with ICU, private rooms and multi bed facility. We are currently caring for 32 Covid-19 patients,” said Dr. Mahesh Chaudhary, director (operations), Navin Hospitals.Dr. Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital said the Nehru Nagar branch has 60 Covid-19 beds that cater to all category of cases and those who were yet to get their test results as well.“We have about 36 patients. The rates range from ₹8,000 to ₹10,500 per day with consumables etc charged at actuals,” she said. The Kaushambi branch has 30 beds dedicated to Covid-19. “We have ICU and high dependency unit available and the rates are about ₹8000 to ₹10,000 per day with other charges to be paid by patient. We are generally catering to L-2 and L-3 category patients here,” said a spokesperson of the Kaushambi branch.Officials of Max Hospital confirmed the Covid-19 facility but did not respond to queries on beds and rates.“We had spoken to private hospitals and five of them came forward so far for paid Covid-19 treatment. We will rope in more hospitals soon and will try to get more facilities for treating L-2 and L-3 category patients. We are strengthening capacities for L-1 category patients,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.In nearby Gautam Budh Nagar as well, four private hospitals are now treating Covid-19 patients based on packages whose prices are approved by the government.At Fortis Hospital in sector 62, the ICU charges are around ₹14,300 and ₹11,100 for a single or private room and ₹9,600 for a twin sharing room. According to a hospital spokesperson, these prices include the room rent, ventilator cost, doctor consultation, nursing and diet charges along with a few tests.“An entire building has been dedicated for Covid patients. We have a 40 bed capacity with eight ICU beds and are admitting L-1, L-2 and L-3 patients. Nearly 30 patients are currently admitted,” said a Fortis spokesperson.Other hospitals like Yatharth have assigned a branch for Covid treatment.“Our Noida extension branch is only for Covid-19 patients. There are 200 beds of which 45 are in the ICU. For general ward, the cost is around ₹8000, ₹9,000 for twin sharing and ₹10,000 for a single room. We started operations on June 12 and are at more than 25% occupancy. All category patients are being admitted,” said a Yatharth spokesperson.Jaypee Hospital in Sector 128 and Kailash Hospital in Sector 27 did not respond to queries on beds and ventilators.The officials of the district health department said that there are a total 383 private beds dedicated to treating Covid-19..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paid-covid-treatment-at-five-private-facilities-in-ghaziabad/story-fPo44peeyauTMzUqZgVYmL.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Monsoon rains may hit Gurugram in next 24 hours||While the national capital received the monsoon’s first rain on Wednesday, Gurugram remained dry. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city is likely to receive rainfall in the next 24-48 hours as the southwest monsoon advances further into Haryana.The maximum temperature on Wednesday was at 34.5 degrees Celsius, which was lower by roughly three degrees from Tuesday’s 37 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was recorded 28 degrees.According to the IMD’s weekly forecast, temperature is expected to drop by about two degrees and settle around 33 degrees Celsius on Thursday with the possibility of rain. As per the IMD’s Palam observatory, which is the closest manual weather observatory to Gurugram, moderate rainfall may be expected on Thursday. Cloudy skies with spells of thundershowers have also been predicted by the weather department for Thursday. The minimum temperature is expected to settle at 28 degrees Celsius on Thursday.While Delhi had received rains on Wednesday, the arrival of the season is likely to be declared officially on Thursday as the met department is waiting to see how much it rains over 24 hours, said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi. He added that with further advancement of southwest monsoon in Haryana, conditions were fertile for monsoon rains in Gurugram and other cities across the national capital region.Air quality in the city was ‘satisfactory’ on Wednesday for the second consecutive day, recording 77 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was an improvement from the previous day’s recording of 88 in the ‘satisfactory’ category. The improvement was attributed largely to an increase in wind speed. According to the early air quality warning system for the NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘good’ category on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/monsoon-rains-may-hit-gurugram-in-next-24-hours/story-CKKtTRfvV9f5EoGUyKLVhO.html
24-06-2020||City||New covid hospital out of city limits, officials rope in more ambulances||Ghaziabad on Wednesday acquired the privately-run 250-bedded Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari located on the outskirts of the district near Ghaziabd-Meerut border, to treat mild cases (L-1 category) of Covid-19. The hospital is almost 30 kms away from the city limits and the district has decided to streamline its ambulance services to transport such patients to the centre.The officials said that they have 14 government ambulances, including two advanced life-support ambulances, deployed to transport Covid-19 positive patients to hospitals, and back home after they are discharged.“Since the L-1 hospital at Niwari is about 30km from the city limits, we have planned that route chart of ambulances will be chalked out. For instance, if we have patients in areas like Indirapuram, Vaishali, and Vasundhara, etc they can be combined in an ambulance as per a route chart. This is being done in order so that no patient has to wait at home for long,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to officials, they have also roped in about 20 private ambulances for the purpose too and will also rope in private mini buses.“The buses will be dedicated for ferrying Covid-19 patients to our hospitals. Bus staff will be given protective equipment. We have also started sending letters to Covid-19 patients at our L-1, L-2 (moderate cases) and L-3 (critical) facilities to motivate them. We want to make them feel that administration and health care staff is working to treat them and happily see them off,” Pandey added.The officials have shutdown the 60-bedded L-1 hospital at Nandgram and are now planning to open another facility at IMS College, Dasna. The other L-1 facility is the 76-bedded ESIC Hospital, Sahibabad.“The IMS facility will be 400-bedded facility and we have started preparations. We also inspected one other facility at Modinagar but it had certain issues. So, we have almost dropped plans for coming up with L1 facility at Modinagar and will instead take over the facility at IMS College, Dasna,” said Dr. NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “We generally take away patients to hospitals within 24 hours of the test results. Since the hospital at Niwari is far, we are roping in more ambulances and seeing to it that transportation of patients is not delayed.”Ten lab technicians and one pathologist were also trained in the use of rapid antigen kits which will be used for speedy detection of Covid-19 status of patients.“We have received 10,000 antigen kits. We will now use it to test people in different areas as per a plan which will be chalked out by the district administration,” CMO said.The district magistrate on Wednesday also acquired the Shambhu Dayal Inter College, near Navyug Market, as a temporary jail. Another temporary jail at Adhyatmik Nagar was already acquired to house foreigners who had come to attend religious congregations and tested positive for Covid-19.“The temporary jail at the inter college will be used for housing inmates who test positive for Covid-19. They will be admitted here in case they are positive,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-covid-hospital-out-of-city-limits-officials-rope-in-more-ambulances/story-aMTkjvQALn3EKyb2GpqPHO.html
24-06-2020||Noida||GIMS to get low cost, locally made ventilators; 50 more Covid beds||In the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in Noida, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), a hospital dedicated to treating and testing for the disease, is adding more beds and ventilators to its facility.According to the officials, the hospital is procuring 10 more ventilators and adding 50 additional beds to deal with any emergency. The hospital currently has 150 beds and 10 ventilators.“We have already ordered the ventilators and some of those have arrived at the Covid-control room where the team is testing their efficiency. We are also furnishing few additional wards that will have 50 more beds,” said Brigadier (DR) Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.He added that the low cost and small ventilators are being provided by a Noida-based company.“The cost of each ventilator is around ₹1 lakh, which is very low as the usual cost of a ventilator is around ₹25 lakh,” he said.“The one tested are effective and they would serve the purpose.”Other hospital officials said that the current infrastructure was adequate to handle the number of patients being tested, treated or kept under the institutional quarantine.Currently, the hospital has around 110 Covid-19 patients, while over 400 were discharged. Gautam Budh Nagar has one of the highest numbers of Covid-19 cases in the state with at least 607 running cases, 19 deaths and over 949 discharged as of Tuesday,“We have a lot of critical cases, though our recovery rate is high. At a time, there are 110 to 130 patients, so we always have beds, but additional preparation is important keeping any uncertainty in mind. Cameras have already been installed and coolers, air purifiers will be installed soon,” said Dr. Saurabh Srivastava, head of the department (HoD) Medicine and nodal officer Covid-19, GIMS.Speaking of the beds with oxygen supply, Srivastava said that currently there are 18 beds with oxygen channels, while in case of emergency they currently have over 50 oxygen concentrators to administer oxygen at any bed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gims-to-get-low-cost-locally-made-ventilators-50-more-covid-beds/story-WjtOxkcl2eKHgE5Tcl8wSM.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Food and Drug Authority officials seize disinfectant sprays worth ₹18 lakh||The Food and Drug Authority (FDA) seized a huge consignment of disinfectant sprays — estimated to be worth over Rs 18 lakh — from an unlicensed manufacturer in Sector 35 on Tuesday evening. The spray was allegedly being manufactured illegally as ‘ayurvedic proprietary medicine’ without a valid drug licence. Most of the stock seized was to be delivered in daily need stores across the city, said FDA officials.According to the officials, the disinfectant sprays were being manufactured by the company in Sector 35 that makes and supplies perfumes and deodorants. They had started manufacturing such sprays during the lockdown without any proper license. The officials also found the conditions under which the factory was operating was highly unhygienic.Amandeep Chauhan, drug control officer, said that a team of officials from the drug control and Ayush (ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homeopath) department was formed after receiving information on Tuesday afternoon. “We had received a tip-off, following which we collected samples of disinfectant sprays from a store in DLF Phase 4 on Tuesday. When we checked the packaging, we found that the manufacturer had pasted stickers mentioning ‘as directed by a doctor’ and labelled it as an ayurvedic proprietary medicine. These spray bottles were selling for Rs 349,” he said.Officials said they seized 334 packed boxes of disinfectant spray from the factory. The officials said that when they asked the manufacturer to provide a valid drugs manufacturing license , he said he didn’t have one and said that he manufactured his products under ayurvedic manufacturing license but permission was for human use not as surface disinfectant. “Surface disinfectants cannot be manufactured under ayurvedic manufacturing licence hence it is a violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. A search was carried out in the factory and we found various brands of surface disinfectants also. The complete inventory was seized,” said Chauhan.Officials said surface disinfectants cannot be manufactured under Ayush license but only as drugs in compliance of section 3 of Drugs and Cosmetics Act. Dr Naresh of Ayush checked the manufacturer’s permission on the spot and said that it was not for disinfectant sprays.Officials said a complaint would be filed before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) after investigations. The department had also lodged an FIR against a shopkeeper in DLF Phase-I on Monday for overcharging for hand sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/food-and-drug-authority-officials-seize-disinfectant-sprays-worth-18-lakh/story-yaoki7tLym1pN2zF6ULQbI.html
24-06-2020||Noida||Administration issues guidelines for general public to stay safe||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration issued guidelines and precautions for the general public to follow while going to market.“Some people feel that they can go to market without wearing the mask and without following important precautions. But it is advisable that everyone follow precautions so that they stay safe while carrying out their daily activities. If everyone follow precautions then it will help them stay safe,” said senior IAS officer Narendra Bhooshan, UP nodal officer for Gautam Budh Nagar district during the Covid-19 crisis.“The risk of infection from Covid 19 is yet not over. Now we need to follow these instructions and then go out to market or other work. If we will follow these instructions then one can keep themselves safe from infection,” said Bhooshan.On Wednesday, ,according to the data updated on June 24, 63 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, taking the total number of positice cases to 1,575. No new cases of deaths were reported, keeping the fatality count at 19. There are 607 active Covid-19 cases.“We have seen some people at public places forget to follow safety guidelines, which are crucial for the safety. It is imperative that we all follow instructions of the state government seriously,” said Sanjeev Kumar vice-president of federation of Noida RWAs, (FONRWA), a residents’ body.SHOPPING GUIDELINESWear mask Use slippers that can be washed and left outside house, carry a bottle of sanitizer that contains 70% alcohol Avoid touching surfaces that may have been contaminatedMaintain social distancing of 6 feet from others Before using ATM, sanitize keyboard and display, after transaction do not forget to sanitize the ATM cardTake bucket to carry vegetables and later washed thoroughly at home with water||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/administration-issues-guidelines-for-general-public-to-stay-safe/story-CUnFd5Mv1CKCFjGxms3JbP.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Final-year MBBS students to join fight against Covid-19 soon||At least 96 final year MBBS students of Medical College Hospital and Research Institute are ready to join the Gurugram administration’s war-like effort to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. These students, who are expected to join the district’s health department in the next few days, w ill assist the on-ground teams in various efforts, as the situation on the ground may demand. Officials from SGT medical college said that these students will be reporting to the civil surgeon directly and the district administration was working on providing them accommodation facilities.Earlier this week, the director general of medical education and research in Haryana had said that around 1,106 final-year MBBS students of 11 government and private medical colleges in the state had been assigned Covid-19 duties. According to the order issued by the director, students were supposed to report to the civil surgeon of various districts by June 22. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, confirmed that orders had been issued by the state for deployment of 96 MBBS students from SGT medical college in Gurugram, who will take charge very soon. Prakash said that students could assist the health department in contact-tracing, testing, and other efforts. The students will not be paid for their assignments.Dr Umesh Lamba, deputy medical superintendent, SGT Hospital, said that while the modalities regarding deployment of students had been finalised, they were yet to take charge since many students were back in their respective home towns. “We have informed all the students about the directive. Most of them are away since the college went on a break from March 15. Students are scattered across the country and will start reporting to the civil surgeon in a day or two,” said Lamba.The college has also appointed a nodal officer to coordinate between the students and the health department. Lamba said that the students will be trained by a team deputed by the civil surgeon before they are given any assignment. He said that details regarding the accommodation of students were yet to be finalised. “Whether students will be accommodated within the college hostel or at alternative places will be discussed in the coming days. Arrangements are being made ,” said Lamba. The college is also coordinating with the district administration regarding the arrangement of conveyance for students.Lamba said that students had mixed response to the development, but all of them will be compulsorily required to report for their assignment as the government directive was applicable to all. “Everyone needs to comply with the government order. If someone is sick or unable to join due to some serious reason, we can take a decision as per the situation then. No exceptions are to be made otherwise,” he said.He added that the college had not deployed paramedical staff to the administration so far but if requested by the administration, the college was also prepared to deploy paramedics and final year nursing students, OT technicians in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/final-year-mbbs-students-to-join-fight-against-covid-19-soon/story-M1hJC0NRZm6hyomiMpX6cM.html
24-06-2020||City||Pay Rs500 fine or face police case for mask violation||PUNE: Pune municipal commissioner empowered the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staff to take action against residents found in public and private places in the city without wearing face mask. The drive will begin from Thursday.The commissioner on Wednesday issued the order and empowered ward officers, sanitary inspectors and medical staff to take action in the city.PMC officers can now slap a fine of Rs500 on mask violators and even file a police case as per Indian Penal Code by using Article 188.Solid waste management department head Gyaneshwar Molak said, “The drive against not wearing a mask would start from Thursday. Our intention is not to collect fines, but ensure that citizens use masks.”Though the state government has made it mandatory for residents to use mask while stepping out from homes, many are seen not following the instruction.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “Recently the state government raised concerns as many residents in the city were found not using masks after the lockdown relaxations were eased. I have instructed the police and municipal corporation to take action if residents are not heeding to the appeals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pay-rs500-fine-or-face-police-case-for-mask-violation/story-wKyoc86sKtQEPlkYnNJ8QO.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Two arrested, eight others booked for threatening manager of site in Sushant Lok||Two persons were arrested for allegedly extorting money from the site manager of an under-construction plot in the Sushant Lok area on Tuesday. Police said at least 10 persons have been named in the FIR and a probe has been initiated.According to the police, the supervisor of the plot filed a police complaint alleging some people had been threatening him to pay money or his work would not be allowed to get completed. In the complaint, he alleged that several people had been asking him to pay up for trucks carrying construction material to be allowed to come.Police said the complainant alleged that on June 20, he received a phone call by someone asking him to come to one of the gates in the area.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “As per the complaint, when the victim reached the gate, one of the accused persons asked him to pay Rs 3,500 or the truck carrying construction material would not be allowed to enter and his work would be held up. The complainant said he tried to reason with the accused and told him that this was unlawful. Later, he filed a police complaint.”Police said on June 20, a complaint was received at Sector 43 police post and after probe an FIR was registered Monday night.Satish Dagar, in-charge, Sector 43 police post, said, “Two people have been arrested and we have initiated a probe. As many as ten people have been named in the FIR and we are verifying the allegations.”A case was registered under sections 384 (punishment for extortion) and 120-B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Sushant Lok police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-two-arrested-eight-others-booked-for-threatening-manager-of-site-in-sushant-lok/story-20aXIWdmDUH2qisgSeI8zK.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid patient with rare neurological complication recovers||A 36-year-old diagnosed with a rare neurological complication of coronavirus (Covid-19) was successfully treated by doctors at Medeor Hospital in Manesar, a dedicated facility for Covid-19 patients requiring critical care.The patient, a migrant labourer from Bihar who was living alone in the city, was referred to Medeor on May 17 after he reported of high fever and ‘altered mental status’. According to a statement issued by Medeor, the patient was in coma and tested positive for Covid-19 while he was admitted.Doctors say that he had Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis (ADEM), a rare neurological disorder triggered due to Covid-19. It is mostly found in children but it can affect people of any age. ADEM is the result of an immune reaction to an infection in the body. The immune system instead of fighting the infection, causes inflammation in the brain and spinal cord. It leads to various neurological symptoms like headache, fever, unsteadiness, weakness in arms or legs, confusion or convulsions.Dr Ashish Gupta, director, critical care Medicine, Medeor, said, “This is the first case of ADEM which our specialised team of doctors and medical staff have successfully treated for Covid. Being a rare disease, there have been hardly any reported cases of Covid-19 related ADEM, as per our present knowledge.”The patient was treated for almost 25 days in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). He showed neurological recovery, regained consciousness, and finally tested negative for Covid-19 infection. The patient was discharged on June 11. The hospital has so far treated more than 200 Covid-19 patients who required critical care and ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-patient-with-rare-neurological-complication-recovers/story-6kp5l1mtenlKRHns7uc9qN.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram municipality to start survey for taking over several private colonies||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is likely to conduct a civic deficiency assessment survey in August in several privately developed colonies that it intends to take over from private developers, officials said on Wednesday.MCG officials said that they held a meeting in this regard with the department of town and country planning (DTCP) at the civic body’s sector 34 office on Tuesday. The DTCP has been asked to submit building plans for six privately developed colonies— Ardee City, Malibu Towne, Vipul World, Uppal Southend, Rosewood City, Mayfield Gardens- within the next 15 days — which the developers had submitted in the 1990s and early 2000s to establish these colonies.“We will be using the building plans as a reference to assess if the builders have completed all the civic amenities mentioned in the plans during the civic deficiency assessment survey. In addition, the survey will also be assessing the existing infrastructure flaws in these colonies. Based on the deficiency survey report, the MCG will prepare estimates needed to add or fix amenities for each colony,” said a senior MCG official in the planning branch of the MCG who attended Tuesday’s meeting.All six colonies are situated in close proximity to Sohna Road. “The MCG took over six privately developed colonies last year. This time too, the process followed will be similar. Based on the service estimates in the deficiency assessment survey, the MCG will ask the developer to either pay the amount to us for getting the amenities fixed and hand over their respective colonies or they can finish the work themselves and then hand it over to us,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.MCG officials said that with the developer of Ardee City not obtaining a completion certificate, the colony is likely to be removed from the final list of colonies that MCG wants to take over. A point also supported by the developer.“Ardee City does not have a completion certificate which is a mandatory clause for initiating the taking over process,” said Anil Haseeja, vice president, Ardee Infrastructure Private Limited.The MCG had taken over Sushant Lok 1, Palam Vihar, Suncity, Nirvana, South City 1 and 2 in March last year. The takeover of DLF Phases 1-2-3 is still in process as the developer there had decided to fix the existing civic deficiencies themselves. Barring Suncity, the developers of the remaining colonies had paid the MCG to fix deficiencies and handed over their respective colonies.Last year in September, MCG had sent a recommendation to the state government for allowing them to take over Ardee City and Malibu Towne. Two months later, the MCG wrote to the directorate of town and country planning in Chandigarh seeking details such as building plans, the total number of plots, status of completion certificate, year of construction, layout of stormwater, water and sewerage lines, parks, and community centres for all the six colonies.An agenda for taking over- Malibu Towne, Vipul World, Uppal Southend, Rosewood City, Mayfield Gardens- was also approved during a MCG house meeting in February. The agenda though did not include Ardee City but mentioned Sushant Lok 2-3 instead.At that time, the town planning branch of MCG had informed its councillors and officials that they will be approaching DTCP for procuring building plans for all seven colonies. Officials said due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the matter was pushed back by another four months.MCG officials said that they are still exploring the possibility of taking over of Sushant Lok 2-3. However, officials privy to the matter said that they will initiate its formalities only after the process for taking over these five or six colonies is over.RS Batth, district town planner did not respond for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-municipality-to-start-survey-for-taking-over-several-private-colonies/story-U5fQCarORg6RvglATY3MuJ.html
24-06-2020||City||RWAs write to L-G, urge him to re-examine new home isolation rules||New Delhi: At least 50 Resident Welfare Associations on Wednesday wrote to Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, urging him to “re-examine” the order making it mandatory for Covid patients in home isolation to go to a Covid care centre for clinical assessment. They suggested that for patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, consultations should be provided over phone. “Rather than making people visit a Covid care centre, district authorities can do so by visiting their homes or over telephone. This will also help reduce the burden on the centres as well,” said Dr Ruby Makhija, a practising ophthalmologist and secretary, Navjeevan Vihar RWA, Malviya Nagar.Residents said the order has caused confusion among people. They said the district authorities must also circulate a list of facilities where people in home isolation can go if they need more care.Sandeep Bali, president, Mehrauli RWA, said the Covid care centres are expected to be crowded since all positive patients would have to visit for an assessment. “Asymptomatic patients will be at risk of exposure to higher viral load as well as of contracting other non-covid communicable diseases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rwas-write-to-l-g-urge-him-to-re-examine-new-home-isolation-rules/story-4Ny50BmTgJmc1Yl20FfTbI.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest outside Ludhiana school for charging three- months’ fees||Flouting social distancing norms, over 100 parents of students from Bhartiya Vidya Mandir school, Kitchlu Nagar, held a protest outside the school on Wednesday. They accused school authorities of asking them to pay school fees for April to June by June 25. The parents said school authorities have merged all other charges under tuition fee, adding that it is not possible for them to deposit the fees at one go. Standing outside the school gate from 11am, the parents held up placards and urged school authorities to wait till the Punjab and Haryana High Court makes its decision regarding school fees. The parents claimed that school authorities told them their wards’ names would be struck off the rolls if they failed to pay. After the protest continued for two hours, police intervened and asked the principal to meet the parents. Seven representatives of the parents met the principal and who told them to visit the school on Thursday to meet members of the management.A parent, Rahul Kumar, said, “The parents were forced to protest due to financial constraints caused by the Covid-19 induced lockdown. School authorities are aggravating our problems by asking us to submit fees by June 25. I will deposit the fee after the HC’s decision.”Despite repeated attempts, the school principal, Neelam Mittar, could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-outside-ludhiana-school-for-charging-three-month-s-fees/story-kahC2ZTSjWaCNGHHSY7AGK.html
24-06-2020||City||Hindu Rao hospital still not prepared to be a designated Covid facility||New Delhi: Ten days after the Delhi government declared north Delhi’s 980-bedded Hindu Rao as a designated Covid-19 facility, the hospital is still in the process of procuring logistical support to start admitting coronavirus patients. According to civic body officials, different committees have been set up at the hospital to source equipment, including personal protective equipment (PPE), oxygen support and ventilators. Besides, separate ICU beds and isolation wards are to be readied for Covid-positive and suspected cases.The government had on June 14 announced the hospital, the largest run by the north municipal corporation, as a dedicated facility for Covid care. It was supposed to start admitting Covid patients from June 16. “ Around 200 patients admitted here have been discharged or referred to other non-Covid facilities. The hospital has stopped admitting non-Covid patients as it has to be vacated and sanitised before it can start working as a Covid-only facility. The emergency and OPD services are open but after analysing emergency cases, we are sending them to other hospitals,” said a senior corporation official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The official said orders have been placed for major requirement. “Initially, 150 beds will be converted into Covid beds. More beds will be added later. It will take a few days more before we are ready to start a full-fledged Covid treatment facility,” the official said. At present, the flu clinic is functional and Covid-19 sampling is being done. On an average, 50-80 samples are being collected every day since the clinic started operating on June 16 .“If there are Covid positive patients requiring hospital care, we refer them to other Covid facilities till the time we are ready to admit such patients,” the official said.Dr Anu Kapur, the hospital’s medical superintendent, said, “We are busy in preparations. As soon as the logistics are in place, we will start Covid-19 admissions.”Meanwhile, the resident doctors association has written to the administration regarding installation of air-conditioning in the wards as it would be difficult for them to attend patients wearing PPE kits all day. They also want proper accommodation as the hostel rooms do not have separate toilets and bathrooms.“Our salaries are still due for two months. We have written to the administration regarding the issue as well as about concerns when the hospital turns into a complete Covid facility. At least 40-50 doctors will be on duty in the Covid wards and proper accommodation is required for their own safety,” said Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, a senior resident and president, RDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hindu-rao-hospital-still-not-prepared-to-be-a-designated-covid-facility/story-W6n4uZZDINXZhMiRYgpwrJ.html
24-06-2020||City||DU college converted into institutional quarantine facility||New Delhi: Delhi University’s (DU) Maharaja Agarsen College in east Delhi’s Vasundhara Enclave has been converted into an institutional quarantine facility with a capacity of 188 beds, becoming the first DU college to be taken over by any district administration amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In an order issued on Monday, SDM of Mayur Vihar Amod Barthwal said college officials will be deployed to maintain the facility. “The principal shall deploy a sufficient number of officers from his college to look after the institutional quarantine facilities on a 24X7 basis,” the order stated.Principal Tiwari confirmed the development on Wednesday. “We have informed our staff members about the college premises being converted into an institutional quarantine facility. We will try to do our best to help the administration in this fight against the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-college-converted-into-institutional-quarantine-facility/story-6EbC53pKiMDc15Ur36QqWP.html
24-06-2020||City||Day after clash, 45-year-old man shot dead in Ambala village||A day after two men received gunshot wounds in a clash in Phulel Majra village of Saha block of Ambala, a 45-year-old man was shot dead in the fields on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Amarjeet Singh, whose family was involved in Tuesday’s clash over a pond in the village. The victim’s son, Sahil, told the police that he, along with his father and uncle, were taking a walk in the fields around 5.15am. “My father was walking about 100 metres ahead of us. Suddenly, three persons came on a motorcycle and stopped my father. One of them pulled out a gun and shot my father in the head,” he said, adding that the men, while fleeing, stated that they were taking revenge for the incident that took place a day before. The deceased’s family had lodged a complaint against the village sarpanch, Vijay Kumar, and his men for allegedly trying to take over the possession of the village pond. The matter has been in court for several years. A cross-FIR was also lodged by the sarpanch and his supporters, claiming that the deceased’s family had injured two men. Superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal said, “The dispute has gone violent in two days and a man was shot dead today. A case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered and police teams are investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-clash-45-year-old-man-shot-dead-in-ambala-village/story-96QdcP8mjW4FyIScpCWevK.html
24-06-2020||City||MCDs elect mayors, deputy mayors||New Delhi: The three Municipal Corporations elected mayors and deputy mayors on Wednesday. Sadar Bazar councillor Jai Prakash has been elected mayor from North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Shahdara councillor Nirmal Jain from East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and Anamika Mithilesh from South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). Ritu Goel (North DMC), Hari Prakash Bahadur (EDMC) and Subhash Bhadana (SDMC) have been elected for the post of deputy mayors.Newly elected north mayor Prakash had been vice-president of Delhi unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and was also standing committee chairperson of the north civic body. EDMC mayor Jain was the leader of the House in the corporation while SDMC mayor Anamika Mithilesh is a councillor from Hari Nagar ward and was a member of SDMC standing committee in 2017. The outgoing mayors are Avtar Singh (north corporation), Sunita Kangra (SDMC) and Anju Kamalkant (EDMC).The North and South Corporations each have 104 councillors, while the EDMC has 64 members. The BJP has a clear majority in all three municipal corporations so the nominees for the post of mayor and deputy mayors were elected unopposed.The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act provides for the election of mayor and deputy mayor from among the councillors of the civic bodies in the first meeting of the House every year. Mayors and deputy mayors get a year-long term in the Union Territories.This year elections of mayor and deputy mayor were to be conducted in April but the process got delayed by two months due to coronavirus pandemic. Highlighting his priorities, Prakash said that fighting Covid-19 pandemic in close coordination with the state and central governments will be his top priority. “I am committed to working for the inclusive development of the north corporation. We will provide all possible support to the state government to fight the problem of coronavirus pandemic,” he said.After taking over the new assignment, SDMC mayor Anamika said that her foremost priority will be effectively dealing with coronavirus pandemic. “In view of the financial challenges being faced by the SDMC, we need to focus on a better revenue generation plan to deal with the situation and try to make the south corporation self-sustainable rather expecting financial assistance from Delhi government,” she said in a statement.Five nominations were filled for the three vacant posts of the member in the standing committee. BJP councillors Rajdutt Gehlot and Tulsi Joshi and AAP councillor Jitender Kumar have been declared as elected members of the SDMC standing committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcds-elect-mayors-deputy-mayors/story-hGlvVqxzWD9W9kJ88xuiCM.html
24-06-2020||City||Delhi riots: Court denies police custody for school principal||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Wednesday declined a request by the city police, seeking custody of Faisal Farooq, who was booked for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots, in and around his school in North East Delhi in February. The court stated that there is a delay of four months in moving the application.Farooq is the principal of Rajdhani school in North East Delhi. Metropolitan Magistrate Richa Parihar said that the city police are seeking custody in the case after a delay of four months in moving the application since the case was registered soon after the incident on February 24. The police had filed an application seeking four days police custody after the Delhi High Court had stayed his release in connection to another FIR.Earlier on Tuesday, the Delhi High Court was informed by senior advocate Ramesh Gupta and advocate Gaurav Kocchar that Farooq had been arrested in an FIR number 73/2020 registered at police station Dayalpur. The high court was told about the arrest while hearing a plea by the city police seeking cancellation of bail in FIR no-134/2020 following which the court had stayed the release of Faisal. Faisal has been accused of orchestrating the riots outside his school. A Delhi court had on Saturday granted bail to the Farooq stating that the CCTV footage did not show his presence at the place of the incident where the riots had broken out. But on Monday, police had approached the high court against the lower court’s decision to release him on bail. On Wednesday, advocates RK Kocchar and Gaurav Kocchar, told the court that the contents of both the FIRs are the same and his client has already been investigated in this case. The counsels submitted that the FIR in the present case was registered with a malafide intention against the accused on the same facts.Opposing the police custody, he also said that the accused was formally arrested again in the present case (FIR-73) on June 22 only to defeat the purpose of bail granted to accused in FIR number –134 on Saturday.Seeking custody, the Investigating Officer (IO), told the court that the co-accused had to be arrested and further investigation is pending. He said that 76 FIRs have been registered with respect to the violence around the Rajdhani school and this case is different from the one in which Faisal has been granted bail.He also contended that the Farooq had to be taken to several parts of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi for further investigation.After hearing the contentions, the court agreed with the contentions of Farooq’s counsel and said that the incidents in both the FIRs had taken place on the same date and even the allegations are same. It also said that the accused, Faisal, has been in custody for last four months in connection to the other FIR and even in that case the police had contended that he had to be taken to other states for investigation.“I do not find any justification in moving the present application after a delay of about four months when the facts were within the knowledge of the IO himself from the very first day of the incident and moreover both the cases were simultaneously registered at same police station --Dayalpur,” the court said while refusing police custody. Earlier this month, police had charged 18 people in connection to the riots that broke out at the Rajdhani Public School, while naming its principal, Farooq for hatching a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots, in and around Rajdhani School. His counsel had denied the charges and said that Farooq had infact informed police control room about the riots. Police claimed in the charge sheet that the call detail analysis of Farooque suggested that the he had links with links with prominent members of Popular Front of India, Pinjratod group, Jamia Coordination Committee. The members of these organisations have also been arrested conspiracy behind the riots in north east Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-court-denies-police-custody-for-school-principal/story-BgMITjEijoJcLBljSsbSGI.html
24-06-2020||City||Three get bail in a Delhi riots case, court says police can’t tell how accused were identified||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to three persons arrested in connection with the murder of a local resident during the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, saying that in all the three cases, the investigating officer (IO) had failed to explain how the accused were identified in the case.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the relief to Israr Ahmad, Mohd Tayyab, Mohd Rizwan on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000 each with one surety of like amount. It also asked them to join the investigation and not tamper with the evidence.“In the entire report, the Investigating Officer has nowhere mentioned as to how applicants (Ahmad, Tayyab and Rizwan) were identified in the matter. The report is completely devoid of material against the applicant(s),” the court said in three separate orders passed on June 24.Appearing for the accused, advocate MM Hashmi, told the court that they have been falsely implicated in the case. He said that the investigation in the case was completed and they were no more required for custodial interrogation. He also submitted that all three have clean antecedents.Opposing the bail, the additional public prosecutor Taufeeq Ahmed, told the court that the accused have been involved in a heinous case and the allegations against them were serious in nature.Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said the Delhi Police will file an appeal in the higher court against the Delhi court’s orders. “There are evidence and the statements of at least seven witnesses in the case. We are examining the court’s orders and accordingly file an appeal in the higher court,” said Randhawa. The trio was arrested in connection with the alleged murder of a local resident during the riots that broke out during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act on February 24 in Khajuri Khas area of the North East Delhi.According to the FIR, the complainant’s brother was injured due to stone-pelting by the mob when he was returning his home. He succumbed to his injuries in the hospital, said the complaint.Following this, the accused were arrested for rioting, unlawful assembly, murder, promoting enmity between groups based on religion, caste, language, etc and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-get-bail-in-a-delhi-riots-case-court-says-police-can-t-tell-how-accused-were-identified/story-LL7A6OYU1CdhzBRHSuhAjJ.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister donates Rs 3 lakh for development of Mohali’s Kandala village||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday handed over cheques worth Rs 3 lakh to the panchayat of kandala village for development-oriented works.In his address, the minister said Rs. 80,000 was donated for purchasing a water tanker as it was a long pending demand of the panchayat. He added that another cheque worth Rs 2.46 lakh was given for installing street lights in the village and the work will be finished speedily. He also divulged that development works in Mohali are moving at a fast pace and there is no dearth of funds for projects.Sarpanch of the village, Bimla Devi, thanked the minister on the occasion and said that constituency is seeing rapid development under his leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-donates-rs-3-lakh-for-development-of-mohali-s-kandala-village/story-0qbNEwbXFRtF2BOOuZLDiK.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University postpones syndicate meeting after employee tests Covid-19 positive||The Panjab University syndicate meeting scheduled for Thursday has been postponed after a university employee tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday.The 37-year-old employee is a resident of Sector 29, and was posted at the re-evaluation branch. She had attended duty till Friday.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “No date has been fixed for the meeting but it will be held before July 14.”The syndicate was scheduled to take a call on the appointment of the new dean students’ welfare (DSW) at their meeting on Thursday. Now, the registrar has written to the members seeking their consent for extension of interim DSW SK Tomar’s term till the next meeting is held.PU administration also decided to close its administration block and Aruna Ranjit Chandra hall till Friday. The two buildings have been sealed and sanitised. The university has also directed all officers posted in these blocks to seek information from officials under them on whether they had any contact with the Corona positive employee.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “All scheduled meetings or submission of document are postponed to the next working day. The situation will be reviewed on Friday for chalking out further course of action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-postpones-syndicate-meeting-after-employee-tests-covid-19-postive/story-cufjKNNUWamQdcUUtc3U8M.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students’ body protests against fuel price hike||Students from National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Panjab University, on Wednesday, protested at the Sector 15 market over rising fuel prices in the country.As many as 15 students of NSUI started the protest march from PU’s gate number two. They also protested against the central government’s inability to improve economic conditions of the country. A demonstration was held to portray the inability of the common man to afford fuel at the new rates. The students said the continuous hike in fuel prices is burdening the common man and is a step against the economically backward people of the country.Manoj Lubana of NSUI said diesel prices have surpassed petrol prices for the first time in independent India and India is collecting the highest tax rates on fuel in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-body-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/story-o6MUAJZKr1iSNuCzi5CnjI.html
24-06-2020||Noida||Noida sector 50 metro station named ‘rainbow station’ to honour transgender community||The Noida Metro rail corporation on Wednesday said that it has decided to name sector 50 Metro station ‘Rainbow station’ to spread awareness about protection of transgender rights.The sector 50 metro station is located on 29.7 km Aqua Line that connects Noida’s sector 51 with Greater Noida’s sector Delta Metro station.“We have started the initiative to name the station after transgender community with a noble intention to empower the community. We had invited suggestions from individuals and NGOs about naming the station to signify the essence of the community and honour their spirit. We have plans to employ them and also respect the sentiment,” said Ritu Maheshari CEO of the Noida authority and managing director of NMRC.The authority has given the name ‘rainbow station’ after some people raised the objection to word- ‘SheMan’ used for transgender community.The rainbow colours, especially etched on flags, represent diversity and are also a prominent symbol of pride for the wider Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) community, which has for long struggled for equal rights. While announcing the move last week, the NMRC MD had cited Census 2011 figures to state that there are 4.9 lakh transgenders in India out of which 30,000 to 35,000 are staying in Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR).Earlier in 2017, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited in Kerala had taken a similar step by employing 23 transgenders, breaking a new ground in gender justice.The NMRC started operations on this 29.707km Noida-Greater Noida Metro Link on January 26, 2019. The services on Metro Link are disrupted since March 25, 2020 after nationwide lockdown was announced to prevent the spread of Covid 19 pandemic.“We will start the operations on Aqua Line as soon as we get the nod from the government,” said Maheshwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-sector-50-metro-station-named-rainbow-station-to-honour-transgender-community/story-glAnkVi3xJxDbwVfRrJHgO.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Feet chopped after murder, reveals post-mortem||The severed feet, found dumped along the cycle track near the Press light point in Sector 17, Chandigarh, were of a woman and had been chopped off after her death, the post-mortem examination revealed.The board of doctors, who conducted the post-mortem, said that the foetus, recovered close to the site, was eight months old and had wound marks along the neck, hinting that the woman may have been brutally killed in the advanced stage of her pregnancy.The doctors are now in the process of submitting a detailed post-mortem report to the police. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, central) Krishan Kumar said a case has now been registered under Section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code on the basis of the doctors’ opinion. ‘RECOVERY OF MORE PARTS LIKELY’ A senior cop, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The post-mortem points to a gruesome murder and more body parts are likely to be recovered soon.” Police have intensified their search for other body parts that may have been dumped in other areas of the city or are yet to be disposed off.Police are also looking at the missing person’s reports. The age of the victim is yet to be ascertained.DNA PROFILING TO BE DONEAs the freshly aborted foetus was recovered close to the severed feet, police are also looking at the honour killing angle. “A DNA profiling is being done to ascertain if the foetus belongs to the murdered woman,” said senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/feet-chopped-after-murder-reveals-post-mortem/story-4tYQaVUhuejYGKibEhXgUJ.html
24-06-2020||Kolkata||Private hospitals neglected comorbid conditions: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that a few more lives could have been saved had the private hospitals given a better treatment to patients with comorbid conditions. The chief minister also announced that the coronavirus lockdown in containment zones in West Bengal, which was supposed to expire on June 30, has been extended till July 31. “We could have saved a few more lives if they were given some better treatment. Private hospitals focused on Covid-19 treatments and neglected the comorbid condition like cardiac problems and kidney problems in Covid patients. As a result some people died. I am sorry to say. The government is sending instruction to the hospitals in this regard,” Banerjee said, after an all-party meeting held at the state secretariat on Wednesday.At least 591 people have died in the state out of which 437 or nearly 74% had comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac disease and kidney ailments among others. “When a critical cardiac patient with Covid-19 is coming you should first attend his cardiac problems. Later you can attend his Covid problems,” she added. “The lockdown, with the relaxations that have been earlier announced, will continue till July 31,” Banerjee told media persons, adding that political parties had come up with different suggestions on extending the lockdown. West Bengal had on June 8, relaxed lockdown curbs from June 1 along with other parts of the country. The lockdown now exists primarily in the containment zones with relaxations given to shops, offices, religious institutions and public transport in other places. She said that the state would request the NITI Aayog to formulate a master plan for the the protection and development of the Sunderbans, home to more than four million people and around 100 tigers.“All parties have raised the issue of Sunderbans which is repeatedly being devastated by cyclones. We will request NITI Aayog to send down a team and formulate a master plan and a permanent solution. The help of the World Bank can also be taken,” she added.An all-party committee, with state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee has been formed, to look into the relief and restoration work in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan that has affected around 100 million people in the state.“We had given some suggestions to in the meeting. Let the government take actions on those suggestions. It is too early to say whether we are happy with the outcome of the meeting,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s unit in West Bengal. There have been allegations of corruption in the relief work against the ruling party in several villages. Recently irate villagers have staged protests in many cyclone hit areas and government offices have been ransacked. “I have instructed the chief secretary and the district administration that no genuine cyclone-victim should be deprived of the relief. Some of our panchayat leaders and members have been ousted. We won’t tolerate any corruption,” she added.CPIM state secretary Surya Kanta Mishra said: “There are certain gaps which need to be plugged particularly in the health care sector. We have given our suggestions to the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/private-hospitals-neglected-comorbid-conditions-mamata-banerjee/story-cxR8oPCIMdSpsrfyXYbcQK.html
24-06-2020||City||Batala man stabbed to death by cousin over land dispute||A 50-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by his cousin over a land dispute in Bauli Inderjit locality, police said on Wednesday.The deceased was identified as Gurmeet Singh, while the accused is Gurdeep Singh. Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Civil Lines police station against Gurdeep, on complaint of the victim’s wife Manjeet Kaur.Police have also registered a case under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC against Gurdeep’s father Ajit Singh for helping the accused in pursuance of the crime. In her complaint, Manjeet said that there was a land dispute between her husband and his cousin.“On Tuesday night, Gurdeep took my husband somewhere on pretext of some urgent work. After sometime, I got a call from my husband telling me that Gurdeep has stabbed him with a knife and thrown him on Jalandhar Road. I reached the spot and took my husband to a private hospital but he succumbed to the injuries on Wednesday morning,” she said.Batala Civil Lines station house officer (SHO) Paramjit Singh said, “We have registered a case against the accused’s father, who is the victim’s maternal uncle, for helping his son while committing the crime. Both accused are absconding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/batala-man-stabbed-to-death-by-cousin-over-land-dispute/story-S6Q06NPmHPQ4G9K89kyAFL.html
24-06-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 cases breach 10K mark in Karnataka; 397 fresh cases and 14 deaths||Covid-19 infections in Karnataka breached the 10,000 mark with the state on Wednesday reporting 397 new positive cases and 14 related fatalities, taking the death toll to 164. The day also saw 149 patients getting discharged in the state after recovery.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage As of June 24 evening, cumulatively 10,118 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 164 deaths and 6,151 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 3,799 active cases, 3,687 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 112 are in ICU. The fourteen dead include- five from Bengaluru urban, four from Ballari, two each from Kalaburagi and Ramanagara, and one from Tumakuru. Almost all the cases are with the history of either Influenza-like illness (ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The dead include 10 men and four women. Barring two, all the deceased are above 50. Out of 397 new cases 75 are returnees from other states, while eight are those who returned from other countries. The remaining cases include contacts of patients earlier tested positive, those with history of ‘SARI’ and ‘ILI,’ among others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 173 cases, followed by Ballari 34, 22 each from Kalaburagi and Ramanagara, Udupi 14, Yadgir 13, 12 each from Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad, Koppal 11. While nine each are from Raichur and Uttara Kannada, eight each are from Davanagere and Chikkaballapura, seven each from Mysuru and Bengaluru rural, six each from Gadag and Kolar, Bidar five, Vijayapura four, Shivamogga three, two each from Mandya, Chitradurga, Chamarajanagara and Kodagu, and one each from Belagavi, Hassan and Tumakuru. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 1,678 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,254 and Udupi 1,102. Among discharges, Udupi tops the list with 978 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 829 and Yadgir 567. A total of 5,39,247 samples were tested so far, out of which 12,709 were tested on Wednesday alone. According to the bulletin,so far 5,15,388 samples have reported negative, and out of them 11,654 were reported negative today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-cases-breach-10k-mark-in-karnataka-397-fresh-cases-and-14-deaths/story-Mk8gPk7obEJXe9aHDUWqOK.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Shops in Mumbai’s municipal markets to open on odd-even basis||After remaining shut since the coronavirus-induced lockdown, shops in municipal markets of Mumbai will now be allowed to operate on odd even basis, a civic official said on Wednesday.The city has over 200 municipal markets including 16 private markets.In a circular issued on Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said shopkeepers will have to take adequate precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19.“Traders, vendors and customers will be required to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines while operating their establishments on both sides of these markets alternately on odd-even basis,” the BMC stated.Shopkeepers have assured to arrange for masks, gloves, sanitisers and check body temperature of each person and even hire private security guards for crowd control if required, the circular stated.However, hotels and eateries inside these markets will continue to remain shut and only two people will be allowed to work in each shop, it was stated. As per the release, assistant municipal commissioners will take a call on whether to open municipal markets in the containment zones of their wards.All establishments, barring shops selling essential commodities, have remained shut since the lockdown came into force on March 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shops-in-mumbai-s-municipal-markets-to-open-on-odd-even-basis/story-MA2IKRb2oP8Ce1NIMAd0aL.html
24-06-2020||City||IAS aspirant among four held with heroin in Kangra||Four persons, including a woman preparing for IAS examinations, were arrested with 8.38gm heroin and narcotic tablets in Kangra on Wednesday.The accused have been identified as Samridhi Bedi, a resident of Chetru village near Dharamshala town, Sidhant Thakur of Bhatech village, Rajat from Preyi village, and Abhishlant of Dramman village in Shahpur sub-division.Damtal police station in-charge Harish Guleria said that a police team deployed at Bhadroya toll tax barrier signalled a car bearing registration number HP 33 B 8550 to stop. However, the occupants tried to flee but were held after a brief chase. Upon search, they were found in possession of the contraband. They have been booked under the provisions of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.The accused will be produced before a court on Thursday. Sources said that the accused woman is was undergoing coaching for the UPSC exam in Chandigarh and currently was in her hometown due to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ias-aspirant-among-four-held-with-heroin-in-kangra/story-CYlTV5SidSFdReSe3ECJmJ.html
24-06-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal extends coronavirus lockdown till July 31||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced extension of the lockdown in the state till July 31 to contain the spread of Covid-19.The ongoing lockdown in West Bengal was to end on June 30.Banerjee, after attending an all-party meeting held at an auditorium adjacent to the state secretariat, said though there were differences of opinion among the leaders, it was finally decided to extend the curbs till the end of July with relaxations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-july-31/story-8IczEZHACM0wzbf7ELrefP.html
24-06-2020||City||Amritsar int’l airport emerges as third busiest in India amid lockdown||The suspension of international commercial flights during the coronavirus induced lockdown has revealed the full potential of the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar.As per recent traffic report released by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for April, Amritsar recorded a total of 5,972 international and domestic passengers, leaving behind all major airports in India, except Delhi and Mumbai.Delhi was on the top with 20,624 and Mumbai second with 9,051 passengers. Of total 5,972 passengers, 5,011 are international and others domestic. With 5,011 passengers, the Amritsar airport has achieved the third place among all international airports in country.A complete suspension of flights in late March left thousands of foreign nationals and residents stranded across country, including Punjab. The biggest number of UK and Canada residents stranded in India was recorded in Punjab. To repatriate its citizens, their consulates in India arranged special chartered flights operated by leading airline carriers, including the British Airways.Amritsar handled the biggest number of flights from India to London’s Heathrow airport by UK and by Canadian foreign office to Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal to fly back Britons and Canadians. These overseas flights started in April and continued to operate till mid-May.Sameep Singh Gumtala, global convener of the Fly Amritsar initiative, said, “The demand for direct repatriation flights from Amritsar to UK and Canada was raised by stranded passengers with their governments. This proves that majority of the international traffic at Delhi airport from UK and Canada comes from Punjab.”“Punjabi diaspora prefer to travel directly from Punjab instead of Delhi, if more international flights are started from Amritsar. The airport is within three-hour reach from all major cities in Punjab and this distance will be reduced to half after the completion of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway,” he said.Yogesh Kamra, Fly Amritsar convener and secretary Amritsar Vikas Manch, said the airport has all infrastructures to handle traffic even during extreme crisis situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-int-l-airport-emerges-as-third-busiest-in-india-amid-lockdown/story-gHdhS17Yw6PfqDsCKqOaDO.html
24-06-2020||City||Staff nurse among two found infected in Panchkula||Two persons, including a staff nurse and a merchant navy official, tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Wednesday, taking the district count to 99.The nurse, aged 27, who works at the civil hospital in Sector 6, is a resident of Sector 2, Majri Chowk. According to health officials, she had come in contact with an infected relative. The other patient, aged 40, lives in Sector 20. While his two previous reports had returned negative results, he got tested again before reporting for work and was found positive. Of the 99 confirmed cases in the district, 50 have recovered, leaving 49 active cases.14-day quarantine must for visitorsIn the wake of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in Panchkula, the deputy commissioner has made 14-day home quarantine mandatory for any visitors staying here for over 24 hours.Besides, those staying back for over 72 hours also need to register themselves on www.saralharyana.gov.in. Government employees attending office in the district are exempted.RWAs and NGOs have been asked to proactively report outsiders at 1950 if they have not registered themselves. Violators will be quarantined by the district authorities.Admn mulling shifting of gynae OPD Meanwhile, the health authorities are considering shifting the gynaecology OPD and labour room at the civil hospital to the polytechnic in Sector 26. However, residents, through Twitter, have recommended that these be shifted to either the health centre in Sector 16 or the dispensary in Sector 12. The Sector 12 dispensary is being used as the AYUSH department’s office, which residents have suggested be shifted to the AYUSH office in Sector 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staff-nurse-among-two-found-infected-in-panchkula/story-hA2xXpDgsH6EblSKseh9AL.html
24-06-2020||City||National Means-cum-Merit scholarship: Ludhiana tops the state as 229 students clear exam||As many as 229 students from Ludhiana cleared the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exam, the results of which were declared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training on Wednesday. Across the state, as many as 2,203 students have passed the exam, with Ludhiana having the highest pass percentage.The exam is conducted for students of Class 8, who on clearing the exam become eligible to Rs 12,000 per annum as scholarshiptill they complete senior secondary school. Udaynoor Singh, a student of Government High School, Guruwali, Amritsar, topped the exam, scoring 153 out of 180. The second place is shared by Gurinderjeet Kaur of Government Middle School, Goh, Ludhiana, and Tanush Rajinder Kambri of Government Middle School, Bhangal Khurd Amargarh of SBS Nagar. Both have scored 152 marks in the exam.In Ludhiana, the top three schools, from where the maximum students cleared the exam are Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Sahnewal, and Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University.Ludhiana district education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur congratulated the students, teachers and school heads for this achievement. She also applauded the efforts made by the deputy district education officers for motivating students to appear in the test during their visit to the schools.Gurinderjeet Kaur, the second-position holder, said, “I worked very hard to clear this test but securing the second position in the state came as a surprise. I was guided by my science teacher Rajveer Kaur and in-charge Charanjit Kaur.” Her father Gurdeep Singh is a farmer and mother Sukhwinder Kaur is a homemaker.Of the 2,203 students who cleared the exam, 170 are from Jalandhar, 159 from Hoshiarpur, 158 from Amritsar, 157 from Patiala, 141 from Sangrur, 128 from Gurdaspur, 100 from Bathinda, 98 from Tarn Taran, 91from Moga, 88 from Fazilka, 74 from Mansa, 70 each from Kapurthala and Mukstar, 66 from Rupnagar, 64 each from SAS Nagar and Ferozepur, 62 from SBS Nagar, 58 from Barnala, 53 each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Faridkot and 50 from Pathankot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/national-means-cum-merit-scholarship-ludhiana-tops-the-state-as-229-students-clear-the-exam/story-BQmL4L7RsgD6YoqkFVdeiN.html
24-06-2020||Jaipur||Monsoon hits Rajasthan, covers 14 districts on Day 1||South West monsoon on Wednesday hit Rajasthan covering 14 districts of the desert state, a day prior to its usual date of arrival.“Conditions are favourable this time and therefore, the monsoon has covered over 14 districts of Rajasthan on the first day of its arrival today. Monsoon is likely to be good this time,” an official of the meteorological department said.Monsoon has covered districts in western and eastern parts of the state. These include Jaisalmer, Barmer, Sirohi, Rajsamand, Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Jhalwara, Kota, Bundi and Baran. This is the third time in a decade when monsoon has hit the state before its normal time.Monsoon normally enters Rajasthan on June 25, as per the MeT.Rains lashed several parts of the state, with Kota recording 13.6 mm of rainfall, followed by 6.1 mm in Jodhpur, 2.8 mm in Dabok and 0.7 mm in Jaipur. Light rainfall was recorded in Ajmer.  Conditions are favourable for further advancement of monsoon and the department has predicted light to heavy rainfall areas in Udaipur, Bharatpur, Kota, Jaipur and Ajmer divisions during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/monsoon-hits-rajasthan-covers-14-districts-on-day-1/story-yNBjgLiNWG4lKgi0zlJNgK.html
24-06-2020||City||Man accuses foster parents of harassment in video, kills self||AMRITSAR A 24-year-old man shot himself dead in Buttar village falling under Mehta police station of Amritsar-rural district. According to police, Gurjant Singh also made a video of himself before taking the extreme step. The video clip was widely shared on social media.In the clip, the victim is heard saying: “I am a resident of Buttar village. My (foster) father has been harassing me and my wife. He also tried to assault my wife several times. When I objected to this, he got me arrested, alleging that I took drugs. My In-laws had also come, but he pushed them out of the home. Now, my father is trying to get me arrested.”“I am committing suicide. For this, my father Gurmej Singh, his wife Jasbir Kaur, his daughter Jaspal Kaur and her husband Manjinder Singh, and his niece Balwinder Kaur will be responsible. They should be punished.” Before the video clip ends, the victim shows a pistol.Mehta SHO Satpal Singh said on the basis of the video clip and the statement of Gurjant’s wife, five people have been booked under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and they are absconding. He said Gurjant was adopted 22 years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-accuses-foster-parents-of-harassment-in-video-kills-self/story-I0zxEaUOm753F6VdLOsA2K.html
24-06-2020||City||KDMC to spend ₹18.47 on pothole filling||The standing committee of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) sanctioned ₹18.47 crore for pothole filling works during monsoon on Wednesday. The meeting also emphasised on the completion of Dombivli east and west connecting railway overbridge (ROB). The meeting was conducted following the social distancing norms among the members.“In order to ensure the roads are safe for commute during the rainy days the committee has sanctioned the road repair works in all its wards,” said Vikas Mhatre, standing committee chairman, KDMC. “Earlier we had finished the work of dismantling the bridge in a span of 15 days, although the estimate time was three months. The building of approach roads and other works is under progress. We expect to complete the work of the bridge will be completed in three to four-month time, “said Sapna Koli city engineer, KDMC.The 40-year-old bridge was shut in September 2019, after it was declared unsafe by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay in May 2019 after an audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-to-spend-18-47-on-pothole-filling/story-Rk2cupOTB8Eko4SkCdbMTK.html
24-06-2020||City||20-year-old man beaten to death in Moga, seven booked||Moga A 20-year-old man was held captive for six hours and beaten to death by the family of a woman friend at Dhalleke village of Moga district in the wee hours of Wednesday, police said.Police have booked seven people, including the woman and her six family members for murder. The deceased was identified as Inderjit Singh of Dhalleke village. The accused were identified as Amarjit Kaur, her parents Balwinder Singh and Charanjit Kaur, her uncle Kulwinder Singh, and two cousins Gurmeet Singh and Gurdeep Singh.Deputy superintendent of police Barjinder Singh said investigations revealed that Inderjit had gone to meet the girl at her house late Tuesday night. “Her family members spotted Inderjit, held him captive for a few hours and later beat him to death. Hearing screams, some neighbours came to his rescue and took him to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. We have registered a case against seven persons and they are absconding,” he added.A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting), and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadar police station in Moga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-man-beaten-to-death-in-moga-seven-booked/story-uDr2c2oqm5Ga4hX3iEDf0I.html
24-06-2020||City||Rollback hike in fuel prices, HP Congress urges Centre||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee on Wednesday condemned hike in fuel prices and submitted a memorandum to the president through governor Bandaru Dattatreya demanding his immediate intervention in this matter. They also urged the Centre to roll back this decision.State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore said that despite the historic reduction in the crude oil prices (most significant since 1991) the present central government continues to hit the consumer by not providing any relief rather, it has increased per litre excise duty on petrol and diesel.Fuel prices have been increasing for the last 17 days. So far, petrol prices have been hiked by ₹8.75 per litre while diesel prices have been increased by ₹10.44 per litre.He said that the Centre’s decision to increase fuel prices during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is insensitive. “The government should have been more sensitive to the plight of people as they are already in great distress. At such a time when the government is supposed to reduce prices, the increase in excise duty of petrol and diesel is totally unacceptable and must be rolled back immediately,” he added.Earlier a procession of Congress workers sloganeering against price rise, Chinese intrusion into Indian Territory and failure of the Centre to check price hike from Congress Office Rajiv Bhawan Shimla to DC Office via Subzi Mandi and lower Bazar was carried out adhering to social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rollback-hike-in-fuel-prices-hp-congress-urges-centre/story-icndUBr0mpYhHkvhWu9s6L.html
24-06-2020||City||Three new cases take Mohali tally to 229||A 25-year-old woman from Baltana in Zirakpur was among the three new Covid-19 cases in Mohali on Wednesday.Besides the woman, two men, aged 56 and 42, residents of Gillco Heights, Kharar, and Shivalik City, Kharar, respectively, were found infected. Both men work in the advertisement department of a vernacular newspaper.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the 56-year-old man had diabetes and hypertension, while the other man also had high blood pressure. They were both admitted to the hospital with fever over the past week.Of the 229 patients in the district, 171 have recovered and three have died, leaving 55 active patients.Muzaffarnagar man dies at Dera Bassi hospitalA 67-year-old man hailing from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh succumbed to Covid-19 at Indus International Hospital in Dera Bassi on Wednesday.Dr Singh said the patient was referred to Dera Bassi by a private hospital in Muzaffarnagar due to severe lung infection on June 21. He later tested positive for Covid-19 and died on Wednesday. “We have sent the body to Muzaffarnagar following proper protocol. This death will not be counted in Mohali district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baltana-woman-tests-positive-in-mohali-tally-now-227/story-DJ0cEHAwSOCXPAY6uN5GlL.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Youth found hanging in Chandigarh||A Colony Number 4 resident was found hanging in the adjacent forest area on Wednesday morning.Police said the youth, 22, was pursuing BCom from a Delhi college and had come to Chandigarh in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown. A passer-by spotted the body around 7.30am and sounded the police, who further contacted the deceased’s family.His father told the police that he last saw his son when he woke up at 2am. The family members started looking for him when they found him missing in the morning. No suicide note was found. Police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-found-hanging-in-chandigarh/story-d0ZXQjCWdi7aUZf6iDqtAN.html
24-06-2020||City||11,000 industrial plot owners can utilise 15% area for housing staff||Mohali In a major relief to 11,000 plot owners in focal points of the state, Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation Limited (PSIEC) has allowed allottees to utilise up to 15% of the total covered area in the industrial building for housing staff without paying any conversion charges.There are 11,000 industrial plots in 46 focal points across the state. Earlier, it was allowed in eight focal points and that too with 33% conversion charges of current value of the plot.PSIEC managing director Sumeet Jaranagal said it was done considering the persistent demand of entrepreneurs and their representative bodies, and impact of Covid-19 pandemic. “Now, the allottees will not need to pay the conversion charges, but subject to the condition that they will adhere to the applicable zoning and building bylaws,” he said.President of Mohali Industries Association Yogesh Sagar said, “It was a long-pending demand of the industrialists. The decision will help small industries economise on their operations and manage their affairs more effectively and efficiently.”In January this year, the PSIEC allowed commercial use of 20% area of the industrial plots.Aug 31 last date for paying enhanced land cost The PSIEC has extended the last date for the payment of enhanced land cost from May 30 to till August 31. PSIEC managing director Sumeet Jaranagal said defaulter plot holders of different focal points can make clear dues of enhanced land cost awarded by judicial courts by August 31. The period from May 30 to August 31 will be treated as ‘zero period’ for all intents and purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-000-industrial-plot-owners-can-utilise-15-area-for-housing-staff/story-w8pBffU1jnC9dg6lCXfJdN.html
24-06-2020||City||Two schools inaugurated in Panchkula||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal and Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta inaugurated two schools – Government Senior Secondary School in Sector 26 and an English-medium Primary School in Sector 31 on Wednesday.The Sector-31 school was constructed on 1.10 acres at a cost of Rs 1.9 crore, while the other school was built on 4.98 acres at a cost of Rs 7.86 crore.“Panchkula will be an education hub,” said the education minister, while announcing that Haryana will have 1,405 schools, of which 418 schools had been inaugurated and 987 schools will be opened soon.Pal announced that 98 Model Sanskriti schools will also be opened in each block to enable the underprivileged children to get good education.Gupta said the building of National Institute of Fashion Design was being constructed at a cost of Rs 150 crore and a polytechnic-cum-multiskill centre was also coming up at an investment of Rs 20 crore.“About 150 courses in these institutes will help fill the gap of skilled workers and enable the youth to become independent by starting their own ventures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-schools-inaugurated-in-panchkula/story-T9APg17qrKe16Bgcv7jATN.html
24-06-2020||Lucknow||UP records 8 more Covid-19 deaths, 664 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh reported eight more deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state’s toll to 596, while 664 fresh infections were detected.“The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 6,375. As many as 12,586 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease, and have been discharged,” Principal Secretary Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here.The death toll due to Covid-19 in the state rose to 596 on Wednesday, he said.The total number of deaths in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday stood at 588.The state’s tally of Covid-19 cases stands at 19,557.Prasad said samples of health workers, shopkeepers and salesmen were collected under targeted random sampling on Wednesday.“The aim is to create awareness among them. These people are vulnerable to infection, so they need to be careful,” he said.He also said antigen testing will commence on Thursday in six districts of Meerut division, and cities of Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar, Gorakhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-records-8-more-covid-19-deaths-664-fresh-cases/story-GFQJnsl99TsP9EOWGX895J.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Former DEO challenges appointment of Harbir Singh, HC puts UT on notice||The Punjab and Haryana has put the Chandigarh administration on notice on a plea challenging the appointment of Harbir Singh as the district education officer (DEO). Singh will be replacing Alka Mehta, the incumbent, whose appointment is already under challenge before the high court by former DEO Anujit Kaur. The high court bench of justice Daya Chaudhary and justice Meenakshi I Mehta has sought UT’s response by August 17.After the appointment of Mehta as DEO in November 2019 replacing Kaur, the latter had challenged the education department’s orders in the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT). CAT stayed Mehta’s appointment, which resulted in the matter reaching the high court. The court on January 6 stayed the CAT order and allowed Mehta to continue on the post. However, even as the dispute between the two was still pending in court, Anand was appointed as DEO by the UT administration earlier this month.Now, Kaur in her plea says instead of resolving the matter, the education department has passed a fresh order, which will further complicate the matter. She has argued that Singh has been posted as DEO, though he is at serial number 15 of the gradation list as per departmental seniority list. Kaur feels, being the senior most in the department, she should have been allowed to continue on the post. She wants the department to conduct a regular Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) and award regular promotion to the post of DEO. She is set to retire in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-deo-challenges-appointment-of-harbir-singh-hc-puts-ut-on-notice/story-XhpfKVfgEDAHmTfufGSkZP.html
24-06-2020||Noida||Noida Police clocks second-best response time to distress calls in UP||Among 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh, the Gautam Buddh Nagar district has ranked second for two straight months in terms of response time to emergency 112 call, according to official data. Gautam Buddh Nagar police clocked an average time of 8.10 minutes to respond to an emergency in the month of May, behind only Raebareli police which had the best time of 7.49 minutes, the state-level data showed. In the month of April, Gautam Buddh Nagar police’s average response time was exact 8 minutes, behind only Kanpur city police by one second, it showed.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Rajesh S, who is also the officer in-charge for 112 service in Gautam Buddh Nagar, said they attended a whopping 53,405 calls. In April and 16,428 in May – the two months when the Covid-19 lockdown was in place – and managed the second best response time in the state. Adjoining Delhi in western UP, Gautam Buddh Nagar is spread over an area of 1,442 sq kms with a large rural area besides the urbane Noida and Greater Noida, officials said. Currently, the district has 65 four-wheeler and 46 two-wheeler police response vehicles (PRVs) which handle emergency calls made on 112, the officials said. All distress calls made on 112 are re-routed to the local PRVs from the Lucknow headquarters and the time duration is calculated from the moment a PRV responds to the situation till it reaches the incident spot, with both times being fed on mobile-data terminals, according to officials. Also, the response time of any district is the average duration of urban and rural time, they said. According to the data, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police clocked an average 8.33 minutes to respond to distress calls in rural areas and 7.12 minutes in urban areas. The same figures for the month of May stood at 8.38 minutes in rural areas and 7.18 minutes in urban areas, the data showed. “Rural time is always difficult because of the terrain and distance,” DCP Rajesh told PTI, adding that their focus is now at reducing the response time in urban areas to 7 minutes. He credited the consistency in the ranking to team work but also stressed that the district police wants to improve not only its timing but also ensure better after-response situation. “My main concern is what happens after handling the distress call. We can always improve upon the timing but our focus is at ensuring that the emergency responders behave well with aggrieved persons. Being ranked second is fine, but my concern is on our personnel being sensitive and empathetic towards the caller,” Rajesh said. He added that the PRV personnel are regularly trained and a monitoring system is in place to analyse their work. He said major portion of the distress calls during the lockdown was for food and dry ration from across the distress, as indicated in the whopping number of emergency calls. The number of such calls came down drastically in May when a dedicated helpline for Covid-19 related issues was started in the district. “There have been occasions when early response by PRV teams have fetched excellent results. In the month of May, a man had called up 112 and said he was going to hang himself, the PRV team reached well in time and saved him. There was another instance when PRV officials helped evacuate a family caught in fire inside their house. This was possible because the people were aware that 112 emergency number would work and it did,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-clocks-second-best-response-time-to-distress-calls-in-up/story-2P9RyiJx2PI7ig4TqJahdL.html
24-06-2020||City||Himachal bags e-Panchayat Puraskar 2020||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday congratulated the state panchayati raj department for securing first prize under e-Panchayat Puraskar-2020, given by the Union ministry of panchayati raj.CM said that the Union ministry of panchayati raj has been making efforts to bring in transparency, efficiency and accountability in the functioning of gram panchayats through the use of information and communication technology.Thakur said that the ministry has been fervent in recognising the efforts made by various states and Union territories in the use of information and communication technology by the panchayats.He said that this award is conferred to those states who have ensured maximum use of information technology for monitoring the various works of the panchayats. Himachal Pradesh has been selected for this award for effective implementation of the e-application developed by the Centre and other applications developed by the state government.CM said that all the 3,226 panchayats of the state have been provided internet facility and people can access various services online. He said that various services such as family register, registration of birth, death and marriages are registered online in the panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-bags-e-panchayat-puraskar-2020/story-A9kjCBrV7X52MJ1ixE9XgJ.html
24-06-2020||City||Provide Covid-19 relief package to people: CPI M to Himachal govt||The Communist Party of India (CPI M) on Wednesday demanded that the state government should provide a Covid-19 relief package to people of Himachal Pradesh. In a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, the CPI (M) said collection of taxes and recovery of loans from people involved in tourism, industrial sector, transportation, shopkeepers and other businesses should be postponed for a year.The party also demanded Rs 7,500 for next six months to families out of the income tax slab, atleast 10kg free ration to the needy, ration at cheaper rates in all public distribution system, hiked prices of ration should be withdrawn, Rs 600 as daily wages to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee act (MGNREGA) workers and ensuring minimum 200 days work under MGNREGA among others.CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said commercial and economic activities in the state have been adversely affected due to the pandemic. “Unemployment has increased and it is difficult for people to overcome this situation without the government’s assistance. Therefore, the state government should provide a financial relief,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/provide-covid-19-relief-package-to-people-cpi-m-to-himachal-govt/story-cm5YPOhOgN19wyZAAzjzHL.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Aarogya Setu to be coupled with another IT-driven tool to boost surveillance, contact tracing in Delhi||Authorities have planned to use Aarogya Setu app coupled with an IT-driven tool to boost surveillance and contact tracing in Covid-affected areas in Delhi. This is part of the new Covid-19 response plan prepared by Delhi government health department, as per the recommendations from the Union Health Ministry. The purpose is to boost surveillance of positive cases and improve contact tracing, officials said. As per the orders issued by the Directorate General of Health Services in Delhi on Monday, all the chief district medical officers and surveillance officers of all the districts have received a revised response plan which prescribes use of Aarogya Setu coupled with ITIHAS system for cluster projection.  “As per the recommendation of the committee (headed by NITI Ayog member V K Paul), Aarogya Setu app coupled with ITIHAS system anchored by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, is capable of tracking the movement of the cases and their contacts. The system is capable of projecting a cluster development in 300 metre geography,” according to the order. The directions point out that the surveillance system will be guided by an IT-driven tool at district and state-level hubs. The adoption of Aarogya Setu app will be promoted effectively, it said. “An identified team of epidemiologist, district surveillance officer, and IT personnel, at the district level shall be trained in coordination with the NCDC to utilise the Arogya Setu app and ITIHAS system for cluster projection,” the order said. Delhi recorded 3,947 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike here, taking the tally in the city to over 66,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 2301, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aarogya-setu-to-be-coupled-with-another-it-driven-tool-to-boost-surveillance-contact-tracing-in-delhi/story-UjUUety5QWv5wBxO3NugRJ.html
24-06-2020||City||Monsoon’s here but Punjab isn’t rain ready||Flooding and waterlogging during monsoon in Punjab is a tale as old as time. This year, with the state government and district authorities busy tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and as such late to start preparing for the rains, Hindustan Times surveys how prepared major cities of Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Amritsar and Patiala are for the rains scheduled to hit Punjab from Thursday.CASH-STRAPPED JALANDHAR MC YET TO START DRAIN CLEANING DRIVEThe cash-strapped municipal corporation in Jalandhar seems unprepared for the monsoons as the cleaning of sewer and main drains has yet to begin.Sewer pipelines choked with plastic and waste led to flooding in most of the roads and low-lying areas in the city last year.The Congress-ruled MC House, say sources, does not have a plan to tackle waterlogging despite being included in the Centre’s smart city list in September 2016.As no revenues have been generated in the last few months because of the Covid-19 lockdown, the MC deferred plans to buy new machines or install new pipelines to manage storm water drainage.Only drains in the city will be cleaned as of now, but work on that too will begin once contractors manage to get labourers, which is difficult as most of them have left for their home states after the corona outbreak, says a senior MC officer.Lovedeep Singh Nagra, a resident of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, says most of the roads in the city have developed potholes due to rain early this month, but no repair has been carried out. As a result, the risk of mishaps has increased.Besides Covid-19, the risk of other disease outbreaks is high as the MC has not started its fogging drive.The MC has managed to cover only 8% area with storm water drainage, while sewage pipes don’t have the capacity to handle the heavy flow of water.Even as the civic body has been using sewage cleaning machines to clear the choked pipes for over a year, waterlogging has been reported.The MC in the last financial year spent about Rs 50 lakh on cleanliness and maintenance of the sewerage and water supply systems in the city.MC commissioner Karnesh Sharma says there are enough cleaning machines and there are plans to hire more for a cleaning drive of the drains and pipelines ahead of the monsoon. – Jatinder MahalAMRITSAR HOPES TO STEER CLEAR OF WATERLOGGINGAmritsar’s sewer lines are being cleaned manually and mechanically at a cost of ₹8 crore, as the municipal corporation gears up to face the monsoon this season.“The city has a 200-km main sewer line that runs through 85 wards. It used to be badly choked and filled beyond capacity, leading to submerging of most parts of the city every year, but this time, our new mechanised sewage cleaning machines will be used to clean the drains,” said mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu.Desilting, which started in every constituency, is expected to be completed before the monsoon begins. The machines will be used at most of the places, “so once cleaned, the drains won’t cause waterlogging at Heritage Street at the Golden Temple,” Rintu said.“Apart from the ₹8 crore sewer line cleaning project, a ₹5.5-crore project to clean the main sewerage drain, Ganda Nullah, in the city had been initiated in October last year and the desilting has been completed,” said Komal Mittal, MC commissioner.Though Mittal said she was confident that there would be no waterlogging in the city, two control rooms would be set up by MC, at Lahori Gate and Company Bagh, to tackle choked drains, where MC employees will work from July to September. “We will advertise the helpline numbers soon,” she said.Urging the MC to be better prepared, Kulwant Singh, social worker, said, “During pre-monsoon rain last year, a portion of Mall Road caved three months after it had been repaired. Waterlogging on Heritage Street, at the city bus stand and in the walled city remains a concern. During the lockdown, the MC should have recarpeted city roads.” Mandeep Kaur NarulaLAND ACQUISITION FOR SULLAGE LINE UNDERWAY IN BATHINDAIt is likely that Bathinda will face a flood-like situation in some pockets of the city this year too. The district does not have a storm water drainage network and sewage lines are being used to drain rainwater.Last year, it was decided that a 12-km sullage line will be installed to drain excess rainwater from Power House Road locality, which is one of the worst-hit areas. However, only 4km of the pipeline has been laid as land acquisition for the remaining area is still underway.The local body is racing against time as the monsoons are knocking on the door.The MC has taken 10-acre land on lease from the Waqf Board to dig a pond to drain rainwater. Workers started digging the 10-ft pond on June 18 and the work is expected to be over by July 7.Low-lying areas at the risk of flooding include localities around the district administrative complex that houses the official residences of the Bathinda deputy commissioner (DC), inspector general of police (IGP) and judicial officials, Sirki Bazaar, Mall Road, Power House Road, Parasram Nagar, Ganesha Basti and Vir Colony.Vijay Kumar Sharma, a resident of Parasram Nagar and a former municipal councillor, blames poor planning for the sad state. “A single spell of showers in March exposed the unpreparedness of the authorities. Though Parasram Nagar is prone to waterlogging, the MC has still not cleaned sewer lines,” he said.Public health activist Dr Vitull K Gupta blames haphazard urbanisation and poor planning. “Waterlogging cuts people’s access to different areas, including hospitals. Years of unplanned development and encroachment of old ponds is responsible,” he said.Sirki Bazaar Traders’ Association general secretary Satpal said, “Stagnant water, rising up to four feet, collects in the streets after each shower but no effort has been made to find a solution.”Municipal commissioner Bikram Shergill said they had lost April and May to the Covid-19 outbreak. “Additional pump sets have been sourced to drain water from low-lying areas,” he said.“Natural depression zones near Sanjay Nagar and DAV College are being de-silted and the water-holding capacity of ponds is being increased. Work to clean drains is underway and residents will not face much trouble this time,” said Shergill. Vishal JoshiPATIALA MC, DRAINAGE DEPT BEHIND SCHEDULECleaning and de-silting of water bodies and drains in Patiala are running behind schedule due to the pandemic. It will take authorities two to three weeks to complete the process.Drainage department superintending engineer Devinder Singh said de-silting is on in full swing. “Men and machines are working round-the-clock to complete the work,” he said.“This year, work was delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Everything from deciding to tap the main drains to arranging machines and manpower was delayed due to the lockdown,” Singh said, adding since health is a priority for the state government, the department is working with limited resources.“We received Rs 1.5 crore to clean the main drains in Patiala city and other parts of the district. We are expected to complete the work by June 30,” he said.Last year, a flood-like situation had persisted in Patiala city after Badi Naddi, the main rivulet, overflowed. The administration had to evacuate around 250 families after the water entered colonies in low-lying areas. The Ghaggar river also brought devastation. Around 10,000 acres was submerged in Patran, Sanour and Samana.Singh said the department was conducting a survey of the main rivulets, including Badi Nadi and Chhoti Nadi, to ensure their openings were not blocked.Krishan Kumar, a resident of Gopal Colony that had flooded last year, said, “People had to live in a temporary relief camp last year after water entered their residences. Authorities must ensure that we do not face such an experience this year. Moreover, instead of cleaning drains before the monsoon, authorities should make it a routine affair,” he said.Patiala MC commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the sewerage department had been directed to ensure de-silting of the eastern drain and the 30-km sewer lines and gullies before monsoon.The district administration has set up seven control rooms at sub-division levels to deal with flood-like situations. Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said, “Senior officials have been instructed to ensure that there are no man-made obstructions to restrict the natural flow of water and remove encroachments on drains.”Model Town, portions of Lehal Colony, interiors of the walled city, Khalsa Mohalla, colonies situated in Tripari area and low-lying areas in the vicinity of Badi Nadi and Chhoti Nadi are prone to flooding. – Navrajdeep SinghOLD SEWERS, CHOKED GULLIES SPELL TROUBLE IN LUDHIANAEvery year, Ludhiana city has trouble due to waterlogging yet the municipal corporation (MC) officials do not plan to install storm water drains in the city.The district is sorely in need of such drains because old sewer lines are not able to keep up with the pressure due to low capacity.Most city areas are prone to water-logging, especially portions of the old city areas and the outskirts of the city.Posh areas of the city such as the Model Town extension, and Sarabha Nagar are not immune to waterlogging.In a first, the MC is getting the city’s main drain, Buddha Nullah, desilted by a private firm and residents living near the area have flagged anomalies in the process.The nullah overflows at few points, including New Kundanpuri area, Upkar Nagar and Shivpuri, almost every year during the monsoon.Former BJP councillor Narinder Malhi said, “Desilting is not being done properly and silt is not being removed from the centre. The silt that is being pulled out of the nullah is also being dumped on the banks. It will re-enter the nullah when it rains.”Authorities are also working on increasing the capacity of Talab Bazaar drain. However, residents have criticised the MC for not cleaning road gullies.A resident of Bishan Enclave, Sahil Khurana, said, “New sewer lines were installed in the area in November but the road gullies have already become choked. The MC staff had cleaned the lines a few days ago but the problem persists.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Work to clean Buddha Nullah and the road gullies is on in full swing. The MC is also getting the drain passing through the old city cleaned. The drain had been blocked for years. I have inspected the work and the staff at the sewerage treatment plants have been asked to ensure rain water does not get accumulated.”“A control room will soon be established in the coming days to deal with waterlogging woes,” he added. -Harsimran Singh Batra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-s-here-but-punjab-isn-t-rain-ready/story-CfOtvX8vatk6Dv1m0hRVnL.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Railways’ isolation coaches facility in Delhi’s Shakur Basti gets its first suspected Covid patient||The first patient to be admitted to the Railways’ isolation coaches facility in Delhi arrived at the Shakur Basti station here on Wednesday, and around 15 more are expected to come, officials said.This is the first patient to be admitted in any of the 503 coaches requisitioned by the Delhi government to be used as Covid Care Centres for suspected or confirmed patients categorised as mild or very mild cases, they said.Around 50 such modified coaches are currently stationed at the Shakur Basti railway station maintenance depot, the officials said, adding that each coach has 16 beds.Only suspected cases will be kept here, they said.Ten coaches have been made operational on a trial basis, with five on each platform, Northwest District Magistrate Sandeep Mishra told PTI.“Once the trial is successful, the facility will be replicated at other places,” he said.The facility started as per a tripartite collaboration of the Railways, the Army, and the Delhi government.“Only asymptomatic patients will be housed in the facility which will be attached with the Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital,” Mishra said.The Directorate General of Health Service will provide the protocols for the treatment of admitted patients and the required numbers of ambulances for the facility.The Army Medical Corps will be in charge of healthcare of the patients admitted to the facility.“First patient arrived at Shakur Basti Covid Care Center of Railways in New Delhi. We are committed to provide all necessary help in this fight against Covid-19,” Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted.A similar facility was started at the Mau railway station in Uttar Pradesh on June 20 where around 59 patients had been admitted. Many of them have already been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/railways-isolation-coaches-facility-in-delhi-s-shakur-basti-gets-its-first-suspected-covid-patient/story-EhPwqhNUtqzwzZt9XwARxK.html
24-06-2020||City||Historical status of Tibet must be revived to end border tensions with China: Sangay||To bring lasting peace to border incursions and tensions along the Line of Actual Control, the historical status of Tibet and its relationship with India must be revived, president of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) Lobsang Sangay said on Wednesday.He was speaking at a special e-session hosted by the Bharat Chamber of Commerce on the theme: ‘Inda-Tibet-China: Synergising global peace’.Other key speakers at the session were Lt Gen Aniruddha Chakravarty, Air Marshall RKS Shera, members of chamber, members of Friends of Tribal Society, and members of Tibet-Bharat Metri Parishad.Sangay said the ongoing tension in the Galwan valley was not an isolated incident as China has recurrently provoked India in the past with the Doklam incident in 2017, in 1967, war in Sikkim and in 1962 war in Arunachal Pradesh.He said Tibet was historically a zone of peace and the border between Tibet and India was demilitarised. “There was no need for an army, not even a police patrol. Tibet as the buffer zone assures peace between the two countries. Tensions were build up after the India-China border came up which wasn’t there when India shared border with Tibet,” he said.Sangay proposed that if India recognises Tibet as the buffer zone all tensions will gradually subside.Speaking on India-Tibet’s historical ties, Sangay highlighted the trade relationship between British-ruled India and Tibet. A cordial trade agreement was signed which was renewed every 10 years till 1944 and there was no trade issue between India and Tibet.Then in 1954, a renewed agreement known as the Panchsheel agreement was signed which is the beginning of the downfall of Tibet and present tension between India-China.“From treachery to the current tension, we have to move to truce and tradition. That will happen only when we get back to trade and tranquility,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/historical-status-of-tibet-must-be-revived-to-end-border-tensions-with-china-sangay/story-sgiOOg69KOe11tPrlgKG1N.html
24-06-2020||Lucknow||Convening monsoon session of UP legislature before August 27 a tough call||Convening the state legislature’s monsoon session before August 27, as required under constitutional provisions, is going to be a challenge for the state government in the light of the fight against Covid-19.The legislature’s budget session ended on February 28 and under constitutional provisions ‘six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session.’Although chief minister Yogi Adityanath or any member of his council of ministers have not made any statement, the issue of holding sittings of the house amid the Covid-19 pandemic has obviously become a cause of concern. “The legislature’s session will be convened at an appropriate time,” said minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna.Although Khanna did not elaborate, the state government will have to keep in mind reports of spread of Covid-19 infection and make appropriate arrangements for following ‘social distancing norms’ whenever it decides to convene the next session of the legislature.There are reports that leader of the opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary and Samajwadi Party member Shailendra Yadav Lalai have tested Covid positive and are undergoing treatment.The assembly has a sanctioned strength of 403 members. It has seats for 379 members. There are five vacancies in the house now. Yet, the total strength of members remains higher than the available seats. At any given time the house should have 10 per cent members in the house to complete the quorum and this may provide an option of having a low attendance in the house to follow ‘social distancing norms’ in the fight against Covid-19.As many houses in the country may have to meet in the next few months to meet the six-month constitutional requirement, the issue came up for discussion at a video conference that Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla had with presiding officers of state legislatures on April 21.State assembly speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit raised the issue at the video conference and said: “This is the time to consider whether the committees of parliament or committees of state legislatures can hold meetings through video conference with certain modifications. As far as holding meetings of legislatures through video conference is concerned there may be a need to consider this. The Constitution of India provides that there should not be more than six months gap between two meetings of the houses. I understand this six-month period may be nearing completion and if a meeting is called there may be social distancing rule violation.”Later this issue also came up for discussion at the ‘Smooth Functioning Committee’ meeting of presiding officers that Dikshit chaired through a video conference on May 29. Now, the question arises: Will a virtual sitting of the state legislature be possible?“As of now, the Constitution does not provide for holding a virtual meeting of the legislatures. A limited presence of members at any given time may be an option for holding a session. Members may be asked to attend the house on odd-even basis as well,” said CB Pandey, former advisor to the governor and a constitutional expert.Dikshit said the issue of convening the monsoon session of legislature is yet to be discussed. He said holding the session by August 27 would be the constitutional requirement. “So, we have sufficient time to discuss the issue,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/convening-monsoon-session-of-up-legislature-before-aug-27-a-tough-call/story-AwREw3CPzOPIbhNSpFuqyN.html
24-06-2020||Lucknow||Process for setting up State Niti Aayog may be speeded up soon in UP||Moves are afoot to set up the Uttar Pradesh State Niti Aayog, in line with the announcement made in the state budget for 2020-2021, but giving shape to the new policy formulation body may take some time due to the focus on Covid-19 these days.Minister for finance Suresh Khanna had made an announcement about setting up the State Niti Ayog in the budget he presented on February 18, 2020.“We have moved ahead with the process to set up the aayog and held discussions at various levels on the issue. However, working out on a draft for its organisational structure may take some time,” said a senior officer.If all goes well, measures to set up the aayog will be expedited in the coming weeks, he said.“Budgetary announcements are implemented in the same financial year and we hope to do so in 2020-2021 also,” said the officer, adding that the state government’s focus up to now has been on measures to check the spread of Covid-19 but the process to set up the Niti Aayog has been initiated now.The State Niti Aayog will replace the 48-year old Uttar Pradesh State Planning Commission. The commission lost its relevance when it stopped preparing the five-year plans after the union government scrapped the Planning Commission of India on January 1, 2015.The National Institution for Transforming India, referred to as NITI Aayog, replaced the Planning Commission of India as a policy think tank. The state planning commission continued to prepare the annual plans till 2017, the last year of the 12th five-year plan, but questions remained on its continuation. Change of government in 2017 gave some credence to speculations about the fate of the State Planning Commission.Announcement to set up the State Niti Aayog, replacing the State Planning Commission, hinted at an obvious shifting of focus from formulation of annual and five-year plans to formulation, evaluation and monitoring of policies.The State Planning Commission also works as a guide for district planning committees set up in every district under the provisions of Article 243 ZD of the Constitution of India. So, the state government will have to take a call to assign this role to the State Niti Aayog, when set up, or some other organisation.The State Planning Commission was set up under the chairmanship of the then chief minister in 1972 to assess the state’s physical, financial and manpower resources, draft annual and five-year plans and also to ensure conformity of the Uttar Pradesh’s plans with national plans.The state planning commission continued to prepare the annual plans till 2017, the last year of the 12th five-year plan, but questions remained on its continuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/process-for-setting-up-state-niti-aayog-may-be-speeded-up-soon-in-up/story-oe8jKkgza9JRqIzdZzyObO.html
24-06-2020||Lucknow||Light to moderate rains in many parts of Uttar Pradesh, MeT Dept says normal monsoon so far||The monsoon has been normal in Uttar Pradesh so far, the Meteorological (MeT) Department said on Wednesday. Light to moderate rain/thundershowers occurred at many places in eastern Uttar Pradesh, and at a few places in the western part of the state, according to the MeT Department. Heavy rain occurred at isolated places in the state.The weatherman has forecast rain/thundershower at most places in eastern Uttar Pradesh and at many places in western UP for June 25. Rain/thundershower is very likely at most places in eastern UP and a few places in western UP on June 26 and June 27, according to the MeT Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/light-to-moderate-rains-in-many-parts-of-uttar-pradesh-met-dept-says-normal-monsoon-so-far/story-inKpHsIjkjuTYSVPsUtPiP.html
24-06-2020||Patna||Complaint filed in Bihar court against Baba Ramdev over Covid-19 medicine claim||A criminal complaint has been filed in a Bihar court against yoga guru Ramdev and Patanjali Ayurved MD Acharya Balkrishna, alleging that they have misled and put at risk the lives of lakhs of people by claiming to have developed a medicine to treat Covid-19. The complaint seeking registration of an FIR on cheating, criminal conspiracy and other charges was filed in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Mukesh Kumar here on Tuesday by Tamanna Hashmi, who identifies himself as a social worker and is often in news for his numerous court complaints against politicians over various issues. The court posted the matter for hearing on June 30.The complainant has named Ramdev, the convenor of the Patanjali Research Institute, and his aide Balkrishna, the organisation’s chairman, as accused.Hashmi submitted that Ramdev and Balkrishna claimed to have prepared “Coronil tablet” to cure Covid-19, which is nothing but misleading. The complainant submitted that the Ayush Ministry has asked Patanjali Ayurved to stop advertising and publicising its claims about the medicine.The Ayush Ministry has said that they have not been provided any information with regard to the details of the composition of the ayurvedic medicine, Hashmi said. The complainant has sought registration of a case under IPC sections 420 (cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery of property), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), among others. Ramdev’s herbal medicine company Patanjali Ayurved has launched ‘Coronil tablet and Swasari vati’ medicines claiming they can cure the highly contagious disease within seven days.It has also claimed that the two Ayurveda-based medicines have shown 100 per cent favourable results during clinical trials on Covid-19 infected patients except those on a life support system. However, the AYUSH ministry said that the facts of the claim and details of the stated scientific study are not known to it. It has sought from the company a detailed report on composition, testing and other data of the drugs. The ministry also used powers under a 1954 law to ask the firm to “stop advertising/publicizing” claims of corona cure drug until the issue is examined by it. A government notification bars companies from advertising a cure without government approval. But it wasn’t immediately clear if the drug can still be sold. Ramdev said the medicines have been developed by Patanjali Research Center, Haridwar and privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science, Jaipur following all protocols with clinically controlled trial-based evidence. Patanjali group has an estimated turnover of around Rs 10,500 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/complaint-filed-in-bihar-court-against-ramdev-over-covid-19-medicine-claim/story-UIEsPIZMoDsGZAE3TcDknK.html
24-06-2020||Pune||State govt plans big for Balewadi sports complex post-pandemic, says Om Prakash Bakoria, commissioner of sports Maharashtra||The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has put the Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex in Balewadi, Pune at a complete standstill for sports activities. However, the commissioner of sports in Maharashtra Om Prakash Bakoria has big plans for the complex after the pandemic is over.The first thing Bakoria did after taking charge as the commissioner of sports is to revamp the hockey turf at the complex. Now, he is preparing a draft to establish a sports university offering full-time sports management courses at Balewadi.When will sports resume in Maharashtra?We will wait for government orders on this one. Pune and Mumbai are sensitive zones but once government permits we will start sports activities in other districts. All activities will be conducted according to guidelines issued by the Sports Authority of India.We have worked on the framework of how sports will be conducted. Our top state athletes will resume practice as soon as an order is issued.What about activities at Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex?Action at the Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex will begin later than all the other centres. We will not rust to any activity there as it is a Covid-19 care centre.How do you view sports during the ongoing pandemic?I am eagerly waiting for the resumption of sports activities in the state. The health of our athletes is our top priority and we cannot risk it in any situation. The wait is frustrating for us and our sports personnel but we will cope with it as we don’t have any other option. We will follow state government guidelines, maintaining patience is the key at the moment.What are your views in turning the stadium into a quarantine centre?We have given five buildings of the Balewadi hostel, badminton hall and boxing hall for quarantine centres to the PMC and PCMC, if they want more we will provide it to them in the future.What is the budget for the hockey stadium and who has sponsored it?The stadium got funding from the Government of India under the flagship ‘Khelo India’ program. The hockey astro turf is worth ~4,09,05,220 while the change room cost is ~81,83,675. In the second phase, we will develop seating arrangements.What other state sports complexes will fall under the Khelo India flagship program?Balewadi sports complex and complexes in Akola and Nagpur will be converted into state-level Khelo India centres where different games will be practiced. In Balewadi, there will be a focus on judo, gymnastics and athletics. Akola will focus on boxing and Nagpur on athletics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-govt-plans-big-for-balewadi-sports-complex-post-pandemic-says-om-prakash-bakoria-commissioner-of-sports-maharashtra/story-mbBCvIiwkzapojy5E8PBFN.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jeep driver flees after dragging Chandigarh cop along for 50 metres||Chandigarh: A head constable of Chandigarh Police was hospitalised after he was dragged for 50 metres by a jeep driver, who he had stopped to check documents at a naka (checkpoint) on Tuesday night.Police said the naka was put up near the Motor Market in Sector 48 from 5.30pm to 10pm amid rising snatching incidents in the area. Head constable Varinder Singh, who is posted in the Sector 49 police station, was checking documents of vehicles when a black jeep with a Punjab registration number drove in with loud music. When signalled to stop, the jeep slowed down but just when Varinder put his hand in to take the documents, the driver sped off.Varinder’s left hand was stuck in the window but the driver kept dragging him. Police personnel in the vicinity raised the alarm while running behind the vehicle to help Varinder, who fell off as the jeep picked up speed.He was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, with injuries on the shoulder, arms and legs.A case was registered but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jeep-driver-flees-after-dragging-chandigarh-cop-along-for-50-metres/story-0BvM3ktrY9gbyyvqfcrsTN.html
24-06-2020||Patna||One killed, 20 injured as bus carrying migrant workers hits truck in Odisha||One person was killed and 20 others were injured, when a Bihar-bound bus carrying migrants from Puducherry hit a truck in Odisha’s Balasore district on Wednesday, a senior police officer said.The mishap occurred when the private bus with around 40 passengers collided with a stationary truck on NH-16 near Jamjhadi area, he said.One person died in the accident and 20 others sustained injuries, Simulia Police Station inspector-in-charge Parsuram Sahu said.He said police personnel rushed to the site and the injured people were sent to a nearby hospital.Three with serious injuries were later shifted to the Balasore district hospital, he said.The migrants were returning to their native places in Bihar after being stranded in Puducherry in the wake of the lockdown.Arrangements are being made to send other passengers to Bihar, the police officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/one-killed-20-injured-as-bus-carrying-migrant-workers-hits-truck-in-odisha/story-2V4fpBDta1Eh771GbKV59I.html
24-06-2020||Pune||Man held for raping daughter in Pune||A man has been arrested for allegedly raping his 11-year-old daughter in Dehu Road area of Pimpri Chinchwad in Pune district, police said on Tuesday.The man was arrested 4 years ago for raping his elder daughter in Hadapsar area and was recently released from prison, a Dehu Road police station official said.“The younger daughter’s rape came to light when she was taken for a medical check-up by her mother,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-held-for-raping-daughter-in-pune/story-8iZHQOyTk6l7anjGEbzPYN.html
24-06-2020||Pune||Monsoon preparedness: ‘Killer’ nallah at mercy of rains again||The Bairobha nallah bridge, a main thoroughfare between Pune Cantonment and Wanowrie is bereft of any protective wall on either side of its banks. Between September 25 and September 26, 2019, the city received in excess of 200mm of rain. In a deluge of nallah water overflowing the banks, the need for a protective wall was never felt more urgently.The overflowing nallah flooded a Wanworie causeway between Ganga Satellite society and Raheja Gardens.Two persons, both in cars, were swept away by what was a flash flood, at the time.Software engineer Saleem Shaikh, in his car; and Victor Sangle, also in his car, were both victims.Shaikh’s body was recovered 90-km away from Pune, a few days later. Sangle (26), who survived an amputation of a leg and lived with a prosthetic, was driving from Vimannagar to visit his cousin house in Wanowrie. His car was swept away by the flash floods. Sangle’s body has not been recovered.The College of Engineering Pune (COEP), in the aftermath of the flash floods, submitted a structural audit that recommended protective walls of up to 50 metres in height, both upstream and downstream at the Bairobha nallah bridge, as a necessary safety precaution against a future flood situation. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) issued the no-objection certificate (NOC) for the walls, which the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) was tasked with constructing, as part of its overall monsoon preparedness in the light of the 2019 floods.The walls have not been built.The Bairobha nallah runs a total length of 26km - starting from Yeolewadi till Koregaon Park, where the water body merges with the Mula-Mutha river.Suresh Jagtap, PMC’s deputy commissioner (Zone IV), said, “We are currently dealing with the Covid crisis and even a site inspection has not been done. The executive engineer is looking into the case.” PMC’s executive engineer Pravin Gedam did not respond to phone calls and text messages.Amit Kumar, CEO, PCB, said, “We had given our NOC to the PMC and it had committed to finishing the work, which, however, has not been completed. There is a risk to the lives of the people and the board is constantly assessing the situation unfolding at the spot.” Vinod Mathurawala, a former PCB vice-president, said, “The NOC has been given, but work has not progressed. We request the PMC to finish the work at the earliest.” “The bridge safety work needs to be completed by the PMC at the earliest as we are already in the monsoon season. These works should have been completed before the monsoon. We need a flood alarm system, adequate street lights and strong protective walls to protect the lives of the commuters and area residents,” said Kiran Mantri, an elected member of the PCB.Local residents said if the bridge is not repaired, most parts in Wanowrie, where the bridge is situated, will witness a repeat of last year. Wanowrie resident Manjett Singh Virdi said, “Commuters are still afraid of using the bridge. Senior citizens avoid using the bridge till date as the fear of death lurks at the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monsoon-preparedness-killer-nallah-at-mercy-of-rains-again/story-Z40ZZwFCZlVEeLJBA53b5K.html
24-06-2020||Kolkata||Pangolin rescued, poacher arrested in Bengal||A pangolin was rescued from a village adjoining Baikunthapur forest in Jalpaiguri district of West Bengal and a poacher was arrested in this connection, forest officials said on Wednesday.Acting on a tip-off, the Special Task Force of the North Bengal Forest Division raided Mantadari village on Tuesday and rescued the pangolin, which is a critically- endangered animal, from the possession of poacher Fajnu Mohammad, Baikunthapur Forest Ranger Sanjay Dutta said.The arrested person has revealed that the pangolin was meant to be smuggled to Siliguri, he said, adding that Mohammad was involved in other poaching cases in the past.From Siliguri, the pangolin could have been trafficked abroad, forest officials said.The rescued pangolin was released in the Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri.Pangolins from the region are often trafficked to China, where its meat is consumed and scales used for medicinal purposes, they said. PTI COR ACD ACD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pangolin-rescued-poacher-arrested-in-bengal/story-ifOTWgNw0y8uuahcaB89sI.html
24-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally climbs to 2201 with 61 new cases||A total of 61 new coronavirus cases have been reported in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the state count of COVID-19 cases to 2201, the health department said.The state currently has 670 active COVID-19 cases, while 1,520 people have recovered from the disease.According to the Union Health Ministry, India’s COVID-19 count stands at 4,56,183 and 14,476 people have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-2201-with-61-new-cases/story-MWZqxp2MAqpumpFTXr2nlM.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon arrives in Himachal Pradesh, rains lash most parts of state||Shimla: Most parts of Himachal Pradesh received rainfall on Wednesday as the southwest monsoon made its foray into the state, the meteorological department said here.Heavy rainfall occurred at isolated places in Kangra and Mandi districts, MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said.He issued a yellow warning of heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds at isolated places in Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur districts for Thursday.“Due to a fresh western disturbance, heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are likely to continue throughout the state till June 30,” he said.Palampur in Kangra district received the highest 110mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours, he said.Jogindernagar received 96mm of rain, followed by Baijnath 93mm, Dharamshala 92mm, Gaggal 87mm, Saharan and Kumarsen 33mm each, Nagrota Suriyan 31mm, Kothi 28mm, Dalhousie 25mm, Saloni 21mm, Bharari and Chhatrari 17mm each, Mandi 16mm and Baldwara 14mm.Shimla received 13.4mm of rainfall, Nadaun 12mm, Chamba and Dehra Gopipur 11mm each, Kufri, Sangrah and Keylong 10mm each.The lowest temperature in the state was recorded in Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong at 10.8 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature in Shimla was 24.6 degrees Celsius, while it was a pleasant 16.9° in Kufri, 29.4° in Manali, 30.8°C in Dharamshala and 21°C in Dalhousie.Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded highs of 30.5°C, 36.5°C, 36.2°C and 31.8°C, respectively.Una was the hottest at 38°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-arrives-in-himachal-pradesh-rains-lash-most-parts-of-state/story-Uvy04PR8Yg0Pf3zMYgSL3K.html
24-06-2020||Lucknow||Career counselling centres on cards||After doing skill-mapping of the migrants who returned to the state from their workplaces across the country amid Covid-19 lockdown, the UP government is now setting up nearly 850 career counselling centres to connect these job seekers with job providers. “Nearly 35 lakh migrant workers have returned to the state. We did their skill-mapping. Many of them are skilled and semi-skilled and had been doing well where they worked. Now, when they have completed their quarantine period, they want jobs. They would like to get jobs as per their practised skills. So we planned career counselling centres in all the development blocks to connect the job seekers and job givers,” said UP chief secretary RK Tiwari. He said he had last week issued a circular to all districts about the career counselling centres and help-desks for the migrant workers and the process had begun. “They would begin functioning by the end of this month,” Tiwari said.“In case any worker wishes to return to his original workplace and seeks help, the help desk should also take care of providing all the assistance to such people,” the chief secretary said in the circular.A committee under the chief development officer in each district of the state will be set up to oversee the implementation of the idea and regular review will also be done.In a circular to all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, department heads, commissioners and district magistrates, Tiwari said: “Considering the return of migrant workers from various states under Covid-19 lockdown, it is important to get them jobs keeping in mind their skills. So, organise career counselling for them to tell them about employment opportunities and give them information about various government schemes.”“Establish a help desk at Vikas Bhawan and block development officer’s (BDO) office in each district and appoint an in charge for each help desk,” he added.Tiwari said the block development officer would decide dates for career counselling and invite the labourers for counselling which must be held while following social distancing norms.“Also install a helpline for telephonic counselling for those who find it difficult to reach the help desk,” he said.The CDO, on the 7th day of each month, through the district magistrate would provide the counselling information to the district’s directorate of training and employment office. Officers from various departments would also tell about government schemes and register them. They would be told about employment opportunities, training programmes and also loan facilities for self-employment.Talking about migrants’ skills, Tiwari said they are electricians, tailors, carpenters, masons, etc. Such skilled workers could get works in Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises sector and could also be employed under rural livelihood mission, self-help groups and even go for self-employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/career-counselling-centres-on-cards/story-G3lJeLH62UmGK0YxzRgkbL.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Low intensity quake hits Rohtak; 8th since April 12||A low intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.8 hit Rohtak in Haryana on Wednesday, the National Centre for Seismology said. The NCS said quake occurred at 12:58 pm at a depth of 5 km. Since April 12, the Delhi-NCR has recorded 18 quakes. Of these 8 have taken place in Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/low-intensity-quake-hits-rohtak-8th-since-april-12/story-OdE6p4wgWnFo31KjcieAcO.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra forms task force to study transport service issues||The Maharashtra government has set up a 13-member task force to study problems related to transport services in the state and suggest measures on how to run them effectively in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis.So far, there is limited movement of public transport services in the state to contain the spread of coronavirus.“The task force will study and suggest various measures about transport services in the state, and to avoid the spread of coronavirus,” as per a government resolution (GR) issued on Tuesday.The task force will be headed by state Transport Minister Anil Parab and the transport commissioner will be its secretary, the GR said.Various bodies of goods and passenger transporters have been given representation in the task force.Maharashtra is the worst affected by Covid-19 in the country. Till Tuesday, the state reported 1,39,010 Covid-19 cases and 6,531 deaths due to the disease.Under its ‘Mission Begin Again’, the state government wanted to form a task force to study and resolve issues related to transport services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forms-task-force-to-study-transport-service-issues/story-2zRSwH8fYGAaHlMJsHRJ0O.html
24-06-2020||Kolkata||Elephant calf electrocuted to death in Bengal||An elephant calf was electrocuted to death in a village adjoining the Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar district of West Bengal on Wednesday, forest officials said.The incident occurred in the morning when a herd of elephants entered a betel nut grove in Purba Madarihat village and started vandalising it, they said.One of the trees fell on power supply lines and a wire got snapped. The elephant calf came in contact with it and died on the spot, the officials said.The villagers chased away the herd back to the forest, averting more deaths of elephants as the pachyderms could have got electrocuted while trying to rescue the calf, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/elephant-calf-electrocuted-to-death-in-bengal/story-8MgIcSEuUVVYQBofKq2M2O.html
24-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka issues order notifying setting up of fever clinics in private hospitals||The Karnataka government on Wednesday issued an order notifying establishment of fever clinics and swab collection centres in 66 private hospitals or medical colleges in the city, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-l9.It said, with the spike in number of Influenza-like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases, there is a need to increase the number of fever clinics and swab collection centres. “The private medical colleges and private hospitals are instructed to work as fever clinics cum swab collection centres,” the order dated Tuesday with a list of 66 private medical colleges and hospitals said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt said they should do the triaging of ILI and SARI cases to find Covid-19 suspects, draw the swabs as per testing policy of the state government, use the software application meant for fever clinics and swab collection centres and make it available for transportation to labs identified by the government. “The institution will collect their regular OPD charges for triaging and a maximum of Rs 350 for each swab from the patient. The test will be conducted at government’s cost,” it added.Karnataka was the first state in the country to come out with the concept of fever or flu clinics. These have been established as the first point of contact for persons suffering from coronavirus like symptoms- fever, cold, cough, sore throat, breathlessness etc.The state has improved its daily testing capacity from a few hundred tests in April to more than 10,000 now.Noting that the state has more than 600 fever clinics and over 1,172 Swab collection centres to screen patients and collect the swab in case the patient was suspected of Covid- 19, the notification said, in Bengaluru city the various urban public health centres have been converted into fever clinics.Already 52 government managed fever clinics cum swab collection centres are functional. Pointing to the rise in number of ILIs and SARI cases and the need to increase the number of fever clinics and swab collection centres, it said many private hospitals or all medical colleges in Bengaluru have the capacity to run such clinic cum collection centres. “Therefore, the order is passed under Sec.2 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, read with Karnataka Epidemic Disease Ordinance, 2020 to control the spread of Covid-l9 & in the public interest,” it added.Bengaluru till last evening has reported a total of 1,505 positive cases of Covid -19, which includes 73 deaths and 435 discharges. The city on Tuesday reported 107 new positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-issues-order-notifying-setting-up-of-fever-clinics-in-private-hospitals/story-ReLA2ncFMeObqZrmpfd3PM.html
24-06-2020||Kolkata||WB Health dept warns private, govt hospitals of strict action if patients denied admission||The West Bengal Health department has warned both private and state-run hospitals that strict action will be taken if patients were denied admission for treatment in the medical facilities.The state Health department has also cautioned private hospitals of suspending licences as well as initiating necessary penal steps if patients were denied admission for treatment.“There have been instances of denial of admission and services by the private hospitals and patients suffer due to this lackadaisical attitude of these hospitals. Such denial is an offence under the West Bengal Clinical Establishments (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Act, 2017 and the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Rules, 2017.“If any report of denial of admission or services is received against such private hospital, necessary penal steps including suspension of licence will be initiated against the aforesaid hospital,” the order issued by the Health department said.In another order, the department has said that necessary disciplinary action would be taken against the concerned officer of a government hospital if any incident of denials of admissions was reported “...if any report of denial of admission/services is received against any government hospital, necessary disciplinary action shall be taken against the concerned officer as per the applicable service rules”, the order stated.The state government has brought in force the West Bengal Epidemic disease, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 since March 16 after Covid-19 was declared as a global pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/wb-health-dept-warns-private-govt-hospitals-of-strict-action-if-patients-denied-admission/story-aeAAuamSXxt8NoQp9z2OHK.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ladakh faceoff will not change locals’ perception towards us, says Shimla’s Chinese community||CHANDIGARH: Shimla’s handmade Chinese shoes are perhaps as big a tourist draw as the verdant hills themselves.The shoes and lip-smacking Chinese delicacies, particularly the momos, have become a part of the state’s culture. While people across the nation have called for a boycott of Chinese products after the Galwan Valley standoff, Chinese-origin traders here have no reason to complain.John Chung, the owner of Shimla’s iconic Hopson & Co shoe shop on Mall Road, says, “There has been no change of behaviour towards us. Shimla is a small town everybody knows us. My family came here in the ’50s and the art of shoe-making has been passed down from generation to generation. The third generation of our family has been born and bred in India. We are well integrated and proficient in Hindi.”On what he felt about the rift in relations between the two countries, he says, “It is a sad development, indeed. Hopefully, things will improve.”‘FIND DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION’Brenda Chiu, the proprietor of the popular eatery Dim Sum on Mall Road and the Minsen Beauty Parlour, says, “My grandparents, too, were born in India so China is no longer a country of origin for me. We are all Indians so we don’t feel conflicted about the Indo-Chinese faceoff.”“A war, be it with any country, needs to be avoided and a diplomatic solution must be sought,” she said.Ask her if business has been affected and she says, “Business is down everywhere because of Covid-19. Everybody knows us in Shimla and there has been no change in behaviour or any anti-Chinese sentiment towards us. A war will not change locals’ perception towards us.”Though Chung’s business has been affected because of Covid-19, loyal customers from Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh are still placing online orders.GENERATION GAP, DIFFERENT VOICESNirmal Thakur, a retired public sector employee with a penchant for Chinese handmade shoes, says, “The Chinese community in Shimla is as Indian as anybody else. They have been living here for generations. It will be foolhardy of anybody to punish Chinese-origin entrepreneurs over the Indo-Chinese conflict. Yes, the government should reduce import and give impetus to make in India.”However, Manoj Kumar, 28, a bank officer at a private bank in Shimla, says, “There has definitely been an attitude change towards the Chinese. They are staying here and profiting, while their country of origin is on warpath with us. The government should try to sort out the matter at the diplomatic level and reduce Chinese imports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ladakh-faceoff-will-not-change-locals-perception-towards-us-says-shimla-s-chinese-community/story-OkmU0uhAaNNHJPjCgT1ecK.html
24-06-2020||Patna||ITC among four industrial houses keen to invest in Bihar||At least four companies, including fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) major ITC Ltd, have responded to the call by the Bihar government to invest in the state, its industries minster has said.This comes as a relief for the state government which has laid a red carpet to welcome investments in Bihar, including a promise of providing 2,500 acres of land.With the flush of migrant labourers and the state government’s skill mapping, the industries department is also boasting about the availability of surplus workforce.However, the size of the investments is not known yet.“Four firms, including ITC, Surya Food and Agro Ltd and have shown interest to invest in Bihar, besides this Ajanta Shoes (India) Pvt Ltd is also keen to set up units here,” Shyam Rajak, the state’s minister for industries, said.It is expected it will create employment as the government is trying to generate jobs for migrant labourers who have has returned to the state after the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to the government estimate, about 21 lakh migrant labourers have returned to Bihar through Shramik Special trains and road routes.“All this is at a nascent stage and the visit of officials has been hampered by Covid-19. Once things normalise, the officials will visit Bihar to discuss the details,” Rajak said and added that efforts were being made to rope in more industrial houses.“ITC is planning to make a big investment, which will be beside the small units it has in Munger and Purnia,” he said.Sources said the food processing units were interested to set up at Motipur in Muzaffarpur or in or near Patna. “Road connectivity with the capital could be the reason for setting up units in Muzaffarpur,” one of the persons cited above said.An official of the industries department said on the condition of anonymity that the technical team of these industries will first visit to see the availability of land and other infrastructure needed for the projects.The Bihar government has been harping its strength that as it is a major grain and fruit-producing state, there is immense scope of investment for food processing units in the region. It has also said that it will soon tweak the Industrial Investment Promotion Policy.Earlier, the industries minister had written to 25 houses, including Nestle India, Parag Milk Foods Ltd, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ltd, Jubilant Foodworks Ltd, KRBL Ltd, LT Food Ltd and Hindustan Food Ltd among others to invite them to invest in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/itc-among-four-industrial-houses-keen-to-invest-in-bihar/story-r9ufVUiFPLoHRcuALarMwL.html
24-06-2020||Patna||NDRF teams deployed in Bihar districts in view of floods during monsoon||As many as thirteen teams of the 9th Corps NDRF Bihta, Patna are being deployed in different districts of Bihar in the view of floods during the monsoon this year, NDRF Commandant Vijay Sinha said on Wednesday.Sinha said that on the demand of Bihar State Disaster Management Department and with the consent of the force headquarters NDRF New Delhi, a total of 13 teams of 9th Corps NDRF are being deployed in, Katihar, Araria, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Motihari, Bettiah, Nalanda, Chapra, Patna and Buxar districts of the state.“At present, teams have been deployed in Bettiah, Araria, Muzaffarpur, Kishanganj and Darbhanga while teams will be deployed in Katihar, Motihari and Gopalganj districts today,” Sinha said.He said NDRF teams will soon be deployed in other districts as well. All teams are equipped with state-of-the-art flood rescue equipment, cutting tools and equipment, communication equipment, medical first responder kits, deep diving sets, inflatable lighting towers. The teams have skilled divers, swimmers and medical staff who are able to provide all possible help to the people in relief and rescue work during flood disaster and the rescuers will always be ready.He said that our rescue workers will take the coronavirus epidemic seriously and they will be given PPEs, face masks and shield.“During the flood rescue operation, our teams will strictly follow the protective guidelines and protocols for prevention of coronavirus infection and will also make the general public aware and will encourage them to follow the Covid-19 preventive measures,” added Sinha.All team commanders of NDRF will execute operational responsibilities during the flood disaster with firmness and professional efficiency by establishing efficient coordination with the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ndrf-teams-deployed-in-bihar-districts-in-view-of-floods-during-monsoon/story-jjfhdreJWJsBOgk6fFyYoL.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||With 31 fresh Covid-19 cases, Himachal crosses 800-mark in 97 days||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 31 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the state to 806, officials said.Himachal breached the 800-mark in 97 days. The first case was detected on March 20. A total of 476 cases have been reported in June alone.Sixteen people tested positive in Hamirpur, four in Chamba and three each in Solan, Kangra and Una and one each in Bilaspur and Shimla.A mother-daughter duo, who had returned from Delhi, have tested positive in Solan and a youth in Baddi industrial area, said Solan deputy commissioner KC Chaman. The patients have been shifted to the Covid-care centre in Nauni. The tally in Solan has now reached 84, of which 50 are active cases. Four patients have migrated to other states.Hamirpur chief medical officer Dr Archna Soni said three women and four men have tested positive in the district. Six of them have a travel history to Delhi while one had returned from Ludhiana. One of the patient, a 80-year-old woman was shifted to Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk while others are admitted at Covid-care centres in the district. Nine more cases were detected late evening.In Chamba, four members of a family are among the new cases. They include a 45-year-old man, his 40-year-old wife, daughter and son aged 15 and 12.The family returned from Delhi and was under institutional quarantine.Kangra patients include a 32-year-old IT engineer, a 19-year-old student and a 43-year-old woman. All three had returned from Delhi and were under institutional quarantine.UNA MAN TESTS POSITIVE IN PGI, LOCAL DOCTOR ISOLATEDA doctor and three other staff members of the Una Regional Hospital were home quarantined after a man from Singa village tested positive for Covid-19 at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.The man was undergoing treatment for a heart ailment at the local hospital and was later referred to PGIMER. Una chief medical officer Dr Raman Kumar said the doctor and three nurses had been home quarantined as a precautionary measure.321 ACTIVE CASESAt present, there are 321 active cases and 466 people have recovered from the disease. Eleven people have migrated to others states and six have succumbed to the infection.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 221 cases, followed by Kangra with 211 cases, Una with 99 cases, Solan with 84 cases, Chamba with 50 cases, Bilaspur with 38 cases, Shimla with 37 cases, Sirmaur with 34 cases, Mandi with 24 cases, Kullu with five cases, and Kinnaur with three cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-more-test-positive-in-solan-hp-s-covid-tally-rises-to-778/story-KHEhk3PqlajRjFYM0aEElM.html
24-06-2020||Noida||Noida: Nearly 1,600 vehicle-owners penalised for flouting Covid-19 curbs||The owners of nearly 1,600 vehicles were penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Tuesday for alleged violation of curbs imposed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said.Also, six vehicles were impounded for similar violations during a 24-hour period till Tuesday night, the police said, even as several restrictions on outdoor movement that were put during the Covid-19 lockdown have been eased now.Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four persons, is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, whose urban areas fall in the ‘Red Zone’ for Covid-19 containment. “A total of 2,966 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 1,589 of them, while another six were impounded,” the police said in a statement. The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed for movement, except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-nearly-1-600-vehicle-owners-penalised-for-flouting-covid-19-curbs/story-e6lSBw1wGGaqMqyge1y9kJ.html
24-06-2020||Noida||63 new Covid-19 cases in UP’s Gautam Buddh Nagar; discrepancy in data||Sixty-three more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday, the second-highest for any district in the state in a 24-hour period, official data stated. Also, 55 patients were discharged after recovery, the maximum for any district in the state in the said period, according to the daily data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department. Hapur district recorded 86 new positive cases on Tuesday, the highest in the state in a single day, it added. There are 607 active Covid-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar, while 949 patients have got discharged after recovery. A total of 19 deaths have been recorded so far, as per the data. The total number of positive cases so far reported in the district is 1,575 (607 active cases + 949 discharged cases + 19 deceased), according to the data updated on Tuesday. However, the total positive cases so far would be 1,579 on addition of 63 new patients to Monday’s tally of 1,516 cases, suggesting discrepancy in the statistics shared with the press. The recovery rate of patients on Tuesday rose to 60.25 per cent from 59.12 per cent on Monday, as per the statistics. Gautam Buddh Nagar has the highest number of active cases (607) at present in the state followed by Ghaziabad (414), Kanpur Nagar (364), Lucknow (331), Hapur (324), Meerut (260) and Bulandshahr (245), it stated. Overall, there were 6,189 active cases of Covid-19 in the state by Tuesday, while 12,116 patients were discharged, the data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/63-new-covid-19-cases-in-up-s-gautam-buddh-nagar-discrepancy-in-data/story-w1wDJKaONBGSMf1XpmNxUP.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||‘Not a fight between Amit Shah’s model and Kejriwal model’: Manish Sisodia wants new Covid-19 SOPs scrapped||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday that he has written to Union home minister Amit Shah to restore the old Covid-19 testing rules in Delhi.“I had requested Lt Governor to change the rule under which every Covid-19 patient is required to visit a quarantine centre for assessment. It has been two days, but I haven’t received any reply. This new system has created pressure on administration,” Sisodia said at a briefing.“Today, I have written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah requesting him to do away with this system as it will create chaos,” he further said.“This is not fight between Amit Shah’s model and Kejriwal’s model. We should implement system in which people don’t face problems,” Sisodia said.The Delhi government had formalised the new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Covid-19 testing on Monday under which the new patients will have to visit an assessment centre to get themselves checked. The doctors present at the centre will assess a patient based on the severity of symptoms and health history of any co-morbid condition and accordingly decide whether the patient requires an institutional quarantine or home isolation.A separate team will carry out house checks to see whether there is a stand-alone room and bathroom that a Covid-19 patient needs for home isolation so that other members of the family are not infected.These SOPs were first suggested by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), led by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. The Delhi government said that this requires special ambulances to transport Covid-19 patients and additional manpower, which is currently a problem.The new rules led to such chaos that at least three of the 11 districts of Delhi have not been able to adopt the protocol since they have too many new cases to handle, officials from these districts told HT on Tuesday on the condition of anonymity.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also urged the Centre and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to restore the old system, saying the home isolation plan has been working very well.The protracted row started on Friday after Baijal scrapped the home isolation plan of Delhi government. Though the order was reversed on Saturday, the DDMA introduced the mandatory assessment.The Centre has been regularly monitoring the situation the situation in Delhi after a huge spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded its largest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases so far with 3,947 people testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/not-a-fight-between-amit-shah-s-model-and-kejriwal-model-manish-sisodia-wants-new-covid-19-sops-scrapped/story-9w9eAh9P17ngcfsbDLBQuN.html
24-06-2020||City||16-yr-old boy, who could not attend online classes, found dead in Assam||A 16-year-old student, who was upset because he did not have a smartphone to attend online classes, was found dead near his house in Assam’s Chirang district on Tuesday, police said on Wednesday.According to the police, the student of Class 10, who came from a very poor family, was troubled as he could not take part in online classes and examinations conducted by his school.Educational institutions in Assam are closed since March due to the coronavirus pandemic. But online classes and exams are being held by both private and government schools over smartphones.“The boy’s family was very poor. His mother had gone to Bangalore in search of work and his father didn’t have any job. The boy needed a phone to take part in online classes but his father was not able to get him one,” Sudhakar Singh, Chirang’s superintendent of police, said.“From what we have been able to gather after talking to neighbours and others close to the student, it appears he was fed up with the situation and decided to take his own life,” he added.Though some reports said a suicide note was found, the police have denied it. The post-mortem report is awaited.A Class 10 student in Kerala’s Malappuram district had set herself on fire earlier this month as she was unable to attend online classes as she did not have either a television or a smartphone.(Please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist if you need support or know someone who does. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-yr-old-boy-who-could-not-attend-online-classes-found-dead-in-assam/story-slDE3uD0uM3MHWkqHRg3vM.html
24-06-2020||Pune||NCP wanted to join hands with BJP two years ago: Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed the NCP wanted to join hands with his party two years ago and asserted this is not the time to talk about fall or change of government in Maharashtra which is battling the coronavirus pandemic.Addressing a press conference here, the former Chief Minister claimed the Sharad Pawar-headed Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) wanted to be a part of the BJP-led government in Maharashtra two years ago.The leader of opposition in the assembly said “This is not the time to do any valuation of the government. This is the right time to raise questions (regarding the Covid-19 management), this is the time to point out shortcomings.“But this is not the time to evaluate the government on the basis of its shortcomings. This is not the time to say change CM or there is no need of this government.” As the main opposition party, the BJP is highlighting shortcomings of the Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP government, he said.“All we need to see is how can the shortcomings can be removed and how can they be put forth before the government and that is what we are doing,” said Fadnavis.To a question, he clarified that no new political equation is evolving in the state, where the BJP lost power late last year.“There is no new equation. To change the government or (push for) fall of the government is not our agenda...everyone is seeing how the government is running and there is no need for me to see it differently,” the former chief minister said.Replying to a question regarding his interview to a Marathi news channel, Fadnavis said the NCP wanted to join hands with the BJP in the state two years ago when he was the chief minister.“They wanted to come with us two years ago. There were meetings in this regard but our senior leaders made it clear that the BJP will not be able to do so without (approval of) the Shiv Sena.“They (BJP leaders) said we can isolate the Congress but the Shiv Sena needs to be with us. If it is okay, we can go ahead (with NCP proposal). As this was the stand of our senior leaders, the entire process, which had gone quite far, went into cold storage,” he claimed.Asked about his dramatic early morning swearing-in as chief minister along with NCP leader Ajit Pawar as deputy CM last November, Fadnavis said he is going to write a book on the entire episode, which had created a flutter.“I have said in my interview that I am going to going to write a book on that entire episode. If I reveal all suspense now, there will no demand for the book,” he said.In November last year, the Shiv Sena snapped ties with the BJP and joined hands with the NCP and the Congress, its long-standing political rivals, to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra.Fadnavis was here to review the Covid-19 situation in Pune city and the adjoining Pimpri-Chinchwad.He said Covid-19 testing capacity needs to be ramped up in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-wanted-to-join-hands-with-bjp-two-years-ago-fadnavis/story-oaqTOO3j4pHmIzAb4yV4kL.html
24-06-2020||Bangalore||Farmers start sowing Kharif crops in Kalaburagi||With the commencement of Kharif season, farmers in Kalaburagi district have started sowing seasonal crops-Cotton and pigeon pea, anticipating a good rainfall in the state.Farmers in the region said they could not grow enough crops due to low rainfall.A farmer in Kalaburagi, who is sowing the Kharif crop in the hope of bumper crop said: “Due to less rain for the last 3 years, we have not been able to grow cotton. But during this year’s monsoon, we are sowing cotton and tur (Pigeon pea) in our 2-acre land.”“Although, there is no guarantee of rain this year as well but we can only hope for it,” he added.The Kharif season begins in June with the start of the monsoon in India and concludes by October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/farmers-start-sowing-kharif-crops-in-kalaburagi/story-8uFg7a4INZW7Gc4ytdNgEP.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sikh-owned restaurant vandalised in US, racist graffiti written at site||An Indian restaurant owned by a Sikh in the Sante Fe city in the US state of New Mexico was broken into and vandalised with hate messages scrawled on its walls, according to a media report.The damages caused to India Palace restaurant is estimated to be worth $100,000 (Rs 75.6 lakh), local Santa Fe Reporter newspaper reported on Tuesday.The attack is being investigated by local police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.The Sikh American Legal Defence and Education Fund (SALDEF), a non-profit civil rights organisation, condemned the incident. “This kind of hate and violence is unacceptable and swift action must be taken to ensure the safety and security of all Americans,” said SALDEF executive director Kiran Kaur Gill.SMASHED, GUTTED AND ABUSEDAccording to the local daily, tables were overturned, glassware was smashed into piles on the floor, wine racks were emptied, a statue of a goddess was beheaded and computers were stolen. The vandals also turned over and destroyed food warmers, while the front desk area was gutted, plates smashed and the kitchen rendered completely unusable, it said.“I walked into the kitchen, I saw everything and I was like, hold on, what? What is going on here?” owner Baljit Singh told Santa Fe Reporter. “White power,” “Trump 2020,” “Go home,” and far worse were spray-painted on walls, doors, counters and any other available surface. “Some phrases contained threats of violence and derogatory racial slurs,” the daily said.The restaurant had reopened only recently after being closed due to the Covid-19 restrictions.“Santa Fe is a peaceful town, and the Sikh community has lived here, beautifully integrated, since the ’60s,” said SALDEF board member Simran Singh, who lives minutes away from the restaurant.“Tensions have flared recently with the reinvigoration of the Black Lives Matter movement and the removal of statues associated with Spanish colonisers of this area, who committed a number of atrocities,” he said.“Nevertheless, we are seeing an outpouring of love and support around the city and in my experience, our neighbours love and appreciate us, as we love and appreciate them,” he added.COMMUNITY COMES OUT IN SUPPORTGovernor Michelle Lujan Grisham tweeted on Tuesday, “We will not stand for such hatred in New Mexico.” She added that she had spoken to Baljit Singh to “let him know that our community is with him”.Mayor Alan Webber described the vandalism a “sickening and appalling” hate crime and vowed, “We will find whoever did it and punish them to the full extent of the law.”He said, “The Singhs are a long-standing Sikh family that has used its own resources to feed homeless Santa Feans through the goodness of their hearts. For them to be attacked this way breaks our hearts.”The Singh family distributes free packages of food and sanitary products for homeless people in the area and these items were stolen during the attack, according to the Reporter.The Reporter said that five fundraising campaigns have been launched to help the restaurant.A GoFundMe campaign by another restaurant, Paper Dosa, had raised more than $35,000 (Rs 26.4 lakh), the New Mexican said.MISTAKEN FOR TERROR OUFIT ISLAMIC STATEOne of the pictures of the graffiti posted on the Reporter’s website was against the terrorist organisation Islamic State.Because of their turbans, Sikhs are sometimes mistaken for Islamists or Iranian clergy who are represented in the media with turbans and are attacked.The Council on American-Islamic Relations National Communications Director Ibrahim Hooper said in a statement, “This disturbing hate attack once again demonstrates that growing white supremacy, xenophobia, Islamophobia, and racism target every minority community and must be challenged by people of all races, faiths and backgrounds.”SALDEF said that it has seen an unprecedented rise in hate crimes including the April 29 incident wherein a Sikh American Lakhwant Singh was brutally attacked by a man identified as Eric Breeman in Lakewood, Colorado.Lakhwant Singh was told to “go back to your country,” while being attacked. No formal hate crime charges have been brought against the attacker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-owned-restaurant-vandalised-in-us-racist-graffiti-written-at-site/story-U3YDTjCN59gwJJzA90XyML.html
24-06-2020||Jaipur||Covid: Rajasthan govt issues guidelines for liquor sale in hotels, restaurant||Rajasthan Excise Department has issued guidelines in the wake of resumption of liquor sale in hotels and restaurants in the state amid Covid-19 pandemic.The Excise Commissioner Vishnu Charan Malik issued guidelines on Tuesday asking owners to ensure social distancing norms in the hotels and bars.According to the guidelines, bar counter, chairs, and stools should be properly sanitised. All the bottles of wine, whiskey and beers should be sanitised properly with food-grade disinfectant.Apart from this, ice containers and trolley also required to be sanitised regularly.According to the Union Health Ministry, 15,232 Covid-19 cases including 2,966 active cases, 11,910 cured and 356 deaths have been reported from the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-rajasthan-govt-issues-guidelines-for-liquor-sale-in-hotels-restaurant/story-2lGe9O4xhrT2zqzSIyIZwI.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal urges Centre to restore old system of checking Covid-19 patients||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal once again urged the Centre and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to restore the old system of assessing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients at their residence.“Delhi’s home isolation plan has been working very well. I have personally spoken to many patients on phone who underwent home isolation. I wud urge Centre and LG not to tinker wid it and restore it back,” he said on Twitter on Wednesday. Delhi’s home isolation plan has been working very well. I have personally spoken to many patients on phone who underwent home isolation. I wud urge Centre and LG not to tinker wid it and restore it back pic.twitter.com/aaFLl2aXY1The Delhi government had formalised a new health assessment protocol on Monday, which said that new patients of the coronavirus disease had to visit a testing site to get themselves checked. The revised Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) further said that the patients will be examined by a medical officer at the testing site to assess the severity of illness.This, the Delhi government said, requires special ambulances and more medical staff, something the authorities say are short in number.“There is a lot of panic among people because of the new guidelines. Earlier, they tried to stop home isolation and a consensus on continuing it was reached after a lot of dialogue. Now, (there is) this new guideline... why should a Covid-19 patient be made to stand in a queue at a quarantine centre? I have written to the L-G to continue with the earlier system of the medical team visiting the home of coronavirus patients instead,” Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia at a press briefing on Tuesday.The revised guidelines were announced after an order on home isolation by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal was modified.In view of the surge in the coronavirus cases, the Lt Governor had last week ordered mandatory institutional quarantine. The move was opposed by the AAP government.The new SOPs say that the assessment centre will decide about the clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities.Simultaneously, physical assessment will also be done whether adequate facilities for home isolation like minimum of two rooms and a separate toilet exists so that family members and neighbours are protected, and a cluster of cases does not develop in that locality, the order said.The new rules led to such chaos that at least three of the 11 districts of Delhi have not been able to adopt the protocol since they have too many new cases to handle, officials from these districts told HT on Tuesday on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-urges-centre-to-restore-old-system-of-checking-covid-19-patients/story-pyX4o74NdonJ3a8kQ958gJ.html
24-06-2020||Pune||12 trainee sailors of INS Shivaji test positive for Covid-19||At least 12 trainee sailors of the Lonavala-based INS Shivaji, one of the premier training establishments of the Indian Navy, have so far tested positive for coronavirus, officials said.The first case was found on June 18 and the infected cadet was part of a batch of 157 trainee sailors who had reported back after leave following the easing of lockdown earlier this month, a release issued by the naval station on Tuesday said.“With the easing of lockdown as per Unlock 1.0 in the first week of June, a batch of 157 trainee sailors who were undergoing training at this establishment and were on extended leave in view of the lockdown, reported back and all were quarantined for 14 days in one of the institutional quarantine facilities prepared in the unit,” it said.One of the trainee sailors from the batch was found to be symptomatic during the quarantine period and tested positive for coronavirus on June 18, it said.“Further, all the other high-risk contacts who are staying in that particular quarantine facility are being tested as per the extant procedure and necessary medical support is being provided. A total of 12 out of157 trainee sailors have been found coronavirus positive as on date,” the release said.Since the infection is contained to one particular quarantine block, the possibility of spread of infection to other areas/personnel of the establishment is negligible.However, all precautions have been instituted to obviate further spread, it said.All precautions, instructions and directions issued with respect to Covid-19 by the Government of India and the Indian Navy, from time to time, are being strictly adhered to, the release said.All personnel in the base are already maintaining the required precautions against Covid-19, it added.INS Shivaji is an Indian Naval station located in the hill-town of Lonavala in Maharashtra’s Pune district. It houses the Naval College of Engineering which trains officers of the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/12-trainee-sailors-of-ins-shivaji-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-SNnKEppaC7yGQfczRrPBQP.html
24-06-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 cases in non-migrants on rise in Jharkhand||The spread of Covid-19 pandemic continues unabated in Jharkhand, which after two spells of spike, one related to Tablighi Jamaat and the other to migrants’ inflow, is now witnessing a steep rise in positive cases among the non-migrant population.While 70 cases were detected in non-migrants in May, as many as 205 cases have been reported from the section in the first 22 days of June. In comparison to the last month, cases in this section have registered a growth of 192% till June 22.Experts, however, say the rise of cases in the non-migrant section is quite worrisome as it is indicative of community transmission of the disease.Director of the state’s premier medical college and hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Dr DK Singh said, “In Unlock-1, interstate movement of people has been allowed. There is also no restriction in movement within the city, town and other areas. Not only migrants are returning to the state but also the people from other sections.”In the case of migrants, a majority of them were put in institutional quarantine and therefore, they were segregated. But, in other cases, there were no such segregation, so cases from this section are bound to rise, he added.Singh said, “We are noticing that a majority of ill patients coming to the hospital are testing Covid-19 positive. We need to increase the testing, especially through random sampling, to find out if there is any community spread.”However, a recent survey of state’s three districts by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) didn’t indicate any possibility of community transmission.However, the government has urged the council to conduct the survey across the state.According to the state health department, the state had 110 positive cases by the end of April, when the return of migrants had not started.These cases were primarily linked to the Tablighi Jammat event in New Delhi.From May 1 onwards, migrant workers, stranded in different states, started returning home through special flights, trains, buses and other modes of transportation.Till June 12, over 5.12 lakh migrant workers had arrived from different states in the state.Those, who had returned from red zone cities like Mumbai, Surat, Delhi and others, were put in institutional quarantine.The state health machinery then shifted its focus to these quarantine centres from where positive cases started coming in hoards.In the month of May alone, as many as 500 confirmed cases were unearthed, including 430 cases found in migrants.Of the total cases found in May, only 14% cases (70) were reported from the non-migrant section.A steep surge in the number of Covid-19 cases has been noticed in the current month as total positive cases climbed to 2,140 on June 22 from 610 on May 31.Of the 1,530 cases found in the first 22 days of June, 1,325 were detected among migrants and remaining 205 in non-migrant section, which accounts for over 13% of the total cases found in this month so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-cases-in-non-migrants-on-rise-in-jharkhand/story-FwlfyFbA9nhH7yFhKsxAQK.html
24-06-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: No Rath Yatra in Ranchi for first time in over 300 years||For the first time in over 300 years, the three chariots of Lord Jagannath and his siblings were not taken out of the Jagannathpur temple here on the occasion of Rath Yatra on Tuesday due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions, a shrine official said.Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said he sought “forgiveness” from the deities for not being able to perform the annual ritual this year.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe nine-day Rath Yatra is marked by a procession of the chariots, in which the three deities -- Lord Jagannath, Bhagwan Balaram and Devi Subhadra -- embark on an annual journey to their maternal aunt’s place and back.“It is the first time in the shrine’s 329-year-long history that the chariots did not roll out on the streets of Ranchi to head to ‘maushi ma bari’ (maternal aunt’s home), which is around a kilometre away, on the occasion of the Rath Yatra,” said Manoj Tiwari, manager of the 17th century Jagannathpur temple.The idols of the three deities were taken out of the sanctum sanctorum at 6 am, and placed on ‘dol mandap’ on the premises of the temple, where rituals were performed and offerings made, he said.They will be placed back in the sanctum sanctorum on July 1 during the return car festival, he added.Soren said the decision to suspend all celebrations on the occasion of the Rath Yatra was taken keeping in mind the safety of the people.“People have been participating in the Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath every year. But this year, the Rath Yatra programme could not be held, so I bowed before him and sought forgiveness,” he told reporters after offering prayers at the temple.“The world is in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. The decision to suspend the age-old Rath Yatra programme this year had to be taken with a heavy heart,” he said.The chief minister said he prayed for victory over the pandemic.The Jagannathpur temple was constructed atop a hill in Ranchi’s Dhurva area in 1691 by Badkagardh Nagavanshi Raja Thakur Ani Nath Shahdeo, and the first chariot had rolled the very next year.Since then till 2019, according to Jagannathpur temple manager Tiwari, the Rath Yatra rituals had been performed without any interruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-no-rath-yatra-in-ranchi-for-first-time-in-over-300-years/story-tEVL4NsJEtKASS9pNc71dL.html
24-06-2020||Lucknow||Set up Covid-19 help desks in police stations, hospitals and govt offices: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed that Covid help desks be set up in all police stations, hospitals, government offices, tehsils/revenue courts, development blocks and jails in UP. The help desks must be manned by at least two people all time from morning till evening, he said.Talking about the function of the help desk, Yogi said that all these help desks must have awareness material related to Covid-19 prevention and safety measures. They must have oximeters, infrared thermometers and sanitizers for screening employees or inmates at the establishments. “Before putting two people on each task, train them well for handling the equipments and at the same tackling their own safety. They must wear masks and gloves all the time,” he said.Discussing the Unlock situation in the state with a high-level Covid-19 management team, the CM said, “Also encourage the private hospitals to have similar help desks.”Talking about tests and surveillance the chief minister said: “Continue to increase the number of tests per day and consolidate Covid-19 surveillance arrangements. For strengthening surveillance and testing, we are now sending special secretary level officers to each district. These officers should camp in the districts and help the chief medical officer (CMO). Also, the government will assess the work that these special secretary-level officers would do in these times of Covid-19 emergency.”“Soon increase the total number of medical teams for Covid-19 screening to one lakh. All team members must have masks, gloves and sanitizers. Admit asymptomatic patients to the hospitals for treatment and also take adequate steps to protect medical teams from infection,” Yogi said.The chief minister instructed the smooth operation of free ration distribution work without compromising on Covid-19 safety guidelines. “Strengthen arrangements in cow shelters and pay special attention to cattle diseases in view of the monsoon. Run intensive drive to check illegal arms,” Yogi said.Among those who attended the meeting were medical education minister, Suresh Khanna, health minister Jai Pratap Singh, minister of state for health, Atul Garg, chief secretary, RK Tiwari, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, Alok Tandon, agriculture development commissioner, Alok Sinha and additional chief secretary (home), Awanish K Awasthi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/set-up-covid-19-help-desks-in-police-stations-hospitals-and-govt-offices-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-quUQakrhOymp0O70jcvxdL.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Unlock wedding shopping: Bridal wear deals and discounts aplenty at Delhi-NCR markets||The quintessential Delhi bride is making the most of Unlock 1.0 by bagging some amazing discounts and deals on wedding shopping amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Bridal shopping was always tiresome before, with really limited bargains and almost always huge crowds at one store. However, the market situation is such that the customer is reaping the benefits. I bought many suits and sarees at discounts upto 50% from Meena Bazaar in Karol Bagh, for my wedding trousseau. The shoppers in the store were limited and that just meant more attention from the shop keeper, which is a scenario that I couldn’t imagine in this season had we been in the pre-corona times,” says Neha Bindal, a Delhiite.  A post shared by Meena Bazaar (@meenabazaar) on Jun 13, 2020 at 4:14am PDTAlongside offering amazing deals, shopping stores in Delhi-NCR have been sanitised to ensure safety of everyone. “It’s commendable how stores have followed government guidelines. The shopping experience for me wasn’t scary at all. As long as you take all the precautions, shopping at this time can get you some amazing deals,” says Kavita Yadav, a Gurugram resident.  A post shared by Frontier Raas (@frontierraas) on May 20, 2020 at 5:49am PDTStores confirm that they have taken all the necessary precautions and are offering substantial discounts to those interesting in loosening the purse strings. Gaurang Batra, director, Frontier Raas, says, “We are offering special offers in store, and our stores are being sanitised on an hourly basis. Our staff and patrons have to undertake the mandatory temperature checks, and entry into the store is allowed only after checking the Aarogya Setu app on their phone. Gloves and masks are also being provided to shoppers upon arrival.” Simardeep Singh co-owner of a South Extension based store Perfection House, informs, “We are offering a straight 20% discount on everything.” And soon-to-be brides who missed shopping before the lockdown, are now happy that they are able to make such budget-friendly purchases! Preeti Saurabh, a Gurugram resident, says, “I recently bought a lehenga for one of my functions from a store in South Extention at a price that’s unbelievable, and I could have missed out striking this slashed price had I not waited this long to shop. These are brands that have great stuff and are a bit tough on allowing bargains. That’s why I suggest the brides-to-be to venture out and shop while taking all the necessary precautions, as most of the brands are giving fabulous deals!” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-wedding-shopping-bridal-wear-deals-and-discounts-aplenty-at-delhi-ncr-markets/story-8wDz4utt9LasDi0wEY6KDJ.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Silver lining despite rise in Delhi’s coronavirus cases||Delhi on Tuesday recorded its largest single-day spike of coronavirus cases (Covid-19) so far with 3,947 people testing positive, although this number came on the back of a sharp increase in testing in the state — 16,952 samples were tested on Tuesday. Tuesday’s spike took the tally in the city to 66,602, with more than 40% of these cases coming in just the last 10 days. The number of deaths touched 2,301, with 68 new fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin.However, an analysis of Delhi’s Covid-19 data by HT offered a much-needed silver lining. With the number of new recoveries and discharges picking up pace in the past few days, the number of active cases in the city have actually reduced by 1,363 in the last week. [Chart 1] That means Delhi has seen more recoveries than new cases. Active cases — calculated by subtracting recovered patients and deaths from the tally — are a key metric to understand the weight of the caseload that hospitals have to handle. The relative stability in active cases traces its source to a recent boost in recovery numbers — nearly 62% of all recoveries have been reported in just the last 10 days.The recent spike in cases also comes on the heels of testing in Delhi being ramped up using rapid antigen kits last Thursday, with the proportion of tests turning out positive beginning to decrease [Chart 2]. At 23.2%, this number, called the positivity rate, was still among the highest in the country in absolute terms on Tuesday, but it has been decreasing on an average over the past week.The number of average daily tests more than doubled to 13,880 for the week ending June 23 compared to 6,200 the week before. The new test kits, which give results within 30 minutes, are being used at 193 centres across Delhi’s 11 districts. To be sure, the use of the rapid tests has meant a relaxation of testing norms in Delhi, which experts said was expected to lead to drop in positivity rate. Earlier only people who had a history of contact with positive cases or those who showed symptoms were getting tested in the Capital, but under the rapid tests, all residents of Delhi’s containment zones will get tested. The positivity rate for the week ending June 22 stood at 24%, meaning nearly one in every four people tested turned out positive. This number was 31% a week before. The number is still high in but it has begun to decline -- a clear indication that Delhi is finally beginning to test enough.  Covid deaths also appear to have stabilised over the past week, even as a massive spike is seen in new recoveries [Chart 3]. Even though there hasn’t been an official statement on the increase in the number of patients who have recovered or discharged, officials familiar with the matter said that this is due to Delhi aligning its discharge policy with the Union health ministry’s latest guidelines. As per the health ministry guidelines, mild to moderate Covid-19 patients can be discharged without testing on the 10th day of the symptoms appearing and/or three days after resolution of symptoms.Delhi government said it is focussing on increased testing and containment zones. “An increase in testing have shown to decrease positivity rates worldwide. At the same time all our additional testing is focused completely on containment zones which tend to have infected patients as well. Overall, it looks like a result of additional testing and effective containment,” a Delhi government spokesperson said on Tuesday.Experts, however, advised caution in reading into numbers just yet. “Positivity rates should not be used to predict the course of the infection in the city. This is because of two reasons. One, Delhi has just started using rapid antigen kits which does not give false positive reports but due to lower sensitivity than RT-PCR test must be missing some positive cases,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at AIIMS. “Two, there have been a lot of changes in the city’s testing strategy that is bound to affect the positivity rate,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/silver-lining-despite-delhi-coronavirus-cases-rise/story-YHjNdIzQfvRoJrlvbB8snJ.html
24-06-2020||City||Maharashtra government declares 29.53-sq-km area in Konkan a conservation reserve||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday declared 29.53 square kilometre (sq km) area, comprising 10 villages in Dodamarg taluka, Sindhudurg district, as the Tillari Conservation Reserve.This is the first notified conservation reserve along the Konkan coast and the seventh in the state.With this decision, a certain section of the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi corridor, which has been under threat from mining, receives protection under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Conservation reserves are protected areas that act as buffer zones or migration corridors between established national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, reserved and protected forests of India. However, these protected areas do not have surrounding eco-sensitive zones (protected buffers) as sanctuaries or national parks do. Also, any developmental or agricultural activity proposed within the reserve needs approval from the state and central wildlife boards.The notification published on Tuesday by the revenue and forest department shows the area was protected based on the presence of tigers, elephants, and leopards. Other fauna include sloth bears, civets, pangolins, several resident and migratory bird species, and even the Indian giant squirrel (Maharashtra’s state animal). The flora includes 303 plant species, 127 types of trees including 99 medicinal plants. “Tillari Conservation Reserve is a source of perennial water bodies, and an integral part of the Sahyadri-Konkan wildlife corridor. With this declaration, development activities are restricted, while mining is prohibited across 29.53 sq km areas, safeguarding the rich biodiversity of the tropical semi-evergreen and moist deciduous forests. We will be setting up a committee to look after management and conservation of the reserve,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. Located in the heart of the biodiversity hotspot, Western Ghats, the protected area falls between Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka. This will be the 13th protected area along the Western Ghats in Maharashtra and 62nd across the state (including sanctuaries, national parks and tiger reserves).“The reserve will act as a connector through the Western Ghat ridges, connecting the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary in north Goa and the Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka’s Belgaum district in the south to the Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur district which lies in the north,” said Kakodkar. According to the state forest department, there are four resident tigers – two adults and two sub-adults – present within the notified area. “The Tilari ecosystem has a breeding tiger population, and acts as a source population for the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve,” said V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest, Kolhapur. A transient population of around 25 tigers have been documented moving through the corridor over five years. A family of five pachyderms (three adults including two tuskers, a female and their two calves) have also been spotted moving through the protected zone. Altogether, there are of 19 species of mammals, 12 species of amphibians, 71 species of birds, 60 species of butterflies, two species of damselflies, 16 species of reptiles, four species of scorpions, four species of spiders and five species of other invertebrates, according to biodiversity assessments carried out over the years, said Ben, adding, “This is a win-win situation, in which the wildlife corridor is getting strengthened and sustainable livelihood model for the fringe villagers are ensured. At the same time ecotourism shall find a fillip in the days to come.”The 10 villages in Dodamarg taluka that form the reserve’s boundary include Bambarde, Ghatiwade, Kendre Bank, Kendre Khadi, Patiye, Shirange, Konal, Ainode, Hewale and Medhe. The entire Dodamarg taluka has 53 villages. The notification, however, did not include the extension of the water body (Tillari dam) within the taluka.Petitioners striving to protect the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi corridor before the Bombay high court (HC) said the latest notification included eight of the 38 villages from Dodamarg taluka they sought protection for. “The notification of the reserve and orders to declare the entire corridor an eco-sensitive area are two separate subjects. We welcome that certain section of this corridor is now protected due to this notification but we need to be wary of surrounding areas that are still open to the mining lobby, and need similar safety,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti and petitioner before the HC. Area was originally proposed as a wildlife sanctuary: Forest department In 2016, the Maharashtra forest department had proposed to declare 57 sq km area of Tillari as a wildlife sanctuary across 25 villages, but after stiff opposition from locals, the proposed protected area was reduced to 29.53 sq km. “Locals were worried that declaring the area a sanctuary would hamper developmental work, economic losses and livelihood issues. Thus, the plan was altered, the area was reduced and the locals were taken into confidence before the final notification for the conservation reserve was issued,” said Kakodkar.State’s seven conservation reserves2008: 3.49 sqkm Borgad Conservation Reserve (eastern Nashik) 2013: 180.72 sqkm Kolamarka Conservation Reserve (Gadchiroli) 2014: 122.74 sqkm Muktai Bhawani Conservation Reserve (Jalgaon) 2014: 54.46sqkm Mamdapur Conservation Reserve (near Nashik)2016: 93.42 sqkm Tornamal Conservation Reserve (near Nandurbar) 2017: 5.69 sqkm Anjaneri Conservation Reserve (near Nashik) 2020: 29.53 sqkm Tillari Conservation Reserve (Sindhudurg) What is a conservation reserveAccording to the Union environment ministry, conservation reserves are protected areas that act as buffer zones or connectors and migration corridors between established national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and reserved and protected forests of India.These protected area categories were first introduced in the Wildlife (Protection) Amendment Act, 2002. These categories were added because of reduced protection in and around existing or proposed protected areas due to private ownership of land and land useWith this latest declaration, there are now 92 conservation reserves in India across 12 states. Jammu and Kashmir has the maximum reserves (34), followed by Karnataka (15) and Rajasthan (11).(Source: National Wildlife Database, Wildlife Institute of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-declares-29-53-sq-km-area-in-konkan-a-conservation-reserve/story-OpmsdlK6dyR55at5JBntCL.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||500-km expressway running through 3 districts of Konkan?||Taking a cue from the previous government that led the ambitious 701-km Mumbai-Nagpur expressway or Samruddhi corridor, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has taken the first step towards constructing a 500-km greenfield Konkan expressway. The state’s infrastructure arm, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) on Tuesday issued a request for proposal to appoint consultancy services to prepare a feasibility report and detailed project report on the expressway. In March, state urban development minister Eknath Shinde had announced that a greenfield expressway will be constructed along the Maharashtra coastline, connecting the three districts of Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg. The state is looking at starting the expressway from Chirle in Raigad where the under-construction 22km sea-bridge – the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) – ends. The expressway will extend till Patradevi at the Maharashtra-Goa border in Sindhudurg district. Shinde had said that the project would help boost coastal tourism and reduce stress on the Mumbai-Goa National Highway. Radheshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director, MSRDC, said, “The consultant will be expected to look at the feasibility of the project along with the social and environmental impact. It will also propose a financial model that can be adopted.” MSRDC has undertaken the construction of the Samruddhi corridor at ₹55,000 crore. It will reduce travel time between Mumbai and Nagpur to eight hours. The corporation has also undertaken the construction of the Versova-Bandra sea link at ₹7,000 crore and is looking to extend it till Virar at an additional cost of ₹24,000 crore. Transport experts said that the expenditure on a new mega project needs to be justified by the government. “Any road project means high expenditure. If the project is looking at boosting public transport, then it can benefit people. Also, the Konkan railway is still not utilised to its full potential, so there needs to be a better reason for the new project,” said Paresh Rawal, a Mumbai-based transport expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/500-km-expressway-running-through-3-districts-of-konkan/story-aOWPYngvhozZgi1EehARXK.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC asks Centre, NIA to respond after plea claims probe transfer was politically motivated||A petition filed by criminal lawyer Surendra Gadling and poet Sudhir Dhawale, both accused in the Elgar Parishad case, before the Bombay high court (HC), has challenged the case being transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), claiming it to be politically motivated as a charge sheet and a supplementary charge sheet were already filed by Pune police. In the petition filed last week, Gadling and Dhawale alleged that the transfer of the probe was done by the Central government as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost power in Maharashtra.The case, in which several other rights activists have been arrested and accused of having Maoist links, was transferred from the Pune police to the NIA on January 24 this year. According to the prosecution, inflammatory speeches and provocative statements made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, triggered caste violence at Bhima-Koregaon the next day.An HC division bench of justices SS Shinde and Abhay Ahuja on Tuesday asked the Central government and NIA to respond to the petition. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate Sandesh Patil, appearing for the Centre and NIA respectively, sought time from the court to take instructions and file their response to the petition, which the court accepted, and posted the matter for hearing on July 14.The petitioners claimed that “no doubt the scheme of the act does not expressly stipulate the stage at which the investigation needs to be transferred to the NIA, however, the same cannot be read to grant to the Central Government an unbridled and unguided power to direct investigation of scheduled offences by NIA long after the charge sheet was filed in the Court by the Investigation Agency of the State Government, purely for political concerns”.The petition went on to state that the Central government had specific knowledge about the offence as early as 2018, but had not directed the NIA to investigate for a period of one- and-a-half years.“On the contrary, it [Central government] allowed the state police to continue with the investigation and showed complete faith in it and defended the investigation by state police machinery before the Supreme Court(SC) in a petition filed by Romila Thapar,” read the petition.The petitioners went to state that Tushar Mehta, additional solicitor general appearing for the Union of India, had vehemently argued before SC that the integrity of the investigating officer cannot be doubted as there was enough material against each of the accused.“According to him [Mehta], the request to set up the Special Investigation Team (SIT) was completely against the cardinal criminal jurisprudence,” read the petition.The petition further stated that the Centre, Maharashtra state and an intervenor had opposed a court-monitored investigation or an SIT, claiming that “the investigation was being conducted responsibly and impartially by an officer of the rank of an assistant commissioner of police and the same was carried out under the supervision of a deputy commissioner of police and was being monitored by the joint commissioner of police who was of the rank of an additional director general.” The case was then being investigated by Pune police.The petition went on to state that once the Centre had then refused to exercise the powers available to transfer the case to NIA within 15 days, it could not have subsequently exercised the same, particularly when there was no change in circumstance in the real sense.The petition claimed that the only change that prompted the Centre to direct NIA to investigate the case was after the BJP-led government in Maharashtra was voted out of power, and a new government formed by the Maharashta Vikas Aghadi, comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Indian National Congress (INC), was intending to constitute SIT to enquire into the circumstances that led to violence at Bhima-Koregaon.The petitioners claimed that no new statement was recorded or evidence was gathered by Pune police after it had filed a supplementary charge sheet on February 21, 2019. “Thus there was no new material that could have prompted the much delayed and curiously timed decision of the Central Government to transfer the investigation only after BJP lost power in the state,” claimed the petition.Meanwhile, the bench also heard the application of activist Sudha Bharadwaj, another accused in the Elgar Parishad case too. Bharadwaj, through senior advocate Yug Choudhary, has challenged the rejection of her interim bail application by a special court.After hearing the application, the court posted the hearing on Friday as copies of the petition were not served to all parties. Gadling and Dhawale were arrested in June 2018 and are currently lodged at the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai.Apart from Gadling, Dhawale and Bharadwaj, the other arrested accused include Rona Wilson, Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Shoma Sen, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao and Arun Ferreira.They were booked under the stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-asks-centre-nia-to-respond-after-plea-claims-probe-transfer-was-politically-motivated/story-cpnnbNWtus8Ya8o87KorzH.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Mithibai College students unhappy over second-year results under new grading system||More than four months after undergraduate students of Mithibai College, Vile Parle, protested against the introduction of a new grading system claiming that the new system brought down their overall performance compared to the previous semesters. The college on Tuesday announced the results of second-year students based on the new system.Students claimed that the college implemented the new grading system – which it had introduced after becoming an autonomous institution – despite assurances from the management that the new pattern will be introduced in phases, starting with first-year students.Despite repeated attempts, college principal Rajpal Hande did not answer HT’s calls till the time of going to the press.“We are in a single integrated three-year course. So the administration can’t introduce new grading pattern without our consent. Changes to the grading system have left most students with lower grades, as compared to the previous semesters, and that is unacceptable, especially because it’s not our fault,” said a student.Earlier, many students had pointed out that their scores fell drastically in the previous semester after the college introduced a 10-point grading system, instead of the seven-point one followed by the University of Mumbai.After the second-year students received their results, the college informed students that while the institute’s academic council agreed to hold back the new grading system, at a governing council meeting on June 16, it was decided to continue with the new system. “All our attempts to touch base with the management are futile because no one is responding. Final-year students are worried now that their overall result will reflect low scores, as compared to previous years because of the new grading system,” said another student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mithibai-college-students-unhappy-over-second-year-results-under-new-grading-system/story-IILevQJ5OBAwToJlhtzBNO.html
24-06-2020||City||You can pay power bills in instalments, Maharashtra energy minister tells consumers||Following complaints of “inflated bills” in the past two-three days, Maharashtra state energy minister Nitin Raut said that consumers need not pay the lump sum bill amount, but can do so in easy instalments. In a statement released on Tuesday, Raut said that the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) is not trying to “cheat” any consumer. “As meter-reading was not possible in April and May, consumers have received bills with the actual reading of the past three months. There has also been a revision in rates as approved by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission since April 1,” Raut said, adding that MSEDCL has also faced losses worth ₹3,500 crore in the absence of physical reading. “Consumers can pay the amount in instalments; we will not cut power supply in any case,” he added.A senior official from MSEDCL said that consumers can visit the website https://billcal.mahadiscom.in/consumerbill/ to check all the information pertaining to their bill. “If consumers are still not convinced, then they can visit their respective sub-division to seek clarity over the bill and to avail easy instalments,” the official said. Despite complaints by consumers across the state, distribution companies maintained that there was been no error on their part and that there has been an increase in power usage owing to summer and lockdown, with most people at home and the meter-reading suspended. MSEDCL supplies power to 2.30 crore people in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/you-can-pay-power-bills-in-instalments-maharashtra-energy-minister-tells-consumers/story-wO2DXL0DSR5ceCzAr3rQ5N.html
24-06-2020||City||Green industries will be allowed to start immediately: Maharashtra CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday assured private equity firms of full cooperation from his government and to reduce the number of permissions required for starting their business in the state. CM said that the state is working on a policy under which green industries will be allowed to start immediately and will not have to wait for permissions. Thackeray organised an interactive session with representatives from private equity firms to understand their difficulties and the changes which the state can implement to attract more investors.“The economic cycle started rolling. To attract more investment, we decided to adopt industry-friendly policy. We already dropped unnecessary permissions and will be reducing them even further. We are also planning to simplify the entire process. Moreover, green industries will not need many permissions and they will be allowed to start their operations as early as possible,” Thackeray said during the interaction.Industries minister Subhash Desai said the state has already reduced the number of permissions to 25 from the earlier 76, and will welcome more suggestions from the industry. Facing economic crisis due to pandemic, Maharashtra is set to roll out the red carpet to attract investment. The state planned to provide ‘Maha Parwana’, a master permission for new industrial units, within 48 hours of application, so that industries need no other permission and can start construction on the site immediately. The master permission will guarantee that all statutory permissions required to start operations will be delivered within a prescribed schedule (from three to 30 days), or else it will be considered a deemed approval. The policy is likely to be cleared soon.Manish Kejriwal, managing partner, Kedaara Capitals; Sanjay Nayar, chief executing officer, KKR India; Amit Chandra, managing director, Bain Capital; and Vishal Mahadevia, managing director, Warburg Pincus also attended the interaction.Amit Dixit, senior managing director, Blackstone, suggested that the state should working on starting Pharma and Electronics Park in Maharashtra, said a senior official present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/green-industries-will-be-allowed-to-start-immediately-maharashtra-cm/story-4W4TntL97IXAhZjce7EpJM.html
24-06-2020||City||5 held for robbing truck drivers on highways||The Panvel police have nabbed five people, including a minor, in an armed dacoity case. The gang allegedly used to target truck drivers and rob them at knifepoint on deserted highways after stopping them to ask directions.All the accused, except the minor, have criminal cases against them. “The accused would specifically target truck drivers either resting along the side of highways or isolated spots. They will stop the trucks and ask the drivers for directions, and then distract the truckers and rob them on knifepoint,” said Sunil Tarmale, sub-inspector, Panvel police station.Police suspect the gang’s involvement in at least three to four cases using the same operandi. The police was on the lookout for the gang after a truck driver, along with his supervisor and a watchman, were robbed along the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) highway on June 11. The gang decamped with their mobile phones and cash.The accused have been identified as Asif Abdul Khan alias Mental, 23; Nazre Alam Ansari, 21; Mohammed Nauhid Khan, 21; Mohammed Aman Shaikh, 20; Shamshuddin Ansari, 19; and Shahid Khan, 19. Asif works as a driver, while Shahid sells clothes. The others are unemployed. Asif has nine cases against him, including two cases of attempt to murder. In 2017, he was also externed from the city limits for a year.The Kherwadi police have arrested Aman and Asif after they were caught by passersby following a robbery in Bandra (East). The duo will be handed over in Panvel police’s custody for investigations.Police also recovered two phones, Rs 26,500 cash, a scooty and a chopping knife from the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-held-for-robbing-truck-drivers-on-highways/story-MurXaN5DT5fNmA6iX1KJIP.html
24-06-2020||City||Fruit seller in Navi Mumbai loses ₹2.75 lakh in suspected card cloning case||A 38-year-old trader from Koparkhairane lost ₹2.75 lakh in a suspected card cloning case. The incident happened last year but the case was filed only on June 19 after the trader approached the police. The complainant, Anmol Shinde, is a Koparkhairane resident, who runs a fruit business at Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market in Vashi. Last year in April, Shinde visited Pune. While he tried paying the farmers through net-banking, he realised that ₹2.75 lakh was missing from his account.“I then returned to Navi Mumbai and went to my bank, where I discovered that the amount was withdrawn in 13 transactions from a Thane ATM on April 21. Most of the transactions were of ₹20,000,” Shinde stated in his complaint.According to the police, the complainant filed a dispute form in the bank. The matter was taken up recently and the bank required a copy of the first information report (FIR) in the case, owing to which the complainant approached the police recently.“It appears to be a case of card cloning where the money was withdrawn from an ATM using the trader’s cloned debit card. Following the complaint, an FIR was registered against an unknown person for cheating,” said an officer from Koparkhairane police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fruit-seller-in-navi-mumbai-loses-2-75-lakh-in-suspected-card-cloning-case/story-iHq11ea8pWIqTeuYxn9T0I.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Bhansali Productions moves Bombay HC to restrain Eros International from exploiting rights of Bajirao Mastani||Filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s production house has approached the Bombay high court (HC), seeking separate restraining orders against production and distribution company Eros International Media Ltd from exploiting the rights of the 2015 film Bajirao Mastani and 2013 film Goliyon ki Rasleela Ram-Leela. The move comes after HC directed Eros International to pay Bhansali Productions the amounts due for the Ram-Leela movie within three weeks on May 4. On Tuesday, when both petitions came up for hearing, the court held that as a substantial question of law was involved and the petitions needed to be heard extensively, it was adjourning the cases and would hear them on June 30. The bench of justice BP Colabawalla, while hearing the petitions, was informed by senior counsel Zal Andhyarujina and advocates Nausher Kohli and Parag Khandhar, that Bhansali Productions was challenging the intimation filed by Eros International with the Bombay Stock Exchange, that it was going into an all-share merger with its parent company Eros International PLC and Hollywood’s STX Filmworks.Bhansali’s advocates said that as neither Eros International PLC nor STX Filmworks was party to the co-production agreement between Bhansali Productions and Eros International Limited, they could not claim or exploit the rights of films made by the two together. Advocate Akshay Patil for Eros International, however, opposed the petition. In the earlier hearing on May 4, the bench of justice Colabawalla had observed that as the respondent companies are situated in the British Isles and California, it would require a detailed hearing to consider the law on whether reliefs could be granted against entities beyond the court’s jurisdiction. “I do not think that a case for ad-interim reliefs is made out at this stage, considering that the court is hearing only extremely urgent matters due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said justice Colabawalla while directing Eros International Media to pay dues of ₹19.39 lakh to Bhansali Productions, related to the co-production agreement between the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhansali-productions-moves-bombay-hc-to-restrain-eros-international-from-exploiting-rights-of-bajirao-mastani/story-ID5v9MK7zZn3xTGnqbJMmO.html
24-06-2020||City||Fire breaks out at Mumbai’s Mankhurd area||A fire broke out at the Kurla scrap compound in Mandala on Mankhurd-Ghatkopar Link Road on Tuesday around 6am. No injuries were reported in the incident. The fire was confined within the scrap materials and oil drums at the five scrap godown sheds located at the spot. Eight fire engines and water tankers each as well as an ambulance were rushed to the site.Fire officials said that the blaze was confined to the sheds, spread over an area of around 15,000 square feet. Chief fire officer Prabhat Rahangdale said, “Four fire-fighting jets were immediately pressed into operation to restrict the spread of the blaze.” The fire was brought under control by 10.35 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-mumbai-s-mankhurd-area/story-qJZHgFwWQF0u5aca7r9iGL.html
24-06-2020||City||CR clears 95,000 cubic metres of trash from railway tracks||The Central Railway (CR) cleared 95,000 cubic metres of trash from railway tracks by operating two muck-special trains every day for over a period of one year between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT)-Kalyan, CSMT-Kasara and CSMT-Panvel stations. The special trains operated at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cr-clears-95-000-cubic-metres-of-trash-from-railway-tracks/story-0Mew1IS4QEZxTWBbZe57vN.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government warns nationalised banks of criminal action for refusal of crop loans||The state government has warned that it will file criminal cases against nationalised banks if they refuse to issue crop loans to farmers. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday that if the government received any such complaint from the district collectors, the banks will face criminal action.“The state government has time and again issued directives to banks over crop loans to farmers for the ongoing kharif season. However, we have received complaints of banks refusing to sanction the loans to the farmers. We will take strict criminal action against banks that are exploiting farmers,” he said in a video statement.Meanwhile, agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse has directed a strict action against seed companies that supplied sub-standard soya bean seeds in parts of the state. Taking the cognisance of the complaints about the supplied seeds failing to germinate, Bhuse said that a committee of scientists from Parbhani Agriculture University will be constituted to study the reasons behind it. He has also directed his department to increase the number of flying squads to address the complaints related to the faulty seeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-warns-nationalised-banks-of-criminal-action-for-refusal-of-crop-loans/story-yLwFPuZueSXDhJTnUIVRuM.html
24-06-2020||City||Maratha quota: Maharashtra government reviews preparations ahead of SC hearing||The state government on Tuesday reviewed its preparations, to defend the reservations provided to the Maratha community, before the Supreme Court. It has formed a five-member cabinet sub-committee headed by public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan to take all the decisions pertaining to the reservation case, which reviewed the details of the reservations ahead of the hearing on the case on July 7. The state has already appointed former Attorney General of India Mukul Rohatgi for the case.The state, through Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018, granted 16% reservation in government jobs and education to the community in November 2018. The Act was upheld by the Bombay high court on June 2019, but it said that the quantum of 16% was not justifiable, and should be reduced to 12%-13%, as recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission in its report as one of the main basis to grant reservation to the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-quota-maharashtra-government-reviews-preparations-ahead-of-sc-hearing/story-gWSNB0YKM72KjJZE2GEUkM.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers choose cotton over paddy||Cotton cultivation tops the preference of Haryana farmers who have opted for the financial incentive-linked crop diversification drive of the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government.The key objective behind encouraging farmers to choose alternative crops is to reduce area under paddy, cultivation of which is being blamed for a sharp dip in groundwater table of Haryana.The state produces nearly 68 lakh metric tonne (LMT) paddy, including more than 25 LMT basmati, sown on about 32 lakh acres of land. For the first time, the farmers switching over to an alternative crop in place of paddy will be paid Rs 7,000 per acre incentive. Since the ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ policy was launched in the first week of May, nudging farmers to shift to less water-consuming crops, as many as 82,693 farmers of 22 districts have opted for this scheme (till June 22) and committed to diversifying 84,649 hectare land, states the official data. According to additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, at the heart of making this ambitious scheme attractive are a range of swift and bold policy decisions made by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Of the 82,693 farmers, who have registered themselves on the ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ portal, over 39,000 farmers have decided to grow cotton in 44,822 hectares instead of paddy. The alternatives these farmers have opted include maize (9,695 hectares), bajra (17,662 hectares), cotton (44,822 hectares), pulses (1,188 hectares) and horticulture activity on 11,280 hectares.At least 9,032 farmers of eight paddy-rich blocks, including Ratia (Fatehabad), Siwan and Guhla (Kaithal), Pipli, Shahbad, Babain and Ismailabad (Kurukshetra) and Sirsa, where the depth of groundwater level exceeds 40 metre, have also opted for this scheme.The policy ‘advises’ the farmers of these eight blocks to diversify more than 50% land that was under paddy cultivation last year to become eligible for Rs 7,000 per acre incentive.Jai Prakash Dalal, agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister, said farmers were being encouraged to avoid planting paddy in areas where the groundwater level had gone below 40 metre. In order to attract farmers towards ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ scheme, he said, the state government has decided to give subsidy on agricultural equipment for sowing of kharif crops as well. “Farmers will have to apply online to avail the grant by June 30,” he added.Whether the farmers have actually stopped paddy cultivation in line with the commitment they have made is a subject matter of physical verification that is now underway.Till June 22, the committees constituted for physical verification had verified 2,137 hectares in 16 districts as the paddy transplantation began on June 15. The real picture of the success or otherwise of the diversification drive will get clear by the end of July when the physical verification of the land would end. “The CM has personally been monitoring the progress of this scheme,” Kaushal said, praising farmers for taking the initiative and the agriculture department staff for working ‘very hard’ despite the challenges Covid-19 outbreak posed.While the maximum number of farmers (8,543) opting for this scheme is from Jind district, the district with least takers is Mahendergarh where 85 farmers have come forward to diversify 92 hectares. 232 farmers chose this scheme in Kurukshetra. Fatehabad, Jhajjar, Palwal and Karnal are among the districts where more than 5,000 farmers each have accepted this policy.The state government has promised the farmers opting for diversification that it will procure maize and cotton under the minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-choose-cotton-over-paddy/story-qry1Rn4iT6wFgpLJ7EZFzJ.html
24-06-2020||City||Contempt petition filed by Khwaja Yunus’s mother in HC against Mumbai Police chief and principal secretary||The high court (HC) directed the state, Mumbai Police chief and principal secretary (special) of the home department to respond to a contempt petition filed by Asiya Begum, the mother of Khwaja Yunus, who died in police custody in 2004. The plea stated that despite HC’s suspension and inquiry orders against four police personnel allegedly involved in the case, a committee recommended their reinstatement, which is in contempt of the court.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the contempt petition through video conferencing, was informed by advocate Chetan Mali that Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and principal secretary (special) home department Amitabh Gupta were in contempt of a HC order of April 7, 2004. Mali said that the HC order had observed that assistant police inspector Sachin Hindurao Vaze and three other police constables, Rajendra Tiwari, Rajaram Nikam and Sunil Desai, were prima facie found to be involved in the custodial death of Khwaja Yunus they should be suspended, and an immediate state disciplinary inquiry should be initiated against them.Mali further submitted that despite the order, no disciplinary inquiry was conducted against any of the four accused. On the contrary, the review committee headed by the commissioner of police recommended the revocation of the suspension and reinstatement of the four accused. Mali said this amounted to “wilful contempt and disobedience of the orders high court”.In light of these submissions, Mali sought the cancellation and setting aside of the June 5 order of the review committee, and punishment or fine for Singh and Gupta for contempt and compliance of the April 2004 order of the HC.After hearing the submissions the court asked the state, Singh and Gupta to respond to the petition and posted the hearing on July 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contempt-petition-filed-by-khwaja-yunus-s-mother-in-hc-against-mumbai-police-chief-and-principal-secretary/story-EswVaM2XPyf5s6ZY6QJrQN.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hit hard by pandemic, banquets, marriage palaces in Ambala, Y’nagar struggle to survive||The pandemic-induced lockdown followed by a sudden spurt in coronavirus cases in Haryana has made it difficult for banquets and marriage palaces owners to stay afloat.A bleak picture of future has forced them to scramble for options, one of which is to lower their rates to attract clients.As per the latest order by the state government, only 50 attendants are allowed to take part in a function or ceremony, that too with some strict conditions.Yuvraj Sharma, owner of the Yuvraj Banquet Hall in Naraingarh, where around 2,500 people could gather at a time, is unsure of the industry’s revival till November.“Many bookings were cancelled in these months and most of the clients performed rituals with small gatherings at their homes. People have started coming to negotiate and discuss the expenses, but they are still not sure on the number of guests and their wedding dates. I’ve fixed charges like electricity, gardening, security, cleaning and other government expenses that have to be paid. But currently, there is no source of income,” Yuvraj, who hails from Karnal, said.“We too have started to mull over the revision of our rates to make it affordable for families to at least start investing and a cycle could kick off. We are also ready to offer the hall and lawn divided into two to three portions for smaller gatherings, but clients are still not sure of dates,” he added.Puneet Dang, president of an association representing banquet hall owners, said, “Clients are opting for smaller hotels rather than booking sprawling lawns with proper catering services. We cannot replace them, but can modify our setups.”In Yamunanagar, the municipal corporation (MC) in its order earlier this month had asked owners of several such establishments to prepare for the worst and make room for at least 100 beds for isolation purpose. Jagmohan Singh of Aman Palace on Workshop Road in Yamunanagar said, “Even after the government has allowed such functions to take place with multiple riders, there are no bookings at all. No one is ready to rent big spaces for a gathering of just 50 people. On the MC’s order, we all ready to support the administration and contribute in whatever way we can.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hit-hard-by-pandemic-banquets-marriage-palaces-in-ambala-y-nagar-struggle-to-survive/story-q1HNjkYfMhM5YyluIU5ccP.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 9 more deaths, cases near 12,000||Nine people lost their lives to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the death toll in Haryana to 178 on Tuesday. While three patients each died in the worst-hit Gurugram and Faridabad districts, one each succumbed to the infection in Sonepat, Rohtak and Jind districts, said the health bulletin. Haryana on Tuesday recorded 495 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the tally of cumulative positive cases to 11,520. However, on a positive side, 582 patients (including 117 in Gurugram, 176 in Faridabad, 163 in Rohtak) were discharged on Tuesday. Faridabad recorded 183 infections, taking the district’s case count to 2,596, while Gurugram, another badly hit NCR district, saw 133 cases. So far, Gurugram has seen 4,645 Covid-19 cases. While Rohtak, Fatehabad and Panchkula recorded one case each, Ambala and Jhajjar saw nine new infections each. Bhiwani, another district turning out to be a hotspot, registered 53 cases, while Karnal witnessed eight infections, Hisar, Panipat and Yamunanagar three each, Nuh 19, Jind two, and Kurukshetra and Sirsa four each. As per the health department data, the number of samples taken so far is 2,26,951. Total 6,498 patients have recovered till now, and the state’s recovery rate stood at 56.41%. There were 4,844 active cases in Haryana on Tuesday. Sonepat became the third district in Haryana after Faridabad and Gurugram to cross 1,000 mark with total case count reaching 1,022. Among eight new patients in Karnal district were a 43-year-old woman and her 16-year-old son, besides six men hailing from different parts of the city.Two children, who had recently returned from Noida, were among four persons found infected in Kurukshetra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-9-more-deaths-cases-near-12-000/story-E8KEBakHynDFKCKbwk1wZI.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||After 9,400 infections in 28 days, Haryana to toughen prevention tactics||With the virus spreading faster than ever, Haryana government is looking at ways to make containment measures more effective and stringent, particularly in the three national capital region (NCR) districts of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat.The state has seen a steep hike in number of coronavirus cases in the past 28 days, reporting 9,451 infections from May 25 to June 21. More than 70% of the active cases pertain to the said three districts.Top officials said as a part of the intensive efforts to control the virus spread, the Standard Q Covid-19 antigen detection test, recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), will be done in those containment zones which have thrown up higher number of cases. The antigen test is a promising tool for quick diagnosis of Covid-19 infection and is different from the rapid antibody test.“Containment zones having 50 cases per square kilometre would definitely qualify for the antigen detection test. The test can be done on site and results are available in about 30 minutes,” an official revealed.“Intensive door-to -door surveillance, antigen detection test, stricter containment, including isolating people who are not Covid-19 positive but have to go out of the zone for work, are among a few measures we are pondering over,” the official added.The district administrations are in the process of identifying hotspots in the containment zones. The government will make an announcement two to three days before commencing the intensive antigen detection tests in various containment zones.“For instance, Sonepat has 275 containment zones, Faridabad has 145 and Gurugram has 98. We have realised that all these zones would not qualify as hotspots. So, there is a need to review them as well,” the official said.The ICMR has recommended that the antigen detection test, performed onsite, should be done under strict medical supervision. All symptomatic influenza-like illness cases and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts with comorbidities of a confirmed case should be tested once between Day 5 and Day 10 of coming into contact. As per ICMR, a positive antigen detection test should be considered as a true positive whereas all symptomatic individuals testing negative through the rapid antigen test should be confirmed with a real-time PCR test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-9-400-infections-in-28-days-haryana-to-toughen-prevention-tactics/story-SLw1dC2eyE65l4AmLdRBWK.html
24-06-2020||City||Terror module probe reveals ISI eyeing vulnerable Punjab youths||The investigations into the terror module that was busted with the arrest of two alleged Khalistani operatives on June 19 have revealed that Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) is eyeing “vulnerable” youths of Punjab to create trouble in the state.Gurmeet Singh and his aide Vikram Singh of Amritsar were arrested when they were trying to clear a weapon consignment that was pushed in from Pakistan by their handlers. The police had seized a German-made MP5 sub-machine gun, a 9mm pistol with 4 magazines, and two mobile phones with a host of incriminatory conversations, messages, photographs etc.“Gurmeet, who is an opium addict, had gone to Pakistan as part of a Sikh jatha in 2017 on the occasion of Baisakhi. He was contacted by ISI sleuths in Pakistan through a Khalistani supporter and was brain-washed to take part in terror activities. He had been in contact with the ISI sleuths through social media platforms. His handlers were yet to give him the target,” said a senior police official privy to the investigation.He said, “Some Khalistani supporters in Pakistan are helping the ISI in targeting Punjab’s youth, especially those with humble background. We are very close to identifying the Khalistani supporters. We have also identified some more members of the module in Punjab.” Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vikram Jeet Duggal said efforts were on to identify the Pakistan-based mentors and handlers of the module.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/terror-module-probe-reveals-isi-eyeing-vulnerable-punjab-youths/story-0ZxN8n0OLmzOUr7lXRSdDM.html
24-06-2020||City||Two men arrested with 50 gram heroin in Mohali||A day after the Special Task Force (STF) unit of Mohali police arrested two persons for possessing 50 gram heroin, the accused were sent to one-day police remand by a local court on Tuesday.Harish Kumar, alias Happy, and Ravinder Kumar, both residents of Hansi in Hisar, were nabbed at a naka near Kuber Hotel on the Zirakpur-Ambala highway.The police said Happy and Ravinder were coming from Ambala side in a white Swift to deliver the drugs in Zirakpur area. The heroin was found from the car’s auxiliary box, the accused were arrested on the spot and the vehicle was impounded, the police added.The accused told the police that they are friends and started peddling drugs to earn money after both of their fathers passed away. A Delhi-based drug peddler had been delivering them the drugs in Hisar.A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-arrested-with-50-gram-heroin-in-mohali/story-uiRuwAhKAN3kbv74hOqrvK.html
24-06-2020||City||Difficult to open restaurants just for lunch, says Mohali hotel association||After the Punjab government on Tuesday issued detailed guidelines for the reopening of restaurants, hotels and other hospitality services in the state, the members of the Mohali Hotel Association said keeping restaurants open only till 8pm wasn’t viable.DK Arora, president of the association, said, “It will be difficult for us to open our restaurants only for lunch, that too with huge manpower. People come for dinner only after 8pm. Already in the past four months we have suffered a huge loss.”Lalit Goyal, vice-president of the association, said, “We urge the state government to extend the timings till 9.30pm, so that we can cope with the situation.”An official spokesperson of the Punjab government said the restaurants have been allowed the dine-in facility till 8pm with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less. The management will have to comply with the SOPs under which restaurants in hotels are allowed to serve food including buffet meals upto 50% of their seating capacity or 50 guests, whichever is less.In addition, the restaurants will also be open to persons other than hotel guests, but the timings will be till 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/difficult-to-open-restaurants-just-for-lunch-says-mohali-hotel-association/story-QJsKGYS40BTio7qvGO2JhI.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Key Sikhs For Justice operative sent to NIA remand till June 29||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) court in Mohali on Tuesday remanded one of the key conspirators of the banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) outfit for recruiting radical Sikh youths in custody till June 29. Pargat Singh, 23, a resident of Tarmala in Muktsar, was arrested on June 22. An NIA spokesman said that Pargat was recruiting Sikh youth on the directions of foreign handlers in a bid to create unrest in the country.A case was registered at Sultanwind Police Station, Amritsar (City), on October 19, 2018, under Sections 124A, 153-A, 153-B and 120-B of the Indian penal Code (IPC). During investigations, Sections 17, 18, 19 of UA (P) Act and Section 25 of Arms Act were added.Punjab Police had filed a chargesheet against 11 accused in the case in March 2019. This case was subsequently re-registered by the NIA on April 5 this year for further investigation.The NIA said the case is related to series of acts of violence, including acts of arson in Punjab during 2017-18. Carrying out of propaganda activities, both online and on ground, campaigns in support of SFJ’s ‘Referendum 2020’, including pasting of posters in Delhi and various parts of Punjab, committed by groups of radicalised youths under direction of and financial assistance from SFJ handlers located abroad. Investigation has revealed that arrested accused, including Pargat, had received funds from their foreign handlers through various money transfer service scheme platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/key-sikhs-for-justice-operative-sent-to-nia-remand-till-june-29/story-XVjRft8UNcXX2xzAgIwpNN.html
24-06-2020||City||Mohali police arrest five men in two cases of theft, forgery||Five men were arrested in two separate cases of theft and duping in the tricity, the police said on Tuesday.The accused were identified as Ajay Kumar, alias Haryanvi, and Kamlesh Shankar of Industrial Area, Phase 7; Sarvesh Kumar of TDI City near Balongi; Vimlesh Kumar of Kajheri, Chandigarh; and Bimal Kumar of Zirakpur.In the first case, the police arrested Vimlesh and Bimal for duping several persons on the pretext of selling them two-wheelers, financed with fake ID cards and addresses from banks.Inspector Manphul Singh, station house officer at Phase 1, said, “The accused duped HDFC, Yes Bank and other banks by providing fake identities of migrants for passing of loans for vehicles. The men purchased four vehicles each from Pinjore and Mohali, two each from Panchkula and Chandigarh, and later sold them to unsuspecting buyers.”Eight unregistered two-wheelers including seven Activa scooters have been recovered so far. More recoveries will be made after accomplices are held and victims are identified, added the SHO. A case has been registered against them under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A case of theft has already been registered against the suspects in Chandigarh. The suspects were produced in a local court and sent to three-day police custody on Tuesday. THREE OF FOUR MEN HELD FOR THEFTIn another case, Ajay, Sarvesh and Kamlesh were held for conducting various thefts in the industrial areas of Mohali during the lockdown.The police recovered four LCDs, laptops and CPUs, several mobile phones, 12 taps of Jaquar and 10 two-wheelers from their possession.Assistant sub-inspector Avtar Singh, in-charge of Industrial Area, Phase 8B police post, said, “Ajay and Kamlesh along with scrap dealer Vijay Kumar stole valuable things. Vijay’s name has also been added to the FIR; he is still at large. But he will be arrested soon and we are hoping to recover more stolen items.” A case has been registered against them under Sections 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence), 380 (theft in house dwelling) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.The three suspects were produced in a local court, and sent to two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-police-arrest-five-men-in-two-cases-of-theft-forgery/story-GWXhha4eiGz1kgIEahHzuL.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Random sampling off target in Amritsar’s containment zones||The health department has failed to achieve the target of random sample collecting for Covid-19 testing in the Amritsar city’s two containment zones, with officials blaming the residents’ reluctance to get tested for fear of being admitted to hospital.As per the Punjab government’s guidelines, 10% of the population in a containment zone must be tested to check whether there is community transmission in the area. But of more than 15,300 residents in the city’s two containment zones, only 400 swab samples (2.5%) have been collected till date.In the district’s first containment zone comprising Katra Moti Ram, Katra Parja and Bombay Wala Khoo that have a population of 10,000, only 250 samples were collected in the last 15 days. In the second containment zone comprising Katra Khazana where 5,300 people reside, only 150 samples were collected in the last 10 days.The district, which has been put in the ‘red-zone’ category, has recorded 831 Covid-19 cases, including 32 deaths.Civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “Teams of senior doctors and accredited social health activists (ASHAs) visiting the containment zones educate the residents about the testing and treatment process, but to no avail. Most people refuse to give their samples thinking their family members will also be taken to hospital if they are found positive.”Dr Mandeep Sandhu, who is assigned with sample collection from containment zones, said, “First, people do not visit the sample collection centre in their areas. Today, we could only collect 6 samples despite our best efforts to persuade several residents.”“We are trying to achieve the target. We will now start door-to-door sample collection. A mobile testing van will soon be given to the health department for this,” said additional deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-sampling-off-target-in-amritsar-s-containment-zones/story-UW1xlnldUAAX6E2nsFWQAK.html
24-06-2020||City||Three micro containment zones declared in Ludhiana district||Three areas in the district have been declared as micro containment zones. The decision was taken after 27 cases were reported in less than a week in these densely-populated pockets of the city.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that the three micro containment zones declared on Tuesday were New Model Town (streets 1, 2 and 3 behind Dhamija Medical Hall), New Janta Nagar (streets 1, 2, 3) opposite New Model Town and Bhamian Khurd (streets 1 to 4 in Krishna Colony).In these micro containment zones, five, 11 and 11 positive cases have been found respectively. All these areas have been sealed and the health department has been asked to take necessary action, stated the DC.Sharma said that as per the directions of the health department, a district-level committee comprising MC additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar and medical college head Dr Clarence Samual has been formulated to identify containment and micro containment zones in the district.He said that containment and micro containment zones were declared on the basis of the recommendation of this committee.Sharma appealed to the residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government, adding that staying indoors ensures safety of everybody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-micro-containment-zones-declared-in-ludhiana-district/story-ioTokROIhNUMXvq7Uju2HM.html
24-06-2020||City||Animal skinners call off strike, start lifting carcasses in Ludhiana||The animal skinners of Ludhiana ended their strike on Tuesday and started lifting the carcasses from dairies and nearby villages after assurances from mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu. The skinners have lifted nearly 70 carcasses and dumped them outside the city.The strike had started affecting the city residents adversely. A woman of Balloke village complained to the PAU police that people were dumping carcasses in a vacant plot near her house.Paramjit Singh Bobby, chairman, Haibowal Dairy Complex, said that after a meeting with the animal skinners, the strike was called off. “They met mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Monday, who assured that the carcass dumping plant of municipal corporation will be operational in three to four months. After which they will not face such problems.”Suraj, an animal skinner, said that the National Green Tribunal had issued a notice to them and ordered them to deposit a fine of ₹2.82 crore each. So they are taking up the matter with the authorities for its permanent solution.The strike had begun on Saturday, and led to inconvenience to dairy owners as the carcasses had started decomposing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/animal-skinners-call-off-strike-start-lifting-carcasses-in-ludhiana/story-24szq23UL4lpC8SW6lcx0L.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh show-cause notices issued to 79 Chandigarh’s private schools||The fee regulatory body of Chandigarh has issued fresh show-cause notices to all 79 private schools of the city, district education officer Alka Mehta said on Tuesday.The schools have been asked to send compliance reports before July 4 regarding uploading of balance sheets online, along with the undertaking that they charged only a tuition fee for the last academic year.This is the second round of mass show-cause notices issued to the schools for non-compliance of the provisions of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016. Previously on May 26, 51 private unaided schools of Chandigarh were asked to explain their position within seven working days.SOME SCHOOLS ISSUED TWO NOTICESThe notices were issued by the DEO, who is also the member-secretary of the fee regulatory body. “Some schools have been issued two show-cause notices, first to upload the balance sheet online and the other one to comply with the directions regarding charging of only tuition fees. We have also asked schools to clarify that they have not increased the fees.”Hindustan Times accessed the copy of the notices that read, “The schools still failed to comply with the instructions of the fee regulatory body and contravened the provision of act despite so many notices and reminders.”The notice further demanded that a compliance report regarding the provisions of the act be sent before July 4, categorically stating that “no further chance will be given and the matter will be submitted to the fee regulatory body for the penalty.”The standoff between the UT education department and private schools started when the UT directed the schools to defer the collection of school fees during the lockdown period. The schools,however, ignored the directive saying they won’t be paying salaries to their staff unless they were allowed to collect fees. Later, invoking the fee regulation act, Mehta asked the schools to upload their balance sheets online.VIOLATING ACT PROVISIONS A PUNISHABLE OFFENCEAs per the Act, which was notified in 2018 in Chandigarh, if any school contravenes the provisions, it shall be punished with a fine between ₹60,000 to ₹4 lakh depending on the number of violations and the level of school (primary, middle, secondary).HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools Association (ISA), said, “The matter is subjudice and the education department should be patient and await the decision instead of issuing notices.”“It seems that the department has extended the vacations in government schools and hence, is free to spite the private schools by sending notices,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fresh-show-cause-notices-issued-to-79-chandigarh-s-private-schools/story-Y7PAoRWAd1XSlO71kX4aPP.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Disclose steps taken to convert railway coaches into isolation facilities: HC to Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the central government to file an affidavit, indicating the steps taken by the Western Railway (WR) and Central Railway (CR) to convert coaches into isolation or quarantine centres. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik also asked the Centre to respond why intensive care unit (ICU) facilities in coaches were not considered necessary. The bench has given a week’s time for the Centre to file the affidavit.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by activist Naresh Kapoor, complaining about the shortage of beds for treatment of Covid-19 and non-Covid patients across the city. He also alleged that the “inefficient management” of the coronavirus outbreak has resulted in the complete breakdown of the healthcare system within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, amid the alarming rate at which the Covid-19 cases were rising.The court, however, rejected the petitioner’s prayer for a direction to order the state and civic authorities to reopen all hospitals, nursing homes and dispensaries, which have been closed either due to departmental orders or judicial orders, to meet the needs of patients who have been tested positive for Covid-19 as those suffering from other ailments.The bench said it has been noticed in the decision of another case that facilities for treating Covid-19 as well as non-Covid patients presently at the disposal of the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) were not that insufficient so as to call for an order to reopen closed hospitals, nursing homes and dispensaries.“Further, granting the prayer would amount to tinkering with administrative or judicial orders. Such course is plainly impermissible,” said the bench.The judges felt that opening up more facilities should be best left to the executive and if the situation so demands, the state or the corporation, keeping in mind the medical protocol required at the moment, may explore ways and means to make more facilities available at its disposal, other than reopening such closed facilities.With regards to Kapoor’s plea for rapid antigen detection test for Covid-19, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the court that the Maharashtra health department has approved the use of Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection kits, which can detect presence of Sars-Cov-2 antigens in a patient in 15 to 30 minutes.The court has now posted Kapoor’s PIL for further hearing on July 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/disclose-steps-taken-to-convert-railway-coaches-into-isolation-facilities-hc-to-centre/story-Whu9q3l2RYdAHMuaDPBtCN.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn earns ₹265 crore from liquor vend auction||The Chandigarh excise and taxation department on Wednesday earned a revenue of ₹265.32 crore from the auction of 78 liquor vends for 2020-21 fiscal.As many as 94 vends were put on auction, but there were no takers for 16. It received a total 157 bids electronically and had a total reserve price of ₹216.33 crore.Last year, the department had fetched ₹ 343.63 crore from the auction of 81 vends, a drop of nearly 25% in revenue this year. The average auction price for a vend in fact went down from ₹4.23 crore to ₹3.40 crore.“Last year revenues were for 12 months, but this year, the new excise policy has a term of nine months,” reasoned a senior official of the department. However, the official conceded that the coronavirus pandemic has also impacted the revenue growth. While, last year bids showed 34% increase over the reserve price, this year it was just 22.65%.A liquor vend in the Sector 9 internal market fetched the highest amount of ₹7.56 crore against the reserve price of ₹4.12 crore. Last year, the department had earned the highest amount from a liquor vend in Dhanas (₹10.78 crore), which went for ₹7.05 crore, the second highest bid this year.Meanwhile, the lowest bid came for a vend in Kishangarh. It went for ₹1.13 crore against a reserve price of ₹1.12 crore. Bajaj Spirits made the maximum successful bids, for eight vends. Super Distilleries and Liquor World Venture got seven vends each while Kler Wines got five. The department had capped the maximum allotment to one company at 10.The opening of e-tenders was held at Tagore Theatre, Sector 18, in the presence of Mandip Singh Brar, excise and taxation commissioner. The auction process of the leftover 16 vends will start on June 24 with the submission of bids, which will be opened on June 29. The new excise policy will come into effect from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-earns-265cr-from-liquor-vend-auction-drop-of-25/story-S2sp5JYFXkDIev6LLmoQKO.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Don’t fall prey to ‘free Covid testing’ spam from Chinese attackers: Cops||The Maharashtra Police force’s toll for Covid-19 reached the 50 mark, after an assistant sub-inspector from Mumbai Police succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. This has brought the city police force’s casualty to 34.The deceased, a 56-year-old assistant sub-inspector, was attached to the Marine Drive police station. He was on leave, as the commissioner of police has exempted police personnel over 55 years of age from duty, as they are more vulnerable to contracting the virus.The deceased had fallen sick around two weeks ago, and tested positive for the virus. He was admitted in Gurunanak Hospital in Bandra (East).“He was admitted in intensive care unit and was put on ventilator after developed breathing issues. He succumbed to the disease at 1am on Tuesday,” said Mrityunjay Hiremath, senior inspector of Marine Drive police station.So far 2,510 policemen from city police department have tested positive for Covid-19. 1,785 Covid infected policemen have recovered completely, while 692 are undergoing treatment at various hospital and Covid care centres. The Maharashtra state police reported total number of coronavirus cases in the force to 4,048.Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), said that the police department has successfully contained the growth of Covid among policemen by adopting multiple preventive and precautionary measures.Cyber cops issue advisoryYashashvi Yadav, special inspector general of police (cyber-crime), Maharashtra, on Tuesday released a video and said, “In last four-five days resources on cyberspace of India, especially related to information, infrastructure and banking have been under attack from China. At least 40,300 such cyber attacks were attempted, most of them can be traced to Chengdu area of China.” The state cyber police department also issued an advisory alerting citizen about a possible phishing attack by Chinese cyber attackers. The advisory states that the Chinese attackers have plan to attack 20 lakh email IDs. The advisory states that the attackers may impersonate government agencies and department. They could use spoofed email IDs such as ncov2019@gov.in for phishing.The phishing email may contain content such as ‘free Covid-19 testing’ for all residents of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad. They may ask to fill in your personal details and to click on a link. Cyber police officers have appealed the citizens to be more cautious and vigilant while using the internet. Three burglars’ tests positiveThree accused arrested for house breaking by the Juhu police, have tested positive for Covid-19. Report of one other accused is still awaited. One of the three burglars include a 25-year-old man who broke into the house of film director Soham Shah and had stolen his two mobile phones and cash on May 26.Pandharinath Whaval, senior inspector from Juhu police station confirmed the development and said, “We are taking all precautionary measures.”(With inputs from Suraj Ojha and Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-fall-prey-to-free-covid-testing-spam-from-chinese-attackers-cops/story-OMUVcrkNwy5ue94l9HVSpN.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Only 5 new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi, one of India’s largest slum cluster which was a Covid-19 hotspot till recently, recorded only five cases on Tuesday, the lowest in a a day since April 10. One death was also recorded, taking the toll to 81. So far, almost 10,000 individuals have been tested for Covid and 2,189 have tested positive.Dharavi’s average daily cases have come down from 47 in May to 18 in June. The cases had hit a peak in the start of May, with 94 cases recorded in a day on May 3. The number started plunging since June 1. The highest number of cases in June did not go beyond 34, recorded on June 1.Dharavi’s doubling rate has gone up to 102 days, highest ever in the city. The doubling rate is the number of days required for the cases to doubleKiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward (Dharavi), said, “We have actively followed our model of four Ts – tracing, tracking, testing and treating. Our focus was on treatment and discharge. We took up several other measures like isolating maximum people and door-to-door screening in slums.”The Dharavi slum is spread over 2.4 sqkm, has 850,000 residents and a population density of 354,167 per square kilometre, making it one of the more cramped spaces in Mumbai, itself the world’s fifth most densely populated city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-5-new-cases-in-dharavi/story-KG0mOCBXkSbmdRXr6VcQEL.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Onus on host to ensure home quarantine of visitors from outside tricity, says Chandigarh administration||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday issued formal orders making it mandatory, with immediate effect, 14-day home quarantine for all visitors to the city who intend to stay here for more than 72 hours.The administration also put the onus on the local host – an individual host or hotel or guest house — to ensure that the visitor is registered with the administration. Also, no accommodation will be given if the visitor has not downloaded the Aarogya Setu application.In effect, in case of any violation, both the host and visitor can be booked under the Disaster Management Act, and face up to two-year jail term. Also, the visitor will be sent to institutional quarantine.Random screening will also be undertaken. Those found symptomatic on arrival must report to the nearest health centre and get assessed for clinical severity. On testing, if found positive, the person will be shifted to home quarantine or Covid care centre or dedicated Covid hospital depending on the severity. If found negative, no further test will be required, but 14-day self home quarantine will be mandatory, as will be for asymptomatic persons arriving in Chandigarh from outside the tricity and intending to stay for more than 72 hours.Subdivisional magistrates and incident commanders will ensure the implementation along with police. Violators will be penalised with fine or imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/onus-on-host-to-ensure-home-quarantine-of-visitors-from-outside-tricity-says-chandigarh-administration/story-WcC549E7xlMwokTbVbGXWL.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||AI increases frequency of domestic flights to help stranded citizens||People stranded in Mumbai, wanting to fly back to Hyderabad, Cochin, Kolkata, Bhopal, Rajkot, Tirupati and Vishakhapatnam, now have more options, as the national carrier- Air India has increased the frequency of flights to these cities.Air India announced the additional frequencies of flights on the social media networking site, Twitter, on Monday night. “We are adding more flights gradually, to enhance the air connectivity for the convenience of passengers,” said an Air India official. However, the airline spokesperson remained unavailable for comment. Mumbai-Hyderabad-Mumbai and Mumbai-Bhopal-Mumbai routes will see additional flights on Mondays; Mumbai-Kolkata-Mumbai will see additional flight for four days – Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. Similarly, Mumbai-Rajkot-Mumbai will have additional services added on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.While these additional flights have already been added by the airline, Mumbai-Cochin-Mumbai (on Wednesdays and Fridays) will be effective from Wednesday, June 24 and Mumbai-Tirupati-Visakhapatnam-Mumbai (on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays) will be effective from Thursday, June 25.Apart from these, the frequency of flights have increased from Delhi to Bengaluru, Indore, Ranchi and Coimbatore and Bengaluru-Chandigarh-Bengaluru and Hyderabad-Vishakhapatnam-Hyderabad routes.Mumbai airport, that was allowed to operate only 25 departing and 25 arriving flights from May 25 as per state government’s restrictions, was permitted to double the flight operations. On Monday, June 15, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) was permitted to operate 100 domestic commercial flights. The airline, however, took time to increase the frequency of flights to and from CSMIA. While June 16 saw 52 flight movements, 55 flights operated on June 17.“The airlines have slowly increased their flights to and from CSMIA. June 23 flight plan saw 98 flights listed to be operating to and from Mumbai airport,” said a CSMIA official. The six main airlines: Air India, IndiGo, Vistara, SpiceJet, GoAir and Air Asia India, TruJet and Alliance Air, too, have commenced their flights from the city airport.“Flights from Mumbai have been added not only due to slot availability, but also due to demand from sectors from the city,” an Air India official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-increases-frequency-of-domestic-flights-to-help-stranded-citizens/story-UFzFJ6RawvOuBcuQfH0BoJ.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||67,000 recovered in Maha, only 180 donated plasma||Only 180 of the 67,000 patients who recovered from Covid-19 in the state have come forward to donate blood for the convalescent plasma therapy (CPT), according to the authorities. Doctors say they are struggling to arrange for donors for CPT trials as 90% patients, who promise to return for blood donation, refuse after being contacted. Individuals infected with Sars-CoV-2 develop antibodies as part of the body’s immune response to the foreign pathogen. The antibodies invade pathogens and work to eliminate the virus in patients. During CPT, these antibodies are infused into the blood of Covid-19 patients to help them fight the virus. On Monday, the number of recovered patients in the state was 67,706, the highest in India. Doctors attributed the low number of donors to fear of contracting the infection again and lack of awareness about the therapy. Many patients provide wrong contact numbers during the time of discharge. “When patients are contacted 21 days after discharge, at least 90% refuse to donate blood. People are selfish because they forget about other patients after their recovery. They are busy criticising doctors, but they don’t play their part,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, in-charge of Nair Hospital. At Nair hospital, 50 patients have donated blood.Recently, the Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) got approval to start clinical trials across Maharashtra to assess the efficacy of plasma therapy in treatment of Covid-19 patients. Twenty-one government medical colleges will take part in the trial. It will include city’s premier medical colleges— KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper hospitals.“In the randomised open trial, 500 patients would be given plasma from recovered patients. It will be the world’s largest clinical trial on plasma therapy,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of MEDD. It is not scientifically proven that plasma therapy can cure Covid-19, but is being used as an experimental procedure for treatment. Many countries like the US, China and Spain, Turkey, South Korea, Italy, the United Kingdom are using CPT as a stopgap measure. The broader criteria for donors is they should have complete resolution of symptoms for at least 21 days or three weeks prior to donation and should not be suffering from any transmissible or chronic disease. Those aged 18 to 60, with weight above 50kg, haemoglobin level at 12.5 g/dL and above and blood pressure and body temperature in the normal range are deemed fit for donation.Patients from the city who have not been approached but are keen to donate plasma can contact the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s helpline number 1916. Dr Muralidhar Tamble, medical superintendent of BJ Medical College, Pune, which was the first medical college to get approval, said they are trying to reach recovered patients through social media.“Not all interested donors qualify for donations. They have to go through tests, and many often fail. As it is for a good cause, I request patients to donate their blood and help us in the trial,” said Tamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/67-000-recovered-in-maha-only-180-donated-plasma/story-6EFnRbhpXMJWojosAiMStM.html
24-06-2020||City||Thane civic body too has hid Covid-19 deaths: Somaiya||Like the Maharashtra government, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), too, has hid the Covid-19 toll in the city, alleged Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya in Thane on Tuesday. He met civic commissioner Vijay Singhal to take stock of the situation in Thane city on Tuesday afternoon. Singhal refuted all allegations.Somaiya alleged: “I had asked the civic authority to provide me the latest figure, although I am not satisfied with the figures given by the authority. The Thackeray government had hid 3,000 deaths, of which they admitted after reconciliation that 1,500 were not shown in the data. The Solapur Municipal Corporation also tried to hide 40 deaths on Monday. Of the total deaths hidden by the government, 2,000 are from Mumbai and at least 50 are from Thane city.”Somaiya claimed Mumbra had a bigger problem. “The corporation has merely shown 50% of the actual deaths in Mumbra. We have demanded an inquiry into these discrepancies. Moreover, patients are sent to private hospitals increasingly, instead of the government hospital in Thane, leading to profit for private hospitals. There are also technical issues such as lack of oxygen supply or ventilators,” he alleged.Pravin Darekar, leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra legislative Council, also met Kalyan Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi on Tuesday. He said, “Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray’s Worli constituency has been considered as a special case whereas hotspots of Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli continue to be neglected. If the situation does not come under control in the next eight days, we shall protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-too-has-hid-covid-19-deaths-somaiya/story-MVJFwDp5lg1vbtuOYddw5M.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Lower Parel ward office gets foot-operated lift buttons, UV box disinfectant to fight Covid||The G (South) ward office in Lower Parel has devised innovative ways to ensure the safety of its employees and visitors during the Covid-19 outbreak. The ward has installed foot-operated devices to operate elevators, water dispensers, washbasins and toilet flushes to minimise virus transmission from these surfaces. In addition to the foot-operated devices, the officials’ cabins in the ward have been covered with transparent acrylic sheets that act as a shield to prevent the possible transmission of Covid-19. To sanitise handbags and documents brought to the office, there is an ultraviolet (UV) rod and UV box disinfectant. The ward has also installed automatic disinfectants in five public toilets in Worli, which disinfect the toilets at regular intervals.These innovative ideas have been implemented on a pilot basis in the ward, which has jurisdiction over Worli, Prabhadevi and Lower Parel. Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner of G (South) ward, said, “These ideas were pitched by our civic engineers and other officials in one of the brainstorming sessions that we keep conducting in our office. The idea was to ensure minimal physical or direct contact with the staff and at the same time, ensuring protection for individuals who visit the office.”Most of these devices were introduced using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds and the remaining were from funds allocated to the ward.Ughade said as a pilot, these methods have been proven successful and will be implemented across the ward. “We are trying our best to make these methods cost-effective. Otherwise, there will be difficulty in implementing them. Further, we are ensuring that there is minimal file movement physically and sanitisation of the same. The automatic disinfectant in toilets will be implemented in public and community toilets across the ward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lower-parel-ward-office-gets-foot-operated-lift-buttons-uv-box-disinfectant-to-fight-covid/story-knkJui0GNx3iapV6HHG62L.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||CM salutes visually-impaired hospital staff, terms him an inspiration||It was a busy Monday morning for Raju Chavan, the visually-impaired telephone-operator at the city’s St George’s Hospital when his supervisor came up to tell Chavan he had an important call coming up at 12.30pm. Chief minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray wanted to talk to him.Forty-four-year-old Chavan is a resident of Jogeshwari and has been working at St George’s Hospital since 2009. While the state has exempted the physically-impaired from reporting to work, Chavan takes two buses to come into work at the hospital in Fort. “I co-ordinate to arrange for ambulances, connect calls to the right department. So many relatives call these days. They are scared, confused, not knowing what to do. I try to help them,” said Chavan, who works from 10am to 6pm. The night shift is manned by Mira Road resident Sandeep Shinde, who is physically-challenged. Neither Shinde nor Chavan have taken leave over the past two months.When Thackeray spoke to Chavan on Monday, he appreciated Chavan’s work and told Chavan he is an inspiration to others, especially since Chavan is visually impaired. “It was like getting a certificate for my work. That too from the most important man in the state,” said Chavan. He said he hadn’t considered taking leave during the lockdown. “This is the time we have to work for society, which has given us so much. Every time I leave my house, someone helps me cross the road, someone helps me reach the bus stop. This is the time to show that we are also an equal part of the society,” said Chavan, adding that he has received a lot of support from all the doctors and nurses in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-salutes-visually-impaired-hospital-staff-terms-him-an-inspiration/story-8rMZZHfU1KjyokIavttPZP.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar indicates Covid cases may surge in July, August||Deputy chief minister (DyCM) Ajit Pawar on Tuesday indicated that there could be a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in July and August. He also urged people to be cautious while stepping out of their homes as not following social distancing norms could lead to more trouble. “It’s been more than three months since the pandemic hit Maharashtra. July and August are likely to be more difficult. If people don’t take enough precautions, we will be inviting more trouble. I appeal to the public to follow all norms such as wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing, etc. We will have to face the consequences if there’s any laxity,” said Pawar while addressing media persons at the headquarters of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in south Mumbai.Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths in the country at 1,35,796 and 6,283 respectively.Pawar also said that the government has launched a probe into the complaints of missing Covid-19 patients in Mumbai. “Following complaints, an investigation has been started. Data with government hospitals is easily available but Mumbai is a big city and also has lots of private hospitals. They are supposed to share this data, which sometimes is not done,” he said.The DyCM also urged people to boycott Chinese-made products amid a tense stand-off along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead.“Action must be initiated against such a country [China]. I would urge the public to boycott goods manufactured by Chinese firms. China will be shown its place if India, a country with a population of over 125 crore, starts boycotting Chinese goods,” said Pawar, who holds the finance ministry portfolio in the Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government.On Monday, Maharashtra industries minister Subhash Desai had said in a statement that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) – a three-party coalition government comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress – has decided to temporarily put on hold the memorandum of understanding (MoU) worth ₹5,020 crore recently signed with three Chinese companies.The MoUs, worth ₹5,020 crore, were signed with Hengli Group (₹250 crore), Great Wall Motors (₹3,770 crore) and PMI Electro Mobility Solutions, a joint venture with Foton (₹1,000 crore).“We have decided to put the MoUs signed with the three Chinese firms, worth ₹5,020 crore, on hold. However, this doesn’t mean they have been cancelled. We will be waiting for a clear policy from the Central government on this issue,” Desai had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-indicates-covid-cases-may-surge-in-july-august/story-U9x4k7ZTwwiVMDPmYbWzRI.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Rising cases in MMR: Four civic chiefs shunted out||In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state government has appointed new district chiefs and civic commissioners. Four of them selected for posts in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers with medical degrees.The state transferred commissioners of Thane. Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, and Navi Mumbai municipal corporations on Tuesday and appointed Dr Vipin Sharma, Dr Vijay Rathod, Dr Mantada Raja Dayanidhi, and Abhijit Bangar to the posts, respectively. Sharma (2005 IAS batch), Rathod and Dayanidhi (both 2014 batch IAS) hold MBBS degrees. On June 19, the government had appointed Pankaj Ashiya (2016 batch IAS), an MBBS graduate, as commissioner of Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation. Late on Tuesday, Vijay Singhal was shunted out from the post of Thane civic commissioner three months after his appointment. Sharma, who was on foreign training since September 2019, will now take up the post.Sharma had previously served as additional civic commissioner in Pune and collector of Latur. Ashiya has been credited with playing a key role in controlling the cases in Malegaon in Nashik and then in Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) over the past three months. He was the special monitoring officer for Covid-19 in Malegaon and will now take over charge as Bhiwandi civic chief from Pravin Ashtikar.“My team could manage to bring the active cases of coronavirus in Malegaon from 500-600 to 60-70. In Thane also, I was assisting the commissioner for five wards which had the highest cases, in terms of tracking the contacts, improving health infrastructure. In Bhiwandi, I will study the present scenario and work towards reducing the spread of the infection,” said Ashiya.“In any pandemic situation, the best way to control the spread is by following the guidelines set by the government. In Malegaon, we managed to involve locals and community leaders to spread awareness. The same shall be done in Bhiwandi,” he added.While the cases in Mumbai have dropped drastically in the past few weeks, the count is still high compared to the rest of MMR, which is governed by eight other municipal corporations. On June 21, MMR accounted for 73.3% of the state’s Covid count, a slight decrease from 78.13% on April 21. During this period, the percentage of cases in Mumbai dropped to 50.34% from 66.13%. The case fatality rate in MMR has increased to 4.69% from 3.01% since May 22.“We have brought IAS officers with medical degrees to lead municipal corporations that do not have robust health infrastructures like Mumbai or Navi Mumbai. We expect these officers with a medical background to be able to handle the pandemic situation properly. We don’t think the outgoing officers were not competent enough, but in the backdrop of gradual developments on the front of the pandemic, these officers will be in a better position to contain the spread,” said Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary, general administration department.The state government recently also replaced the Jalgaon collector and Solapur municipal commissioner after the cases and death rate in the districts rose significantly. The pandemic-period changes began with the transfer of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner, Praveen Pardeshi, six weeks ago. UMC gets new chief for second time during lockdownSameer Unhale, municipal commissioner of Ulhasnagar has been transferred, and Dayanidhi will take over the post. Unhale was made Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) chief a month ago after Sudhakar Deshmukh was transferred. Till now, Ulhasnagar has recorded 1,125 positive cases and 36 deaths. Dayanidhi was the chief operating officer, Gondia zilla parishad, and had been posted in Ulhasnagar as part of the state government’s pandemic team.According to an order released by Mantralaya on Tuesday, Dayanidhi has to take charge from Unhale at the earliest. Santosh Rastogi, joint commissioner (crime), Mumbai Police has also been transferred as additional resident commissioner, Maharashtra Sadan, Delhi. (With inputs from Ankita G Menon and Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rising-cases-in-mmr-four-civic-chiefs-shunted-out/story-spxaDKiihlFCI0LF1wAiSP.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai inches towards 70K cases; fatality rate stays a big worry||With 68,410 cases and 3,844 deaths as of Tuesday, the city is inching towards the 70,000-case mark.While over the past 50 days, the city’s share in Maharashtra’s total cases has dipped by 18 percentage points, the growth rate remains 1,000 cases daily since May 16. According to experts, the biggest worrying factor, however, is the fatality rate.Mumbai accounted for 59% of the total deaths in Maharashtra on May 1, 55% on May 31 and 59% on June 22, showing a rise in the past 20 days, mainly owing to the 862 deaths added after the reconciliation of figures. The current fatality rate in Mumbai is 5.52%, and of the 3,737 deaths in the city, over 2,500 deaths were reported in the past 22 days.According to the state health department data, on April 22, Mumbai had 65% of the total cases in Maharashtra, which went to 67.89% on May 1, 60.42% on May 16, 58.65% on May 31 and 49.77% as of June 22. Going by the current trend of 1,200 cases daily, the city could have 77,000 cases until June 30, according to civic officials. By the end of July, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) hopes to have control over the situation, but remains sceptical about the rise.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Monday: “We are taking steps to ensure the cases and fatality rate go down. There is a separate category of suspected patients who are not positive, but have breathing issues. I have look at all such patients as suspected Covid-19 and allow walk-in admissions. We are testing them after stabilising them, and giving treatment as per requirement, if they test positive. This was the category where we brought down the fatality rate.”Since May 16, the city has been reporting cases between 1,000 and 1,700 daily, except on three occasions when the daily cases were below the 1,000 mark, one of them being Tuesday, when the city saw 824 new cases, with 107 deaths. In the past one week, BMC has been reporting cases between 1,000 and 1,400. The number of discharged patients was 34,576 on Tuesday, with a recovery rate of 50%. The number of active cases stood at 29,982. The fatality rate in the city as of Saturday was 5.61%, followed by doubling rate at 38 days.A BMC official said, “We have ensured we have enough ambulances, beds, and timely delivery of laboratory reports while tracing, testing, quarantining and treating patients. When I joined on May 8, our growth rate was 8-9%, and today it is 2% because of these steps.”Chahal said on Monday: “By July, we expect the cases to be controlled, but this process of tracking, testing, quarantining and treating will have to go on until the vaccine arrives. When I joined, Mumbai had 14,000 cases and Delhi had 2,000 cases, and today we have around 65,000 cases and Delhi has around 55,000 cases. This means, we are in a much comfortable position today.” Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “The number of cases is stable, and the curve is not showing a worrisome trend being developed. We need to work to reduce the fatalities. With over 800 deaths added last week, our mortality rate is above national average. Also, the case share of Mumbai in the state’s numbers has reduced, but the death share is almost the same.”Civic officials said they are trying to bring down the cases in the western and eastern suburbs. Starting Tuesday, BMC initiated its door-to-door survey in high-rises, slums and chawls in six wards as part of BMC’s Mission Zero. The plan covered Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Mulund and Bhandup. BMC officials said these areas need to be brought under control to ensure the virus does not spread to south Mumbai once the relaxations are granted at a later stage.On Tuesday, Dharavi hit another low with only five new cases. BMC’s H-West ward that covers Bandra West, Khar West and Santacruz West and has a growth rate of 3% conducted a meeting with Advanced Local Management members who were asked to come forth as volunteers for screening residents and doctors with clinics along the roads. BMC has also asked for Covid-19 coordinators to be appointed for each area to help those needing a bed, testing or any other assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-inches-towards-70k-cases-fatality-rate-stays-a-big-worry/story-4ZwLZQVmfEMsWGsTO2jI5M.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||KEM Hospital completes trial of psoriasis drug||King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital at Parel has completed the trial of a repurposed drug Itolizumab, and the result will soon be published in a research journal. Ten severely-ill patients suffering from Covid-19 participated in the trial.Conventionally, Itolizumab is used to treat the skin condition psoriasis and was recommended by the state’s Covid-19 task force to reduce mortality. In the first week of May, the civic-run KEM Hospital started the trial with a 35-year-old male patient who was on the ventilator. Within three days of being administered the drug, the patient’s pneumonitis in the left lower zone improved, following which he was taken off the ventilator.“We have reported a good recovery rate among the 10 patients who opted for the trial. We, however, can’t disclose any further details. The results will be published in a science research journal soon with approval from the government,” said a senior officer from the hospital.Itolizumab is manufactured by Bengaluru-based biotech company Biocon, which has repurposed the drug for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The drug is classified as a humanised anti-CD6 monoclonal antibody. It is a molecule produced in a laboratory. When it is incubated into the body, it acts as a substitute for antibodies that can restore or modulate the immune system’s attack on foreign bodies. “As the virus is new with no specific drugs for treatment, Itolizumab gives us hope,” said the officer.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force has made several recommendations in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, intending to reduce mortality. The first was to make the drug Remdesivir and another antiviral drug Favipiravir available to patients. The task force has also suggested the availability of re-purposed arthritis drug Tocilizumab along with Itolizumab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-completes-trial-of-psoriasis-drug/story-AdqErMHg0iZkgswbzFqJqI.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nursing officer’s purse snatched in Chandigarh||A motorcycle-borne person snatched the purse of a woman who works as a nursing officer at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, police said on Tuesday. The victim, Chandra, 28, told police the incident took place in Sector 32 when she was returning home after duty on Monday. She stated in her complaint that the purse contained Rs 4,000 and important documents including her ATM and Aadhaar cards. A case has been registered.Two snatchers arrested in P’kulaPolice on Tuesday arrested two men for snatching a pair of headphones worth ₹25,000. The accused have been identified as Gaurav, a resident of Sector 15, Panchkula, and Baljinder alias Titu of Sector 10, Panchkula. According to the complaint, the accused were on a cycle when the incident took place on Sunday. Police have also recovered the headphones. The duo will be produced before a court on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nursing-officer-s-purse-snatched-in-chandigarh/story-RQkw2ZpoEZg2f5iawPBxKO.html
24-06-2020||City||77-year-old dies as TMC assigns bed, but hospital refuses to take him in||Despite being assigned a bed in a Covid hospital by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), a 77-year-old man died after the hospital refused to admit him, his family has alleged. The man’s family waited outside the hospital for almost two hours, by which time the patient succumbed, they alleged. The hospital has claimed that they did not have ventilators available to treat the man. TMC has set up a Covid war room to update the status of available beds in Covid hospitals and help patients reserve a bed, especially in case of emergency.The 77-year-old man was the father of a TMC employee. “My grandfather was admitted to a private hospital in Kopri as he had trouble breathing. After his test report came positive on Monday, the hospital asked us to shift him to a Covid hospital, so we got in touch with TMC’s war room. They informed us that a bed was reserved for him in Kalsekar Hospital,” said the man’s 23-year-old grandson.The Kopri hospital allowed the patient to stay till an ambulance arrived, and also provided oxygen. “The ambulance arrived in the evening and we went to Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra. However, the hospital refused to admit him, claiming no bed was available. We called the war room and the mayor seeking help. We stood outside the hospital for at least two hours, as the guard had closed the gate and did not allow us in. We finally decided to go back to the Kopri hospital, however, my grandfather died on the way,” alleged the grandson.An official from TMC said that the hospital had given confirmation after which the patient was asked to shift. “We had got confirmation from the hospital and therefore, sent the patient there. The civic commissioner has set up an inquiry into the incident, and action will be taken.”Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske said strict action needs to be taken against hospitals that refuse to follow the directives of TMC. “We demand that a case of culpable homicide be registered against the hospital,” he said.Kalsekar Hospital management has claimed that they did not have ventilators available. Dr Afreen Saudagar, chief executive officer of the hospital, said, “We were informed at 6.40pm that a bed was needed, however, we were not told that the patient would need a heart bypass. The patient reached here at 11pm and needed a ventilator. We did not have any ventilator and could not admit him. We have submitted our report on the incident to the corporation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/77-year-old-dies-as-tmc-assigns-bed-but-hospital-refuses-to-take-him-in/story-KuyTcN44ijvt8zAyWK3QLM.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Severed feet, foetus found dumped in bushes in Chandigarh’s Sector 17||Severed feet, suspected to be of a woman, and an aborted female foetus were found dumped in the bushes along a cycle track near the busy Press light point in Sector 17, Chandigarh, on Tuesday.Ajit Kishori, who is a manager at the State Bank of India (SBI)’s local head office in the Bank Square situated close to the spot, was walking on the cycle track after lunch when he spotted a chopped human foot wrapped in a newspaper. Police reached the spot on receiving his call and recovered another foot, also wrapped in a newspaper, as well as the foetus, wrapped in a polythene bag, from the bushes. Police said the severed feet were wrapped in an English newspaper, and there was no blood or sign of decomposition. An investigating official, on the condition of anonymity, said it seems the feet were severed with precision using a cutting machine two to three days back and might have been preserved in a freezer before disposal.The foetus, meanwhile, seems to have been aborted recently, said a police official.The recovered body parts along with the foetus have been sent to the mortuary at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where the postmortem will be conducted on Wednesday.A case has registered under Section 318 (secretly burying or otherwise disposing of the dead body of a child) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, no FIR has yet been registered in the case of the severed feet. Police are also looking into the angle whether the feet were being used by medical students for their practical classes. Although, police have sought opinion of doctors, a cop privy to the case, said its chances are bleak. The police are also to ascertain whether the feet belong to the same person. The gender, too, will become clear after the postmortem, though initial investigations hint towards them belonging to a woman.“We have sent the feet as well as the foetus for postmortem. Further action will be taken only after getting the doctors’ opinion,” said Krishan Kumar, deputy superintendent of police, central.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/severed-feet-foetus-found-dumped-in-bushes-in-chandigarh-s-sector-17/story-ExbqKfbk96lmPaki0VyB5H.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Citizens above 70 years of age can be tested without prescription: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday announced that citizens above the age of 70 irrespective of being symptomatic or not can get tested without a prescription, and that citizens can avail testing by private laboratories using e-prescriptions. The BMC decided this in order to ramp up testing and contain the spread of the coronavirus.The BMC also said it has decided to procure one lakh rapid antigen tests, a day after the government allowed it, under its “Mission Universal Testing”. According to BMC, the procurement of rapid antigen kits will enable around 2,000 to 2,500 additional tests daily. Currently, BMC is testing between 3,500 and 5,000 tests daily, however, with this decision, it expects to conduct an additional 2,000 to 2,500 more tests.The rapid antigen kits, called Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection, provides results in only half-an-hour, which will help decide the further course of treatment for a serious patient at the earliest. It will also be used to know the prevalence of the pandemic among masses in hotspots and in western and eastern suburbs, where currently the growth rate is higher comparatively.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the BMC said, “While efforts to prevent coronavirus infection in Mumbai are succeeding, more aggressive measures are being taken without any hesitation and as a part of ‘Mission Universal Testing’. The BMC has decided to procure one lakh antigen testing kits that gives results in just half an hour. Corporate houses and private companies have also been advised to test their employees by purchasing rapid testing kits, as per the recent approval of the government.”In the context of procuring rapid antigen kits, the BMC statement added, “The procured kits will be used in all civic and government hospitals as well as treatment centres. This will speed the process of preventing infection by testing suspected cases immediately. We have also requested 35 large private hospitals in the Mumbai municipal corporation area to purchase and use these government -approved antigen test kits.”The decision was taken by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, in a video conference called along with senior BMC officials. A BMC official who attended the meeting said, “This decision was in a way taken to conduct more aggressive testing. It is a decision to curb the spread considering we plan to open up gradually after more relaxations in existing lockdown norms are announced by the state government.”Meanwhile, the state health department on Monday had said, patients with severe coronavirus symptoms and comorbidities, and pregnant women, can be tested using rapid antigen testing kits by the municipal corporations and councils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/citizens-above-70-years-of-age-can-be-tested-without-prescription-bmc/story-tmudbp3O2m4MURS3QYSJHI.html
24-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees lowest 1-day jump in cases since May 13||Maharashtra, the Indian state worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, on Tuesday reported its highest single-day jump in fatalities with 248 deaths, even as Mumbai, the worst-hit Indian city, recorded 824 new cases — lowest one-day jump in 41 days. Mumbai had reported 800 cases on May 13.One of the reasons for Mumbai’s improvement is Dharavi, which was once the biggest hotspot in the city, but on Tuesday recorded only five cases — its lowest since April 10. The average daily new cases in one of Asia’s largest slums were 47 in May, which went down to 18 in June. Dharavi’s doubling rate has gone up to 102 days, highest in the city.Of the state’s 248 deaths, 75 were reported in the last 48 hours, while the remaining were from the past few weeks. The state toll went up to 6,531 and the case fatality rate is 4.69%, according to the state data. Keeping its trend of more than 3,000 cases per day for the past week, the state recorded 3,214 new infections, taking the tally to 139,010, with 62,833 active cases. Mumbai’s tally went up to 68,410 and the toll is 3,844 with the addition of 107 fatalities on Tuesday. There are 29,982 active cases.Owing to the addition of 1,328 cases in a day as a result of reconciliation of data last Tuesday, the state toll jumped by 2,403 deaths in the past eight days. This resulted in the jump in the case fatality rate to 4.69% on Tuesday, from 3.79% on June 15. The positivity rate in the state has risen multi-fold over the past few weeks. It was 27.45% on Monday, up from 22.49% a month ago on May 22 and 6.06% on April 22. The positivity rate in Mumbai, too, has been at par with the state rate. From 8.67% on April 21, the positivity rate has increased to 27.9% on May 21 and 27.5% on June 21. Maharashtra has, so far, conducted 7.87 lakhs tests, including 2.92 lakh in Mumbai alone. Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the expert committee appointed by the state to recommend steps to curb the spread said, “As per the ICMR guidelines, tests are being performed on the symptomatic cases and hence the rate naturally ought to be high. When the tests are done for all contacts, the positivity rate is low.”When asked if the high positivity rate is an indication of community transmission, Dr Supe said, “It is a controversial subject, some epidemiologists say it’s already begun, some say no. The possibility is high, but it is a matter of research by scientists and experts,” He said that though the case fatality rate is high, it is still within limits and barring a few areas the situation in Mumbai is improving. The positivity rate is the percentage of tests that turn out positive for coronavirus. The authorities said that since they have been testing only symptomatic patients, the rate is high. However, experts also pointed out that the high positivity rate also indicates that the state is only testing sick patients and not casting the net wide to know if the virus is spreading within communities. Of the 248 fatalities reported on Tuesday, 65 were in Mumbai, 42 in Solapur, 18 in Nashik and 15 in Aurangabad.605,141 people are currently home quarantined, while 26,572 are under institutional quarantine. State’s recovery rate, however, improved to 50,09% as 69,631 patients recovered till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-lowest-1-day-jump-in-cases-since-may-13/story-Hx9jyJ1zGcbuEaFbAtaSAP.html
24-06-2020||City||Bootlegger held in Ludhiana, 50 litres of illicit liquor seized||The anti-smuggling wing of the district police commissionerate arrested a bootlegger for smuggling liquor at Bholewal village here on Monday.The police recovered 50 litres of illicit country-made liquor from his possession.The police also destroyed 20,000 litres of illicit liquor (lahan), which he had buried near the Sutlej at the village.The arrested has been identified as Makhan Singh of Bholewal village.Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, investigating the case, said the police conducted a raid on a tip-off and arrested the accused.A case under sections 61,1,14 of the excise Act has been registered against him.The Ludhiana police have seized and destroyed over 2 lakh litres of lahan (illicit country-made liquor) on the banks of the Sutlej on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar border in the recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bootlegger-held-in-ludhiana-50-litres-of-illicit-liquor-seized/story-uAAMpLI9o4FkAaLB20whcO.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leader Gosain accuses Debi of harassment, expresses fear for his life||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former health minister Sat Pal Gosain has accused his party colleague and treasurer of the state BJP Gurdev Sharma Debi of harassing him and expressed fear for his life from the latter. Gosain alleged he was under threat from Debi as he had spoken against his ‘illegal activities’ and also sought a CBI probe into his ‘murky business interests’. Gosain said, “Today, I met commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and submitted a complaint that Debi is not transferring the car, which he had bought from him in his name, and also not handing over the registration documents of the land I had purchased from him, even though payment has been made to him.” “He was involved in gambling and other illegal activities and that is the reason why I fear for my life as I have spoken against Debi,” claimed Gosain.On the other hand, Debi termed the allegation baseless and said that Gosain and his sidekick councillor Gurdeep Singh Neetu, who left BJP and joined the Congress, were deliberately trying to malign his image. “I have never indulged in gambling. I am running a paint business and ready to face any investigation. Further, the car Gosain is talking about belongs to me. I have paid the money and the vehicle’s registry is also in my name. I sold my land to Gosain and already registered the land in the name of Gosain’s daughter-in-law. I don’t know why they are raking up the issue. I am being targeted as, during the assembly election in 2017, I was preferred over Gosain to fight the election,” said Debi. He said he would drag both Neetu and Gosain to the court. Sources in the BJP said that backlash took place two days after the BJP conducted a press conference where it alleged that the ‘dead’ were shown as beneficiaries in the distribution of ration sent by the central government for the poor in the area belonging to councillor Neetu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-leader-gosain-accuses-debi-of-harassment-expresses-fear-for-his-life/story-bzhlt39pnYsyJXz8RD9JlJ.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Hospital guard in Delhi beaten up for ‘spreading coronavirus’||A security guard of GTB Hospital was injured after being assaulted with a brick by a neighbour who accused him of spreading the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in north-east Delhi’s Harsh Vihar, the police said on Tuesday.The security guard, 35-year-old Vijay Kumar, required multiple stitches in the head, but is out of danger and has been discharged from the hospital.Ved Prakash Surya, the deputy commissioner of police (north-east), said that the 24-year-old suspect, Vikas, has been arrested and booked for voluntarily causing hurt and wrongful restraint.Kumar lives with his family in B-block of Harsh Vihar and has been working as a security guard for the last three years at GTB Hospital, one of the designated Covid-19 hospitals.Though he performs his duty near the Covid ward of the hospital, he said that he never faced trouble from the patients and their relatives. “In my neighbourhood too, people never caused me any trouble. This is because there are at least three guards and two other staffers working at GTB Hospital from my neighbourhood,” Kumar said.His sister also works as a ward assistant at the same hospital.The alleged assault took place while Kumar was exercising on his terrace on Sunday evening, minutes before he was to leave for work. His terrace shares its boundary wall with that of his neighbour Vikas.In his statement to the police, Kumar said that Vikas asked him where he worked. “When I told him that I was a guard at GTB Hospital, Vikas told me that I worked at a ‘corona hospital’ and that I would spread the virus in the neighbourhood,” Kumar alleged.DCP Surya confirmed that Kumar’s allegation was related to his work at the hospital. “Vikas accused him of spreading the virus and told him to be careful,” the officer said.That led to a war of words between the two men and was allegedly followed up by Vikas and five-six of his friends barging into Kumar’s home and launching an attack that included hitting his head with a brick.But Vikas, who is out on bail, had a different sequence of events to narrate.“While Kumar was exercising, he was leaning against my terrace wall and risking its safety. When I told him to be careful, he threatened to infect me and get me admitted to the Covid ward of the hospital,” Vikas, a 24-year-old college student, said.Vikas said that it led to an abusive exchange and eventually a fight, in which he too was assaulted, but he struck back with a brick. Vikas denied that he had any problems with Kumar working at a Covid-designated hospital.The DCP said that further investigation would clear the actual sequence of events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gtb-hospital-guard-beaten-up-for-spreading-coronavirus/story-KV3dJWwAwmWMEfM1hsSJNO.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||New 1,000-bed hospital in Delhi to be ready in next 10 days: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said that a 1000-bed full-fledged hospital with 250 ICU beds -- being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Tata Trust -- would be ready in the next 10 days for the treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in Delhi.Shah made the announcement in a tweet, following up on his response to a news that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to the home minister, requesting him to deploy nurses and doctors from the army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) at the 10,000-bed Covid care centre coming up at the Chhatarpur campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas. In his response on Twitter, Shah said, “Dear Kejriwal ji, It has already been decided in our meeting 3 days back and MHA has assigned the work of operating the 10,000-bed COVID Care Centre at Radha Swami Beas in Delhi to ITBP. The work is in full swing and a large part of the facility will be operational by 26th Jun.”In another tweet, the home minister said, “Armed Forces personnel have been detailed for providing medical care and attention to Covid patients housed in the railway coaches in Delhi. 8,000 additional beds have already been placed at Delhi government’s disposal for making Covid care centres, as per requirement.”Responding to Shah’s tweet, Kejriwal thanked the home minister. “The armed forces, doctors, NGOs, central government and Delhi government - all agencies are working together for Delhi. I believe, together, we shall defeat coronavirus. Thank you for helping the Delhi government and the people of Delhi in such trying circumstances.”Delhi on Tuesday reported 3,947 fresh cases and 68 deaths. With this, the total number of infections in the city has reached 66,602 and 2,301 people have succumbed to the viral disease. The Union home minister had held a series of meetings since June 14 with the Delhi government and the Delhi L-G on the city’s preparedness to treat and contain the coronavirus disease. Several important decisions, including ramping up testing in the capital, capping the testing price and door-to-door survey for tracing the patients and their contacts were taken in these meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-1-000-bed-hospital-in-delhi-to-be-ready-in-next-10-days-amit-shah/story-0mBxkQzOHIv3fK9eDWSJUN.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Local volunteers being trained to look after community||The medical training of local volunteers to triage and manage mild cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) admitted to isolation facilities in neighbourhood community centres and marriage halls began in Delhi on Tuesday. As a pilot project, the government has started training the first batch of volunteers in New Delhi district’s Budh Nagar Colony. Over the next five days, these volunteers will be taught about human anatomy and to measure vital indicators such as pulse rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate, temperature, hygiene and infection control practices, record keeping, and basic life support.These centres are for patients with mild to moderate symptoms who do not have adequate space in their homes to isolate themselves. The centres will have the provision to provide oxygen to the patients, according to officials.Under Delhi government guidelines, asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms can stay isolated at home if they have a separate room and bathroom. If not, they will be moved to either Covid Care Centres or Covid Health Centres. There are more than 6,000 beds at the existing centres, of which around 30% are occupied, according to data provided by the Delhi government.“The number of Covid-19 cases is increasing every day, so the government has decided to set up these small centres within the community, managed by the people from the community, for the people from the area. This is a pilot project, and if it is successful, then it will be implemented across Delhi. We train around 1,000 such volunteers in the district,” Dr Nitin Shakya, the nodal officer for Covid-19, New Delhi district, said.“The centres will be linked to nearby hospitals and there will be doctors available for tele-consultation,” he said.The volunteers have to between the ages of 18 and 55 and free of comorbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease. Anyone can sign up to volunteer through the Delhi government website.“We also carried out a door-to-door drive asking people to volunteer. Around 35 people showed up for the training session today. The number might increase later on; people are scared that they will get the disease. Even when we started doing the antigen testing, it was difficult to motivate people to get tested,” Jay Prakash, the chief coordinator from the office of the Sub Divisional Magistrate, Delhi Cantonment, said.Harish Arya, a driver who lost his job during the lockdown, was among those who attended the training session on Tuesday. “Initially, I had started donating food during the first lockdown and slowly got in touch with the district office, and have been volunteering with them ever since. I even helped motivate people who live in my area to get tested. I got myself and everyone in my family tested for Covid-19 as well. Today, the doctor taught us about all the parameters we had to monitor – most of it was easy like reading the temperature on the thermometer or blood pressure or oxygen machine,” he said.Homemaker Shakuntala Pande has also been helping the district authorities with various activities related to Covid-19 in the area. “I was informed that they will be starting centres for those who get sick in our community in some hall nearby. The officers asked me whether I wanted to help and I agreed. So, they asked me to come to the training today. A doctor taught us about the human body,” she said.The government is also working to add over 15,000 beds in makeshift hospitals for those with a severe infection in hotels and banquet halls. To staff these, the government is relying on doctors’ organisations.“This is like a war situation where, as a last resort, you train civilians to shoot and send them to the frontlines. We are also providing basic training so that they can take care of Covid-19 patients when there is a shortage of doctors, nurses,” said Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/local-volunteers-being-trained-to-look-after-community/story-ASmKefJo2YYC46iCbgxirK.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Private home care firm appointed without tender, say officials||The contract of a private company roped in by the Delhi government for handling all Covid-19 patients under home quarantine in the Capital was cancelled because the firm was not appointed through a tender, senior government officials privy to the development told HT on Tuesday, adding that a new process with tendering protocols will now be launched. Bengaluru-headquartered Portea Medical was since late April reaching out to Covid-19 patients in home isolation to assess their recovery and determine if they needed medical attention, an arrangement that was scrapped by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) led by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on June 19. According to officials, the government will now open bids to hire a new contractor for the task, after fresh guidelines issued on Monday by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) allowed for such arrangements to be made to keep a track of home isolation cases. A government spokesperson said that the health department is ready with the tender documents but an approval from the Ministry of Home Affairs is awaited.“For any work that is more than Rs 1 lakh, a limited tender has to be issued and if the project is more than Rs 25 lakh, open advertised tenders have to be floated as per the general financial rules (GFR). But, Portea Medical was appointed on nomination basis. The Delhi cabinet led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had approved it, which is against the GFR and CVC guidelines,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.An official in the L-G office said that the matter was also brought to the notice of the Union ministry of home affairs after which the L-G issued the order to cancel the contract. A Delhi government spokesperson defended the initial arrangement, saying: “Floating a tender would have taken a lot of time and the pandemic demanded such an emergency measure be taken. Besides, the government’s move was in accordance with the disaster management Act which is currently enforced in the city.”However, an official in the L-G office said the company was operating in Delhi since April 30. “It is understandable that the first appointment happened because it was the need of the hour. However, despite more than a month having passed, the government issued no tender. The services of the private firm were supposed to be a stop-gap arrangement,” the official said.Portea Medical company through over 100 people – all based in Bengaluru – made at least one call a day to each patient under home quarantine in Delhi to counsel them and record their symptoms which, if found serious, were relayed to health officials.On Friday, the LG cancelled the contract and the company is allowed to extend its service only to the 10,490 Covid patients who were under home isolation until Friday. For the new patients added in this category since, follow-ups are being done by staff under the district medical officer, which includes the district surveillance office (DSO). These officials were previously handling followup and outreach in the case of suspected patients advised home quarantine.In all, 12,963 of the 24,988 active Covid-19 cases in the capital are under home isolation.According to the latest guidelines issued by the DGHS, follow-ups will now be carried out via telephone calls by a team “outsourced/from linked health centre/medical students from various medical colleges” for a period of nine days after a person tests positive.“A tender for this will be floated soon. But, the L-G should chair a DDMA meeting at the earliest to find a solution to the current problem where newly detected Covid positive patients are not receiving such follow-up calls as promptly as before,” the government spokesperson quoted above said.Portea Medical did not specifically comment on the issue of its appointment. However, it said that the company is working in accordance with the government directives. “We cannot stress enough on the importance of home isolation and care. With an increasing number of cases, it is important that the right kind of infrastructure and provisions are made available to people to ensure timely treatment and decreased mortality. Individualized care is the need of the hour given that different people are exhibiting different symptoms,” it said in a statement.“While home isolation can prove extremely beneficial for those with mild to moderate COVID-19 symptoms, hospital beds should be reserved for those who may have other pre-existing conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, etc or develop breathing difficulties. We have seen great success for our home quarantine offering and know that it is possible to recuperate when care is taken within the confines of one’s home environment, provided regular monitoring is also done,” the statement read.The DDMA, in a statement on Monday, stated that regular follow up calls are being made to all positive cases in home isolation by the teams of the district surveillance officers (DSOs) to guide patients on the proper protocols for home quarantine.“It is being ensured that each and every case is followed up with a due protocol and all necessary services are being ensured through the districts,” the DDMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-home-care-firm-appointed-without-tender-say-officials/story-qDgCrThMNgIE8UyvSRZS0K.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Political parties bicker over new norms for assessment of mild patients||The new norms for assessment of asymptomatic Covid patients has led to political bickering in Delhi with opposition parties blaming the ruling Aam Aadmi Party for mismanagement.On Tuesday, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal seeking the rollback of the new norms, saying it will only create problems for patients and pressurise the government machinery as people will have to wait longer at the Covid Care Centres (CCCs).In an order issued by the health department after the DDMA meeting on Monday, all asymptomatic patients have to be taken to CCCs for clinical assessment.While addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Sisodia said, “There is a lot of panic among people because of the new guidelines. Earlier, they tried to stop home isolation and a consensus on continuing it was reached after a lot of dialogue. Now, this new guideline. People are upset. Why should a Covid-19 patient be punished and made to stand in a queue at a quarantine centre? I have written to the L-G to continue with the earlier system of the medical team visiting the home of the patients instead.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the chief opposition party in Delhi, said the L-G has taken the right decision. BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said, “The L-G took this decision after consulting medical experts. There is no harm if Covid positive patients are being examined at quarantine facilities by medical experts. After a proper examination, it will be easy to decide whether the patient should be kept in home isolation or not.”The BJP hit out at the Delhi government for mismanagement in the initial days when the number of cases was less. “They didn’t properly plan for the pandemic and this is why the situation has gone from bad to worse in Delhi. Now, when efforts are being made to put the system back on track, they are doing politics,” Bidhuri said.With nearly 3,000 Covid cases being reported daily for the past few days, the Congress blamed both the state and the central government for the mess in Delhi while not clarifying its stand on the issue at hand.Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhury said, “Both of the state and the central governments should stop fighting and focus on improving the infrastructure. The AAP government failed to put in place a proper system for the effective management of patients in home isolations. We had told home minister Amit Shah and the L-G that there was no proper monitoring of those in home isolation.”He added, “There is a need for more quarantine facilities as a majority of the population lives in slums, unauthorised colonies and one or two-bedroom houses. Is home isolation possible there?”AAP did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/political-parties-bicker-over-new-norms-for-assessment-of-mild-patients/story-O3Nc3UFOUOHUl2ZAXmqnrI.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||Mixed bag of facilities at Delhi’s Covid care centres||Dakshinpuri residents Amit Sagar (35) and his wife Komal (26) were shifted to a Delhi government-run Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Terapanth Bhawan in Chhatarpur from home isolation on Saturday afternoon, following lieutenant governor Anil Baijal’s order requiring asymptomatic/mild cases of Covid-19 to be mandatorily quarantined at a facility for five days. Both of them did not have any symptoms.A day later, the order was rescinded and the couple now wants to be sent back home, which they say is a more hygienic environment. “The rooms they showed us were not clean. Used masks were hanging on the doorknobs. But when we requested the staff to sanitise the room, they did so immediately. They should check all this before allotting the rooms,” Sagar said, while adding that the facility was largely well-managed and they were satisfied with the food.The Terapanth Bhawan, a guesthouse, however may not be representative of a typical CCC. Here, rooms -- which are meant to be shared by two people -- are air conditioned and there is an attached bathroom. A majority of the 18 CCCs, however, are in government schools or flats constructed by the Delhi Development Authority and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) for people from economically weaker sections and the lower-income group categories -- making these unlikely to be equipped with an AC or be as spacious. Some require residents to use common lavatories.The government initially set up CCCs to house mild and moderate cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). A majority of the people evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters at Nizamuddin West in March were housed at the CCCs in Narela, Badarpur, Mandoli Jail complex and Bakkarwala.Since May, when the Union ministry of health and family welfare allowed asymptomatic patients to isolate themselves at home if they had the adequate infrastructure, these facilities are being used to house patients who don’t have a separate room and bathroom at home. Currently, the 18 CCCs have a total of 5,909 beds, of which 1,607 were occupied till Monday.Another resident at the Terapanth Bhawan said she would prefer to be at home instead. Anita (35) said she first agreed to come to the facility hoping there would be better medical facilities. “I feel weak and breathless. I thought I’d be kept under observation. But the doctor only checks up on me over the phone. The facility is good, but I think I would have taken better care of myself at home, as there is no special medical treatment for this,” she said.The 120-bed Covid Care Centre in Badarpur is in a government school. The isolation facility comprises 23 classrooms, each housing four or five patients. Currently, there are 97 patients at the facility, which is manned by a team of five doctors and support staff.A doctor at the facility, who asked not to be named, said there is no air-coolers as a precautionary measure and the residents have had to face a mosquito problem since windows and doors are kept open for ventilation. “They often keep the doors open for ventilation. With intermittent rain, there is a problem of mosquito breeding. We have provided mosquito repellents to the patients,” this person said.The situation is the same at Narela, Bakkarwala and the Mandoli jail complex. At Narela, the government has turned 1,000 DDA LIG flats into a CCC facility. Currently, there are 450 patients here, including those who have returned from abroad under the Vande Bharat mission.At these flats, each room has a separate bathroom. But CCCs operating from school complexes such as in Badarpur and New Friends Colony require residents to use common lavatories.While Sagar and Anita said that the food at the centre was good, another woman who requested anonymity said that her daughter and in-laws, who had tested positive on June 19, didn’t get dinner at the Mandoli jail complex CCC as they reached the centre late.“They were taken to the quarantine facility in an ambulance. But as they reached the centre late, they didn’t get anything to eat that day despite several requests to the authorities. But now, everything is fine. All three of them are recovering well,” the woman, a resident of Deoli, said.A senior government official said, “These facilities have been set up in a short period and their functioning has been streamlined now. We try to address logistical issues immediately. We have not received any complaint so far regarding our Covid Care Centres.”With the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, making it mandatory for asymptomatic patients to be taken to these centres for clinical assessments, many residents’ welfare associations opposed the idea and requested the L-G and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to review the decision.Rajiv Kakria, the convener of Save Our City campaign and a resident of GK-I said, “If a person is asymptomatic, why should they be taken to Covid Care Centres for clinical screening? It is impractical. It will only increase the chances of transmission of the disease. We have been demanding that a strong monitoring mechanism involving RWAs be put in place for effective management and coordination for those in home isolation.”Gufran Nawaz, who returned to India from Oman under the Vande Bharat mission and lived at the Narela facility for a week before he left for West Bengal, said, “I was at the quarantine centre from June 11 to June 17. The quarantine facility is very good.”A Delhi government spokesperson said, “As and when we get a complaint, we rectify it immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mixed-bag-of-facilities-at-delhi-s-covid-care-centres/story-cUWdK3NPOPvXkrGuJI1BTL.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram, Faridabad residents demand cancellation of Chinese subsidiary Ecogreen’s contract||Ecogreen, a subsidiary of the Chinese company, Jinjiang Environment Holding Company Limited (CJE) that has been collecting door-to-door waste in Gurugram and Faridabad since December 2017, has been facing resistance from local residents and councillors over the past week amid growing India-China border standoff.Officials of Ecogreen said that although their services have not been affected so far, they have nonetheless faced some troubles during waste collection. As such, they have advised their staff to take necessary precautions and be on alert. Last Wednesday, in DLF Phase-1, around 10 residents protested on the road and allegedly wrote on the society’s WhatsApp group that they wouldn’t allow Ecogreen officials to operate in their area anymore. The matter was resolved after an intervention by the RWA. “A few residents of the society had raised objections and wanted to stop Ecogreen from operating inside the colony because of its Chinese affiliation. Before the matter got out of hand, we quickly met with each one of the protesting residents and apprised them of the importance of waste collection especially during the Covid-19 crisis. After much deliberation, the residents saw reason in our argument and the matter was quickly resolved,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson of DLF Qutub Enclave RWA.Similar objections have been raised in Faridabad as well. On June 19, Manmohan Garg, the deputy mayor of Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF), submitted a request to the civic body, seeking that the contract of Ecogreen be cancelled in the light of the China-India border standoff. “Besides the India-China border crisis, Faridabad councillors have repeatedly voiced their concerns on the operations of Ecogreen. They are operating in multiple cities and we feel that they are too spread out to concentrate properly on just Gurugram and Faridabad. As such, we feel that they are unable to do their job properly. Hence, I have asked the MCF officials to cancel their contract,” said Garg.On June 20, around 30 members of Akhil Bhartiya Kranti Dal, a right-wing group, also took out a protest across several parts of Old Gurgaon, such as Sadar Bazar, sectors 9, 10, 14, and 16, demanding a cancellation of EcoGreen’s contract. “The performance of Ecogreen has been substandard. There is no reason why an Indian-owned company can’t be awarded the contract to carry out waste collection even on a temporary basis. We will be submitting a letter in this regard to the Haryana government and will be repeatedly protesting on the matter for the next two months,” said Rajeev Mittal, national spokesperson for Akhil Bhartiya Kranti Dal (ABKD). On August 14, 2017, that a memorandum of understanding(MoU) was signed between Ecogreen Energy Pvt Limited, the MCF, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG), directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB), in the presence of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for waste collection in the two cities as well as for operating the waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the Bandhwari landfill.Reacting to the ongoing protests, Sanjeev Sharma, the official spokesperson of Ecogreen, said, “From the outside, we may be perceived as a Chinese company but, apart from 20 Chinese nationals, more than 2,000 of our workers are Indians. We have made more than ₹ 500 crore of investment in the two cities for waste collection, and our staff has continued its service even amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Our staff has faced a few instances of unrest in both cities but the matter has never escalated to being physical or curtailed our operations in any way. We have advised our staff members to take all necessary precautions and stay on alert,” said Sanjeev Sharma, official spokesperson of Ecogreen.“We have not received any complaints — neither against Ecogreen nor from them. If there is any complaint, we will examine it based on performance. We have given them strict directions to collect waste from all corners in the city, especially given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-faridabad-residents-demand-cancellation-of-chinese-subsidiary-ecogreen-s-contract/story-3xp9VXpObhDHOUv7uGGmfP.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Rapid antigen tests to start from today; 8,000 kits received||The Gurugram district administration from Wednesday is all set to ramp up Covid-19 testing in the city by rolling out antigen detection tests from one booth in Sadar Bazar.The district’s health department on Tuesday received 8,000 antigen kits — which can deliver Covid-19 result within 15-30 minutes.Approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), these tests look for specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The state health department has already placed an order of 100,000 kits with a South Korean company that has a manufacturing plant in Manesar.Last week, during a review meeting with Union home affairs minister Amit Shah on Covid-19 management in Delhi-NCR, Haryana was directed to use the antigen detection tests widely to cover more people. The RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests — often considered the gold standard in front-line testing for Covid-19 — too will continue simultaneously.The district at the moment is conducting around 450 RT-PCR tests daily. The number of antigen tests to be conducted daily is yet to be decided by the administration depending on the response they receive today (Wednesday)..Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “It is a new test which delivers results in 15-30 minutes. Like RT-PCR, nasal swabs will be collected. But in the process of sample collection safety measures are to be taken. Therefore, we are figuring out a planned way to do the tests in different areas. The testing will start with Sadar Bazar area, where our Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) will identify people for collecting swab samples.”He said that better clarity on the testing process will emerge on Wednesday after the actual tests start. “The plan is to conduct the test in a zone-wise manner. The overall plan will be prepared soon,” said Yadav, adding that a team of pathologists, microbiologists and technicians have already been trained tin conducting the tests.The new test, developed by a South Korean company and manufactured in Manesar, is highly specific (99.3% to 100%) — meaning a positive result on the test is a “true positive” and does not need any confirmatory test.The sensitivity is between 50.6% to 84% depending on the viral load, meaning those who test negative might still have the infection and are advised to go for a test through the more reliable RT-PCR method if they show symptoms of the disease.The antigen kits that will be used by the administration comes with a Covid-19 antigen test device, swab for sample collection, and viral extraction tube with viral lysis buffer that makes the virus inactive.Officials of the health department said that they have also increased the RT-PCR testing in the city by increasing the capacity of the lab to process at least 170 samples a day. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “RT-PCR test is being done 24 hours daily. Teams have been formed who are working in shifts. It includes seven lab technicians, pathologists, microbiologists, covid microbiologists and data entry operators.”.In Gurugram, as of Tuesday, the total count of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 stood at 4,645, with 133 new cases being added in the last 24 hours. Of the 4,645 cases, 1,833 are active cases and 2,743 have been discharged. At least, 1255 patients are under home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rapid-antigen-tests-to-start-from-today-8-000-kits-received/story-cJ9gyXQSOD5YytanWFGJFP.html
24-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram administration unclear on Covid-19 number projections||The Gurugram administration has retracted its earlier prediction that stated that the number of Covid-19 cases in the district may touch 35,000 by June end — which basically would have meant the district adding more than 30,000 cases in the next seven days.Instead, administration officials now — based on existing test positivity rate data, trends seen in Delhi and Mumbai and extrapolation done over two months — insist that Covid-19 projection is a dynamic process and a truly reflective figure might be difficult to arrive at.Independent health experts believed that the tally in Gurugram is likely to may be reach up to 7,000 cases by month-end. They agreed with district administration officials and said that predicting Covid-19 cases is a complex process, while adding that such forecasts aid in public health decision making, like augmenting facilities and beds required for tertiary care.According to the forecast of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram prepared by the district administration on June 13, at least 35,000 Covid-19 cases were likely to be reported by June 30. Out of these, nearly 80% would need isolation beds, 15% would need general ward beds and the remaining 5% would need to be admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for ventilator support. As per estimates, the count of infected people in the district was likely to touch 1.5 lakh by July-end and almost 2.5 lakh by August. On the other hand, the adjoining national capital’s future projections were almost 5.5 lakh cases by July 31 alone.Vivek Kalia, nodal officer, hospital management, said, “It would be premature to divulge any quantified figure for Covid-19. However, based on the analysis of data of testing undertaken, doubling rate and the number of positive cases needing hospitalisation, medical facilities have been assessed and requisite provisions have been made.”Even Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, in a press conference earlier this week, had said, “The projected numbers are high but making projections is a dynamic process. Testing has increased in the city to identify cases. With new cases pouring in daily, we are prepared with our healthcare facilities, if the numbers surge.”. Confirming Sangwan’s view, a senior state official, confirmed that the projected figures were inflated. “Nobody can make exact Covid-19 future projections. But based on the increasing number of cases and our projections, we are trying to arrange treatment facilities.”Data expert, Dheeraj Singh, who has been closely monitoring Gurugram’s and Haryana’s Covid-19 data, said that Covid cases daily growth rate in June for Gurugram is 7.8% with positivity rate at 36.7%. “It reflects a combination of high growth and likely wider infection spread with need for tripling the number of tests being conducted. Even at the current rate, total cases in Gurugram will reach 7,000 by June end.”According to him, the numbers will shoot up if testing is adequately scaled up. “However recent testing numbers are seeing wide fluctuations. The lowest (169 tests) number of tests were done on June 14. On June 21, a record 930 tests were conducted in a single day,” he said. Professor Abhijit Das, department of computer science and engineering, Indian Institute of Technology – Kharagpur, who has developed a model that predicts the Covid-19 transmission, said, “The prediction problem at hand is far more complicated than weather or stock-market predictions.”Das’s model relies on the daily count of infection, especially of the most affected states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. As per predictive study conducted by him, the disease will continue to spread till September.He said, “This is an attempt to predict the spread of Covid-19 in our country. However, a reliable and stable predictor could not be designed despite several technical improvements. Still, the current system shows close match with the past data, and can be used as an indication of how protracted the pandemic can be in India.”“Every such model is inaccurate to some degree, but is at the same time capable of giving an approximate view of the future. Perhaps nothing better can be achieved at this point of time,” Das added. On the other hand, Rajib Dasgupta, professor, community health medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said that the department of science and technology (DST) was working towards a Covid -19 Indian National Supermodel to forecast the spread and monitor future transmissions. “We do not know how soon this will be operational. But currently, two standard approaches — Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) model and the Logistic Growth model — are being used to predict the endpoint of Covid-19 both at national level and for the three high-incidence states of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi,” said Dasgupta.The challenge according to him will be to make future projections when affected states have different experiences, and within them the figures fluctuate between urban and rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-administration-unclear-on-covid-number-projections/story-Gm71KhuqdubTNh24TQZzEM.html
24-06-2020||Delhi||AIIMS OPD to start from Thursday; 15 patients per OPD allowed every day||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, will restart its out patient department (OPD) services from Thursday, three months after it had to close down in the wake of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. To begin with, the OPDs will be open only for old, follow-up patients.“It will be limited OPD consultations in the beginning, with only those old, follow-up patients called on prior appointment, who need physical examination. Later the services will be open for new patients,” said Dr Aarti Vij, spokesperson, AIIMS. Only 15 patients per OPD will be allowed in a day for any department. No evening speciality clinic will be open in the first phase.“It will be the prerogative of the departments to call patients directly or screen them through tele-consultation before giving a physical appointment…,” AIIMS said in a statement.The appointments will be given online through hospital’s computer facility.On March 24, the hospital had closed all its non-emergency departments, including surgical departments and specialty clinics, stopped seeing all new and follow up patients, and left only its emergency open for non-Covid 19 patients.The decision was in line with a Union health ministry directive, asking hospitals to postpone all non-essential services and elective procedures so as to free up ventilators and intensive care unit beds so that there is no shortage in case there was a surge in Covid-19 cases. In April, the hospital had started teleconsultation facility for its follow-up cases, for which an appointment was to be sought online.“Preference will be given to online consultation that many departments are successfully managing such as medicine, dermatology etc. Those departments that are managing well through telemedicine will be asked to continue doing so,” said Dr Vij.Since March 25, this year, AIIMS has provided tele-consultation to 61,000 patients, and 15, 810 patients were seen in the hospital’s cancer institute. The hospital had its emergency and casualty departments running 24x7, with 15,480 patients have been treated in all. Close to 6,000 emergency surgeries (2,753) and special procedures (2,242) have been performed and 11, 637 non-Covid 19 admissions having taken place.“The hospital was never really shut; we were running our emergency department around the clock. Also, cancer centre was functioning regularly with people coming for chemo and other therapies. The dialysis units were also running to their full capacity even during lockdown for patients with chronic kidney disease. Now we are trying to open the rest of the services in a phased manner, but preference will be given to those departments where physical examination is necessary,” said Dr Vij.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiims-opd-to-start-from-thursday-15-patients-per-opd-allowed-every-day/story-DlENeUiU2YFVBHHY9jf2BM.html
24-06-2020||Noida||11-year-old found dead at home||An eleven-year-old boy was allegedly found hanging in his home in an area under the Phase 2 police jurisdiction on Tuesday. The body has been sent for an autopsy.According to police, the incident came to light around 9.30 am when the boy’s older sister saw him hanging from a fan in their rented accommodation.“The boy was brought down while the father was informed. He was then rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said a police official.The boy had been alone in the house at the time of the incident. His mother works with a private hospital while the father is employed at a factory.No note was recovered at the spot and police officers are not ruling out that it could be a death by suicide, accident, or murder. None of the neighbours have also reported seeing anything suspicious, they said.“The body was sent for an autopsy and we will wait for the report to ascertain the cause of death. All angles are being probed for now,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.He said that so far the family has also not mentioned any reason as to why the boy may harm himself and they have not filed any criminal complaint as well.“A probe is underway and we will know more after the autopsy tomorrow,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/11-year-old-found-dead-at-home/story-WrtC6Zl4DjWweNlPVrwpZL.html
24-06-2020||Noida||GB Nagar to ramp up testing with antigen kits||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration said with the arrival of new rapid “antigen” testing devices, it is going to ramp up its testing capacities for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from Wednesday. District magistrate Suhas LY said that the health department has made “all necessary arrangements” to increase its ability for early detection of Covid-19 positive cases in the district, and is procuring nearly 15,000 rapid antigen testing kits. “ Along with other regions of NCR, we will start rapid antigen testing in GB Nagar. We are getting over 15,000 kits from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). ICMR officials will also train health department officials, lab technicians of Meerut division on Wednesday in Noida how to use the kits.”  “The rapid antigen test kits will prove as a boon in the detection of coronavirus infections in the district. Health teams will identify high risk groups, people with co-morbidities and symptoms of influenza-like illnesses (ILI).Dedicated teams will be constituted to administer these tests and special drives will be held in containment zones. Testing with these kits will help in early tracking, containment and reduction of mortality rate,” he added Currently, there are 266 containment zones in the district.“We have made 229 category-1 containment zone ( areas with single case) and 53w category-2 containment zone ( areas with multiple cases). Based on the advice of the health department, the incident commander of the area where a containment zone lies, and police officers will decide the perimeter of the sealed area,” the DM added.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said “massive Covid-19 testing” will begin in the district from Wednesday. “The antigen kits have arrived here and teams led by our doctors will collect samples from all the containment zones initially,” he said.The new “antigen” test devices can be used on-site and are quicker than lab-based RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction tests)— which were the primary means of testing in the district till now. They are also cheaper and differ in technology as they look for a specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 —the virus that causes Covid-19. The lab tests look for the exact nucleic signatures of the virus.Meanwhile, with 63 new Covid-19 positive cases reported on Tuesday, the case count of the district has now gone up to 1,575 cases.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said as many as 55 positive patients were discharged from different hospitals on Tuesday. “So far, a total of 949 patients have been cured and discharged from different facilities inthe district. Besides, 19 patients have lost their lives. The district now has 607 active cases,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-to-ramp-up-testing-with-antigen-kits/story-M919qriwD8PNyPz1zuE6qL.html
24-06-2020||Pune||Paedophile out on bail arrested for sex assault on minor step-daughter in Pune||A man who had been arrested for sexual assault of a minor step-daughter, and who is out on bail, has now been arrested for the sexual assault of her 11-year-old sister by the Pimpri- Chinchwad police on Tuesday.“He has been arrested and remanded to police custody,” said senior police inspector Manish Kalyankar of Dehu road police station.The 40-year-old man was first arrested in 2014 when his first victim was still a minor. He spent two years in jail for sexual assault, before he was granted bail in 2016.After his release, he resumed living with the family. The mother of the children begs for a living.The latest incident came to light after the minor confided in her mother that her father was forcefully touching her inappropriately. She also said that he hit her if she resisted, according to the complaint.The complaint was lodged by a health official of the Dehu road Cantonment hospital. A case under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act has been registered at Dehu road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paedophile-out-on-bail-arrested-for-sex-assault-on-minor-step-daughter/story-GLbpr1Q4jp4BmWW3HvLG8H.html
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh excise policy challenged; HC says liquor vend allotment subject to outcome of petition||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday said the allotment of liquor vends in Chandigarh would be subject to outcome of a petition filed before it by a liquor contractor.The petitioner, Rajbir Singh, has challenged the excise policy 2020-21, which comes into effect from July 1.It was alleged that the administration’s move is leading to “complete cartelisation and monopoly” of certain individuals through their firms. “The policy is wholly arbitrary. Certain internal departmental stores have been given the licence at the rate of ₹20 lakh to sell foreign liquor while retailers have to pay approximately ₹4 crore as licence fee,” senior advocate Anand Chhibbar told court.It was submitted that the excise policy does not promote free trade, as it states that for any brand of foreign liquor there shall be only five wholesale licensees, who shall further sell liquor to all the retail licensees. “Due to this, instead of buying foreign liquor directly from a reputed manufacturer, small contractor is left at the mercy of the competitor retailer who also has a wholesale authorisation for a particular brand. It will create an unfair advantage to the wholesaler who may chose to sell or make brands available only to their own retail vends,” Chhibbar had told court. It has been argued that the UT should have capped the highest bid and draw of lots could have been introduced so that cartels may not jack up prices to bag contracts. The petition also alleges that classification of vends in city shops (foreign liquor quota increased but country liquor quota decreased), village shops (country quota up but foreign liquor quota decreased) and normal shops (with no change in quota) is unreasonable as it discriminates between liquor vends. The high court bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh while issuing notice for July 8 has made it clear the allotments would be subject to outcome of the petition filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-excise-policy-challenged-hc-says-liquor-vend-allotment-subject-to-outcome-of-petition/story-2w4z8nG6Dzgc24iDIYtoQN.html
24-06-2020||Pune||Monsoon preparedness: Ramnadi Restoration Mission report lays out plan for flood-free 2020||In August 2019, the Ramnadi (river) flooded parts of Pune, prompting organisations in the city to undertake a restoration programme. These organisations, under the banner of Kirloskar Vasundhara initiated the Ramnadi Restoration Mission and on Tuesday, presented a report to the Pune Municipal Corporation and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA).The report, titled ‘Flood Free Ramnadi 2020’, underlines measures that the PMC should look at, including restoration of natural waterways and desilting. The report, which will be submitted on June 24 to the PMC commissioner, the mayor and the enivronmental department of the PMC, called for the restoration of the natural cross-section of the river, which claims carries the maximum water to be restored. River bed slopes, bottom widths as well as bank slopes need to be restored. Flooding is a natural characteristic of any river, but interventions in the river basin result in an amplification of the flood, which is what happened in the Ramnadi. “In Baner-Bavdhan-Pashan areas around Ramnadi, the velocity of water coming from the source regions was high, while the downstream it was low, as the Ramnadi channel has narrowed at various places. We have recommended clearing of the river channel, removal of debris and pipes and clearing all streams, as short-term measures. We have made several long term and policy measures too,” said Gurdas Nulkar, member of the Ecological Society.The report also states various ways of effectively preventing flooding, by widening of the waterway to safely carry a flood discharge; or deepening of the river to to accommodate incoming overflow from nallahs and tributaries. The report cites encroachments within the flood lines to be removed and restricted zones to be clearly marked henceforth, with the restoration of natural drainage channels that have been encroached upon, blocked or diverted.According to Virendra Chitrav, convenor of the Ramnadi Restoration Mission: “This advisory will be important for PMC to follow to help stop flooding in areas the Ramnadi flows through. We have recommended creating a hazard mitigation committee with representatives of all PMC departments, public representatives and NGOs, to reduce the economic and social costs of natural hazards. The committee will update and drive communication between the PMC, gram panchayat, irrigation department, NGOs, citizen groups, corporators and sarpanch-level officials. A single-point coordinator needs to be appointed by the PMC to create an actionable program.”The NGOs involved in the Ramnadi Restoration mission are: Ecological Society, Vasundhara Swatchata Abhiyan, Jivitnadi, Biospheres, Mission Ground Water, KOEL, KPCL, Jaldevta Seva Abhiyaan, and Paradkar Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ramnadi-restoration-mission-report-lays-out-plan-for-flood-free-2020/story-sPowN8vvyPzjf3QXpUQlXL.html
24-06-2020||Pune||PMC approves Rs 7.5 crore to cover costs of tests in pvt labs||PUNE: The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Tuesday, approved Rs7.5 crore towards the cost of Covid-19 tests in private laboratories, an expense the civic body has decided to bear henceforth.Standing committee chairperson, Hemant Rasane, said, “The PMC has approved Rs 7.5 crore for bearing the cost of tests carried out by private laboratories. It will help to increase testing facilities in the city. We are expecting testing capacity to immediately increase by 500 daily. The PMC will also bear the test costs of pregnant women.”Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “As PMC is going to bear the cost of tests carried out in private laboratories, it will help to get speedy reports.”Standing committee chairperson Rasane said, “The PMC administration is carrying out discussion with private laboratories for bringing down the rates for testing. The municipal commissioner assured that the civic administration would definitely do the negotiations. But if by any chance, PMC did not get less rates, the standing committee approved the proposal by considering Rs2,200 per test and if the test is conducted by visiting home, Rs2,800 would be given. The civic administration was given a cap and allowed to spend Rs3.5 crore first. Even asked to do one lakh rapid tests for close contact persons who came in contact with a positive person. The cost of rapid test is Rs450 and the standing panel approved to spend Rs4 crore for it. The standing committee will review that the laboratories are doing genuine tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-approves-rs-7-5-crore-to-cover-costs-of-tests-in-pvt-labs/story-e0iUMRDVvRf2vf02d7GJmI.html
24-06-2020||Pune||Rising cases leave PCMC to okay home quarantine option||Pune With cases of Covid-19 seeing a rise in Pimpri-Chinchwad, the civic administration has allowed the home quarantine option for those with mild or no symptoms.On Tuesday, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) introduced the home isolation policy for Covid-19 patients. “Any person clinically diagnosed as an asymptomatic or mild symptomatic case, having completed mandatory five-day institutional quarantine, will be given an option of home isolation for the next 12 days,” tweeted PCMC.The home isolation provision will not be allowed if the facility of separate bathroom and bedroom is unavailable at the patient’s home. PCMC field workers will be visiting the homes of patients to verify suitability of home isolation. The PCMC move is to free up its resources that are currently under burden due to rising coronavirus cases.The city, as on June 23, has recorded 2,027 total positive cases from 265 on May 22. “PCMC partially lifted lockdown on May 16 and people movement saw a rise,” said Dr Rajendra Namdev Wable, dean, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital.To check the increasing positive cases, PCMC plans to test 500 samples per day from its present figure of 300.“There is only one way to check cases — people need to follow hand and respiratory hygiene. One should change his/her old habits to overcome this situation,” said Wable.The first positive case of Covid-19 in PCMC was detected on March 10 when three persons were tested positive. First Covid death occurred on April 12, and the total death count in the month was three. In May, total deaths were eight, while the number increased to 35 till June 23.“Most of the cases are coming from slums and we have increased testing in these areas. The rise in number will not have any impact on businesses in PCMC,” said Anna Bodade, assistant municipal commissioner PCMC. PCMC has also upgraded mobile health checkup bus to collect swab test samples from patients’ doorstep.BoxesCovid figures in PCMC till June 23, 4 pmTotal positive cases: 2,027Active cases: 811Recovered: 1,181Death: 35Status of Active casesAsymptomatic 651Symptomatic 133Critical 27Age wise distinctionChildren (0-12 years) 214 Teens (13-21 years) 257Youths (22-39 years) 812Adults (40-59 years) 525Seniors (60 + years) 217||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rising-cases-leave-pcmc-to-okay-home-quarantine-option/story-B0CYKOr2lTTjoADKK5fvrJ.html
24-06-2020||Pune||Corruption cases in state dip during lockdown; Pune records highest||Pune: The Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) witnessed a dip in graft cases during the lockdown though it picked up after the curbs were relaxed. Pune division recorded the highest number of corruption cases in the state.From January 1 till June 21 this year, the state recorded 308 cases of which 74 were from the Pune range. The Pune range serves five areas, including Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, and Kolhapur. During the same period last year, ACB had recorded 442 cases from eight divisions covering Maharashtra.The second highest number of cases were from Amravati with 45 cases, followed by Nagpur with 44, Nashik 42, Aurangabad 34, Nanded 32, Thane 26, and Mumbai with 11 cases.“As residents were instructed to remain indoors throughout lockdown, the number of complaints went down,” said Rajesh Bansode, superintendent of ACB Pune.Among the total recorded cases in the state, 282 are trap cases where the person accepting a bribe is caught in the act. Every month, trap cases contribute to a maximum number of cases registered by all units of ACB. From 68 trap cases in January, 72 in February, and 58 in March, the state ACB record recorded a total of 7 cases in April and 30 in May. The number has, however, reached 47 till June 21. Compared to monthly statistics in 2019, trap cases saw a decline of 88 per cent in April and 61 per cent in May, according to data released by ACB.The complainant and the co-operation with ACB in such cases is key to the investigation.“It became very tough to set up traps during the lockdown as it was difficult to maintain secrecy with no movement of people. We had to maintain a high level of secrecy, but we succeeded as there were no failed traps,” he said.Pune recorded the highest number of cases in 2019 also. The number of cases until June 21, 2019, in Pune range was 93, Amravati 62, Nagpur 55, Nashik 53, Aurangabad 59, Nanded 46, Thane 52 and Mumbai at 52.“We have take many steps to educate the masses, including distribution of leaflets, pamphlets, college campus lectures and awareness drives. I think that helped. In 2019, our range was awarded as the best range in the state ACB,” said SP Bansode.Out of the 282 trap cases in 2020, 391 were arrested with a maximum number from the police department followed by revenue and land registration officials.Division -----Number of cases (Jan 1 to June 21, 2020) ---- Number of cases (Jan 1 to June 21, 2019)Mumbai --------------11 ------------------------------------------------ 22Thane --------------26 ------------------------------------------------ 52Pune -------------- 74 ------------------------------------------------ 93Nashik -------------- 42 ------------------------------------------------ 53Nagpur -------------- 44 ------------------------------------------------ 55Amravati -------------45 ------------------------------------------------ -- 62Aurangabad ----------34 ------------------------------------------------ 59Nanded --------------32 ------------------------------------------------ 46Total -------------- 308 ------------------------------------------------ 442||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corruption-cases-in-state-dip-during-lockdown-pune-records-highest/story-7nPrNhFGIJxWc2ciwfwHaK.html
24-06-2020||Pune||Parisar urges PMC to set up Clean Air Committee for Pune||Civil society organisations and citizens have urged Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad to set up the Clean Air Committee for Pune which has been mandated under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP).Launched in January 2019, NCAP requires review committees to be set-up at the state and city levels.Sharmila Deo, air quality (AQ) coordinator at Parisar said that a budget of Rs 10 crore has already been allocated by the environment ministry for this purpose. “The funds are for sweeping machines, tree plantation, electric crematorium, and awareness on air quality. There have been no expenses so far till date,” she said.After the Covid-19 lockdown was declared there was a substantial reduction in the PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels in most of the cities across India. In Pune, PM 2.5 dropped by 32%, PM 10 by 31% and NOx (nitrogen oxides) by 63%, said Deo.Particulate Matter (PM) is mix of suspended particles in the air, and consists of dust, fly ash. soot, smoke, aerosols, fumes and condensing vapours. 2.5 and 10 are sizes of the particles in microns, which is a thousandth of a millimetre. The effects of PM2.5 are far worse since they can penetrate deeper into the body.Deo said, this reduction in pollution levels can clearly be attributed to reduction of vehicles on the road, stopping of construction activity, and minimal open burning.“The city needs to be able to calculate emissions from each of the major sources. While Pune already has 10 air quality monitors set-up by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), four by Pollution Control Board, and 50 low-cost monitors installed by the Smart City Corporation, there is no common platform where this data is integrated to enable the city to take informed decisions to reduce air pollution,” Deo said.Forecasts can also help citizens take precautions when air quality is predicted to worsen, and the city can take short-term actions to mitigate pollution in such an event, she added.Deo pointed out that air pollution is responsible for around 4.2 million deaths globally each year mainly due to heart disease, respiratory problems, and stroke. It impacts all age groups, from senior citizens to youth, young children to even unborn babies. It affects body organs like liver, kidneys and even affects mental health. Ranjit Gadgil, programme director Parisar, said that cities like Nagpur and Nashik have already set up these committees and convened meetings under them. “It is high time that Pune forms this committee and effective measures are taken through it. The committee should comprise various stakeholders like the PMC, State Pollution Control Board, doctors, air quality experts, Traffic department, Regional Transport Officer, and civil society organisations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/parisar-urges-pmc-to-set-up-clean-air-committee-for-pune/story-J4XruoNQ9HzM1vhgaXAd2K.html
