26-06-2020||Mumbai||HC allows MMRDA to start work on Metro line-6 in Andheri||In a reprieve for Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday allowed the authority to begin work on Metro line 6 at Swami Samarth Nagar in Andheri, which falls in coastal regulation zone-1 (CRZ).No mangrove destruction is contemplated in construction of Metro line 6 at Swami Samarth Nagar, as the proposed construction of 26 piers in CRZ-1 are to be constructed on the median of already existing Beek Road.MMRDA was, however, compelled to move high court seeking specific permission for carrying the work in CRZ-1 area because the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) had imposed a specific condition of obtaining HC permission for starting the work.In the petition filed through advocate Saket Mone, MMRDA stated that it could not start work on the Metro line as part of the work at Swami Samarth Nagar was affected by a 50-metre mangrove buffer zone.Acting on public interest litigation filed by city NGO, Bombay Environmental Action Group, the high court has issued a series of directives in October 2005 for protection of mangroves along the coastline. As part of the measures, the court has prohibited constriction in mangrove areas and has also directed planning authorities to keep the area of 50 meters surrounding mangroves as a buffer zone where no developmental activity could be carried out.The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar also allowed MMRDA to construct compound walls in 50-metre mangrove buffer zones at Turbhe and Mandale on Metro line 2B, which connects DN Nagar in Andheri to Mandale in the eastern suburbs. According to Mone, construction of this compound walls is part of the Metro project and is necessary to protect mangroves in the area.Metro line 2B is a 23.6 km corridor which connects DN Nagar in Andheri West to Mandale in eastern suburbs, whereas 14.5 km Metro line 6 connects Swami Samarth Nagar in Andheri to Vikhroli on the Central line.The bench allowed MMRDA’s plea on the ground that both the corridors are important parts of the 310-km long Metro network, being developed in Mumbai Metropolitan Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-mmrda-to-start-work-on-metro-line-6-in-andheri/story-HaNL7OXsDS7XabtkJUrDFL.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Congress slams PM Modi on India-China clash||Terming the India-China clash in Ladakh a failure of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government, the state Congress on Friday slammed the Centre and Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and sought clarification on the recent reports about the structures erected by China on Indian land in Galwan Valley.Congress leaders also demanded reduction of the central excise duty on diesel and petrol, pointing out that it was burdening common man who is already distressed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The Maharashtra unit of the party observed ‘Shahidon Ko Salaam Divas’ on Friday and has planned a statewide protest on June 29. After paying tribute to the 20 martyred soldiers during the India-China clash last week, state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat and senior party leader and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan addressed a press conference. Thorat said the Modi government has completely failed to safeguard the Indian territory. “China has been taking advantage of the PM’s statement made during the all-party meeting that China has not intruded on Indian territory. They have been citing our PM’s statement on international level to claim that they have not entered the Indian territory. The Congress does not approve of the statement, although we have vowed to stand by the government in this bitter tussle. The PM is expected to react responsibly on such an important issue. His statement was contrary to the stands taken by the defence and external affairs ministries,” said Chavan.Chavan also demanded reduction in the excise duty levied on petrol and diesel by the central government. BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari said, “Before asking any questions on India-China clash, the Congress should clarify how much Indian land was infiltrated by China from 2004 to 2014.” Bhandari said the Maharashtra government, in which the Congress is a ruling partner, should first remove the surcharge of ₹3 a litre levied on petrol and diesel recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-slams-pm-modi-on-india-china-clash/story-o1ekIJXti2TUxeHfWfdvML.html
26-06-2020||City||Covid-19 crisis: Greater Noida residents ask govt to allow to pay 50% of power bills||GREATER NOIDA: As many people are facing financial woes due to the ongoing Covid-9 pandemic, a group of residents has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to allow power consumers in the city to pay 50% of the electricity bills till the crisis gets over.The residents’ group -- Active Citizen Team (ACT) -- has written to the chief minister, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate and power discom Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) in this regard. In its letter, the group also said that residents may deposit the remaining 50% of their monthly bills after September, when the pandemic is likely to be over.“We demand that consumers are allowed to deposit only 50% of electricity bill for the period of April 20 to September 20, and that the rest should be added in the following months (October or November), keeping in mind that there has been a loss of jobs and other financial issues. Nobody can restart normal operations due to restrictions, thereby facing financial woes. We are not demanding any waiver,” said Alok Singh, founder member of ACT and a resident of Sector Alpha-1.There are at least 1.5 lakh power customers in Greater Noida and 3.5 lakh in Noida. “Residents have been finding it hard to manage daily expenses, and a reduction in amount to be deposited would give them some respite. We are hopeful that positive action would be taken in this regard, as Gautam Budh Nagar in particular has been facing huge crisis due to Covid-19 outbreak,” said Harinder Bhati, a member of the team and resident of Beta-1.In Noida also, some residents have supported this demand. “It is a tough time. The government must look into the demand raised by the Greater Noida residents,” said Deepkia Singh, a resident of Sector 61, Noida.PVVNL officials said that the payment of bills has been affected due to the outbreak. “Only the government can take a decision on this demand of residents,” said VN Singh, chief engineer of PVVNL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-crisis-greater-noida-residents-ask-govt-to-allow-to-pay-50-of-power-bills/story-mGbeGcY0ygr16SX2dJWjEI.html
26-06-2020||City||Delhi: HC equates teachers with corona warriors, pulls up north body over salaries||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Friday pulled up the North Delhi Municipal Corporation over non-payment of salaries to teachers who are also deployed on Covid-19 duty, while stating that it is a “sorry state of affairs” where the teachers, who can be equated to corona warriors, have not been paid salaries since the lockdown was imposed.Taking strong note of the non-payment of salaries to the safai karamcharis and the teachers, a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad took suo moto cognizance of the issue and converted it into a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which would be listed before Chief justice DN Patel on June 30.The high court’s order comes on a plea by the Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, representing teachers who are teaching in the north corporation’s schools, challenging a June 9 order by a single judge which had dismissed their plea, to direct the civic body to release their salaries that have not been paid since March 2020.“This is a sorry state of affairs. Teachers belong to one of the noble professions and as they are made to do Covid-19 duty also, they can be equated to Covid-19 warriors. Despite that, they have been deprived of their dues since March 2020,” the bench said.On Friday, the court was informed by the counsels for the north corp that there are 700 schools under the jurisdiction of the civic body and 9,000 teachers. However, only 3,500 teachers had been deployed on Covid duties on a rotational basis, which the facilities continued till mid-June.As of now, there are 90 dry ration distribution centres being operated from the north body’s schools with approximately 800 teachers engaged in duties there. The liability for the release of salaries of these 3,500 teachers, who were involved in Covid-19 duties, is approximately Rs 25 crores per month.In a status report, the civic body said that the Delhi government, instead of implementing the fourth Delhi Finance Commission (DFC), implemented the 5th DFC from April 1, 2016 in the year 2019. It said that the Delhi government has still not implemented the recommendations of the 4th DFC, despite categorical directions by various orders. It further said that the Delhi government is liable to pay Rs 968.97 crore under 4th DFC from April 2012 to March 31, 2016. The municipal corporation added that they do not have funds to disburse salaries even for teachers.However, the Delhi government, in its report, said they have already released Rs 49.17 crore for teachers’ salaries for April 2020. Funds for salaries for the month of May have also been sanctioned, the state government said, adding that the payments are being made monthly instead of on a quarterly basis due to the pandemic.Expressing displeasure, the bench said, “It is deemed appropriate to convert this petition into a suo motu petition… The Delhi government is directed to file an affidavit responding to the averments made by the North DMC within one week. List before the roster bench for appropriate order on June 30,” the bench said.It noted that payments to the teachers for the month of March were paid only this morning, after the court directed the corporation to pay the salaries on June 18.The matter would be now heard on June 30.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-equates-teachers-with-corona-warriors-pulls-up-north-body-over-salaries/story-jGQxjbVt4Jp06tNT2uzz4O.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Significant change to EIA on the cards, plea requests extension for public comments||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the response of the central government on a plea seeking directions to extend the period for receiving objections and public suggestions on changes to the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification. The notification proposes post-facto approvals for projects and does away with public consultations in some instances, till the Covid-19 lockdown subsists. It was published in the official gazette on April 11 and invited objections or suggestions contained in the draft EIA notification within 60 days.On May 7, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, in a press release, said it extended the period up to June 30.Conservationist and founder of Social Action For Forests & Environment (SAFE) Vikrant Tongad contended before the high court that this ought to be extended till September 30 or till such time that the restrictions induced by Covid-19 remain.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, issuing the notice, said, “Take an approach which is fair to everyone.” and posted the matter for June 29. It also asked the Centre to come up with a resolution if there was any ambiguity and not merely issue a corrigendum.“This draft notification proposes significant changes to the existing regime, including removing public consultation entirely in certain instances, reducing the time for public consultation from 45 days to 40 days, and allowing post facto approvals for projects,” the plea had said.Reacting to the plea, secretary, Union environment ministry, R P Gupta said, “We have received thousands of responses on the draft EIA 2020 notification. The public has been given over 75 days time already to respond. We don’t intend to extend the time for comments or responses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/significant-change-to-eia-on-the-cards-plea-requests-extension-for-public-comments/story-Bho4Of8eZrd9z1kyKCqKIL.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||NDMC extends cashless medical facility to employees in hotels attached to hospitals||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Friday decided to extend its cashless medical facility for the treatment of Covid-19 to its employees in hotels attached to empanelled hospitals. Hotels where NDMC employees can avail medical facilities include Crown Plaza in Okhla, Hotel Siddharth in Rajendra Place and Hotel Sheraton in Saket.NDMC officials said that the decision has been taken to provide better and timely treatment to its employees. NDMC has three empanelled hospitals attached to nearby hotels. These are Batra Hospital and Research Centre attached wto Hotel Crown Plaza-Okhla Phase-I; Dr.B.L.Kapoor Memorial Hospital attached to Hotel Siddharth in Rajendra Place; and Max Smart Super Specialty Hospital attached to Hotel Sheraton located at Saket District Centre.“The attached private hospital shall admit Covid-19 positive patients in their extended Covid Hospital (Hotel) as per the patient’s medical condition and in case such patients turn into severe at any point of time during their stay in the hotel, he/she shall be transferred/admitted in the attached private hospital at its schedule rates [sic],” an NDMC statement read.It added that attached private hospitals are required to provide sufficient manpower, oxygen supply, consumable items, medicines and equipment in the extended Covid hospitals (hotels) in case there is a rapid deterioration in the clinical condition of the patient.“These hotels shall provide regular services including rooms, housekeeping, disinfection and food for the patients at the price not greater than ₹5,000 for Five-star Hotel and ₹4,000 for Four/Three-star hotel per day per person. The linked hospital shall be paid an amount, not greater than ₹5,000 per patient per day for their medical services to Covid-19 patients inclusive of all consumables, services of doctors, paramedical staff and nursing staff as per the norms [sic],” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-extends-cashless-medical-facility-to-employees-in-hotels-attached-to-hospitals/story-62gpXYAaEl3zfAbcbwatjJ.html
26-06-2020||City||To improve contact tracing, Gautam Budh Nagar admin to form 200 more teams||NOIDA: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district administration has decided to increase the number of health department teams from 600 to 800 to handle the crisis more efficiently. It is being done to improve contact tracing and door-to-door screening of residents across the district, said officials.“We will form 800 teams, which will work in different areas, including containment zone, to handle Covid-19 issues. These teams will also monitor the delivery of essential goods in containment zones so that residents get the supply at door step. Also, we will circulate leaflets in villages and sectors to make people aware about the safety precautions,” said Narendra Bhooshan, Greater Noida authority’s chief executive officer, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 preparations in GB Nagar.According to the officials, apart from contact tracing and door-to-door survey in villages and sectors, the 800 teams -- each having two members from the health department -- will also be engaged in the task of enforcing health department guidelines and supplying of essential goods in containment zones. In containment zones, the health staff will identify people in three categories -- elderly people, persons with comorbidities like cancer and heart problem, and those with influenza like illness (ILI). Bhooshan has directed the health department and other departments concerned to improve the surveillance in containment zones and carry out deep sanitization in such zones properly to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The district currently has a total of 282 containment zones, as per the latest data from the administration. “We have directed the incident commanders to put a board outside the house, where a positive case is detected. If no new positive case is detected in a containment zone within 14 days, then the restrictions should be removed immediately so that people do not face any problem,” said Bhooshan.There are five different zones -- Noida, Greater Noida, Dadri, Jewar and Sadar Tehsil -- in the GB Nagar district and each zone is taken care of by an incident commander. At Noida and Greater Noida’s urban areas, city magistrates are incident commanders, while in Jewar, Dadri and Sadar Tehsil areas, SDMs are incident commanders. The administration has also appealed to people to follow social distancing norms strictly. “A person should come out of his/her house only if it is necessary, wear mask, gloves and wash hands properly. A person must maintain two-yard distance from other person to stay safe from infection,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-improve-contact-tracing-gautam-budh-nagar-admin-to-form-200-more-teams/story-madMZ7DJF9FhbDNFVvND7K.html
26-06-2020||City||Delhi HC tells builder to donate 250 PPE kits to hospitals, graveyards while dismissing his plea||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court has ordered a builder, who had filed a plea seeking approval of rectifications of a sealed property, to instead donate 250 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to various hospitals and graveyards in the city.The builder had moved court seeking an opportunity to make rectifications after the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) had sealed the premises for unauthorised construction. The builder had contended that the rectifications in accordance with the corporation’s norms have been made. Justice Nazmi Waziri of the Delhi High Court said that 100 kits be given to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 25 to the State TB Training and Demonstration Centre, 25 to the Department of Microbiology, National Institute of TB and Respiratory Diseases, 50 to Lok Nayak Hospital and 25 kits each to Lodi Road crematorium and the Panj Peeran graveyard.The court, while passing the order said, “In view of the global pandemic, resulting in countrywide lockdown, there is constant apprehension of contracting the disease from anyone. It is the need of the hour that those engaged on the frontline of dealing with the pandemic and the resultant casualties are provided protective gear.“The petitioner shall supply 250 PPE kits to the following government hospitals, where testing and/or treatment facilities for Covid-19 is being carried out, so as to provide some protection to the medical staff/healthcare workers engaged in combating the pandemic. Also, some PPEs have to be provided to those dealing with the last rites of pandemic-related casualties. The cost of each kit is stated to be about Rs 1, 000,” the court said in an order passed June 11.In another case, the high court Delhi resident Manoj Kumar, who court aggrieved with the disconnection of his 20 electricity meters installed in coaching centres for boys, to donate 25 PPE kits to Shamshan Bhumi, Neb Sarai and the Hauz Rani graveyard near Saket Sports Complex, while deciding the matter on June 16.The court allowed him another chance to pay his pending amount subject to the donation of these ICMR approved PP Kits.Since June this year, Justice Waziri has been directing parties involved in litigations to donate PPE kits sometimes as a cost or for helping the society. In one of the orders passed on June 18, Justice Waziri asked a builder to donate 40 PPE kits, 20 each to junior resident doctors and to the nursing staff of the Lok Nayak hospital, while deciding a case seeking regularisation of construction.Last year, Justice Waziri had passed a series of orders directing litigants to plant tree saplings as a substitute for paying cost or during quashing of FIRs. On February 7, 2019, Justice Waziri had directed several accused in the 2G financial irregularity to plant 16,000 trees in the city after they had failed to file their replies to the plea filed by CBI and ED, challenging the judgment of the trial court acquitting all accused.Due to the orders, the Delhi government had been able to plant over 1.5 lakh trees, mainly in the ridge area, with additional directions to the parties to nurture, nourish and look after the saplings.Since June this year, the judge has directed for donation of a total of 315 PPE kits, besides Rs 25,000 for PPE kits for senior and junior resident doctors of LNJP Hospital, so as to provide some protection to the medical staff and healthcare workers engaged in combating the coronavirus pandemic.In some of his unique orders, Justice Waziri had also directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to donate 20 footballs to four Delhi government schools and also plant 100 trees for the delay in dispensing compensation to a man who had suffered 64% disability after being hit by the civic agency’s vehicle.Justice Najmi Waziri had passed the orders in 2019, after the DHO expressed regret over the delay and voluntarily undertook to do some social work, including planting trees and encouraging sports among schoolchildren. Several litigants had also volunteered to plant trees or make donations during the cases as compensations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-tells-builder-to-donate-250-ppe-kits-to-hospitals-graveyards-while-dismissing-his-plea/story-0FJx91H0eZKaE3n1mx4bpK.html
26-06-2020||Noida||GIMS focuses on facilities to patients, chance to build an image, say hospital officials||On a Thursday, the Covid-19 team at Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, got an emergency message on the WhatsApp group from a very miffed patient. Apparently the patient did not prefer to eat onion and garlic on Thursdays. The team called the kitchen and got the food changed right away. “When the patients arrive here they are often irritated, primarily because of the isolation and the effect that the pandemic has on their thought process,” said Dr Saurabh Srivastava, head of the department Medicine and nodal officer Covid-19 team at GIMS. “So they complain a lot and we understand that. Be it salt in the food, choice of food, tea timings or repeated demand for the tea or coffee, some want to live with their family members who are also infected and admitted here and so on. Our focus, apart from treating them is to provide good facilities, a hygienic environment and give them a welcoming and comfortable stay so that they go back as our goodwill ambassadors and with a change of perception associated with a government hospital.”Doctors say they have adopted a policy to convert such situation into an opportunity to build an image that breaks the general stereotypes associated with “sarkari (government) hospital”.GIMS began by creating a separate WhatsApp group and adding all the patients, doctors, nursing staff, service staff, and even the institute director to addresses their concerns. Another WhatsApp group of staff only discusses the patients’ issues and attempt to resolve them.Some of the complaints, based on the WhatsApp messages, even included objections on the colour of the bedsheet, towels not being fluffy enough, specific pickle for dinner and lunch, soap and toothpaste of their choice, a shaving kit of their choice, smell of the floor wiping liquid and for some even the brand of the medicine.But then there are positive too. Dr. Srivastava showed HT several appreciative messages from discharged patients and also a letter from one patient requesting the transfer of her Covid-19 infected husband from a private hospital in Noida. “We will have to understand what these patients are going through.We have to be more hospitable, understand the psychology of the patient,” said Brigadier (Dr) Rakesh Gupta, director GIMS.GIMS was the city’s first Covid facility and since its first case on March 15, it has so far successfully treated and released over 450 patients. At present, there are around 110 patients in the hospital, against 150 beds and 10 operational ventilators.“We monitor each and every patient. Sometimes they are simply angry or scared and take it out on staff by making weird demands. But we understand their irritation from a psychiatrist’s point of view. We keep sending positive messages, videos of meditation on the WhatsApp group. With time we have seen their perception changing and many keep sending their wishes even after being discharged,” said Dr. Rahul Singh, one of the doctors on GIMS Covid-19 team.Sharing his experience, a patients said his perception of government hospitals change with the experience.“When I found that I was Covid-positive and would be sent to a government medical facility, my heart sunk. I was scared and angry, maybe because of my health conditions, but the behaviour of hospital staff, particularly the doctors, changed my entire perception,” said one patient who stayed for 15 days in the hospital, over the phone.Many patients said that as a goodwill gesture they would volunteer to donate plasma if asked for.“I came here as a scared and skeptic patient perhaps because we have heard so much bad things about the government hospitals. But my perception changed and I left GIMS making friends with many staffers there. I promised officials that I will volunteer to donate my plasma and that I am just one call away,” said another patient, released on the eighth day of her admission.“My husband and I were very nervous upon admission at GIMS, but the staff there had been very generous to us. They ensured that we are free of fear, showed sensitivity, and made sure that our ten day-long stay at the hospital was comfortable,” said another patient from Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gims-focuses-on-facilities-to-patients-chance-to-build-an-image-say-hospital-officials/story-XQ62R7SrBXNwSxOEQcuYEK.html
26-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Antigen tests find 9.87% positivity rate on day one; admin begins process for plasma trials||Ghaziabad: The district health department on Friday started with the first round of antigen tests to detect coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases, during which eight persons were found positive, out of the 81 samples collected. The tests were administered at seven locations across Ghaziabad and testing will be ramped up as the district in coming days has received total of 8,000 antigen kits.“The suspected cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) cases were scanned in containment zones and also in high risk groups. Total of 81 tests were conducted and eight persons were found positive, as per health department records. This is an encouraging sign as the percentage of positive cases is low,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.With the results on Friday, the percentage of positive cases is about 9.87. For this purpose, seven teams have been deployed as against 30 announced on Thursday. The health department said it was due to lesser availability of lab technicians that the number of teams was reduced.Antigen testing has been started in several locations including Vaishali, Jhandapur, Indirapuram, Khoda, Vijay Nagar, Bhovapur and city areas.The district magistrate also inspected one of the antigen test centres in Vaishali. Plasma therapy trials“We have also started the process of preparing a list of people who have recovered from Covid-19 and are ready for donating plasma for trials. We have deputed a nodal officer who will now be assessing the infrastructure availability and will seek permission on this from the Indian Council for Medical Research. There is some infrastructure available with private hospitals and in the government sector. We plan to start the process at the earliest so that patients recover soon,” Pandey added.“We are making calls to patients who have recovered and are encouraging them to donate plasma for the benefit of others who are infected with Covid-19. Seven former patients have given their consent for donating plasma. I have also directed the chief medical superintendents of different L1, L2 and L3 hospitals to get in touch with patients and encourage them to donate plasma. We need to reduce the death rate and see to it that patients recover,” he said.Plasma therapy involves treating the patient with the plasma of a compatible patient who has recovered from Covid-19. The antibodies present in the plasma are expected to help the patient fight the infection.Revision in curfew timings Meanwhile, the divisional commissioner (Meerut) has directed for revised timings of night curfew from 8pm to 6am each days. Earlier, this was from 9pm to 5am.“As per the revised timings, all the markets, liquor shops and business establishments will remain closed from 8pm to 6am. If any shop is found open, action will be taken up,” said a spokesperson of the district administration.More L1 facilitiesWith the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, officials are now searching for more facilities that can be used as L1 category hospitals as there is another wave of spike in Covid-19 cases.“As the cases are rising, our L1 Divyajyoti Hospital, which got opened two days ago, now has about 100 patients as against the availability of 250 beds. So now, we are searching for more hospitals. In case we bring up multiple hospitals, it would require more teams for services,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.In accordance with the directions of the Uttar Pradesh government, the Ghaziabad district has proposed for acquisition of 13 different colleges which have a combined capacity of 4,000 L1 beds.“We are searching for more hospitals and planning to come up with a big facility at Radha Swami Satsang Beas at Morta. They have already provided us their premises for stay and transportation of migrant workers. But we need to assess facilities and infrastructure there. The problem in the district is that we have availability of only several colleges where a maximum of 400 beds can be converted to L1 category facilities,” the DM said. According to the new guidelines issued by the state government on June 19, if any asymptomatic patient shows no symptoms, he/she can be discharged without undergoing any test on the tenth day from their date of admission. But, such patients will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after discharge from hospital.In the context of the new guidelines and the admin scouting for more L1 facilities, the CMO said: “We are hoping that discharge of Covid-19 patients will also become faster after the recently received discharge guidelines.”As per the earlier guidelines, the asymptomatic patients were being discharged only after their first report was negative. Prior to this, a positive patient needed to have two successive negative reports in order to get discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-antigen-tests-find-9-87-positivity-rate-on-day-one-admin-begins-process-for-plasma-trials/story-O65XpxdYzXR9Jtnmr4mo6M.html
26-06-2020||City||Ulhasnagar woman reunited with son with help of social media, volunteers||A 55-year-old woman, who was living on the streets in Ulhasnagar for almost four months, was united with her 37-year-old son who lives in Khed, Pune district, by Youth of Today Welfare Foundation, Ammucare Charitable trust and Badlapur rescue team on Friday.With an injury on the right leg, the woman Lata Shetty who lived on rent at Ulhasnagar-3 had taken to footpath opposite to the Vitthalwadi police station in Ulhasnagar a few months back as she could not pay the rent. Her son wanted to take her to Pune, though could not do so in lockdown, nor did he have enough money to pay her rent.A resident of the area took her picture and posted it on social media with his number asking for help to find her son Ravindra Shetty’s contact.The woman was found with a bag comprising bedsheet, books and a diary.“Our team member saw the message on social media. On Wednesday afternoon, we visited the spot, but could not find her there. Locals told us she occupies the footpath during the night. One person from Mulund called us providing the number of the son, which he managed to get on social media and that’s how we contacted the son,” said Marshal Nadar,24, founder of the foundation.The woman’s husband left her a few months ago, after which she could not pay the rent. She was provided with food, clothes and taken to medical check-up by the team after they found her.“Her son and his wife wanted to come to Ulhasnagar to take her, could not come due to the lockdown imposed to fight Covid-19 pandemic. We managed to find the woman on Wednesday night and also called up the son and helped them communicate with each other. On Friday after her medical test and police formalities, we took her to her son’s place on Thursday late night, “added Marshal.The Badlapur rescue team, that rescues animals, arranged a vehicle for the transportation of the woman.The son who works in a private company in Khed claimed that he wasn’t aware of the condition of her mother, as the owner of the house where she lived mislead him.“Four days back, a friend told me about the message on social media. When I saw the photo of my mother, I was shocked. Since my financially unstable, I could not reach Ulhasnagar immediately. I was in touch with the locals and asked them to help me out with transportation,” said Shetty, who lives with his wife at Chakan, Khed in Pune. “I am so grateful to all the people who helped my mother reach safe here. Here in the village, no outsider is allowed due to the outbreak of Covid-19. I was worried about how to bring her to my place, “added Shetty.An officer from Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) said, “Our team had examined the health condition of the woman for any symptoms of Covid infection as she was living on the streets. She has a leg injury but did not have any other symptoms. After the check-up, the certificate was provided so that she could leave the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-woman-reunited-with-son-with-help-of-social-media-volunteers/story-VzYy6SFiQaMqC5WkmcFNaI.html
26-06-2020||City||Residents risk crossing Hindon canal as cops continue blocking of two major culvert roads between Vaishali and Indirapuram||Residents of Vaishali are in a spot of bother with the Ghaziabad Police blocking two major connecting roads to nearby Indirapuram, since the sector scheme on June 1, but now citing “law and order” as the reason for the continuing blockade. The sector scheme involved sealing an area and thereby severely hampering the movement of residents, except for essential services. It was imposed in Vaishali to counter the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Following a Supreme Court order on June 16, the district administration confined the scheme only to containment zones.The two connecting roads, near Vaishali sector-2 and Vaishali sectors 4 and 5, to Indirapuram, however, are yet to be opened with buses. The roads are bridges over the Hindon Canal, forcing pedestrians to risk their lives as they tip-toe over a pipe to get to the other side.“The culvert road near Sector 2 is blocked by buses. We drop passengers on the Indirapuram side and thereafter they walk to Vaishali using small the drain pipe on the side. This is risky as someone may fall into canal if they slip,” said Rajesh Kumar, an auto driver from Makanpur.“There has been no written order on lifting the sector scheme from Vaishali and neither have the residents been given a list of containment zones. The list should be updated on a daily basis and put in the public domain. There is lot of confusion among residents and many have not yet moved out to their offices,” said Mohit Sharma, resident of Vaishali sector-1.According to the last list issued by the district administration on June 18, Vaishali has 12 containment zones under category 1 and one zone under category 2.“The buses blocking the roads over the two culverts should be moved a bit so that at least pedestrians can move easily. Otherwise, they are moving over a drain pipe adjacent to the Hindon canal. Who will assume responsibility of some mishap takes place,” said Sharma.Anshu Jain, Indirapuram circle officer denied that continued blocking of the roads were part of the sector scheme.“The blocking of roads is part of law and order situation as there have been frequent snatching incidents at the two roads. If we put up barricading, it will have to be guarded throughout. We will consider unblocking part of the road so that pedestrians can walk over the roads,” she said.Residents approached the police to allow at least one of the roads to be opened.“Still, we have asked the police officials to unblock at least one road or make some way for easing movement of pedestrians. Since, most of our customers also arrive from Indirapuram, our businesses are also affected as a result,” said Anirudh Vashishtha, general secretary of Vaishali Udyog Vyapar Mandal.When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he will speak to the police about the issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-risk-crossing-hindon-canal-as-cops-continue-blocking-of-two-major-culvert-roads-between-vaishali-and-indirapuram/story-9R1sPHQEk1zgwyGAFzW0yK.html
26-06-2020||City||Couple found hanging in Indirapuram flat||A 30-year-old man and his 28-year-old wife were found dead inside their apartment in Indirapuram’s Gyan Khan on Friday morning. The couple’s eight-month-old son was found at the flat, who they entrusted to the care of the woman’s sister in a text message sent by the woman. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide. They are yet to ascertain what pushed the couple to take such a step.The couple was from Bihar capital Patna and had shifted to the rented accommodation less than a year ago. The man was a sales manager with a firm in Noida and had been working from home since the lockdown while the woman was a homemaker.“Around 3.45am, the woman sent an SMS to her sister, who lives in Greater Noida, asking her to come early morning and pick up the child who would be alone in the house. When her sister saw the message, she panicked and sent one of her friends living in Indirapuram to the couple’s flat, around 6am Friday,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).The friend found the main door unlocked and the woman hanging, with the infant on the bed. She then alerted the neighbours and the police were informed. The police inspected the house and found the man hanging in another room.Officers said they have roped in forensic teams. “Their child was taken away by the woman’s sister, and both bodies have been sent for an autopsy. We have not received any complaint from any of their family members so far,” Jain added.Ghaziabad is yet to have a dedicated helpline to help people in trouble. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-found-hanging-in-indirapuram-flat/story-kArU7invWXmm5XL22XgxBI.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda’s MC’s solar-powered streetlight project gains momentum||After a delay of nearly three months due to the pandemic outbreak, the Bathinda municipal corporation’s project to convert all streetlights to solar power has finally gained momentum.The MC’s project nodal officer, Neeraj Kumar, said a Dehradun-based private agency engaged by the state authorities has applied to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to execute the project.“The MC has submitted drawing details of three sites to the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA), the nodal agency, for final approval. We expect the project would be commissioned by July-end,” said Kumar.In the first-of-its-kind project in the South Malwa region, the local body is expected to save around ₹2.3 crore a year in electricity bills. There are 25,000 streetlights in the city area and the panels of capacity 2,200KW are to be installed in four localities. These are the vacant space at waterworks stations located near Joggers Park, the industrial growth centre, the sewage treatment plant and the rooftop of the local body’s office. MC superintending engineer Sandeep Gupta said except for the Joggers Park, work to install solar penal on the identified sites is ready. “The MC will pay an estimated ₹9.85 crore for the project. It may provide a major boost to promote alternative sources of energy at other public offices and residents. Further expansion of solar power generation will depend upon this initiative,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bathinda-s-mc-s-solar-powered-streetlight-project-gains-momentum/story-slnzNiFakoWV8EFUSM4ZKJ.html
26-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand extends lockdown till July 31 due to rising Covid-19 cases||The Jharkhand government on Friday decided to extend the lockdown till July 31 in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 positive cases rising in the state.According to a notification issued by the state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, all restrictions which are in place at the moment will continue till further orders. “...In exercise of the power conferred under section 22 (2)(h) of the Disaster Managment Act 2005, the undersigned in the capacity of chairperson, State Executive Committee, hereby orders extension of lockdown related extensions currently in place in Jharkhand upto July 31, 2020, due to Covid-19,” the notification issued by Singh said.All relaxations provided prior to the Friday order would continue while the restrictions will also be in place till further orders. While the state has allowed a host of activities outside the containment zones, some curbs continue including inter and intra-state movement of buses, opening of religious places, salons, multiplexes, malls, swimming pools, gyms, besides all educational institutions. The state reported 29 positive Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its tally to 2,294, according to the bulletin issued by the state health department. While 12 persons have died of the infection, 1,647 people have recovered and been discharged from hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-extends-lockdown-till-july-31-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases/story-OCFD3IssVVQu4jtcFgms6O.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bail pleas of Shoma Sen, Varavara Rao rejected||The special National Investigating Agency (NIA) court on Friday rejected the interim bail plea filed by Telugu poet P Varavara Rao and activist Dr Shoma Sen, booked for their role in the Elgar Parishad case.The two had approached the special court for interim bail over the spread of Covid-19 in prison and claimed that they suffer from several health issues, making them vulnerable to the virus. The plea was objected by NIA on the ground that they are booked under provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), hence are not entitled to interim bail.Meanwhile, the special court on Friday heard arguments on the plea of civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha, one of the accused in the case, for bail, as the agency failed to submit charge sheet within a stipulated time frame. The plea was heard through video conferencing whereby Anil Singh, additional solicitor general opposed the plea.The lawyer for Navlakha contended that the agency ought to have submitted the charge sheet against Navlakha within 90 days of his arrest. The defence has also considered the period of 35 days after his arrest by Pune police in 2018. Navlakha was first arrested by the Pune police on August 28, 2018, but the Delhi High court had quashed his arrest on October 1, 2018.After his release, Navlakha was arrested again on April 14 as his plea for anticipatory bail was rejected by all courts. Since his arrest, he is in custody.The plea was opposed by Singh claiming that the order of Delhi high court is challenged and the appeal is pending before the Apex Court. Hence, Singh who represented NIA, claimed that the period of 35 days from August 28, 2018, till October 1, 2018, cannot be considered for grant of bail on the ground of failure of the agency to file a charge sheet.The court would hear further arguments on the bail as well as on the plea of NIA for his custody on July 10.Meanwhile, another accused lawyer Arun Ferreira and human right activist Rona Wilson booked in the case too have approached the court for release from the jail. The two have written mail to the court and sought parole due to spread of Covid-19 in the prison. The plea is objected by the NIA on the ground that they have played a crucial role in the conspiracy.In the reply filed on the plea of Wilson the agency claimed that he was part of the conspiracy to eliminate Prime minister of the country. It is also alleged that he was an active member of the group. The NIA has further alleged that provisions of parole are not available for undertrial prisoners, it is only available for convicted prisoners.The said pleas are also scheduled for hearing on July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bail-pleas-of-shoma-sen-varavara-rao-rejected/story-jicozza4oyl9Qqfl8gcsTN.html
26-06-2020||City||Five, including 10-year-old, killed in highway mishap||Five persons, including an 10-year-old boy and two women, were killed in an accident on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway on Friday.The car collided with a divider and swerved on the Mumbai-bound lane after the car driver lost control near Dapcheri at around 4.30pm. “The car was headed towards Navsari [in Gujarat] from Nallasopara. The driver lost control of the vehicle and he crashed into a divider. The car tumbled thrice on the Mumbai-bound lane. Four persons died on the spot, while the fifth person succumbed to his injuries at the hospital,” said Ajay Vasave, the inspector from Talasari police station. A biker who was proceeding towards Dahanu was also injured, as the car hit the bike, said the officer.The bodies of the deceased Shruti Deviprasad Shukla, 16; Raina D Shukla, 42; Swayam D Shukla, 10; Sanjaykumar Tiwari, 38; Deviprasad Shukla, 44; have been sent for post-mortem. We have registered a case under section 304(a) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the deceased driver, the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-including-10-year-old-killed-in-highway-mishap/story-BPZVmfyfkJF797Db7i5p0M.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann to oppose farm ordinances passed by Centre||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Bhagwant Mann on Friday said that he will table a Private Member’s Bill in the lok sabha in the next session against the three farm ordinances passed by the central government.At a press conference in Bathinda, Mann charged the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership of maintaining double standards on the ordinance that ‘compromises the rights of small and marginal farmers and arthiyas.’“SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal claims to be a votary of farmers’ rights but his wife and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has not reacted to the ordinances. She should have quit the ministerial berth to build pressure on the Modi government against the ordinances,” said Mann.“SAD MPs should support my Bill to prove their loyalty towards the farming community in country,” he added.He said that AAP activists will start a protest campaign against the SAD leadership at sub-divisional levels across state on Monday for their stand on the ordinances that are aimed at benefiting the corporate sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bhagwant-mann-to-oppose-farm-ordinances-passed-by-centre/story-XiJ3UxqxVXj38m3gkc7bWM.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||2015 police firing: Citing judge’s family ties with Badals, SIT pleads not to assign cases to him||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 episodes involving firing on the Bargari sacrilege protesters in Faridkot has requested the district and sessions judge not to hand over any related case to chief judicial magistrate Harvinder Singh Sindhia in future, claiming that he has close family relationship with the Badals. Inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, a SIT member, on Friday submitted an application to the district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi stating that the Punjab government has set up teams to investigate cases of sacrilege and police firing incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura. “All these cases are under investigation and at least two chargesheets have been filed in court along with two supplementary challans. Former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal have been examined during the probe and have been arrayed as accused in some cases. All these cases are neither mutually exclusive nor completely similar but inter-related in nature and scope,” the IGP said in the application. Claimed close Sindhia’s family link with the Badals, he added, “The independence and impartiality of judicial institutions is one of the paramount elements of basic structures of the Constitution. Therefore, it is requested not to entrust any case or part of the case at any stage to Sindhia in the larger interest of justice,” he added.The district and sessions judge has asked Sindhia to file his comment on the contents of the application by June 29. Sindhia is the son-in-law of Parkash Singh Badal’s close confidant, who is working for him for a long time, it is learnt. Sindhia was appointed as the duty magistrate for the hearings from June 21 to June 26. During this period, three accused arrested in the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases were presented before him for the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2015-police-firing-citing-judge-s-family-ties-with-badals-sit-pleads-not-to-assign-cases-to-him/story-MxfgZGd7Ucb8RIdT1oboII.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Won’t take China’s help to assemble tunnel-boring machine for coastal road: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to not take assistance from China to assemble the tunnel boring machine (TBM) that will be used for the construction of a 3km tunnel between Chowpatty and Malabar, a part of the 9km coastal road between Princess Street flyover and Worli.The 12.9mm TBM was imported from China a month ago and BMC had to take assistance from the Chinese manufacturer to assemble it in the TBM shaft. This would have involved TBM manufacturing company’s representatives flying to Mumbai. However, it has now decided to take assistance from Indian experts, and if required, experts from Singapore.BMC claims this decision has nothing to do with the Indo-China clash at the border in Ladakh and was planned a few days before the conflict. According to BMC officials, the decision was taken considering the international travel difficulties owing to the Covid-19 crisis. “China was the first country to report Covid-19 cases, and looking at the situation, it would be difficult to get permission. Hence, before the Indo-China clash in Ladakh, we decided to not take assistance from China. We will take help from Indian experts, and if necessary, experts will be roped in from Singapore. Also, considering the manufacturer is in China, there may be some sort of assistance from there, if required, but we will not have them in Mumbai for the TBM assembly,” said a civic official. Vijay Nighot, chief engineer of BMC’s coastal road project confirmed the decision.HT had reported on April 3, that BMC is likely to give a recommendation letter to allow 30 Chinese nationals to visit the city after one month, terming it a special case for tunnelling work of the ambitious coastal road project. The recommendation letter would help the 30 Chinese nationals – who would provide crucial assistance in assembling these machines – get visas. The civic body had said that it would give the letter only if the situation improves, and the Covid-19 spread is brought under control.A 12.9-m wide TBM being used for the project arrived from China in the last week of April. “We are yet not in the stage to start tunnelling work. Due to delays in the schedule, owing to the outbreak of Covid-19, we are running around two months behind. The actual work of tunnelling will now start in October,” said a BMC official.The coastal road project is already running behind schedule after the Bombay high court stayed the work in July 2019 for want of environment clearances. After BMC challenged the stay in the Supreme Court, pointing out that the project was exempted from the clearance and environment assessment as it had been completed, the Apex court stayed the HC order in December 2019. The coastal road project’s completion has also been postponed to mid-2023 from the earlier deadline of end-2022, and now may get delayed further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/won-t-take-china-s-help-to-assemble-tunnel-boring-machine-for-coastal-road-bmc/story-gLbG9NzaHgMetiquC3DrqO.html
26-06-2020||City||Tarn Taran murders: Police round up 4 for questioning||Police on Friday rounded up four persons for questioning in the case involving the murder of four members of a family and their driver at Kairon village in the Tarn Taran district’s Patti sub-division. Brij Lal, alias Dhattu (60), his son Daljit Singh, alias Bunty (25), two daughters-in-law Amandeep Kaur (24) and Jaspreet Kaur (28), and the family’s driver Gursahib Singh, alias Sabha (35) were hacked to death by some unidentified persons in the wee hours of Thursday. The cops, however, have not identified the accused or zeroed in on the motive behind the killings so far.Police had claimed that Lal and his four addict sons were involved in drug peddling in the area, with nearly 50 cases registered against them. Lal’s wife Ranjit Kaur, who died on May 22 in the Amritsar central jail, was also arrested in a drug case three months ago. His two sons Bakshish Singh, alias Sonu (30) and Paramjit Singh, alias Pumma (24) are undergoing treatment at a drug de-addiction centre in the district for the last one month, said police.The bodies of five, all of whom were attacked in the neck with sharp-edged weapons, were found in separate rooms of the house. Four children aged between 1 and 5 who were sleeping with their mothers at the time of the incident, were spared. “We have rounded up four men from the village and their questioning is underway. Our preliminary probe suggests that the victims may be killed over a drug-related deal,” said a senior police official,.The police on Thursday had booked Brij Lal’s son Gurjant Singh, and five unidentified persons under Sections 302 (murder), 450 (house trespass), etc of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of Nishan Singh, who claimed to have been told by one of the children that her uncle (Gurjant) was accompanying the assailants. Superintendent of police (investigation) Jagjit Singh Walia said, “Gurjant’s involvement is still not clear and no arrest has been made in the case so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarn-taran-murders-police-round-up-4-for-questioning/story-e2ZqTy9FEniXx0JM71PBrK.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 188 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Friday reported two deaths and 188 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 4,957. A total of 122 persons have succumbed to the virus in the state so far. A 73-year old man of the Maqboolpura area of Amritsar died of Covid-19 at Medanta multi-superspeciality hospital in Gurugram, Haryana, civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said on Friday, adding that the total count of deaths due to the disease in the district, has climbed to 37.“The district also reported 25 fresh cases on Friday, out of which 12 are fresh community transmission cases and 13 are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. The district’s total tally is now 896, out of which 37 have died and 644 have recovered, he said. Pathankot deputy commissioner GS Khaira said six more people of the district tested positive for the virus Covid-19. Besides, four more people of Gurdaspur district contracted the infection. With 28 fresh cases, the Patiala district on Friday recorded its highest spike in a day. Besides, the health department has declared two micro-containment zones in Samana.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of the 28 fresh cases, 18 are from Samana block, nine from Patiala and one from Nabha.Sangrur district reported 18 new cases. A health department spokesperson said that three patients are from Malerkotla, two from Lehra, three from Sunam, four from Dhuri, two from Fatehgarh Pangarian and four from Sangrur.Five more people contracted the infection in Rupnagar. Deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said two persons, including a 23-year-old man and 47-year-old woman tested positive in Gandhi Nagar area of Rupnagar town. Two persons, including a 30-year-old woman and a 12-year-old girl of Lang Majari village in Anandpur Sahib area and a 73-year-old man from Shivalik Avanue area of Nangal tested positive Six persons, including 29-year-old female research scholar in PGIMER, Chandigarh, and resident of Baltana in Zirakpur, tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali.Other patients include five women, aged 18, 15, 19 and 34, all from Behda village in Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-deaths-188-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-yAj16m0SFsHiwbs9NmYlMO.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rights body accuses SGPC of hiding damage to Guru Granth Sahib saroops||A non-government human rights organisation has accused the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) of hiding the damage caused by fire in 2016 to scores of saroops (copies) of the Guru Granth Sahib at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, Amritsar, where these saroops are printed. The apex gurdwara management committee is already under fire for missing of rare manuscripts in the Sikh Reference Library. Citing its findings in a letter written to the Punjab chief secretary, a copy of which was also sent to the Akal Takht Jathedar, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) said, “It has been found in the gurdwara body record that Guru Granth Sahib printing house is short of 267 holy saroops. This came to the fore when an employee posted there revealed all that happened during the fire incident. We have recorded his statement.” “As many as 80 saroops were burnt. Others were damaged with the water of fire tenders on May 19, 2016. Probe of this incident should have been conducted because sacrilege incidents were taking place in Punjab then. Instead of investigating it, the then SGPC president Avtar Singh Makkar and senior officials opted for cremating the saroops which get wet with water, at Goindwal Sahib secretly. No record was maintained of this entire episode so that nobody gets any clue of what happened. No CCTV footage was taken in record, nor was any forensic expert called for examination,” PHRO investigator Sarabjit Singh Verka. The gurdwara committee hid the incident on directions of the leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) which controls it and was in power at that time in Punjab, the rights body claimed. “Actually, the SAD-BJP government was under fire due to sacrilege incidents took place at village Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala in Faridkot district. In order to prevent more criticism ahead of the 2017 assembly elections, the SAD leaders ordered the SGPC to keep the matter under wraps,” reads the letter that demands thorough and fair enquiry of this incident. ‘If allegations proved to be true, responsible persons will not be spared’SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said, “We have received no copy of this. Still, we will get this matter probed. If the allegations are proved to be true, those responsible will not be spared.” SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rights-body-accuses-sgpc-of-hiding-damage-to-guru-granth-sahib-saroops/story-UPkK4KTeXhbU80VjfhnqiN.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao staff unpaid for three months, protest on hospital premises||At least 250 staffers at the Hindu Rao Hospital, including paramedics, nurses and sanitation staff, protested at the hospital premises on Friday morning demanding salaries due for the past two months and arrears pending since a year and a half. “Around 600 workers have not received their salaries for April-May. Even June is about to end now and there is no certainty as to when will we get our dues. It has become difficult to survive. We had written multiple letters to the administration as well as the mayor, but to no avail. Hence we had to sit in strike in order to be heard,” said Tajender Gujjar, a technician and president, Para Medical Technical Staff Welfare Association. He added that workers were surviving on borrowed money. “Anyways, we have been putting in extra hours because of the pandemic. People have run out of money. Everyone has bank loans and school fee to be paid. How do we survive like this?” A senior official from the North Corporation, under which the hospital falls, said that they had not received funds from the Delhi government for this quarter had hence, could not pay the staff. “We are pursuing the matter with the Delhi government to release the funds for this quarter. As soon as we get the funds, salaries will be disbursed,” the official said. Delhi government officials could not be reached for comment.Indu Jamwal, nursing officer, who has been with the hospital for long, said, “It is very difficult to manage without money these days. This has been the case for at least five years that payment of salaries has been erratic. We are made to suffer between the tussle between the corporations and the Delhi government.” Recently the resident doctors association of the hospital too had written to the administration for not having received their salaries since April 15. The hospital is one of the biggest medical facilities run by the North Corporation. The hospital was declared to become a covid-dedicated facility on June 14 but is yet to start admitting covid-19 patients, as it is still in the process of procuring logistics for treatment of such patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hindu-rao-staff-unpaid-for-three-months-protest-on-hospital-premises/story-Kgv6ChFc2CbF4AWvrYjlTP.html
26-06-2020||City||Delhi police counsel stressed cops, begin ‘Healthy Police, Happy Police’ campaign||New Delhi: A 42-year-old sub-inspector posted in central Delhi had not properly slept since June 17, the day his elderly mother died of the coronavirus infection. The SI, a front line worker, got himself and his family tested for Coivd-19. he results were negative but the fear of him and his family members contracting the disease has led to repeated anxiety and panic attacks. In another similar case, another constable developed obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) due to the virus outbreak. Senior officers said the constable developed a habit of washing hands every 2-3 minutes, which he says has affected him psychologically.“The new habit has taken over his mind so much that he hasn’t been able to sleep or eat properly over the past few weeks. He says he feels confident about the measures taken by the police to prevent the infection from spreading but admits he has not been able to get rid of the fear of contracting the disease,” the police officer said.The sub-inspector and constable aren’t the only policemen facing distress amid the pandemic.Out of 2,705 policemen deployed in Delhi’s central district, as many as 150 have written to the deputy commissioner of police, Sanjay Bhatia, seeking professional help.Bhatia said, in an initiative to help their own men, he distributed forms to all 2,705 of his staff in the central district, asking them to share their problems and seek help accordingly. “Out of 2,705, we have received at least 1,500 forms back. Out of these, 150 have sought help from us. They described in detail the problems they’re facing so that accordingly, we can find solutions. These problems have been divided into three categories -- family-related, psychological and physical medical problems. We have a panel of doctors working with us who will help then through counselling sessions and even guide them for medical assistance in case required,” Bhatia said. The DCP said the initiative is a part of their “Healthy Police, Happy Police” Campaign launched on Friday.Of these 150 police personnel who have written back to the senior officer, many are women. One of them, a woman constable, requested senior officials to arrange counselling sessions for herself as she has heightened worries about the health of her elderly mother.Additional deputy commissioner of police (central) Sikandar Singh said they have started counselling sessions for these police personnel. “Friday was the first day. We will ensure counselling for all of them in batches. 30 police personnel underwent sessions on the first day. All will be professionally dealt with,” Singh said.A counselling centre has been established in Daryaganj, he said.Kaartik Gupta, a clinical psychologist and one of the doctors taking these counselling sessions, said most of the police personnel are facing anxiety issues because they fear for their families as they’ve been working at the front line.“They are facing emotional problems because they have been isolating themselves from their loved ones and have no one to talk to. Sleep difficulty was another common complaint among the police personnel. Some of them may require medication or further treatment. Others may require psychotherapy, and proper follow-up sessions” Gupta said.He said, on Friday, he gave 25-30 minutes to every police personnel. “But we need to increase the session timings because these sessions must last 45 minutes to one hour. We need time to build a rapport and make them feel comfortable to share their thoughts and feelings,” he said.Some of them had problems prior to the lockdown but have escalated during the pandemic, Gupta said. Treatment process has to be modelled keeping their tough working hours and conditions in mind, the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-counsel-stressed-cops-begin-healthy-police-happy-police-campaign/story-wNKbdGVuY5ISaLxYtRMZPP.html
26-06-2020||City||18-year-old died by suicide in Thane||An 18-year-old died by suicide in Thane’s Manpada-Chitalsar area on Thursday. Police has registered accidental death case. Chitalsar police officer said, “The body was found near a tree by a local. Nothing suspicious has been found. We are tracing his family.”On Thursday, police received a call from resident of Tikijiniwadi found he is dead near the tree. Initial inquiry revealed that, he was living alone and working for a fisherman. Earlier in April another boy died by suicide, the reason for which is still unknown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-died-by-suicide-in-thane/story-hLdKvQiz7GRo50CU8NqXaJ.html
26-06-2020||Noida||Noida reports 136 new Covid-19 cases, recovery rate drops to 53 per cent||Gautam Buddh Nagar, which has the maximum active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, recorded 136 new patients on Thursday, official data showed. Also, 11 patients were discharged after recovering from the novel virus, taking the number of cured patients to 1,039 in the district, according to the daily bulletin released by the UP Health department.The number of active Covid-19 cases rose to 887 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, while the death toll stood at 20 on Thursday, the data showed.The total number of positive cases so far reported in the district is 1,946 (887 active cases, 1,039 discharged cases, 20 deceased), according to the data. However, if 136 new cases as declared on Friday are added to Thursday’s tally of 1,811 Covid-19 cases, the overall figure would stand at 1,947. The recovery rate of patients on Friday dropped further to 53.39 per cent from 56.76 per cent on Thursday, 59.67 per cent on Wednesday and 60.25 per cent on Tuesday, according to statistics. Gautam Buddh Nagar has the highest number of active cases (887) at present in the state followed by Ghaziabad (648), Lucknow (383), Kanpur Nagar (325), Hapur (278), Meerut (270) and Bulandshahr (208), it stated.Overall, there were 6,730 active cases of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, while 13,583 patients were discharged and 630 deaths were recorded so far, the data stated. Also, 762 new cases have been recorded in the district since Thursday, while 464 patients got discharged in a 24-hour period, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-reports-136-new-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-drops-to-53/story-qnh6Fcdr3Ek7oZLzd8fYiK.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||High court defers all July hearings till October||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday deferred hearings in the pending cases to be listed in July between August 1 and October 31. Lawyers and litigants have been asked to file an application in case of urgencies.The high court has been functioning in a restricted manner since March 16 and cases are being taken up through video-conferencing.Now with the fresh order, all pending cases including those wherein hearing was deferred during the lockdown period have been ordered to be listed between August and October 31.Earlier, the HC had cancelled summer vacations in June. However, functioning remained restricted. Every day around 15 judges are taking up ‘urgent matters’ through video-conference.Hours after the decision, the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) held a meeting and requested the court to call a fresh meeting of the HC administrative committee and also invite Bar body members. The lawyers want all judges to resume work either through video-conferencing or physically so that more and more cases could be taken up.“An object-oriented pragmatic approach should be adopted so that the job of imparting justice to the society is not hampered,” Bar secretary Rohit Sud stated in a letter to the HC administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-defers-all-july-hearings-till-october/story-H4CC92XrGviSLO4XrxtqEJ.html
26-06-2020||City||ITBP jawan among 25 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally rises to 864||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 25 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the state to 864, officials said.Of the new cases, 16 are in Kangra, three in Hamirpur, two cases each in Solan and Una and one each in Mandi and Sirmaur.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said four members of two families are among the fresh cases in the district. The patients have a travel history to Delhi, Faridabad and Ghaziabad. They have been shifted to Covid-care centres at Dadh and Baijnath.Two cases were reported in Baddi industrial area of Solan district. Both were under institutional quarantine. Three people have tested positive in Una and one in Mandi.Sirmaur deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said a jawan of the Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), hailing from Paonta Sahib, has also tested positive for the virus. He returned from Srinagar three days ago and was home quarantined.350 ACTIVE CASESThe active cases in the state stand at 350 and 494 people have recovered. Eleven people have migrated to others states and seven have succumbed to the infection.Kangra is the worst hit district with 244 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 228 cases, Una with 101 cases, Solan with 92 cases, Chamba with 50 cases, Shimla with 39 cases, Bilaspur with 38 cases, Sirmaur with 37 cases, Mandi with 25 cases, Kullu with five cases, and Kinnaur with four cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/itbp-jawan-among-25-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-864/story-YR2X0vtc9MooWxU7dIw93K.html
26-06-2020||Bangalore||Some private hospitals in Bengaluru to reserve 50% beds for Covid-19 patients||An order has been issued to reserve about 50 per cent beds for Covid-19 patients in some private hospitals in Bengaluru, as per the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). This was decided after Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa held a meeting on Friday with MLAs from Bengaluru and ministers over the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the city.“There were 1,207 active cases until last evening in Bengaluru. All necessary preparations have been taken considering the surge in the cases every day. The number of cases in Bengaluru is less as compared to other cities,” reads the CMO statement.In the meeting, it was suggested that a nodal officer should be appointed for each Assembly constituency for handling the Covid-19 crisis. The CM said that action has already been taken in this regard.“It was informed that the throat swab testing facility will be set up at every Assembly Constituency. Separate ambulance facility to transport bodies of Covid-19 patients would be enhanced. Action has been taken to make use of marriage halls in the outskirts of Bengaluru city to quarantine asymptomatic persons,” reads the statement. Chief Minister also asked MLAs to visit hospitals and bring the actual ground situation to his notice.Speaking after the meeting, Karnataka Deputy CM Dr CN Ashwath Narayan said, “The MLAs gave a lot of suggestions regarding management of Covid-19. They particularly emphasised the need to improve coordination among authorities. The CM also asked them to inspect hospitals and quarantine centres.”Earlier in the day, Karnataka CM Yediyurappa clarified that the state government would not impose another Covid-19 lockdown in Bengaluru as it has already sealed some areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/some-private-hospitals-in-bengaluru-to-reserve-50-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-WTsI0AsjlWVlks9lQiqTPK.html
26-06-2020||Kolkata||With 542 Covid-19 cases West Bengal registers its highest single-day spike||With 542 new Covid-19 cases being reported on Friday, West Bengal registered its highest single-day spike so far.On Thursday, the state had reported 475 cases, the second highest spike on a single day.The state government has formed two teams, each team comprising three experts, to make surprise visit at Covid-designated hospitals and check whether the protocol for Covid-19 treatment was being followed and the gaps if any. These have been named as Protocol Monitoring Teams. Till date, West Bengal has reported 16,190 Covid-19 cases. The death toll stood at 616 with ten new deaths being reported on Friday.Out of the 542 cases, 128 cases were reported from Kolkata while the adjoining districts of Howrah and North 24 Parganas registered 110 and 99 cases.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the state administration would write to the union government to suspend intentional flights for now. Letters would also be sent to the centre and the Indian Railways to stop domestic flights and trains from hotspot states.West Bengal now has 5,039 active cases. There has been a decline in the number of active cases over the past one week. 10,535 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/with-542-covid-19-cases-west-bengal-registers-its-highest-single-day-spike/story-HOd21vt0TPo2YGj5mdsujP.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||India’s repute tarnished globally due Centre’s weak leadership: Jakhar||Due to the lack of leadership in the Union government, the country’s reputation on the global front is being tarnished and the precious lives of our soldiers have been lost, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar said on Friday.Paying homage to the bravehearts who sacrificed their lives while protecting the country’s borders, Jakhar said at a function here at Sector-3 War Memorial that the Indian Army was capable of overcoming any difficulty, but due to lacklustre policy of the union government, morale of the army and civilians was declining.Jakhar said Indians never shy away from getting martyred for the motherland, but the current NDA government was sending unarmed soldiers to die in a tense atmosphere which is not acceptable. Had our jawans been given weapons, they would have done more damage to the enemy, he said.The state Congress chief asked PM Narendra Modi to clarify it to the people that when the government was aware of the tension in Galwan Valley and a few days ago there was also a clash with the enemy, why were the soldiers sent without weapons.He also asked the Union government to explain how China had taken over the country’s land when PM Modi used to claim closeness with the Chinese president. “Even now the entire country and all the political parties were with the Union government to take appropriate decision, but the weakness of the Union government was causing embarrassment to all, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/india-s-repute-tarnished-globally-due-centre-s-weak-leadership-jakhar/story-p9oEzgvno6iUrnsQks06eN.html
26-06-2020||City||STF nabs 3 couples with 4kg heroin, drug money & weapon in Ludhiana||The Special Task Force (STF) here has arrested three couples for drug peddling in two separate cases and recovered 4.01kg heroin from their possession, besides ₹60,000 drug money, a .32 bore pistol and 14 live cartridges.In the first case, the STF arrested Raj Kumar (28) of Ishar Singh Nagar, his wife Anjali (20), his brother Arun Kumar (27) of Phullanwal village in Dugri, and Arun’s wife Harpreet Kaur (28). The accused belong to Kapurthala, but are settled in Ludhiana. According to STF officials, the accused have bought a lot of property using drug money.They were arrested near Ishar Nagar area when they were travelling in an SUV to deliver the contraband to customers.AIG STF Snehdeep Sharma said Raj and Arun are notorious criminals. Raj has four cases against him including ones under NDPS Act, Excise Act and assault. Arun has nine FIRs against him for drug pedalling, smuggling, robbery and assault. The accused have been declared proclaimed offenders in several cases by the court.“The accused have been into drug peddling for the past 10 years. Anjali and Harpreet don’t have any case lodged against them, however, they are active in drug peddling for past two years,” the AIG said.During interrogation, the accused told STF that they procured contraband from a Delhi-based Nigerian national and from an Amritsar-based gangster. They bought the weapon from Uttar Pradesh for ₹30,000.A case has been registered against the accused under sections 21, 29, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act and sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act.With the information extracted from Raj and Arun, the STF got hold of another couple involved in drug peddling.The AIG said Naman Gupta (30) and his wife Preeti (26) of Giaspura were arrested with 810gm heroin on Friday. They used to procure heroin from Arun. The accused were stopped at a check post near 33 Futta Road, Giaspura, when they were commuting on a scooter.The recovered contraband costs ₹4.05 crore in the international market.WOMAN HELD WITH HEROINWanted in a drug peddling case, Heena of Ghora Colony here was arrested by the STF on Thursday. Around 200g heroin was recovered from her possession. Three accomplices of the woman have already been arrested. Heena is also facing trial in three drug peddling cases.All these arrests were made on International Day Against Drug Abuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stf-nabs-3-couples-with-4kg-heroin-drug-money-weapon-in-ludhiana/story-NPmLVtDTLNIwS0xHCnL8FP.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees 3,460 new Covid-19 cases, surge takes capital’s count to 77,240||National capital Delhi recorded a spike of 3,460 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total coronavirus tally to 77,240. At least 63 people succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours, the state health department said.The death toll in the national capital currently stands at 2,492.The number of active coronavirus cases in Delhi is 27,657 while 47,091 patients have recovered from the infection and been discharged. In the last 24 hours, 2,326 patients have recovered from the infectious disease.On Tuesday, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases. On Wednesday, Delhi had eclipsed Mumbai as the city worst-hit by the pandemic in the country.Delhi, Chennai, Thane, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Faridabad are among the 10 districts and cities that have so far reported a larger number of coronavirus cases between June 19 and June 25, contributing to 54.47 per cent of the total caseload, the Union health ministry said on Friday.In some good news, India’s coronavirus patients who have recovered from the infectious disease have exceeded the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country by 96,173. The country’s recovery rate has now climbed to an encouraging 58.24 per cent. In the last 24 hours, a total of 13,940 Covid-19 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals taking the total recoveries to 2,85,636. India’s Covid-19 count increased by a record 17,296 in 24 hours for the first time on Friday pushing the total tally to 4,90,401, over 50 per cent of which have been reported from 10 cities and districts, the Union health ministry said.The country’s death toll touched 15,301 with 407 new fatalities. Friday was the seventh day in a row that India registered over 14,000 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sees-3-460-new-covid-19-cases-surge-takes-capital-s-count-to-77-240/story-7gxIkDiqmibckegC0BSvJO.html
26-06-2020||City||Patiala lab tests Moga nodal officer Covid-19 negative a day after Faridkot lab tests him positive||A day after Faridkot medical college lab tested Moga Covid-19 nodal officer positive for the virus, the Patiala medical college lab has tested him negative on Friday.A Moga epidemiologist was tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday according to reports sent by the laboratory at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. Later, the district health department collected his samples along with those of his contacts and sent them for testing to a Patiala lab. The VRDL lab at GMC Patiala tested him negative.As per the reports sent by the VRDL lab at GMC Patiala, the doctor has been tested negative for Covid-19. His 15 contacts, including his family member and heath officials, were also tested negative.“The situation is confusing as results cannot change within a day. The health department is looking into the matter,” said Moga civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa.GGSMCH Faridkot principal Dr Deepak Bhatti said he is not aware of the case but there could be some scientific or technical reason behind this. “I will enquire about the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-lab-tests-moga-nodal-officer-covid-19-negative-a-day-after-faridkot-lab-tests-him-positive/story-p1WjeGiCDIbIV9E2XQItLK.html
26-06-2020||City||Former Congress CPS arrested on charges of sedition||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) wing of Himachal Pradesh Police on Friday arrested Congress leader and former chief parliamentary secretary (CPS) Neeraj Bharti on the charge of sedition for his ‘objectionable remark’ against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A police spokesperson said that Bharti was summoned for questioning at Police Station Crime Branch CID Shimla on June 24 and was interrogated for three days till today.“On Friday, Bharti has been arrested in for investigation,” said the police spokesperson. He will be produced before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court, Shimla on Saturday.Bharti, in a series of posts on social media website Facebook, had made offensive remarks against the Prime Minister and RSS after the violent face-off between India and China in Galwan valley of Ladakh.A Shimla-based lawyer Narender Guleria had lodged a complaint against Bharti with the Crime Branch, CID on June 20The former Jawali legislator was booked under Sections 124A (sedition), 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, Bharti’s father and senior Congress leader Chander Kumar termed the arrest of his son as the murder of democracy.“The state government is treading on the path of the Union government and trying to silence the opposition leaders. The case against Bharti is politically motivated and will not stand in the court of law,” said Kumar, a former Himachal minister and ex-MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-congress-cps-arrested-on-charges-of-sedition/story-ol0DArUF304ZOrreDRHBJI.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana caps Covid-19 treatment rates in private hospitals||The Haryana government has capped the rates charged by private hospitals and medical colleges for hospitalisation of coronavirus infected patients.The prescribed rates shall be all inclusive as a package but applicable to 60% of the total Covid-19 beds in private healthcare facilities. The daily charges fixed by the state government for private hospitals accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Health Care Providers (NABH) are Rs 10,000 for isolation beds (including supportive care and oxygen), Rs 15,000 for intensive care unit (without ventilator care) and Rs 18000 for intensive care unit with ventilator care.For the non-NABH accredited private healthcare facilities, Rs 8000 a day has been fixed for isolation beds (including supportive care and oxygen), Rs 13,000 a day for intensive care unit (without ventilator care) and Rs 15000 a day for intensive care unit with ventilator care.An order issued by additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora said that private hospitals and medical colleges in the state will not charge in excess of the rates prescribed by the state government. Non-adherence of the orders will attract penalty under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.WHAT IS INCLUDED IN THE PACKAGE?The rates will include charges for all lab investigations, diet, radiological diagnostics, monitoring charges, drugs, consumables, including PPE, masks and gloves, doctors visits, consultation, nursing care, physiotherapy, procedural charges such as intubation, intra arterial/neckline, catheterisation of all types, chest tube, splintage, cardioversion, haemodialysis or bedside dialysis and echocardiography. The rates will also include blood transfusion and its components, including blood grouping and cross match, deploying of equipment such as alpha bed, infusion pump, multi-para monitors, intermittent pneumatic compression devices, nebulisers. The rates fixed by the state government will also include the costs of medical care of underlying comorbid conditions, including supportive care and cost of medications thereof for the duration of care for Covid-19. These rates will apply to paediatric patients as well.COVID-19 TESTS NOT INCLUDED IN PACKAGEThe rates fixed by the state government do not include the cost of Covid-19 diagnostic tests and experimental therapies such as administration of Remdesivir, the order said.The package also does not include the cost of delivery and care of new born.The package is not applicable to beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (Ayushman Bharat). Patients who are not Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries and are referred by the civil surgeon concerned to notified Covid hospital can avail treatment on cashless basis. Those having personal or family insurance cover can avail treatment as per the terms and conditions of the individual policy, the order said.The ACS (health) said the rates were fixed after going through the recommendations of a committee set up under Niti Aayog member, VK Paul, taking into account the financial viability of private hospitals and studying the precedents in other states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.The disparity in rates charged by private hospitals, officials said, was hampering equal access for inpatient hospital care for Covid patients. Thus, there was a need to standardise them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-caps-covid-19-treatment-rates-in-private-hospitals/story-2Hmip5ON7TEZFkjiK4UsqL.html
26-06-2020||City||Legislative Council polls Cong again gets a scare for its lone candidate||PATNAThe Congress had second hiccup while filing nomination for the seat in the Bihar Legislative Council within two days after Bihar’s parliamentary affairs minister Sharwan Kumar field a complaint petition against Sameer Kumar Singh’s candidature before the returning officer, alleging certain discrepancies in the affidavit.Singh was asked to file his nomination papers in a hurry after the Congress’s first choice, Tariq Anwar, had to withdraw from the race on Thursday, the last day for filing nominations, after the party realised that the former MP was not a voter in Bihar, a prerequisite for becoming a Legislative Council member.After Kumar’s complaint petition, Singh was called to the Bihar Legislative Assembly for clarification on the points raised in the complaint petition, which also included some objection on the agriculture land.Bihar Assembly secretary Bateshwar Nath Pandey, who is the returning officer, heard him and saw the supplementary documents. However, the meeting was adjourned.Later, the returning officer again sat and passed the order around 7 pm, accepting the nomination of Sameer Kumar Singh and disposing of the matter. By then, the Bihar minister had also withdrawn his petition.“The matter has been resolved. Relevant order has been passed and the petition has also been withdrawn,” said Pandey.Though the election is scheduled on July 6, the results of the Legislative Council elections could be announced after 3 pm on Wednesday after the end of the period for withdrawal of nominations.Under the Grand Alliance, the Congress has just one candidate, while the RJD has three candidates. From the NDA, BJP has two candidates, while the JD-U has three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/legislative-council-polls-cong-again-gets-a-scare-for-its-lone-candidate/story-y1o9QZxsMYnHNKXCIbOzVM.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: 1,100 teams formed to conduct house to house survey in Delhi||At least 1,100 teams comprising two members each have been formed to conduct a mega exercise to screen the national capital’s population for the novel coronavirus, officials of the Delhi government’s revenue department said on Friday.An official said around 100 teams have been formed in every district and each team has accredited social health activists (ASHA) and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM) as its members.According to the 2011 Census, there were over 34.35 lakh households in the national capital, including 33.56 lakh in urban areas and 79,574 in rural areas.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has not engaged municipal employees for the mega exercise in those districts where the case-load is not high.  The process of screening every household, which has to be completed by July 6, has already started in the municipal wards of some districts.The teams are armed with a mobile application SS Corona which will send real-time details to a dedicated web portal set up by the government.Apart from basic details like name, age, address and contact number, the teams are feeding the mobile application with information such as every individual’s travel history, whether or not they use the Centre’s Aarogya Setu app and if they have symptoms of influenza.The official said the same mobile application is being used in carrying out screening in the Covid-19 containment zones in the national capital.“Training of the ASHA workers and ANMs has been done. The exercise has started. We hope to meet the July 6 deadline,” another official said.“We will engage domestic breeder checkers, sanitation workers and teachers of municipal corporation schools for the survey, if we require their services in the coming days,” he added.This is a trust-based exercise, the official said, adding, “We cannot force somebody to undergo the test. We only update the information based on the answers to our questionnaire and conduct the rapid antigen test on those who have Covid-19-like symptoms.” According to a revised Covid-19 response plan issued by the Delhi government, the house-to-house screening will be completed by June 30 in the containment zones and July 6 in the remaining areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-1-100-teams-formed-to-conduct-house-to-house-survey-in-delhi/story-WEKA4WGX109xCF9jwV6rKL.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||New 1000-bed Covid hospital to come up in Thane city||A new 1000-bed hospital for coronavirus patients will be set up in Thane city, district guardian minister Eknath Shinde said on Friday.The hospital will be set up on the land belonging to Voltas on Pokhran Road 2, he said after taking a review of coronavirus situation in the city.It will be built by CIDCO and will have requisite medical facilities including Oxygen and Non-Oxygen beds, ventilators, ICU and a dialysis centre, Shinde said.The minister also praised healthcare workers in the city and said their salaries should be hiked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-1000-bed-covid-hospital-to-come-up-in-thane-city/story-2cIZkLdxmwR8lbroipf1cP.html
26-06-2020||City||1 death, 213 fresh Covid-19 infections in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 213 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 6,762, officials said. Of the new cases, 155 are from Kashmir and 58 from Jammu division. Among these, 34 patients have a travel history.Also, one more person has succumbed to the virus in Kashmir. The death toll in the UT has reached 91—80 people have died in the Valley and 11 in Jammu division.Officials said 113 more patients have recovered and now the total number of cured since March 9 has risen to 4,080. With this, the recovery rate in the UT is 60% and active cases are 2,591.A government statement said 35 people were discharged from Jammu division and 78 from Kashmir on Friday.In the Valley, highest jump in cases was witnessed in Baramulla district where 63 more people tested positive for the disease, followed by Pulwama at 23, Shopian at 18 and Kupwara at 17. In Jammu division, the highest jump was in Udhampur district which reported 40 new cases.Till date, 2.71 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 39,303 in home quarantine, 31 in hospital quarantine and 47,673 under home surveillance. Besides these, 1.81 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-death-213-fresh-covid-19-infections-in-j-k/story-clnDkxvbPBGc0C8nKA9C7O.html
26-06-2020||City||New UMC chief takes charge, assures to contain Covid spread||Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation’s (UMC) newly appointed commissioner, Dr Raja Dayanidhi took charge on Friday. Dayanidhi replaced Sameer Unhale, who held the position for only a month in Ulhasnagar.He assured that he will work on ways to control the spread of Covid-19. “On my first day, I am trying to understand the situation and the spread of the outbreak in Ulhasnagar. We shall form a stronger system to fight the pandemic,” said Dayanidhi.Dayanidhi is an IAS officer from 2016 batch and was posted in Gondia as the chief executive officer of Zilla Parishad.“Gondia has a zero Covid fatality rate, but Ulhasnagar is a municipal corporation, and many people here travel to Mumbai regularly. Moreover, it has a huge population as well, hence the way to handle the pandemic is different here. However, providing proper facilities and increasing awareness among the residents will be the focus,” said Dayanidhi. Ulhasnagar has, so far, reported 1,326 positive cases, 39 deaths.“There have been instances of people gathering in large numbers and bodies of Covid victims being handed over to families for the funeral, that led to an increase in positive numbers. Although the police have filed a complaint against those organising such events. Strict measures, to ensure social distancing norms are followed, needs to be in place here,” said Sarita Khanchandani, activist, Ulhasnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-umc-chief-takes-charge-assures-to-contain-covid-spread/story-ZNWtvcfRh6A1j8Wg78BuxK.html
26-06-2020||City||INLD leader Abhay Chautala calls on former Haryana Congress chief Tanwar||In a major development, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala called on former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar at his residence in Sirsa on Friday. Chautala reached Tanwar’s residence around 11 am and the two leaders spoke for over two hours, amid speculations that the latter is set to join the INLD.Later, talking to Hindustan Times over the phone, Tanwar said that Abhay Chautala had made courtesy call to his house.“We discussed the political landscape of Haryana wherein the ruling party has failed to address the public’s concerns and the opposition too is silent,” Tanwar said while adding that people are now looking at an alternative opposition to raise their concerns.Tanwar had quit the Congress ahead of the 2019 state assembly polls after he was replaced by Kumari Selja as the state unit chief. In his four-page resignation letter to interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Tanwar had said that the grand-old party was going through an existential crisis-- not because of its political opponents but because of the ‘internal rift’. He was known to have had differences with senior Congress leader and two-time chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and had also even accused some senior party leaders of selling tickets after his loyalists were not nominated to contest the polls. When asked if he would join the INLD, Tanwar said that he is not thinking of joining any party as of now but maintained that “anything is possible in politics.”“Politics is all about the right timing. I can assure the public that I will remain in the opposition. My main focus will be on raising the issues of farmers, labourers, students and employees,” he added.INLD’s lone MLA from Ellenabad, Abhay Singh Chautala said that Bhupinder Singh Hooda is supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party government as they had cleared the way for his son Deepender Singh Hooda’s entry into the Rajya Sabha by not putting up any contestant against him.“I met Ashok Tanwar today and our meeting was fruitful. Many leaders of other parties are in touch with me and they will join the INLD in the coming days. Our party is the main opposition party on the ground and we are committed to raise public issues,” Abhay added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inld-leader-abhay-chautala-meets-former-haryana-cong-chief-tanwar/story-ooigytI6XJEoTxibEKQlYK.html
26-06-2020||Kolkata||Mamata urges Centre to stop domestic flights to Kolkata from Covid hotspot states till July 31||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urged the Centre on Friday to stop international repatriation flights and domestic flights to Kolkata from states with a high Covid-19 prevalence till July 31 and relaxed the night curfew in the state by an hour from July 1.She also said she wants the metro rail services to resume from July 1, but only with 100-per cent seat occupancy and no passenger standing.“We have decided that (from July 1) the night curfew hours will be from 10 pm to 5 am. We also want the metro rail to resume services from July 1 while following all the precautionary and sanitisation norms and only with a 100-per cent seat occupancy policy,” Banerjee told a press conference here.Currently the night curfew hours are from 9 pm to 5 am.Alleging that those coming to the state by air are not being adequately screened at the airports, leading to an increase in the number of coronavirus cases, Banerjee urged the Centre to stop domestic flights to Kolkata from states with a high Covid-19 prevalence till July 31.“Recently we came to know that a few Covid-19 patients came from Chennai and were not screened at the airport. Later, they got themselves admitted to a hospital in Midnapore. We are planning to write a letter to the Centre to stop domestic flights and special trains to Kolkata till July 31 from hotspots and those states with a high number of Covid-19 cases,” the chief minister said while inaugurating various projects online from the state secretariat.She also urged the Union government to stop international repatriation flights to the state as the returnees are not following the institutional quarantine norms, leading to a spike in the number of coronavirus cases in West Bengal.“As far as international flights are concerned, we will send a letter to the Centre to stop the service as of now. If they want to go ahead with their plan, then I think they should allow one flight a month by strictly following all the safety norms,” Banerjee said.“The domestic flights within the state from Kolkata to Bagdogra in Siliguri and Andal in Burdwan can operate. We do not have any objection to that,” she added.The chief minister said the Kolkata metro should ensure that it runs trains without any passenger standing or the coaches being overcrowded.Earlier this week, Banerjee announced the extension of the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state till July 31.The chief minister accused opposition parties of indulging in politics at a time of crisis to score political brownie points.“We have already stopped big gatherings, but some political parties are violating the lockdown norms and organising gatherings and rallies. They are conducting rallies without police permission. We will not tolerate this. If someone breaks the rule, the law will take its own course. I do not even spare my own party workers,” she said.Speaking about her party’s “Martyr’s Day” rally on July 21, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said it would be observed, but in a much different way.“We will conduct a virtual meeting with our party leadership on July 3 to decide on the July 21 rally,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-urges-centre-to-stop-domestic-flights-to-kolkata-from-covid-hotspot-states-till-july-31/story-o5YmrXAAYwfO9A9bUxWSdI.html
26-06-2020||City||Kashmiri girl features in Hyderabad school textbook for campaign to clean Dal Lake||The story of a seven-year-old Jannat, who has been cleaning Jammu and Kashmir’s Dal Lake in Srinagar for two years, has been published in a textbook of a Hyderabad-based school.Her Dal cleaning goes popular in Hindi school book “Medha” and title of the story is “Jannat Ki Jannat”.Jannat’s father Tariq Ahmad said, “I got a call from my friend in Hyderabad who said that my daughter’s name has been included in a school textbook. It was a proud moment for me.”“A video of Jannat cleaning the lake had gone viral in 2018 and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded her efforts on Twitter and also spoke about it on his radio talk show Mann ki Baat,” he added.Jannat, a Class 3 student of Linton HallPublic School, has been regularly spending time cleaning the lake in the past two years along with her father. “I was inspired by my father to clean the lake. All recognition which I am getting is due to him,” she said.“Jannat is being praised by everybody. India’s PM also praised her on broadcasting programme Mann ki Baat. You also praise her and try to be like her,” mentions the book.Ahmad says that her daughter was concerned about the pollution in the lake and wanted to do something about it. He said that he was motivated by a foreign national to clean the lake. “I was rowing a boat along with a foreigner in the interiors of the lake when he refused to dump a cigarette bud into the lake and wrapped it in a piece of paper and kept it in his pocket. That incident changed me and made me realise that everybody has to contribute to clean the lake,” he added.He said that his daughter is now more concerned about the cleanliness of her surroundings. “She gets angry when she sees anybody smoking or littering around the lake,” he said adding that Jannat is now inspiring a lot of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-girl-features-in-hyderabad-school-textbook-for-campaign-to-clean-dal-lake/story-OgUnfPUA0ba17o5pmvjdhO.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab water supply dept sets up isolation centre in SBS Nagar village||Punjab water supply and sanitation minister Razia Sultana on Friday said her department has set up an isolation centre with 50-bed capacity at Dhahan Kaleran village in SBS Nagar district.In a statement issued here, the minister said nine air conditioning systems have been installed for the comfort of patients in a short span of time. She said ventilation system along with sodium hypochlorite solution tank on rooftop has also been provided. “The health infrastructure in other hospitals is also being ramped up to deal with the Covid-19 crisis,” said Sultana.She added that the department has initiated emergency measures to strengthen the infrastructure to handle patients, in case of a flare-up in infections. The groundwork has already been laid to set up dedicated covid care units in different locations across all districts with the provision of beds.Apart from this, the department is taking all necessary steps to maintain uninterrupted water supply and unhindered sewage services to the isolation centre, the minister said.She said all 40 pump operators in the villages of Banga block have been trained about precautionary measures to be taken to combat Covid-19. She said disinfection is being carried out regularly to ensure availability of potable water for drinking purposes. Pump operators are also liaisoning with gram panchayat water and sanitation committees (GPWSCs) to maintain water supply schemes being run by them. In case of any breakdowns or leakages, technical support along with repair materials are being provided by the department in a timely manner, said Sultana.The minister added that the department has also revamped the toilets at the covid-care centre in KC Engineering College, SBS Nagar, to ensure availability of adequate sanitation facilities to the patients. Likewise, four air-conditioning units and three drinking water coolers with RO system have been arranged and installed in a very short period of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-water-supply-dept-sets-up-isolation-centre-in-sbs-nagar-village/story-LOcuPsgO2wnTCcoLjwbG0M.html
26-06-2020||Patna||123 more Covid-19 cases in Bihar||As many as 123 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Bihar on Friday, taking the tally of coronavirus cases in the state to 8,611, said the State Health Department.“123 new Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar today, taking the total number of cases in the state to 8,611,” the State Health Department said.According to the Union Health Ministry, India has reported the highest single-day spike of 17,296 Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours and the count surged to 4,90,401 on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/123-more-covid-19-cases-in-bihar/story-0IzcDfiyMek0F5hr2BaDOK.html
26-06-2020||City||Stranded in Pak, 217 Indians repatriated via Wagah||As many as 217 Indian nationals, who had been stranded in Pakistan due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, returned in the second batch via Attari-Wagah border on Friday.The 217 people include students from J&K, who had been studying at different colleges and universities of the neighboring countries, and people from Gujarat and Maharashtra who had gone to Pakistan to meet their relatives.All returnees were taken to their respective states where they will be quarantined for the next 14 days, said SDM Shiv Raj Singh Bal. The remaining stranded people in Pakistan will return in the coming days.On Thursday, 204 Indians had returned from the land border, all of them were students from J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-in-pak-217-indians-repatriated-via-wagah/story-JDD87EnwgJ7J5OZlUcsfSJ.html
26-06-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal registers highest single-day spike of 542 Covid-19; count rises to 16,190||West Bengal registered its highest single-day increase in Covid-19 cases on Friday, recording 542 fresh infections, to push the tally to 16,190 as the number of fatalities also jumped by 10, officials said. A total of 10,535 patients have recovered from the respiratory ailment, a bulletin issued by the health department said Of the latest fatalities, eight patients died because of comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental, it said, adding that the toll now stands at 616.Four deaths were reported from Howrah, three from Kolkata and one each from Hooghly, Darjeeling and South 24 Parganas, the bulletin said.Since Thursday, 345 people have been discharged from various hospitals in the state, it said. There are 5,039 active Covid-19 cases at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-registers-highest-single-day-spike-of-542-covid-19-count-rises-to-16-190/story-PwG9wcsFyf4NHWXYnTTdgM.html
26-06-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: Over 5 people died by suicide daily during lockdown in Jharkhand||The mental depression is proving to more dangerous than coronavirus in Jharkhand these days. If data of suicides is taken into consideration during lockdown and Unlock 1.0, the average of people dying of suicide everyday is 5.5.According to data of the state government, 449 people have died by suicide in March, April and upto June 25. In June itself 134 people died by suicide. One person is dying by suicide every 4.50 hours.Psychiatrists say that the depression due to lockdown has made deep impact on minds of the people.“During lockdown and Unlock 1.0 around 1,200 people suffering from depression have approached our institute. During lockdown we were getting more than 150 phone calls everyday from people suffering from depression. There were 20 per cent people who had given up hope to live and wanted to end their life,” said a doctor at the Central Institute of Psychiatry here.Dr Sanjay Kumar Mandal, a psychiatrist of CIP admitted a large number of people approached the institute during lockdown suffering from depression.In state capital Ranchi, 55 people died by suicide from April 1 to June 25. Psychiatrists say that economic slowdown, fear of losing jobs, unemployment and other factors caused deep depression among people. The sense of insecurity prompted many people to take this step. “People were locked inside homes during lockdown which led to rise in disputes among family members, and domestic violence witnessed spurt. These factors promoted many people to commit suicide as they were unable to control their emotions. The right counselling within family could have saved many lives” said psychiatrist Ajay Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-over-5-people-died-by-suicide-daily-during-lockdown-in-jharkhand/story-Ox96Lb8TivjYpeV2Y9dJYK.html
26-06-2020||City||Ambadi bridge reopens for traffic||The 37-year-old Ambadi bridge in Vasai (East) was finally reopened for vehicular traffic on Friday morning. The road overbridge (ROB) was shut in July 2018 for repairs, few days after the collapse of the 40-year-old Gokhale bridge in Andheri, which killed two and injured three persons.The WR had observed cracks on the bridge and was closed for repair. On Friday morning, Pravin Shetty, mayor, Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) opened the bridge for traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambadi-bridge-reopens-for-traffic/story-fkS63H27X9aCRcfUPyTmvM.html
26-06-2020||City||Darbhanga native is first IAS officer to get domicile rights in J &K||DARBHANGANavin Kumar Choudhary, a senior IAS officer hailing from Darbhanga district, is among nearly 25,000 people and the first among bureaucrats to get domicile rights in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) after the Centre changed laws to grant residency to different categories of non-locals in the Union territory.The 51-year-old, 1994-batch J&K cadre officer, who is a native of Majhaulia village, is presently posted as principal secretary of the agriculture production department . A journalist in J&K posted a tweet about Choudhary’s domicile rights being granted to him in these words: “Navin Choudhary arrived to Jammu & Kashmir, as an IAS officer at the age of 25, from Bihar. Twenty-six years later, here is his certificate for residentship in Jammu & Kashmir” (sic).Reports said Choudhary became the first IAS officer who has been granted the domicile certificate to be the resident of J&K.“This is to certify, Shri Navin K Choudhary, son of Shri Deokant Choudhary, resident of, at present, Gandhi Nagar Jammu, is a domicile of UT of J&K,” reads the certificate issued by tehsildar Rohit Sharma of Jammu’s Bahu area.Earlier on Friday, Choudhary had posted a message from his Twitter handle expressing his gratitude and thanks to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi while using hashtags #DomicileCertificate and #JammuAndKashmir.Back home, former college principal Anil Kumar Jha, also from the same village, said Choudhary is the eldest among his four sibling brothers. He visits native village, particularly in festive time and during family rituals, Jha said.Responding to a query, Choudhary said he had joined government service in J&K 26 years ago. “Next week, I will join you at Darbhanga,” he said.Choudhary’s parents, along with other family members, still live in his native village, where his grandfather was a sarpanch. The government had notified the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, on May 18 and allowed different categories of non-locals, including non-local government employees, to register for domicile certificates under stipulated guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/darbhanga-native-is-first-ias-officer-to-get-domicile-rights-in-j-k/story-3OfLYNZYdDXBDsTchuhMLL.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ensure time-bound investigation of PPE kit scam at Amritsar GMCH: Centre to Punjab govt||The ministry of statistics and programme implementation on Friday asked the Punjab government to ensure time-bound investigation into allegations of a personal protection equipment kit scam at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar.In April, doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff at the hospital had refused to use around 2,000 PPE kits alleging that they were substandard and did not include N-95 masks. They also accused authorities of paying around Rs 41 lakh for the kits, which according to the staff should not have cost more than Rs 7 lakh.Subsequently, Amritsar deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon had marked an enquiry into matter on April 24. However, two months on the probe has not been initiated. Upset over the delay and ‘multiple attempts to sabotage the probe’, local MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, who had given the hospital Rs 1 crore from his Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) fund, part of which was used to purchase PPEs, sought the Union government’s intervention. “The probe into allegations of a scam in the purchase of Covid-19 related PPE equipment is being deliberately delayed. Action must be taken at the earliest,” he wrote in a letter to the Centre. Noting Aujla’s complaint, deputy secretary (MPLADS) Raj Krishan Bhoria wrote to the Punjab State Planning Board principal secretary saying, “Necessary action in the matter may be taken in a time bound manner. A copy of the action taking report may also be forwarded to the Union ministry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ensure-time-bound-investigation-of-ppe-kit-scam-at-amritsar-gmch-centre-to-punjab-govt/story-84f7xNOvbKbn8SLCqiKUuO.html
26-06-2020||City||Missing daughter-in-law eloped with family driver; stole ₹4.5 lakh from mother-in-law’s account||Almost six months after a Vashi businessman filed a missing person complaint regarding his 29-year-old daughter-in-law, it was discovered that the woman had eloped with the family’s driver.The woman and the driver also allegedly stole ₹4.5 lakh from her mother-in-law’s bank account, which they used to start a new business.The businessman, a former merchant navy employee, approached the Vashi police on Monday with a complaint against the woman and his 29-year-old former driver, following which a case of cheating was registered against the duo.According to police, the complainant’s wife died in January 2019. In January 2020, the daughter-in-law went missing from their Vashi apartment, and a missing person’s complaint was filed at Vashi police station.“During the investigation, we traced the cellphone location of the woman and the driver to a hotel in Rabale, where they had rented a room. It was verified with the documents they used during check-in,” said an officer from Vashi police station. In February, the family discovered a photocopy of a cheque for ₹4.5 lakh from the bank account of the complainant’s wife. The cheque was dated two days after the woman died. The complainant told the police that his wife had kept the daughter-in-law in the loop about her finances and bank account details.Police said the complainant’s driver had quit his job in September 2019, claiming he is going to Kuwait.The couple allegedly stole the money and used it to set up a meat cold storage unit in Talavli village in Rabale. No arrest has been made so far, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-daughter-in-law-eloped-with-family-driver-stole-4-5-lakh-from-mother-in-law-s-account/story-2QMyCzyCZIYRZmtYI60XEK.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||No relief for flat buyers from HC||The Bombay high court has directed the flat buyer who filed public interest litigation challenging the six-month extension given by the MahaRERA authority to projects that were to be completed by March 15 to approach the MahaRERA appellate authority and declined to quash the circular. The court upheld the contention of the state that as an alternate remedy was available to the petitioner, there was no need for the court to exercise its powers.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice M S Karnik while hearing the PIL filed by Sagar Nikam, a flat buyer was informed that the April 2 and May 18 circulars by the MahaRERA authority was detrimental to the interests of thousands of flat buyers. Advocate Nilesh Gala for Nikam said that circulars favoured developers who had failed to hand over possession of flats by March 15. He added that the three-month extension given in each circular would deny flat buyers their right to their homes by six months and hence the circulars should be set aside,However, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni who was assisted by additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan informed the court that Nikam’s grievance of not getting possession of the flat within the stipulated time was personal and hence could not be dealt with in a PIL. Kumbhakoni further submitted that as per section 44 of the RERA Act the flat buyer had the option of approaching the appellate authority and hence Nikam could get his grievance addressed before the said authority. In light of these submissions, Kumbhakoni submitted that the PIL should be dismissed.Gala, however, opposed the contention and said that the PIL had challenged the circular because it not only affected him but also thousands of flat buyers. He submitted that the circular exempted developers and promoters from not only handing over possession of flats for six months but also denied compensation to the flat buyers in that period. He added that the appellate authority could not impugn the circulars as it was beyond its jurisdiction. After hearing the arguments the bench upheld the state’s submissions and granted liberty to the petitioner to approach the appellate authority and dismissed the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-relief-for-flat-buyers-from-hc/story-VvALGbBL3GF2Kcn4OtG9wN.html
26-06-2020||City||Bihar lightning strike toll mounts to 95||PATNAThe death toll due to thunderstorm and lightning in Bihar increased to 95 early on Friday amid warning of heavy rainfall in several districts.On Thursday, the state’s disaster management department had put the death toll at 83.According to a statement put out by the department, deaths in lighting strikes took place in 24 of the total 32 districts in the state, with Gopalganj accounting for the maximum number of casualties (13). Ten persons in the district were injured, of which three were referred to a hospital in Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) in a critical condition.In Khagaria, locals blocked National Highway 107 for two hours and disrupted vehicular traffic to press their demand for compensation for their cattle killed due to lightning. Over 60 cattle died in lightning in the district.According to the DMD, more than 200 people have died due to thunderstorms and lightning in the state since March this year.Reports from districts said more than 40 people were injured and admitted to hospitals. The lightning has also caused widespread damage to houses.Most of the victims were farmers working in their fields when the lightning stuck. “In peak summer, when rain comes in contact with the baking earth, heat is transferred and lighting strikes begin within half an hour to three hours,” said a weather expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-lightning-strike-toll-mounts-to-95/story-PMI9nei3BHaXbrh2gNrn3J.html
26-06-2020||City||IAS officer among 25,000 get J&K Domicile Certificate||As senior IAS officer from Bihar, Navin Kumar Choudhary along with 25,000 people have been granted a domicile certificate by the government in Jammu and Kashmir, officials, on Friday said that hundreds have applied for the certificate in various districts of the Union territory.Principal secretary in the agriculture production department, Navin is the first IAS officer outside UT to get the domicile certificate which went viral on social media, and many locals including former J&K chief minister, Omar Abdullah said that locals will suffer if domicile certificates are given to people from outside J&K. “All our misgivings about the new domicile rules in J&K are coming to the fore. We in @JKNC_opposed the changes because we could see the nefarious design behind the changes. The people of J&K on both sides of the Pir Panjal mountains will be the sufferers of these domicile rules,” Omar Abdullah tweeted. Officials attached to the process of issuing the Domicile Certificate said that hundreds of people have applied for the certificate in different districts of the Union territory. The certificate was issued to senior IAS officer by Bahu Tehsildar in Jammu district. The officers who have served in the J&K for 15 years are entitled to the domicile certificate. Officials said that more than 30,000 applications have been received and around 25,000 have been granted these certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ias-officer-among-25-000-get-j-k-domicile-certificate/story-YbPRM1oZ3zkJlpQ8DlLz4L.html
26-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM requests Centre for free ration distribution in state for next 6 months||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday appealed to the central government for distributing free ration to the people of the state for next six months in view of Covid-19 outbreak.Soren wrote to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution in this regard.Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government has decided to permit some additional activities, including the online sale of essential and non-essential items by e-commerce and opening stadiums and sports complexes without spectators.“It has been decided to permit some additional activities, including the online sale of items (essential and non-essential) by e-commerce, opening stadiums and sports complexes (without spectators) and walking, jogging, running and exercising in open spaces,” Soren said in an order.As many as 42 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Jharkhand on Thursday, taking the total count to 2,261, including 1,605 recoveries and 12 deaths, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-requests-centre-for-free-ration-distribution-in-state-for-next-6-months/story-QCrDoAt4QbMtrujQBUC6iP.html
26-06-2020||City||Kotkapura firing: Former SHO sent to 14-day judicial custody||A court here on Friday sent then station house officer (SHO) to 14-day judicial custody for his alleged role in tampering with the evidence in the Kotkapura police firing case.The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 firings on people protesting the Bargari sacrilege in Faridkot had arrested the said former SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher by adding Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the IPC in the FIR registered on Pandher’s complaint on October 14, 2015, against the protesters.Pandher was presented before the court of duty magistrate Harwinder Singh Sindhia after his one-day police custody ended on Friday.District attorney (DA) Rajnish Goyal said the accused was in 14-day judicial custody as no further police remand was sought by the SIT.As per the SIT, Pandher had allegedly tampered with the evidence in a bid to implicate some innocent persons. Pandher had claimed that five cops fired 10 bullets in self-defence after they were attacked by the protesters. He had made an entry in the register number 19 of malkhana regarding the deposit of 10 empty shells, but these were never deposited, claimed the SIT.Pandher is also named as an accused in the FIR number 129 registered in 2018 by the SIT in Kotkapura firing case and he was out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kotkapura-firing-former-sho-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody/story-HQWIa8FBk7OJyohm009wdJ.html
26-06-2020||City||Facing losses, stock broker commits suicide in Jalandhar||Facing losses in business, a city-based stock broker committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling at his office on Friday.The deceased was a well-known stock broker in Jalandhar and used to to invest money of various businessmen in the market.According to the police, the man had not been in contact with his family since Thursday evening and did not return home. On Friday morning, his family members went to look for him. When they reached his office on Link Road here, they found him hanging there and informed the police.Assistant commissioner of police (Model Town) Harinder Singh said according to the family, the broker was stressed for the past few weeks due to loss in business. A case under Section 174 of CrPC has been registered and no suicide note was recovered from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facing-losses-stock-broker-commits-suicide-in-jalandhar/story-99911yU99FIhCbXR95c4UI.html
26-06-2020||Bangalore||BMTC conducts random Covid-19 tests on crew after 16 staff test positive||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has started conducting random coronavirus tests for its crew members after 16 employees contracted the pathogen in the past fortnight.“We started the random testing of our crew members from Saturday after 16 members were found infected with Covid-19, since June 11,” a BMTC official told PTI.Of the 16 only two had fever and others were asymptomatic.Four have been discharged from the hospital after their reports came out negative following treatment, he said.The corporation has decided to screen all the staffers who are above 50 years of age, returned from Covid-19 affected regions or have symptoms especially fever, cough and cold.BMTC started its operations in the city from May 19 after the lockdown was eased and on June 11 the first coronavirus case was reported when a driver-cum-conductor tested positive for the infection.The first coronavirus patient of BMTC had a travel history to Kalaburagi and Vijayapura, which were the hotspots during May.The BMTC has a fleet of 6,661 buses and has employed over 33,334 employees as of March this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bmtc-conducts-random-covid-19-tests-on-crew-after-16-staff-test-positive/story-SRWLlFyta3dApGj3JHSXqI.html
26-06-2020||Kolkata||WB governor urges speedy and transparent distribution of Cyclone Amphan relief material||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Friday urged the state government to carry out “speedy and transparent” distribution of relief material to those who have been affected by Cyclone Amphan.He said there are worrisome reports about political favouritism creeping in the distribution of relief material.Cyclone Amphan hit West Bengal on May 20, killing 96 people and leaving behind a trail of destruction.The cyclone was more severe in East Midnapore, South and North 24 Parganas and also Kolkata, Dhankar said in a statement.The governor appreciated the formation of an all political party panel to look into the relief work and maintained that such a move will succeed only with “effective” support of the government and its administration. He also expressed concern about the serious allegations of corruption and nepotism in relief distribution which had led to serious law and order problems in the affected areas, where BDO offices have been gheraoed and some representatives of the political party publicly thrashed.Dhankhar exhorted that relief distribution is a state function and has to be carried out by the officials concerned. Abandonment of such relief work in favour of political party workers is illegal, he said. “Before this takes an unmanageable dimension, officials responsible for this omission and commission be dealt as per law,” he said. The governor said the undue benefit that has gone to non-entitled beneficiaries must be recovered and they be suitably dealt with according to law.The Trinamool Congress leadership has dismissed charges of corruption and nepotism in distribution of relief material, saying some stray incidents were being projected to malign the party. PTI DC DPB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/wb-governor-urges-speedy-and-transparent-distribution-of-cyclone-amphan-relief-material/story-NhtoIZAkzLcIt3wSHdmjbK.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to hire 699 jail warders for a year on contract||While extending the service contract of 4,500 special police officers (SPOs) till June 2021, Haryana government has decided to hire 699 ex-servicemen or retired central armed police force personnel as volunteer jail warders on contract for one year.The interviews for the selection of the jail warders will be conducted on July 12 and July 15 in all the districts and there will be no written or physical test at the time of recruitment, an official spokesperson said.The state government had recruited ex-servicemen as SPOs in 2016, who are paid Rs 18,000 honorarium per month. The volunteer jail warders will also be paid the identical remuneration.The spokesperson said ex-servicemen or retired personnel of the central armed police force in the age bracket of 25 to 50 will be eligible, provided they have not been suspended from service on disciplinary, misconduct or medical grounds.The jail warders will be given Rs 150 a day as travel allowance or daily allowance for government tour and casual leave as applicable.The candidate should have served at least five years in the army or armed police force.The interviews will start at 10am and interested candidates are expected to bring their original educational certificates, experience and retirement certificate along with four passport-size photographs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-hire-699-jail-warders-for-a-year-on-contract/story-Wljn2NfqoqfqWd5I1fhQeJ.html
26-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 91 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1 death||Rajasthan reported 91 cases of the coronavirus on Friday, pushing the total number of Covid-19 patients in the state to 16,387, the official data showed.Also, one person died in Jodhpur due to Covid-19 on Friday, the data showed.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOf the fresh cases, Kota reported the maximum 23 cases and Bharatpur 17.Karauli, Jaipur, Jhunjhunu reported 13, 15 and 7 cases respectively.Pali, Sirohi reported five cases each, Dausa four and Ajmer and Bundi one each.Of the total cases, 12,935 have recovered and 12,658 have been discharged. There are 3,072 active cases in the state now.The death toll in the state is now 380, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-91-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death/story-OfgSoVmaZ644SXV5IaU3rL.html
26-06-2020||Bangalore||‘No question of lockdown in Bengaluru,’ says Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday clarified that the state government would not impose another Covid-19 lockdown in Bengaluru as it has already sealed some areas.The Chief Minister this morning met with MLAs from Bengaluru and ministers to review the Covid-19 situation in the city.“Today, I have called a meeting with MLAs from Bengaluru and ministers on increase in Covid cases in the city. Each MLA and minister has to work towards the prevention of this disease in their constituency. There is no question of lockdown as we have already sealed some areas,” Yediyurappa told media reporters. The meeting comes a day after Yediyurappa had asked citizens to cooperate by adhering to the safety norms put in place for the control of coronavirus if they do not want another lockdown or sealing in the capital city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/no-question-of-lockdown-in-bengaluru-says-karnataka-chief-minister/story-wEuOnq9yaS7Ca6GnabtnlL.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amid MBBS fee hike row, students say they have not received any stipend this year||At the time when the state has government has increased the MBBS fee by 80%, students say the government had neglected to pay them stipend this year. Students said that around 370 aspiring doctors, who have been working round-the-clock at government hospitals of state in wake of the pandemic had not been paid stipend this year.“We have been waiting for our stipend for the past six months. Of the three government medical colleges, only students at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, have received their stipend,” said a student of Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala. Around 220 students at GMC, Patiala, and 150 students at GMC, Amritsar, are interning at the hospitals. Each student is due to receive Rs 66,000.Before May, MBBS interns had been receiving a stipend of Rs 9,000 a month, which was increased to Rs 15,000 per month.An MBBS student, who studies at GMC Patiala and is pursuing an internship at Government Rajindra College, said, “On one hand, the government has hiked the MBBS fee, on the other hand it has forgotten to pay us our stipend.”An intern at GMC, Amritsar, said, “We have requested college authorities to release our stipends repeatedly but to no avail. We are risking our lives everyday in this grim situation but our efforts have gone unnoticed.”Calls and messages to Patiala medical college principal Dr Harjinder Singh went unanswered.Medical education minister OP Soni said, “Nobody from the department informed me of this. I well speak to the officials concerned immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-mbbs-fee-hike-row-students-say-they-have-not-received-any-stipend-this-year/story-IarsUuz0sBbzq0ZugBEi7H.html
26-06-2020||Bangalore||Congress accuses BJP-led Karnataka govt of ‘failing’ to manage Covid-19 situation in state||With the spike in the number of coronavirus cases in the state, Opposition Congress on Friday accused the Karnataka government of ‘failing’ to manage the Covid-19 situation in the state.It also urged the state government to call a legislature session to discuss the situation arising out of coronavirus and bring out a white paper in this connection.“The government implemented the lockdown untimely which destroyed both the health of the people and also the economy as they did not take strict precautionary measures.Because they did not take strict measures the infections are increasing,” Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said.Speaking to reporters here, he said both the central and state governments have ‘failed’ to check Covid-19.The number of infections in Karnataka which stood at 3,408 as of June 1 had crossed the 10,500 mark on Thursday with the capital city topping the districts in the infection count.Responding to a question regarding imposing lockdown in the city, Siddaramaiah said the government had called Bengaluru MLAs for a meeting and our MLAs have shared their opinion.“The lockdown should have been imposed now as cases are increasing now and according to experts it will increase till September.They should have imposed lock down now, instead they did it then- it was untimely,” he said.Amid a spurt in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday called a meeting of MLAs and MPs of all parties from the city to discuss measures to control the spread of virus.State Congress President D K Shivakumar too alleged that the government has failed in tackling the crisis and was not sharing information with the opposition.“We have said call the assembly, discuss, take our advice and come out with a white paper.We have urged to call a special session for this, but the government is not considering anything,” he said in response to a question.Noting that the government has failed at all levels, Shivakumar said, they should have taken measures to protect the health of the people, they had 2.5 to 3 months time during the shutdown, without doing anything at that time, now when the cases are rising they have called our MLAs for meeting.Asked about implementing lockdown in Bengaluru, Shivakumar said our MLAs from the capital city have attended the meeting, we had left it to their discretion to take the decision and give a message to the government.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said all efforts would be made to control the spread of coronavirus in the city and there will be no fresh lockdown, as he asserted that improving the economic situation of the state is also equally important.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/congress-accuses-bjp-led-karnataka-govt-of-failing-to-manage-covid-19-situation-in-state/story-9tLugGHyowx9bgVQwiOhaM.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dubai gurdwara facilitates first chartered flight to Punjab to repatriate Indians||A gurdwara in Dubai has facilitated the first chartered flight to Punjab to repatriate 209 Indians stranded in the UAE, according to a media report.The Guru Nanak Darbar Gurdwara arranged the flight with 209 passengers on board, which took off on Thursday from Dubai to Amritsar, the Gulf News reported.The gurdwara authorities in a statement said they were in the process of arranging more such flights to Amritsar in the coming days to facilitate the return of Indians stranded in the country due to Covid-19 travel restrictions.“The second flight is scheduled for June 27, two are in the pipeline, and we are working on six more flights in the coming weeks making sure they (stranded compatriots) reach home safely and at the earliest,” the statement said.“We are thankful to the Indian Consulate in Dubai and the Indian Embassy, UAE for all their support to make this (the first charter flight) happen,” it said.Surender Singh Kandhari, chairman of the gurdwara, said that the gurdwara had been distributing meals to around 1,500 people, including blue collar workers, every day since March with the help of the Indian Consulate and volunteers. “This is our commitment towards the society, as it also reminds us of our shared responsibility to treat others as we wish to be treated ourselves and the basic principles that bind people of different faiths together,” he was quoted as saying in the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dubai-gurdwara-facilitates-first-chartered-flight-to-punjab-to-repatriate-indians/story-2vaG5aJfWfjzAU1i0POfSM.html
26-06-2020||City||Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Gurukul launches online classes, skill upgradation programmes||Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Gurukul, Charan Paduka, Katra has started online classes to facilitate the teaching-learning process for the students. These online classes are being organised for the students through different modes like Google classroom, Google Meet, WhatsApp video call, telephonic communication.On the directions of chief executive officer of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board Ramesh Kumar, the Gurukul has also started online practical training on required skills in vedic mantras, karam kand, jyotish, vastu shastra, yagya, other religious ceremonies and rituals besides yoga and sangeet so that the students can avail adequate job opportunities. For this purpose, a comprehensive schedule for online practical classes has been prepared.The administrator of the Gurukul said that keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, such online theory and practical classes will continue till the situation normalises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shri-mata-vaishno-devi-gurukul-launches-online-classes-skill-upgradation-programmes/story-qWwjLnsavYHbkIqr0ij8gM.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile recovered from gangster in Kapurthala jail, unabated recoveries expose lax security||Though jail premises have been sealed and no visitors have been allowed for the past three months, the recovery of mobile phones from Kapurthala Modern Jail remains unabated, exposing lax security in the prison.Jail authorities recovered a mobile phone, Sim Card and battery from gangster and vehicle lifter Sukhjinder Singh alias Billa Tolenangal of Amritsar during a search of his cell on Thursday. Billa has nine criminal cases, including murder and attempt to murder, registered against him. Before his arrest in 2015, he had stolen SAD leader Surinder Singh Jhanjoti’s SUV.Jail deputy superintendent of police Inderpal Singh raided the cell and recovered a phone from his possession and recommended a case against him under Section 52A of the Prison Act.This is not the first time that a mobile phone or banned item has been recovered from an inmate, just last week a mobile was recovered from a gangster and two mobile phones with Sim cards and batteries were recovered from three other inmates on June 23 and June 6.This year, an ASI was caught smuggling 50g charas into the jail. In the 13 cases where drugs were recovered from Kapurthala jail last year, the involvement of jail officials was established in five. JAIL STAFF HELP SMUGGLE CONTRABANDOf the 10 drug recoveries made from Kapurthala jail in 2018, staff was found involved in three. “In many incidents the Punjab Police found that the phones were being used for threatening, chatting, uploading videos and photos on social networking sites,” said a senior jail official on the request of anonymity.Kotwali station house officer Navdeep Singh said the gangster’s call records will be procured to find out whom he was contacting outside jail.Jail superintendent Baljit Singh Ghuman said around 100 mobile phones along with Sim cards had been recovered from jail this year during surprise inspections.As per Kotwali police station records around 170 mobile phones were seized in 2018 and over 200 mobile batteries, Sim cards and chargers were recovered from prisoners in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mobile-recovered-from-gangster-in-kapurthala-jail-unabated-recoveries-expose-lax-security/story-CX1xs8fqOQPbfNuaSQqXhP.html
26-06-2020||City||Sikh body resents non-inclusion in recently constituted public service commission||Sikh community on Friday has expressed resentment for not including its member in the recently constituted public service commission.President of Sikh Progressive Front S Balvinder Singh along with representatives of various Sikh organisations including Kashmir Sikh Society, J&K Akali Dal Badal, Kashmir Singh Sangat, Displaced Kashmiri Sikh Conference, Management Committee Gurudwara Guru Ka Bagh Channi Himmat, Management Committee Gurudwara Sant Pura Danna, Manav Welfare Society, Sikh Noujwan Sabha Jammu stated that the micro minority Sikh community of J&K has been discriminated by the present government.“Not even a single member of the Sikh community has been included in the recently constituted six-member Public Service Commission. Out of six members, three belong to the Hindu community and three from the Muslim community. This makes it evident that the government has refused to recognise Sikh minority and have no consideration for their legitimate rights for which they have been deprived time and again,” said Balvinder Singh.“Despite the sizable population of Sikhs spread all over the Union territory, the present government has not taken cognizance of the rights and privileges for which they are entitled,” he added.It is also pertinent to mention that in the history of J&K judiciary, no Sikh has ever been appointed as judge of J&K high court despite long pending demand of Sikh community, although there were a number of prominent and competent Sikh lawyers from the HC, who could serve as judge, he said.We fervently appeal to the Prime Minister, home minister and lieutenant governor GC Murmu to nominate a Sikh member in the Public Service Commission and also take a positive approach to all other genuine and legitimate rights of the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-body-resents-non-inclusion-in-recently-constituted-public-service-commission/story-0LW23EIzGKvAcYKWYfHi1J.html
26-06-2020||City||FIR against four stone crushers in Kangra for using forged mining forms||Himachal Pradesh Police on Friday registered a case against four stone crushers in the border areas of Kangra district’s Nurpur and Indora sub-division for transporting illegally mined minerals to Punjab by using forged mining forms (M-Forms).The irregularities were first detected by Pathankot mining officer, who informed his Nurpur counterpart and then a complaint was lodged with superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan.The SP said the Nurpur mining officer had submitted details of hundreds of fake and forged M-forms used by the lease holders to transport mined material to Punjab. A case under Section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against four stone crusher units, including New Shiva Stone Crusher, Kandwal, Bhandral Stone Crusher and Mankotia Stone Crusher, Damtal and Jai Hari Stone Crusher Indora. A BJP leader from Nurpur, who has a mining lease in his name, is also under the scanner. It is learnt that the mining lease holders were using forged M-forms for transporting minerals to Punjab as the Himachal police has adopted a tough approach towards illegal mining. By using forged documents, the mining mafia had caused loss worth crores to the state exchequer in terms of royalty and GST.The M-FormThe mining form or the M-Form is a document mandatory to transport mined material from one place to other. The form is issued online on the industry department website. The government royalty and tax is calculated on the bases of this form. Transporting mined material without M-Form is a criminal offence in Himachal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-four-stone-crushers-in-kangra-for-using-forged-mining-forms/story-mWnUg8OTeVr0PZSONXFBtI.html
26-06-2020||Kolkata||Reconsider decision allowing 100% FDI in coal mining: Bengal CM Mamata to PM Modi||Expressing reservations about the central government allowing 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) in the coal sector, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to reconsider the decision. “I express my serious reservation on this policy announcement on cogent grounds. This policy can neither bring foreign direct investments nor can it bring technologies or knowhow which we are unable to access today,” Banerjee wrote in her letter to Modi on Thursday night. “The recent trend and empirical evidences clearly showcase the interest of global investors more in renewable energy projects as compared to the coal mining projects. In fact, research suggests that about 100 global financial institutions have divested their thermal coal investments. Therefore, FDI in thermal coal is a far cry,” she said. The chief minister also described the move of the coal ministry to shift the desk offices of four of its subsidiary companies from the state as an “abrupt decision” and requested the prime minister to intervene in the matter. “I would, therefore, request you to kindly reconsider the decision of allowing 100 per cent FDI in coal sector and also strongly urge your kind intervention for advising the ministry of coal not to go ahead with the decision of Coal India Ltd to wind up their subordinate offices from Kolkata,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/reconsider-decision-allowing-100-fdi-in-coal-mining-bengal-cm-mamata-to-pm-modi/story-Rz9UIFp4ZIim2u18A5bPdN.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi minister Satyendar Jain tests negative for Covid-19, likely to be sent home today||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who has been recovering in a city hospital since June 17, tested negative for coronavirus on Friday. Sources say the minister may be released sometime later today. Earlier this week, the minister was moved to the general ward following improvement in his condition. The minister’s oxygen support was also removed.Jain, 55, was initially admitted to Delhi government’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. However, after developing pneumonia, a known Covid-19 complication, and complaints of breathlessness and giddiness, he was moved to Max Hospital where he was put on oxygen support in the ICU.His condition improved after receiving plasma therapy on Friday night. Convalescent plasma therapy is an experimental medical procedure, where critical Covid-19 patients are treated using plasma collected from those who have recovered from the viral infection.Earlier today, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the government has got the permission to conduct plasma therapy at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital. Since the start of plasma therapy at LNJP hospital, Kejriwal said, the number of deaths has reduced to less than half as compared to earlier.“It may be difficult to save very serious patients using plasma therapy, but it can help moderate patients by not letting their condition worsen. This is what we have found till now,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-minister-satyendar-jain-tests-negative-for-covid-19-likely-to-be-sent-home-today/story-kvwwHKSzovGPzETcNCd8bK.html
26-06-2020||City||1.36 lakh women in Himachal benefited from Ujjwala Yojna during Covid-19: CM||More than 1.36 lakh women in Himachal Pradesh were provided free gas connections under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna besides three free gas cylinders during Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said.He was addressing a virtual rally of office bearers and workers of Hamirpur parliamentary constituency late on Thursday.“Besides, over 1.12 lakh beneficiaries were benefitted under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana by giving them two installments of ₹ 500 each. The Union government also deposited ₹500 each for three months from April to June, into the accounts of 5.90 lakh women under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna,” the CM said.He said the state government had also launched ‘One Nation –One Ration Card Scheme for people of the state. “The Centre had also increased the daily wage of MNREGA workers by ₹20 per day. During one-year tenure, the Union government has taken historic decisions like abrogation of Article 370, abolition of Triple Talaq and Citizen Amendment Act etc,” the CM said.Speaking on the occasion, Union minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan said it was the vision of BJP president JP Nadda to organise these Jan Samwad rallies throughout the country to publicise the one-year achievements of the present BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He said 45 years ago on this day, national emergency was imposed in the country by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and the Congress showed that they have little respect for the democracy.Pradhan also appreciated the efforts of the state government in effectively dealing with the Covid-19 situation. He said during the crisis, the Union government has transferred about ₹70,000 crore into the accounts of the needy.In his address, Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur also appreciated the efforts of the state government in handling the pandemic. He said even an independent agency has ranked Jai Ram Thakur as the most popular CM in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-36-lakh-women-in-himachal-benefited-from-ujjwala-yojna-during-covid-19-cm/story-uaJ5CggcS635Kjg60Tm9eK.html
26-06-2020||City||HP education dept orders strict action against 7 private schools for charging excessive tuition fees||Taking an initiative on complaints by Chattra Abhibhawak Manch, a student-parent forum, the directorate of higher education has ordered strict action against seven private schools of Shimla for allegedly amalgamating annual charges into tuition fees and charging the same in quarterly installment, for ‘mentally harassing’ those who have not deposited the fee in the stipulated time and for striking-out students from online study groups, for non-payment of fees.The director has instructed all concerned deputy directors to start the procedure to penalise these schools for non-compliance with state government orders. A report in the matter has also been sought from deputy directors.The order issued by the education department stated that state government vide its order May 27 and June 10 advised all private schools not to charge anything else except tuition fees from students during the lockdown period and instead of collecting a fee every quarter, they should collect it monthly. Adding, that teaching charges would only be charged from those who have been given online education material/classes.In the order it was mentioned that tuition fee shall also not be increased, neither would any other hidden charge be allowed to be added in tuition fee and in case any student fails to deposit fee in the lockdown period, the names of the students will not be struck from rolls.However, Laurette School, Bharari, DAV Senior Secondary School Lakkar Bazaar, Saraswati Paradise School, Sanjauli, Dayanand Public School, Shimla, Auckland House School Shimla, DAV School Totu and Shishu Shikha Nikaten School Totu have failed to adhere the orders of the state cabinet, as they have been charging excessive fees from students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-education-dept-orders-strict-action-against-7-private-schools-for-charging-excessive-tuition-fees/story-CGUobiQcdlr1VT59KX5hVP.html
26-06-2020||Gurugram||Malls to reopen in Gurugram next week, strict social distancing must||Malls in Gurugram will be allowed to reopen from next week, three months after they were closed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, the district administration said on Friday.Municipal commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that the malls will have to strictly enforce social distancing and follow the SOP laid down by the ministry of home affairs. Violation of norms will invite strict action against such establishments, he said. “It has been decided that malls will be allowed to open next week and they will have to follow the standard operating procedure issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. All norms pertaining to social distancing will have to be strictly followed,” said Singh, who was addressing a joint press conference with deputy commissioner Amit Khatri. Barring Faridabad and Gurugram, malls were open in the rest of Haryana as the state government on June 8 had decided against opening shopping malls and religious places due to rising number of Covid-19 cases. Singh also said that in the last one week the number of cases was stabilising and the situation was under control. The shopping malls operators, meanwhile, welcomed the decision and said that they had already prepared a detailed standard operating procedure to ensure safety of visitors. Vijay Aima, vice president of Ambience Group which operates the Ambience Mall, said that steps have been taken to ensure that temperature of visitors is checked, sanitiser dispensers have been installed and markings made to ensure social distancing. “Only those visitors who wear a mask and have temperature under the limit will be allowed entry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/malls-to-reopen-in-gurugram-next-week-strict-social-distancing-must/story-A9G1OzXFD22ewHLRU7xFhN.html
26-06-2020||Pune||Monsoon preparedness: PMC on weak foundation with pending survey and structural audit||Pune The 2019 flash floods and two wall collapse incidents in Pune at the beginning of monsoon claimed 23 people in July. The tragedy forced the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to conduct a structural audit of all retaining walls and put in place other preventive measures.The civic administration, however, seems to have learnt little from its past mistakes. The PMC engineering department staff are yet to make a physical visit of boundary or fencing walls across the city.Seventeen residents died and three were injured after a portion of the Alcon Stylus residential building compound wall came crashing down on the temporary shacks of labourers located next to the highrise residential complex after heavy rainfall. Among the dead included four children and a woman. A district official said the wall crashed owing to heavy rains.Neither survey nor structural audit of both the residential complex and the neighbouring constructions was completed by the PMC, activists alleged.A building permissions department superintending engineer officer, on condition of anonymity, said that the survey could not be completed because of the ongoing Covid-19 situation as majority of the staff is engaged in the contagion prevention work.According to the department, the threat is less this year compared to 2019 as many migrant labourers have left for their native places because of the coronavirus spread.The civic administration also took a far-reaching decision of shifting labourers located at 450 construction sites to safe places after their settlements were found to pose threat to their lives.In the second incident which took place in Ambegaon last year, six labourers died due to a wall collapse incident after heavy rainfall. The civic administration is yet to conduct the mandatory survey of the dangerous fencing walls which it claimed to complete before the onset of monsoon.RTI activist Vijay Kumbhar said, “PMC does not show any accountability in discharging its duties. It makes announcements to pacify residents during crisis and then backs out. It is a mere lip service as the PMC is not performing its duty of making life safe for its people. The negligence should be probed and PMC’s irresponsibility should be exposed.”After these incidents, the labour commissioner’s office conducted a detailed survey of under-construction residential labour sites for over 90 days and registered more than 15,000 workers. The move was aimed at providing them safety and benefits under the various sections of the central and state labour act. However, the process fizzled out with the passage of time, labour activists claim.Senior labour leader BJ Kerkar said, “The PMC failed to keep its word and endangered the lives of residents and labours working at different construction sites. We will be writing to the PMC commissioner about the non-conduct of the survey and lack of further action by the civic body.” Kerkar demanded that the PMC and labour department must jointly carry out the work in the larger interests of residents and labour community. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad could not be reached for his comments.Pune MP Girish Bapat’s media office informed that he would not be commenting on the issue as the work was directly related to the PMC and it was a policy decision by the administration.Man-made tragedy?June 29, 2019Seventeen people, including four children and two women, were killed while two others were injured when a compound wall of Alcon Stylus housing society in Kondhwa collapsed on the makeshift shanties adjacent to it. The police arrested two real estate developers Vivek Sunil Agarwal (32) and Vipul Sunil Agarwal (30) in connection with the wall collapse incident. The police had held the builders liable for wilfully neglecting the repair and strengthening of the retaining wall.July 1, 2019Six construction workers were killed in their sleep and four others injured when a boundary wall collapsed and buried their shanties in Pune’s Ambegaon on account of heavy rains in the city. The then Pune district collector had said that the nine-foot-high boundary wall collapsed mostly due to gushing waters and uprooted trees in the area had weakened its foundation. Victims were buried under the debris of the wall of an educational institute of Sinhgad Group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/wall-collapse-incidents-claim-23-lives-in-2019-pmc-on-weak-foundation-with-pending-survey-and-structural-audit/story-oc61ltQWgVckyWzw5ay7PI.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lover, her son among three arrested for Punjab Police sub-inspector’s murder in Fazilka||Three people were arrested for the murder of a Punjab Police sub-inspector (SI) in Fazilka district on Friday. Those arrested include the SI’s lover and her son. The 32-year-old cop, Gurwinder Singh of Seato Road, Basant Nagar in Abohar, was shot dead on Wednesday night. Fazilka senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harjeet Singh said Gurwinder had been having an affair with a 37-year-old woman, Vijaylaxmi. The woman’s 18-year-old son, Naman Godhara, was against their relationship and therefore, shot the SI with his friend Karamjeet and uncle Vikram Bhambhu. “Godhara shot at Gurwinder Singh three times with an illegal weapon, following which Gurwinder collapsed and died,” the SSP said. The accused were identified through CCTV footage. Godhara and Bhambhu have been arrested while Karamjeet is on the run. Vijaylaxmi has been arrested for aiding the accused by giving them shelter, the SSP said, adding that the accused had confessed. Gurwinder, whose father retired as an assistant sub-inspector, was recruited in the Punjab Police in 2017 and was currently working in the CID branch of Punjab Police. His uncle is also posted at a local police station.SI WAS TO GET MARRIED IN THREE MONTHS Gurwinder was to get married in three months. He is survived by his parents and two sisters. He was cremated on Thursday. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lover-her-son-among-three-arrested-for-punjab-police-sub-inspector-s-murder-in-fazilka/story-AAkchVrcLAcE5zWQcLjC7J.html
26-06-2020||City||Nepalese man held for raping minor granddaughter in Shimla district||A Nepalese man was arrested for raping his 9-year-old granddaughter in Chopal sub-division, of Shimla district.The accused threatened the minor not to reveal the incident to anyone and has been raping her for the last four months. Her parents filed a complaint with the police after their daughter narrated her ordeal. The medical examination of the girl was conducted at the civil hospital. The girl’s family originally hails from Nepal and had been living in Chopal for the last 20 years.Chopal deputy superintendent of police (DSP) confirmed the report and said the police are conducting the investigation. A case under Sections 376 (punishment for sexual assault) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nepalese-man-held-for-raping-minor-granddaughter-in-shimla-district/story-C66ObysmFCBx1Tf4xvhyXK.html
26-06-2020||City||Shanta Kumar asks to HP CM to withdraw his escort facility from July 1||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader has written to Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur seeking withdrawal of his escort facility from July 1. In the letter, Kumar said he has been provided various facilities by the present government as the former CM of the state to help him discharge his political duties and public works. “I am thankful to the state government and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for these facilities,” he said. “I am no longer an MP and have also retired from active politics. Due to my age I will no longer be touring around. In such a situation, now I do not require an escort facility anymore,” the veteran leader said.Kumar said a government vehicle and four employees attached to him serves no purpose.“The expense of lakhs of rupees for this keeps stinging me. So, I have written to the CM to withdraw these facilities from July 1,” he added.Shanta Kumar served as the CM twice from 1977 to 1980 and 1990 to 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shanta-kumar-asks-to-hp-cm-to-withdraw-his-escort-facility-from-july-1/story-EhFQ0XqLnUbi1fMzwmrlPN.html
26-06-2020||Pune||Pune Customs seize drugs worth Rs2.10 crore||The Pune Customs and city police crime branch seized drugs worth Rs2.10 crore on Wednesday. The Customs department seized narcotics from two trucks which were intercepted on their way to Pune from Solapur. The trucks had commenced their journey in Andhra Pradesh and are believed to have aimed drop-offs in various parts of Maharashtra.Narcotics Cell of Pune Customs had received a specific input regarding trafficking of narcotic drugs loaded on trucks coming from some remote locations of Andhra Pradesh and destined for various places in Maharashtra. Based on the same, officers of the cell kept vigil and surveillance on the Naldurg- Solapur road, near Boramani village, Solapur, from 16:30 hrs onwards, on Wednesday.The Customs officials raided the trucks at 4:30 pm on Naldurg-Solapur road, near Boramani village, Solapur.“Four persons (one driver and one helper in each vehicle) were detained, all aged between 30 and 35 and hailing from Maharashtra,” read a statement from PK Behera, commissioner of Pune Customs.Upon inspection of the trucks, the officials found 868 kilogrammes of marijuana, approximately valued at Rs 1.04 crore. The officers also found 7.5 kilogrammes of hash (charas), estimated to be worth another Rs.0.75 crore, according to the Customs officials.“On spotting the trucks at Boramani-Naldurg road, the team of Customs officers followed the vehicles and finally intercepted the same in Pune. Upon rigorous search of the vehicles, it was noticed that ganja had been concealed in the cavity created on the roof of the vehicles,” read a statement by Vaishali Patange, joint commissioner, Pune Customs.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman commended Pune Customs and tweeted, “Keep up the good work”. Two held with 56 grammes of methamphetamineThe Pune police crime branch officials arrested two men with 56 grammes of methamphetamine (MD)z.The accused have been identified as Saqlain Abdul Baki Qureshi (23) a resident of Bhimpura in Camp area of Pune and Shakeel Rouf Sayyed (41) a resident of Bhagyodaynagar in Kondhwa.“This is the second case of MD seizure, earlier in the month, 12 grammes of MD was seized. In all the cases registered by the crime branch, we try to investigate all forward and backward links. Action by Anti-Narcotics Cell of the crime branch is continuing to make Pune a drug-free city,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (crime), Pune.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-customs-seize-drugs-worth-rs2-10-crore/story-aS6hGmy7Ls7sojKBeOQvZP.html
26-06-2020||Jaipur||Notice sent to Jaipur hospital for conducting trials of Patanjali drug on Covid-19 patients||Rajasthan’s Health Department has served a notice to NIMS hospital here seeking an explanation on conducting trials of Patanjali Ayurved’s drug Coronil on coronavirus patients, an official said on Friday. “We served notice to the hospital on Wednesday evening seeking explanation in three days. The hospital did not inform the state government nor sought permission,” Chief Medical and Health Officer, Jaipur, Dr Narottam Sharma said. He said the reply from National Institute of Medical Science (NIMS), Jaipur is awaited. The launch of the drug by yoga guru Ramdev on Tuesday triggered a debate after which the Ayush Ministry sought all information on its trial and put a ban on advertising it as a drug to cure coronavirus. The Rajasthan government has clarified that the drug cannot be not used as a medicine in the state without the permission of the Ministry of AYUSH. State Health Minister Raghu Sharma had said on Wednesday that strict action would be taken against the seller as per the rules in case of sale of any drug as a medicine to treat the coronavirus infection. At the Coronil launch, the company had claimed that its medicine can cure the contagious disease within seven days.It said Coronil, taken along with another product developed by it, had shown a 100 per cent success rate in clinical trials on infected patients, except those on life support. Ramdev said the medicines were developed by Patanjali Research Center, Haridwar in association with privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science (NIMS), Jaipur. The Uttarakhand government will serve a notice to Patanjali Ayurved for launching a drug claiming to be a cure for Covid-19 when it had only applied for a licence to manufacture an immunity booster against cough and fever. Apart from the notice from the Uttarakhand government, the Haridwar-based firm could also face litigation in Bihar. A complaint has been filed against it in a Muzaffarpur court over its claim.A complainant approached the court seeking the registration of an FIR against Ramdev and company chairman Acharya Balkrishna, alleging that they put at risk the lives of lakhs of people by claiming to have developed a Covid-19 cure. Chief Judicial Magistrate Mukesh Kumar posted the matter for hearing on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/notice-sent-to-jaipur-hospital-for-conducting-trials-of-patanjali-drug-on-covid-19-patients/story-EYNRoxCZ7wmqLyQie7j0TJ.html
26-06-2020||Pune||Role model: ZP school in Pabe finds unique way to teach students during lockdown||With the motto of ‘school closed; education open’, a primary school run by the zilla parishad in Pabe of Velhe taluka, a remote village around 75 kilometres from Pune, has come up with a unique initiative of ‘Lockdown Pabe pattern ’ to bring education to even those students who do not have access to the internet or a smartphone.The students at Pabe reside in hilly areas and face issues like road connectivity during monsoon as the village receives heavy rainfall.Under the pattern, a 15-day time table has been prepared by the school administration. Students after completing their homework, give three missed calls to the teacher, who then evaluate assignments received on WhatsApp. The students who don’t have smartphones and access to the internet keep doing every day’s work as assigned in the time table and on the eighth day after completing assignments they will visit the place of the school administrator committee member who will at the same moment click the pictures of his/her notebook and send it to the class teacher.“This method of education helps to conduct classes without staying online for hours and it is not even possible in villages like Pabe,” said Suresh Koli, principal, zilla parishad school.“Currently in Velhe taluka, there are only two active cases and 34 total cases. Since we are following government orders to not to open the school, we have decided to come out with the ‘Lockdown Pabe pattern’,” said Koli.With the help of Pabe pattern, the school is able to complete its syllabus in the same way during normal time.“We feel like normal classes are going on. I miss my friends while studying, but other than that everything feels the same like a normal school,” said Shweta Renuse, a Class 6 student.“Keeping in mind the lockdown, ZP school at Pabe has shown a unique way of conducting classes. Now we are using the same pattern for all the schools in the taluka,” said Sunil Mugle, block education officer, Velhe.There are a total of 78 students in ZP primary school and it has classes till Class 7.“The studies were affected as there was no access to physical classes. The principal came up with this idea so that students do not suffer due to the lockdown,” said Vishal Shinde, block development officer, Velhe.What is Lockdown Pabe pattern-Time table for 15 days is prepared by the school administration-Class teacher of every class will prepare a time table on the basis of the school syllabus-Time table will be given to every student via WhatsApp and those who don’t have WhatsApp, school administrator committee members will visit his/her place to hand over the time table-Students will study by referring to books which were distributed to them on June 14-Students will do the assignments and they will send photos of assignments to their teachers via WhatsApp and will give them three missed calls-Once a teacher receives three missed calls from respective students, he/she will check his/her assignments and will call back the student to clear his/her doubts. This routine will continue every day till June 30-The students who don’t have access to phone or Internet will keep doing every day’s work as assigned in the time table and on the eighth day after completing assignments they will visit school administrator committee member who will at the same moment click the pictures of his/her notebook and send it to the class teacher-Once the class teacher receives assignments pictures, at the same moment she/he will check all assignments and will call back the school administrator committee member to talk with students and clear her/his doubts||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/role-model-zp-school-in-pabe-finds-unique-way-to-teach-students-during-lockdown/story-6QzslP27CmgMtR9lK3thML.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Green Initiative: SGPC pledges to plant forests on one-acre land in 90 historic gurdwaras||After reviving ‘guru ka bagh’ and developing green cover on the premises of the Golden Temple, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has launched another green initiative in collaboration with noted environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh. The SGPC plans to plant jungles on one-acre of land at 90 historic gurdwaras in Punjab and its neighbouring states.The project was inaugurated at Gurdwara Baba Bir Singh, Rattoke, and Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha, in Tarn Taran district. In the first phase, 50 jungles will be developed and all saplings found in jungles will be planted so as to revive biodiversity.SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh said, “The environment of Punjab was once so clean that migrant labourers would say the water of the state was as useful to them as milk. Today, unfortunately, the state’s water, air and soil have become polluted. Therefore, the SGPC has passed a resolution to use at least one acre land at 90 historic gurdwaras that are being managed under the apex gurdwara body.”50 FORESTS TO BE PLANTED BY NOVEMBER “The task has been handed over to Baba Sewa Singh because he is a true environmentalist. Nobody else can render the service better than him. We have set a goal to establish 50 such jungles by end of November this year”.“Around 2,500 to 4,200 saplings will be planted in each jungle. The saplings will be of 43 varieties and will include fruit trees, floral plants, mango, medicinal plants, bushes, forest trees and traditional trees. The forests will be developed in such a way that animals are able to inhabit them.” 44 FORESTS PLANTED SO FAR Meanwhile, Baba Sewa Singh, who is the head of a Khadoor Sahib-based Kar Sewa Organisation, said, “Developing these jungles is part of our drive to plant 550 jungles. This drive was initiated to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. So far, 44 forests have been developed in different towns and villages of Punjab and 28,210 saplings have been planted in these mini forests”.In another project, teams of the Kar Sewa Organisation are planting trees on both sides of the Amritsar-Harike Road. Under the environment conservation drive for which Baba Sewa Singh was also awarded the Padma Shri, around 5 lakh trees have been planted. Under this drive, 450 km of road and 450 villages have been covered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/green-initiative-sgpc-pledges-to-plant-forests-on-one-acre-land-in-90-historic-gurdwaras/story-2DCboQHT1T3Qla5VO26jcK.html
26-06-2020||Pune||Pune reports 13 deaths, 531 fresh positive Covid-19 cases on Thursday||PUNE– The city, on Thursday, reported 13 more deaths related to Covid-19 (coronavirus), caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 558. In addition, 531 fresh Covid cases were reported within 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune to 14,185, accoridng to health department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).The number of patients in critical care rose from 277 on Wednesday , to 316 on Thursday. Also, 202 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 8,302.While two more deaths were reported outside PMC jurisdiction, one each in Khadki Cantonment Board area and another in Pune rural area.According to the information given by the PMC, of the 13 deaths reported on Thursday, five deceased patients were from Deenanath Mageshkar Hospital. Two patients each were from Bharati Hospital, Global Hospital and Sassoon Hospital. And one each deceased patient from AICTS Hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic.The deceased patients include 76-year-old female from Sinhgad road, 53-year-old male from Navi peth, 87-year-old female from Model Colony, 49-year-old male from Raviwar eth, 59-year-old male from Parvati area, 78-year-old female from Yerawada, 43-year-old male from Bhawani peth, 65-year-old male from Ganesh eth, 56-year-old male from Dattawadi, 87-year-old male from Parvati Darshan, 73-year-old male from Sadashiv eth, 60-year-old male from Hadapsar and 70-year-old male from Parvati Darshan area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-13-deaths-531-fresh-positive-covid-19-cases-on-thursday/story-wNAgakmo415lLk5aku8kEP.html
26-06-2020||Pune||SPPU appoints committee in search of a solution||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has now decided to appoint an independent committee to study the examinations, evaluation process and students admissions for the academic year. The committee consisting of senior education experts, government officials and principals of various colleges will work to find a solution on the issue of exams for final year students.Shamkant Deshmukh, a senate member tabled a proposal demanding clarity on the on-going issue of exams for final year students.“As the lockdown started in the country exams were postponed and later on for the first and second-year students, the exams were cancelled. Then the state government took a decision to cancel the exams for last year students too, but there is still no clarification on this decision. There are many problems coming into this issue and therefore, students, parents and faculty all are in a state of confusion. So there needs to be clarity,” Deshmukh said.On this demand, senate president and SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “As per the state government’s decision of cancelling the first and second year students’ exams, we have started the process of declaring their results. It is necessary to do a proper evaluation of university results and we are aware that there is a lot of confusion among students, parents and faculty about final year exams. There are various issues related to it like how to conduct exams of students willing to appear, how will the procedure be for conducting the exam, how to do the evaluation, admission process for the forthcoming academic year. So to give it a solution, we have decided to appoint an experts committee which will study and review all these issues. And according to the instructions and guidelines of this committee further steps will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-appoints-committee-in-search-of-a-solution/story-Woe5idYe2Ts0xN5TBKsfrL.html
26-06-2020||Pune||Pune varsity’s Rs 656.38 crore budget presented in the senate||The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) budget of Rs 656.38 crore was sanctioned in the senate meeting held online on Thursday. A total deficit of Rs 62.24 crore existed in the budget. However, in light of the ongoing pandemic, it was decided to hold another supplementary budget session in the month of October where a detailed discussion will be done.It was demanded by the majority of senate members to repeat the budget presentation once the Covid-19 situation is normal.SPPU’s management council member Rajesh Pande presented the budget for the financial year 2020-21 through an online senate meeting. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar, pro-vice-chancellor N S Umrani, registrar Prafulla Pawar and several senate members were present through the digital platform.“As the budget was prepared before the month of March, there was no allocations or provisions made regarding Covid-19 precautionary measures. So to fulfil the SPPU expenses, temporary sanction was given to the budget, but it was demanded by senate members that later on in the month of October budget should be presented again for a detailed discussion. Whereas it won’t be possible to call a re-meeting on budget presentation as per the university law,” said Pande.According to Pande, a senate meeting will be called in the month of October and supplementary additions will be made to the budget.“The total income of the university is Rs 594.14 crore which has various provisions made for the next financial year. As there is an increase in the expenses this year, there is a deficit of Rs 62.24 crore in it and compared to last year this deficit has increased. Last year, there was around Rs 47.79 crore deficit in the budget.” added Pande.According to Karmalkar, the senate meeting on SPPU budget was very fruitful and all the senate members actively participated in the online discussion.“Everyone kept their points related to budget and it was discussed in detail,” he said.2019Total income: Rs 585.21 croreBudget: Rs 633 croreDeficit: Rs 47.79 crore 2020 Total income: Rs 594.14 croreBudget: Rs 656.38 croreDeficit: Rs 62.24 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-varsity-s-rs-656-38-crore-budget-presented-in-the-senate/story-YB4QMAItmKUvhoHFEExrIO.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government asks Aurangabad Municipal Corporation to deploy staff to verify Covid-19 bills||The Maharashtra government has asked the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to deploy its staff in the city’s private hospitals to verify the medical bills being charged from the Covid-19 patients.Shiv Sena leader and Member of the state Legislative Council (MLC), Ambadas Danve, told this to PTI.He said the instructions were given to the AMC during a meeting of all-party representatives in Aurangabad with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday.The meeting, which was held on Thursday night, was attended by state Industries Minister Subhash Desai, state Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta and others.The public representatives urged the government to take necessary steps to control Covid -19 pandemic in the district.AIMIM leader and Lok Sabha member Imtiaz Jaleel raised the issue of shortage of medicines, while Rajya Sabha member Dr Bhagwat Karad demanded adequate number of staff for the super specialty wing of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), a district official said.Talking to PTI after the meeting, Ambadas Danve, who is also Shiv Sena’s district unit president, said, “The government assured that issues related to medicines will be addressed in a couple of days and orders to that effect have been issued. The process to get the adequate medical stqaff is also on. It was decided to increase the testing and quarantine the number of contacts of Covid-19 patients” On the issue of hefty fees being charged by private hospitals, Danve said, “The state administration has ordered the AM to deploy its staff in private hospital to carry out the audit of bills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-asks-aurangabad-municipal-corporation-to-deploy-staff-to-verify-covid-19-bills/story-yCa65tdRR5lKCqr7KOLiZI.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM writes to PM Modi over cancellation of exams amid Covid outbreak||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to instruct relevant apex bodies to cancel final year/semester examinations of professional courses in view of the outbreak of the coronavirus.In a letter to Modi dated June 25, Thackeray said considering the current Covid-19 situation, the state Disaster Management Authority, in a meeting on June 18, decided not to conduct final year/semester examinations of non-professional as well as professional courses and award degrees to students based on a formula to be decided by universities.Further, an option would be given to students who want to take examinations whenever they are held, he said.At the meeting, it was also decided to get the decision in respect of professional courses endorsed by the respective apex authorities since they regulate these courses, the chief minister said.These apex bodies include the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Council for Architecture (COA), Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), Bar Council of India (BCI), National Council For Teachers Education (NCTE) and National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology (NCHMCT).“I request you to instruct the national-level apex authorities to endorse the decision of the state government regarding cancellation of final year/final semester examinations of professional courses and to issue necessary guidelines to universities in this regard,” Thackeray said in the letter.Thackeray said students and parents are concerned about the final year/semester examinations of the academic year 2019-20 and commencement of the next academic year in view of the prevailing coronavirus crisis.The present atmosphere caused by the Covid-19 pandemic is not conducive to conduct examinations or classes in educational institutes, the chief minister said.The need of the hour was to have uniform guidelines in respect of cancellation of examinations, Thackeray said, adding the pandemic has created many challenges for students pursuing higher education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-over-cancellation-of-exams-amid-covid-outbreak/story-jYDA4luxwTbSg85CI0NJ3O.html
26-06-2020||Noida||Couple found dead in Ghaziabad, had sent SMS to family to pick up child: Cops||A 30-year-old sales manager and his 28-year-old wife were found dead at their flat in a residential pocket of Indirapuram locality in Ghaziabad on Friday morning. The cops said that the couple left behind their eight-month-old baby on bed and had also dropped an SMS to a relative in Greater Noida to come and pick up the child early in the morning.The police said that the couple was native of Patna in Bihar and had shifted to the rented flat in Indirapuram about 8-10 months ago. The man, employed with a company in Noida, was working from home during the lockdown period, while his wife was a homemaker.“An SMS was sent from her (woman’s) phone to her sister in Greater Noida around 3.45am. In the message she asked her sister to come early in the morning and pick up the child who would be alone. After her sister received the SMS, she panicked and sent one of her friends living in Indirapuram to the couple’s flat around 6am on Friday,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).After the friend reached the flat, she found the main door unlocked and went inside to find that the woman was dead in her room and the child was nearby.After this, neighbours were alerted and the police were called.After inspection, the police found that the man was also lying dead in another room. No suicide note was found, the police say.“We are yet to find the motive... Their child was taken away by the deceased woman’s sister and both bodies have been sent for autopsy. We have not received any complaint so far into the incident by any family members,” Jain added.The neighbours said that they did not hear about any quarrels.Ghaziabad does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/couple-found-dead-in-ghaziabad-had-sent-sms-to-family-to-pick-up-child-cops/story-1RDi3VZpovyzduhcHZ5rHJ.html
26-06-2020||Bhopal||BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia hits out at Congress for insulting remarks against women||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia has hit out at the Congress party for, what he said, were its leaders’ insulting remarks against women.Though Scindia did not mention anyone in his remarks, his tweet on Thursday night came after the state Congress working president Jitu Patwari’s alleged anti-woman remarks that came in for sharp criticism from the BJP in general and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in particular.“In the manner in which Congress leaders are constantly making indecent remarks and posting tweets against women which is against our culture it’s highly condemnable,” Scindia said quoting a Sanskrit verse: ‘yatra naryastu pujyante ramante tatra devta (where women are respected deities reside there).Jitu Patwari, a former minister in the Kamal Nath led Congress government, provoked outrage on Wednesday when he made a comment about daughters.“Five daughters were born namely demonetisation, goods and sales tax (GST), employment, inflation and economic slowdown while anticipating a son called development (vikas),” Patwari had tweeted.He deleted the tweet after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan hit out at him and the Congress and called them anti-woman. Patwari later said he regretted his comments and that daughters are like goddesses.“My tweet was to suggest how people have been waiting for years for development promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi but they got instead demonetisation, GST, unemployment, inflation and economic slowdown which have broken the backbone of the economy,” he said.Chouhan accused the Congress of insulting women and asked Sonia Gandhi, the party chief, to apologise to the nation and sack Patwari.However, the Congress accused the BJP of being anti-Dalit and said it has a “prejudiced mindset”.The party’s comment came after a photograph purportedly showing Dalit leader Prabhuram Chaudhary eating off a disposable plate in front of his upper-caste BJP colleague, Ashutosh Tiwari, who is seen eating from a metal plate, went viral on social media on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bjp-s-jyotiraditya-scindia-hits-out-at-congress-for-insulting-remarks-against-women/story-7uSJqb1YwBoIwqXoCWYNUK.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt will set up ICU beds on a large scale at its 3 hospitals: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said his government will set up ICU beds on a large scale at three state-run hospitals in wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital.Addressing an online media briefing, he said Delhi has reported around 74,000 cases so far; of them, 45,000 patients have recovered.The rise in number of cases is a matter of concern but there is no need to panic as the Covid-19 situation is “still under control”, Kejriwal asserted.“We have increased our capacity of testing by three times and hence, cases are rising in the city,” he said.In LNJP Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and GTB Hospital, the government is going to set up more ICU beds on a large scale, he said, adding the Delhi government has already set up 3,500 beds for Covid-19 patients in hotels in the last 10 days.The chief minister also said that Covid-19 patients under home isolation have been given pulse oximeters and that this will act as a “Suraksha Chakra” against the disease.He said the government has got permission to conduct plasma therapy on 200 patients in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-will-set-up-icu-beds-on-a-large-scale-at-its-3-hospitals-arvind-kejriwal/story-r8ldMqUom641nZKAIXxI5O.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder case: Court rejects Sanjeev Khanna’s bail plea||A special court here denied temporary bail to Sanjeev Khanna, an accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, who had sought relief citing the risk of contracting coronavirus in Arthur Road Jail.Khanna was arrested in August 2015 for his involvement in Sheena’s killing and has since been lodged in Arthur Road Jail.While rejecting the accused’s interim bail plea on Wednesday, special CBI judge J C Jagdale said, “Undoubtedly, some of the inmates of Arthur Road Jail have been affected by Covid-19, but at present the situation is far better.” According to the authorities, of the 181 Covid-19 cases detected in the jail so far, 151 patients had recovered and only 30 were in treatment, he noted.He pointed out that no one had died of the deadly infection at Arthur Road Jail, indicating that the recovery rate there was better than other parts of Mumbai.The judge also noted that Khanna had tested negative for the infection.The accused, a resident of Kolkata, had told the court that he would stay with a relative in suburban Bandra if he gets bail.The judge observed that the number of Covid-19 cases in Bandra was increasing at an “alarming rate” with each passing day.All precautionary measures were being taken in the jail and adequate medical facilities were also made available there, he said and scrapped Khanna’s plea.Sheena (24) was allegedly strangled in a car by her mother Indrani Mukerjea, her driver Shyamvar Rai and Khanna in April 2012. Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district.Former media baron Peter Mukerjea, who was later arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy, is currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-court-rejects-sanjeev-khanna-s-bail-plea/story-FnYhzjNklbmEajzqzg7JUN.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||‘Plasma therapy helping moderate Covid-19 patients stabilise’: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said though coronavirus cases in the city are high in number the situation is under control. He said the Delhi government has taken steps to arrest the deterioration in cases by introducing plasma therapy and providing pulse oximeters to patients to help monitor their oxygen levels.“We’ve increased testing by three times but positive cases have increased by around 3000 per day only. Out of the total Covid-19 patients, approximately 45,000 people have recovered,” said Kejriwal.The Delhi CM said the government has got the permission to conduct plasma therapy at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital. Since the start of plasma therapy at LNJP hospital, Kejriwal said, the number of deaths has reduced to less than half as compared to earlier. Watch | ‘Will increase ICU beds’: Arvind Kejriwal on covid situation in Delhi“It may be difficult to save very serious patients using plasma therapy, but it can help moderate patients by not letting their condition worsen. This is what we have found till now,” said the CM.Use of plasma therapy involves injecting blood-component plasma extracted from a cured coronavirus patient into a positive case. The plasma of a cured patient is considered to carry virus-fighting antibodies which boost the immune system’s response to the disease. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain, who is recovering from the Covid-19, was also administered the therapy at a private hospital after a pneumonia patch in his lung started expanding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plasma-therapy-helping-moderate-covid-19-patients-stabilise-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-dlj2zUzL2bW6OHMyMZaxRK.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Major fire doused at Raguvanshi Mills in Mumbai||The major fire that broke out at a commercial building in Raghuvanshi Mill compound at Lower Parel here was completely doused on Friday, after nearly 23 hours of fire-fighting efforts, an official said.While no casualties were reported in the incident, one of the fire brigade officers sustained a minor cut injury during the operation, the official said.The blaze had erupted on the ground floor of the three-storey P-2 building in Raghuvanshi Mill compound at around 9.30 pm on Thursday.The fire soon spread to the upper floors of the structure and was tagged as a ‘level-4’ fire by afternoon.According to a civic officer, the blaze was brought under control after 18 hours of efforts in the early hours of the day and was completely doused by 8.20 am. After visiting the scene, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the blaze was triggered by a short circuit and the heavy smoke made it difficult for the fire fighters to find the source of the flames.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/major-fire-doused-at-raguvanshi-mills-in-mumbai/story-2YmXDV2OYFBniWeOrvAp1I.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cash-strapped Himachal Pradesh govt hikes vehicle registration fee; cuts power subsidy||Shimla: In a jolt to consumers amid the Covid-19 crisis, the cash-strapped Himachal Pradesh government has enhanced vehicle registration fee and cut electricity subsidy to generate resources.The two decisions were taken at a cabinet meeting on Thursday.The vehicle registration fee has been increased to 7-10% from the existing 2.5-4%.The registration fee will be 7% for motorcycles up to ₹50,000; 8% for vehicles above ₹50,000 and up to ₹2 lakh and; 10% for above ₹2 lakh.The car has a duty of 8% to 10%. The government will also charge 100% of composite fee from small contract carriers coming to Himachal Pradesh with riders from outside states. Besides, the arrangement of 15-day wavier for contract carriers who paid the entire tax for a month in one go has been done away with.The cabinet also decided to withdraw ₹110 crore out of the earlier announced subsidy of ₹480 crore for the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB).This has been done to rationalise the subsidy given to the consumers.According to government data, 18% of the subsidy goes to 11 lakh consumers using less than 125 units per month and the rest goes to nine lakh consumers with consumption more than 125 units.There will be no change in the power bills for consumers using electricity less than 125 units.The consumers with consumption of 125-200 units per month will have an increase of ₹40-₹113 in their monthly bills.Similarly, those consuming 201 to 300 units will see an increase of ₹115 to ₹200. For consumption of units between 301 up to 400 units, the increase will be ₹200 to ₹290. The increase will be ₹300 to ₹400 for consumption of 401 units or above.The government claims that the power tariffs in Himachal Pradesh were lowest compared to neighboring states. In Punjab and Uttarakhand, consumers pay ₹6.59 and ₹3.27 per unit, respectively, for the consumption of 125-300 units. In Himachal Pradesh, the rate is ₹2.62.NO HIKE IN BUS FARESThe government has refused to increase the bus fare but has given in-principle approval for plying buses with 100% occupancy.The private bus operators in the state are demanding an increase in the bus fare given the reduced occupancy of 60% due to Covid-19. They were demanding an increase in the minimum bus fare from ₹5 to ₹10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cash-strapped-himachal-pradesh-govt-hikes-vehicle-registration-fee-cuts-power-subsidy/story-vwq3cvnRGH6YVByNkaoibN.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Serological survey to determine spread of Covid-19 to begin in Delhi on Saturday||The government on Friday announced that serological survey will be carried out in national capital Delhi from Saturday, which has seen a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases.“As per the directives of HM @AmitShah, discussion was done on the serological survey in Delhi, which will be carried out jointly by NCDC and Delhi Government. Survey will begin from June 27, training of all the concerned survey teams was completed yesterday,” Union home ministry spokesperson said on Twitter. As per the directives of HM @AmitShah, discussion was done on the serological survey in Delhi, which will be carried out jointly by NCDC and Delhi Government.Survey will begin from June 27, training of all the concerned survey teams was completed yesterday.@PIB_IndiaThe tweet also said that officers are being trained for this. “HM @AmitShah also approved the combined use of Aarogya Setu & Itihaas apps as strong predictive tools for future detection of COVID outbreaks in population clusters. Training on combined use of apps was imparted by NCDC trainers to the district teams of the Delhi Govt yesterday,” a second tweet from the home ministry spokesperson said.The serological test or ‘sero surveillance’, which its being called, would help to identify those who have recovered from Covid-19 without being tested because they were asymptomatic, had mild disease, or could not get tested for some reason.It is part of the new Covid-19 response plan prepared by the Centre for Delhi.“On 25 June, Union Home Secretary reviewed implementation of various decisions on COVID in Delhi which were taken on 21 June in a meeting chaired by HM @AmitShah. Member Niti Aayog, Director AIIMS, DG ICMR along with Delhi’s Chief Secretary & Health Secretary attended the meeting. In the meeting, it was clearly noted that decisions were being implemented in a smooth and timely manner and a COVID response plan was finalised for Delhi. District level teams for COVID related tasks were also constituted,” the home ministy spokesperson said on Twitter today.The Twitter posts also informed that re-drawing of containment zones in Delhi would be completed by June 26 and door-to-door health survey would also be done by June 30.Delhi on June 24 recorded 3,788 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to over 70,000, while the number of deaths due to Covid-19 climbed to 2,365. On Tuesday, the national capital recorded its largest single-day spike of coronavirus disease cases with 3,947 people testing positive.The recent spike in cases also comes on the heels of testing in Delhi being ramped up. The number of average daily tests in Delhi more than doubled to 13,880 for the week ending June 23 compared to 6,200 the week before.The positivity rate for the week ending June 22 stood at 24 per cent, meaning nearly one in every four people tested turned out positive. This number was 31 per cent a week before. The number is still high in but it has begun to decline - a clear indication that Delhi is finally beginning to test enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/serological-survey-to-determine-spread-of-covid-19-to-begin-in-delhi-on-saturday/story-TYhnzMGLqB47siv5xGjUsK.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Three Covid-19 care centres set up for Mumbai police personnel, their families||Three Covid care centres with a capacity of 1,000 beds have been set up here at Kalina, Marine Drive and Marol for the treatment of Mumbai police personnel and their families, officials said. In all the Covid-19 centres, there are four beds in one room and gaming facility like carrom and chess has also been provided for the patients. In addition, a small library has been set up and doctors will be available round the clock. Over 30 Mumbai police personnel have died after contracting the lethal infection.Also, 117 personnel of Mumbai fire brigade have also been tested positive for novel coronavirus till June 25, of which 80 have been discharged and 8 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-covid-19-care-centres-set-up-for-mumbai-police-personnel-their-families/story-2ybPRljTjZAZybGbPLKe3M.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dadumajra waste processing plant: Possession to remain with Chandigarh MC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday ordered status quo in the operation of Dadumajra garbage processing plant. The order came on the plea of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) that had challenged the June 19 decision of a Chandigarh court allowing plant’s operation by the Jaypee group, a private operator. The MC had taken the plant’s possession on June 19 evening before the court order reached it. The high court has also appointed an arbitrator in the proceedings. The detailed order is awaited.With the plant running much below its full capacity, resulting in dumping of the garbage in the open, the MC General House had terminated the contract with the firm and directed MC officials to take its possession in February this year. The civic body had issued a termination notice on March 5, asking the firm to hand over the plant within a week. On this, the firm moved a Chandigarh court that ordered a stay for three months on March 12. After the period elapsed on June 12, MC issued a 24-hour notice on June 18, and took over the plant on June 19. The firm had moved a trial court on June 20 for restoration of possession. But the court refused to interfere.In high court, MC argued that it had taken control of the plant, hired approximately 80 employees of the firm and waste was being processed. The court was told that after taking over of the plant, they had found that approximately 20,000 metric tonnes of waste was lying on the premises, increasing likelihood of pandemic-like situation during the rainy season. In the last six months, the firm had processed only 60-70 metric tonnes per day on an average, despite clear directions of the National Green Tribunal to process 450 metric tonnes per day. As a result, the unprocessed waste was either being discarded in the dumping ground outside or being collected on the plant’s premises, the court was told by MC’s counsel, Deepali Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dadumajra-waste-processing-plant-possession-to-remain-with-chandigarh-mc/story-eelyj98mbjK5HSL7p2LTLO.html
26-06-2020||City||Won’t allow sale of Coronil in Maharashtra, state home minister says||Home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday announced that the state will not permit the sale of Coronil drug by Patanjali Ayurveda. “The National Institute of Medical Sciences, Jaipur will find out whether clinical trials of @PyPAyurved’s Coronil were done at all. An abundant warning to @yogrishiramdev that Maharashtra won’t allow sale of spurious medicines,” he tweeted.Hours after the launch of Coronil on Tuesday, the Union Ayush ministry had asked the firm to provide the details of the drug, asking it to stop advertising it till the issue was examined.Deshmukh had welcome the Centre’s decision of stalling the sale of the drug. “Claims of a cure for Corona without sharing clinical trials, sample size details, registration with authorities cant be acceptable. It great that @moayush banned such advt. There can be no compromise with public health & well being at all!” he had tweeted on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/won-t-allow-sale-of-coronil-in-maharashtra-state-home-minister-says/story-Tg3CsMqvR3UYluDvsrGWaI.html
26-06-2020||City||Instead of shunting civic heads, focus on infrastructure, Opposition leader tells Maharashtra government||Transfer of civic heads cannot be a solution to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak and instead the state should focus on improving the basic infrastructure in the cities, Pravin Darekar, Opposition leader in the legislative Council said in Thane on Thursday. He said that “even peons are not treated or transferred the way civic commissioners across the district were treated”. “The state failed to control the virus and is now trying to make a scapegoat out of commissioners,” Darekar said. Speaking about Covid-19 outbreak in Thane, he said that for three months former Thane civic commissioner had set up a system to fight against the virus but he was removed from the post and someone else was appointed.He said, “Transferring commissioner is not the solution to fight Covid-19. The state should instead provide such cities with enough manpower and health care facilities to flatten the curve,” he said. Darekar also claimed that though the chief minister inaugurated a 1,000-bed hospital in Thane, there are no doctors to operate this facility.Padalkar will clarify his statementWhen asked about Gopichand Padalkar’s unparliamentary remarks on Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo, Darekar stated that Padalkar will himself give a clarification on his statement. “The statement he made is his personal view, the party does not support it. It is wrong to make such a statement against a mass leader and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has made this clear to him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/instead-of-shunting-civic-heads-focus-on-infrastructure-opposition-leader-tells-maharashtra-government/story-DcHTZEIh447Hbde0l2Gt2L.html
26-06-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body to acquire 10,000 rapid antigen test kits to detect Covid-19 patients||After the state permitted the usage of rapid antigen testing to detect Covid-19 patients, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Thursday claimed it has ordered 10,000 such kits to increase the rate of testing. “We have ordered 10,000 kits which will help in detecting the results within 45 minutes. The tests will help in saving time to decide over a patient’s treatment, “said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. The test kits will be used in containment zones and hotspots, for those having Covid-19 symptoms as well as the low-risk comorbid contacts of positive patients, pregnant women and cancer patients. The testing will be done free of cost in slums. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the antigen detection, known as the Standard Q COVID-19 Ag kit, does not require any specialised machine.The civic body said more kits will be procured in the future depending on the demand. Currently, KDMC conducts around 500 tests everyday.“Right now, test results take two-three days and in many cases, the patient dies by then, “said Panpatil.As per KDMC’s health department, 80% of the cases recorded in Kalyan and Dombivli are asymptomatic. Most of these are cluster cases, like several infected from a single family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-to-acquire-10-000-rapid-antigen-test-kits-to-detect-covid-19-patients/story-POVDrWTPchwSRBPXQMr5YP.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Congress plans protests||The Maharashtra Congress has upped its ante against the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre over its handling of India-China clash at Galwan Valley and rising fuel prices. The party will hold protests across the state on June 26 and June 29. The second phase of the protest against the price rise will be held on tehsil level between June 30 and July 4.Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said, “The Modi government bowed before China and it resulted in the death of 20 of our soldiers. Modi’s statement that there was no intrusion on Indian territory by China’s military has helped them.”The party will observe ‘Shahidon Ko Salaam Divas’ on Friday to pay tribute to the martyrs. In every district, party workers will gather near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi or martyrs’ memorial. The party will also hold protests on June 29 against the rising fuel prices. The party has maintained the protests and tribute will be held peacefully, without violating social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-plans-protests/story-ukUUgrfWT16tBX9MRfI1CJ.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: CBI files charge sheet against Wadhawans, Kapoors||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed a charge sheet against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his daughter Roshni Kapoor, and the promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, alleging that the Kapoors and the Wadhawans conspired to siphon off public money and benefit themselves, two officers familiar with the development said.The charge sheet comes just before the 60-day filing deadline from the date of arrest was to end. The Wadhawans were arrested by CBI on April 26 from a Mahabaleshwar government facility, after it was found that they had slipped out of Mumbai quietly with their family during the lockdown. They have already been questioned and are currently lodged in a jail in Mumbai.A senior CBI officer cited above said they will soon arrest Rana and interrogate him. The agency’s first charge sheet, the two officials said, focuses on an alleged criminal conspiracy by Rana Kapoor in the investment of ~3,700 crore by Yes Bank in short term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018, for which Kapil Wadhawan allegedly paid a kickback of ~600 to the Kapoor family in the garb of a loan. According to the agency, the money was given by Wadhawan to M/s DoIT Urban Ventures, a wholly owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises, in which Roshni is a director. This money, the second officer said, was given on the basis of a mortgage of a property that has a much lower marker value by considering its future conversion from agricultural land to the residential land. DHFL never repaid the bank’s ~3,700 crore investment, and neither did the bank ask for it, the agency said in its charge sheet. Yes Bank also sanctioned a loan of ~750 crore to RKW Developers Pvt Ltd – a company belonging to Dheeraj Wadhawan for their Bandra reclamation project. The money reached the parent company DHFL without any investment in the said project, the officer added. CBI suspects that over 100 shell companies were used by the Kapoor family for diverting money, the first officer said. He added that this may be the first of the many charge sheets which will be filed in the case. Kapoor’s lawyer Subhash Jadhav and the Wadhawans’ lawyer Amit Desai declined to comment. Rana has also been charged by the Enforcement Directorate for money laundering. While filing its charge sheet on May 6, ED said that Rana Kapoor used Yes Bank as his “personal fiefdom” to carry out alleged illegal activities and was the architect of a financial fraud to create wealth for himself and his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-wadhawans-kapoors/story-uej7dg8CzMprCuTubdpaKK.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Sena attacks Centre over rising fuel prices||The Shiv Sena on Thursday hit out at the Centre over rising fuel prices across the country.Sena mouthpiece Saamana, in an editorial, said the Centre was giving a free hand to oil companies, although crude oil prices haven’t risen. In a jibe, the editorial said the “increasing fuel prices might be filling the coffers of the Centre, but it should keep in mind that it is emptying the pockets of common man”.Fuel prices were hiked for the 19th day in a row on Thursday. After an 82-day hiatus, oil companies restarted revising prices in line with costs on June 7. In the past 18 days, diesel and petrol got dearer by ₹10.48 and ₹8.50, respectively, the editorial said.In a strongly worded editorial, the Sena said fuel prices are any government’s source of revenue, but there should be a “limit” to it. “Only two things are increasing in the country today – Covid-19 count and fuel prices... There is at least an attempt to curb the Covid-19 spread, but there is total silence on the rising fuel prices. Since the lockdown ended, the Covid-19 cases have increased and since ‘unlock’ fuel prices are skyrocketing,” the editorial said.The editorial added that for the first time ever, diesel became costlier than petrol in the country in New Delhi.The write-up in the Marathi daily added that although the country has been ‘unlocked’, people still do not have jobs. “The government unlocked the country to bring the economy back on track, but oil companies have unlocked the prices of petrol and diesel to their advantage,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sena-attacks-centre-over-rising-fuel-prices/story-6WyiF7xb8RUo2ePoqLlkRN.html
26-06-2020||City||Youth killed, 3 hurt in mishap in Sanpada||A 20-year-old man was killed and three others were injured when their car met with an accident on Palm Beach Road in Sanpada early on Thursday. The car skidded for a few metres before hitting the side wall and turned turtle while two tyres got detached from the vehicle, said police.The four men — Omkar Bhagat, Omkar Shinde, Harshal Patil and Stalin Fernandes, all aged between 20 and 22 — are residents of Bonkhode village in Koparkhairane and were travelling in Bhagat’s car. Fernandes died in the crash, while Patil is in a critical condition and the other two suffered major injuries.The group had gone out for a joyride along Palm Beach Road when the accident took place around 1.45am. They had reached sector 6 near Sarsole junction when Patil was unable to control the speed. Police said the skid marks stretched for several metres indicating that Patil tried to apply brakes but the car was at a “dangerously high speed”.Patil ended up hitting the car on the side wall of the road and the vehicle rolled over after the impact. Two tyres were detached from the car by the time it landed on the ground, said police.Fernandes, who was sitting behind Patil, had the maximum impact as the car suffered heavy damage on the driver’s side.“We rushed them to Apollo Hospital, where Fernandes died during treatment. Patil is currently critical. We have contacted their families and registered a case against Patil,” said Keshav Dinde, assistant inspector, Sanpada police station.The police have registered a case against Patil for rash driving and causing death due to negligence. It is not clear if either of them were drunk at the time of driving the car as police did not conduct a test to determine their blood alcohol levels.“There was heavy blood loss and they were rushed to the hospital. We will investigate if they were drunk and also verify the documents while conducting further probe,” Dinde added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-killed-3-hurt-in-mishap-in-sanpada/story-UqO3cRM5DF4C5shW3E0KgL.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Psychiatrists to re-issue policy on reporting suicides||After actor Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide, the Bombay Psychiatric Society (BPS) has criticised a section of the media for violating rules laid down by the Press Council of India (PCI) while reporting Rajput’s death. BPS plans to re-issue the media guidelines for suicide coverage.Dr Milan Balakrishnan, secretary, BPS, said on Thursday, “The media’s reporting on suicide has a huge impact on the minds of people along with the family members of the deceased. Such irresponsible coverage increases stigmatisation of people suffering from mental ailments. We request the media not to unnecessarily sensitise the death of a young actor.”Rajput died by suicide in his Bandra home on June 14. The police have found no suicide note and are currently investigating his death. Several reports published afterwards made unverified claims about the actor’s mental health and emotional state. Photos of Rajput’s dead body were also circulated on social media, which is a violation of the guidelines laid down for suicide reportage as such images are traumatic for the surviving family and can act as triggers for those who have mental health issues. City psychiatrists have widely criticised the media coverage of Rajput’s death as irresponsible, citing the guidelines laid out by the World Health Organization on how suicides should be reported by the press.In an open letter dated June 22, BPS further stated, “A number of statements have been incorrectly ascribed to him [a psychiatrist] giving the impression that doctor-patient confidentiality has been breached. Already, clarification has been issued regarding the inaccurate and distorted nature of the reporting of the concerned doctor.”Dr Balakrishnan also said that BPS plans to reissue guidelines for the media coverage suicides. “PCI has made their rules by adopting WHO guidelines. We are therefore planning to formulate one policy focusing on do-s and don’t-s for India media,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/psychiatrists-to-re-issue-policy-on-reporting-suicides/story-CD7d8lSZL8Q75esu1tJhIN.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||8 beaches in state to get shacks||Eight popular beaches in four coastal districts of the state may soon have beach shacks, like the neighbouring state of Goa, with the Maharashtra cabinet on Thursday clearing the policy to promote tourism.The cabinet also gave a go-ahead to a proposal to monetise two land parcels and five resorts owned by the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC). The beaches selected for setting up shacks are Guhagar and Aareware in Ratnagiri; Kunakeshwar and Tarkarli in Sindhudurg; Varsoli and Diveagar in Raigad; and Kelwa and Bordi in Palghar. Each of these beaches will have a maximum of 10 shacks of the permitted size of 15ftx15ft with a 20ftx15ft shade in front of it. Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who thanked the cabinet for clearing his department’s proposals, tweeted, “8 beaches in Maharashtra have been approved for eco-friendly beach shacks. This will be a major tourist facility. 80% employment to locals is a must.” Transport minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab said the preference to set up the shacks will be given to the local people. “Since there cannot be permanent structures coming up due to coastal regulations, we are allowing these temporary structure with licences for three years,” he said.Shacks can only come up in areas approved by the tourism directorate with permits from the State Coastal Area Management Authority, a statement issued by the government stated.The shacks can operate between 7am and 7pm and will have to follow certain restrictions. They will also have to install CCTV cameras, the statement said.Of the MTDC-run resorts which will be given on lease are located at Ganpatipule, Matheran, Mahabaleshwar, Harihareshwar, Mithbaon in the first phase. Besides the resorts, huge land parcels at Tadoba national park and Fardapur in Aurangabad are also up for grabs to private players for tourism facilities. The open land at these two places is more than 5 hectares, and the lease will be based on the interest shown by private companies.The resorts and open land will be given on 90-years lease, and rent and premium will be decided as per the existing norms issued by the high-power committee headed by the chief secretary.On the decision to lease out MTDC properties to private players, Thackeray tweeted, “This will help the state with increased revenue and most importantly build a world class tourism hospitality sector in Maharashtra with partnerships with the best hotel brands in the world.” “Land monetisation will generate employment, increase tourism footfall and revenue to the state government. The allotment will be on lease rent or through joint venture or management contracts between MTDC and private companies,” said an official from the tourism department.MTDC has already leased out 23 of its resorts and manages 27 of them at prime tourism spots, including five for which the decision was taken on Thursday. The resort in Ganpatipule has more than 100 suites and rooms, while Harihareshwar resort has the capacity of 30 rooms with high occupancy rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-beaches-in-state-to-get-shacks/story-Wl5iCFsrIqIg7LpNpVoVQJ.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Explain reasons for Covid deaths in civil hospital: Bombay HC asks Jalgaon administration||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state and district authorities to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL) that sought investigation and inquiry into the Covid-19 deaths that occurred at the civil hospital in Jalgaon. The petition claimed that the civic hospital was the only hospital in the district with a Covid-19 facility, and owing to lack of facilities and negligence by the authorities, the patients admitted there succumbed to the virus.A division bench of justices SV Gangapurwala and justice RG Avachat, while hearing the PIL filed by social worker Pratibha Shinde and two others through senior counsel Gayatri Singh and advocate Ankit Kulkarni, was informed that the death rate for Covid-19 patients in Jalgaon was 12.3%, which was the highest in Maharashtra, even as Jalgaon, Bhusawal, Amalner and Pachora areas of the district accounted for 80% of the total 112 deaths till June 4.While making submissions, Kulkarni said that Shinde and the others had lost their loved ones, as the Jalgaon district and hospital administrations had failed to provide proper care and treatment to the patients as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), central and state government guidelines. He added that even after being admitted to the hospital, the health of the patients had not been monitored, nor were routine check-ups undertaken.“There is extreme negligence, dereliction of duties and complete mismanagement on the part of the hospital and district administration, which has cost hundreds of people of Jalgaon their lives,” the petition has pointed out.Kulkarni had referred to the death of two women from the same family within nine days despite being admitted to the civil hospital, as well as the suspension of the dean and two doctors of the hospital for their negligence to drive home his point.In light of these submissions, the PIL has sought a high-level inquiry under the chairmanship of the state chief secretary into the deaths in the hospital’s Covid-19 ward and also sought compensation worth ₹50 lakh with damages for the family of the two women for negligence on part of hospital and district administration.After the state government and Jalgaon authorities sought time to respond to the plea, the bench posted the hearing for July 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/explain-reasons-for-covid-deaths-in-civil-hospital-bombay-hc-asks-jalgaon-administration/story-ca68NPsleVfPwQJIHh09KK.html
26-06-2020||City||Minor who was sexually assaulted by cousin dies||A 14-year-old girl from Badlapur, who was sexually assaulted by her cousin last week, succumbed to injuries on Thursday. The accused, a 21-year-old, had also tried to strangle her. The accused, however, is still absconding. Badlapur police had earlier booked the accused for sexual harassment and attempt to murder and now have booked him for murder and sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code.The incident took place on June 19, when the accused was alone with the minor at her home in Badlapur (East). The minor’s father, in his complaint, said the girl was found unconscious in the house and the neighbours saw the accused flee. The family claimed that the accused was with the girl for more than half-an-hour with the door locked, and added that when the neighbours called out to the minor, he panicked and ran away. The girl’s mother said, “My seven-year-old son was at home when this boy entered and asked him to leave. My son heard voice of my daughter after which he started banging on the door and called some neighbours. Almost for 15 minutes, he was inside and later he opened the door, pushed my son away and fled. I later saw my daughter was unconscious.”The police had initially registered a case of attempt to murder. However, after the family said the medical reports of the girl showed sexual assault, the charge was added. Deputy commissioner of police P Shewale confirmed that the girl has died and said, “Our teams are searching for the accused. He was last traced to Nashik. Our team has reached Nashik, but couldn’t find him. We have registered a case of murder against him and will soon be able to find him.”The minor’s mother said, “She was admitted to KEM Hospital. She opened her eyes twice and cried, but could not speak. She stopped responding for the past two to three days, and died late on Wednesday night.”According to her mother, the accused had earlier asked for the girl’s hand for marriage. They had opposed the marriage, which enraged the accused. The minor’s uncle said, “I want the police to take strict action. And if city police can’t handle the case, they should hand it over to the crime branch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-who-was-sexually-assaulted-by-cousin-dies/story-IMAkHHUjYLBRaT2yOo6JhM.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Major fires break out in 3 places in the city; no casualties||Major fire broke out in three different places in the city on Thursday — a godown in Marol, a bank in Nariman Point and a commercial complex in Lower Parel — giving a tough time to the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB). No casualties were reported in any of incidents. However, a fire brigade personnel who took part in the fire-fighting operation at Marol was found to be Covid-19 positive after he was taken to a hospital as he fainted. In the first incident, a level-two fire (medium intensity) was reported at Nand-Dham Industrial estate in Marol, Andheri around 12.50am. According to MFB, the fire was confined to the ground floor godown which was equipped with electric wiring, electric installation and contained wooden furniture, office window AC, office records, office files, hydraulic compressor machine and hydraulic cylinder. Five fire engines and seven jumbo tankers were pressed into service here. The fire was brought under control at around 4am.A fire personnel was taken to Nanavati Hospital after he fainted during fire-fighting operation and he tested positive for Covid-19. A senior fire official said, “He has developed pneumatic patches in his lungs as it was observed in CT scan. His condition is stable and he is under observation.”In the second incident, a level-two fire was reported at around 5.21am inside a bank at Jolly Make Chamber located in Nariman Point, according to MFB. Prabhat Rahangdale, chief fire officer of MFB, said, “The fire is confined to electric wiring, electric installation, office furniture, computers, office records, important documents and false ceiling in an area about 4,000 square foot of Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait along with the server room on the ground floor of the commercial complex.” Five fire engines and four jumbo tankers were sent to control the fire.Rahangdale said, “No one was trapped inside as learnt from the public, and nobody is reported to be injured. The fire was brought under control at 7am, however cooling operations are ongoing.” The fire at both the places were extinguished by noon.Just two hours after this, a major fire broke out at the ground floor of a ground-plus-two-storey commercial structure at Raghuvanshi Mills in Lower Parel around 9.28am.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar after reaching the spot told media, “The offices in the building where the fire broke out was shut for a long time and fortunately, no injuries have been reported. Fire officials are suspecting short-circuit since the building was vacant. Fire-fighters are now trying to find the place where the fire broke out as heavy smoke has logged all three floors.”The intensity of this fire was the highest at level four. Fourteen fire engines and nine jumbo tankers were brought in to douse the fire and it was brought under control by 4pm. Rahangdale said they used thermal imaging camera to spot the exact area of the fire.Worli MLA Aaditya Thackeray said a strict audit would be carried out at Raghuvanshi Mills. He tweeted, “The fire in Raghuvanshi Mills has been doused. There’s been no casualty as it was shut, but strict audit implementation will be carried out in all the buildings inside the compound.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/major-fires-break-out-in-3-places-in-the-city-no-casualties/story-iLnFWMtJFcb9PchyrvEZtM.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government begins admission process for 1 lakh RTE students||In relief for more than one lakh students in the state, the education department on Thursday commenced the admission process for students eligible under the 25% Right to Education (RTE) quota in schools. Over the next few days, parents whose children have won seats under the quota through the lottery will receive text messages with date and time slots to submit their documents in selected schools.“They will submit documents and receive provisional admissions on the given dates,” said an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) education department that oversees RTE admissions in Mumbai.Students who have been admitted provisionally can start attending online classes which are being conducted by schools. The new academic year for schools in the state began on June 15. With RTE admissions still pending, these students had been missing out on classes.This year, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the department has asked schools to grant provisional admissions, based on an undertaking signed by parents that their submitted documents are genuine. Usually, a screening committee looks at the applications before they are sent to schools.A total of 14,135 students have applied for seats reserved under RTE in Mumbai this academic year, of which 5,371 students have been allotted schools through the online lottery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-begins-admission-process-for-1-lakh-rte-students/story-kYJTE9J3MDlc6vkJe0maxL.html
26-06-2020||City||Woman assaults 9-year-old daughter over broken eggs, arrested||Panvel police on Wednesday arrested a 30-year-old beautician for allegedly assaulting her nine-year-old daughter and branding her with a hot tawa after the girl accidentally broke a few eggs. The beautician’s mother filed the complaint stating that the woman would frequently assault the girl over petty reasons.The family of three lives in Tapal Naka in Panvel at a rented apartment. The girl’s grandmother, who works as a cleaning staff with a hospital, told the police the accused assaulted the girl with a rolling pin and also branded her with a hot tawa which led to several bruises.In her complaint, the 58-year-old said they had purchased a dozen eggs on Sunday, of which the girl ate three while the rest fell off the kitchen counter after she accidentally knocked it over.A police officer from Panvel police station said, “The grandmother left for work on Wednesday noon but fearing that the accused would hit her granddaughter over the broken eggs, she returned home early around 4pm. However, the accused had already assaulted the girl and inflicted bruises on her.”After finding the girl with injuries, the grandmother took her to the hospital where she works. Following treatment, the doctors advised her to inform the police.“The accused claimed she suffers from depression and has been frustrated due to lockdown. We arrested her last night and we will produce her in the court today [Thursday],” said inspector Shatrugan Mali.Police said the girl has been treated for her injuries and is at home with her grandmother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-assaults-9-year-old-daughter-over-broken-eggs-arrested/story-mzg40rvmBSq3uQ8yVwM92I.html
26-06-2020||City||Mother kills 3-year-old daughter, self in Jawhar||A 30-year-old tribal woman killed her three-year-old daughter before ending her own life in Jawhar, Palghar district, on Wednesday. Police have posthumously charged the woman with murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and are investigating further.Appasaheb Lengare, inspector, Jawhar police station, said that while they have not confirmed the motive for the murder-suicide, they suspect that poverty may have been the reason.According to police, the woman lived in a hut in Dera gaon in Jawhar with her husband, a daily-wage worker, and their two daughters aged three and seven. She and her younger daughter were missing since June 22.“Since the lockdown, the husband was unable to earn a livelihood. He was also an alcoholic,” said Lengare. “We were informed by the sarpanch that the two bodies were found near a hill, a kilometre from the woman’s hut by some tribals who had gone to collect firewood,” he added.Police have sent the bodies for post mortem to the Jawhar rural hospital and are awaiting the report.Meanwhile, ex-MLA Vivek Pandit, president of pro-tribal outfit Shramjeevi Sanghatana, who is also the chairman of the state government-appointed committee to review tribal welfare schemes, said that there was a dire need for the government to provide help to tribals during the Covid-19 lockdown. “On March 17, I had informed the government that tribals and farm labourers would die of starvation instead of Covid-19,” said Pandit.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mother-kills-3-year-old-daughter-self-in-jawhar/story-OFXKHHC1tAj113Wy9wvH6H.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Vegetable vendor held for 70-year-old’s murder||Hill Line police in Ulhasnagar have arrested a 32-year-old vegetable vendor from Vasar village in Ambernath for allegedly murdering a septuagenarian on June 18. According to the police, the accused – Ganesh Vitthal Dhudeshiya – had suffered business losses during the lockdown and could not return ₹5,000, which he had borrowed from the 70-year-old victim.On June 19, the police had recovered the body of Shejumal Kerumal Ramnani, 70, from an isolated location in Vasar village. Ramnani had been strangled to death using a metal wire, according to the police. The Hill Line police station had filed a case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against an unknown person.The crime branch unit of Ulhasnagar had formed a special team to investigate the case. The police had found CCTV footages of the crime spot and also questioned several people from the village.“We zeroed in on one person and based on inputs from our sources, we had laid a trap to nab him when he was coming to the village. After nabbing him, we had also seized the motorcycle used by the accused to commit the crime,” said a Hill Line police station officer, who did not wish to be named.Dhudeshiya had revealed during the questioning that before the lockdown was announced, he had borrowed ₹5,000 from Ramnani and had agreed to return it soon. However, Dudheshiya’s vegetable business suffered during the lockdown and he could not return the money, but Ramnani kept asking him for the money.“The accused claimed that the victim had abused him and repeatedly kept asking him to return the money. This had irked Dhudeshiya and he planned to murder the Ramnani. On June 18, he had asked Ramnani to meet him to take back his money. He Ramnani to a secluded place in the village on his motorcycle and strangled him to death with the wire,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vegetable-vendor-held-for-70-year-old-s-murder/story-Q4G1vlkXiIlk8z0ECLRJlJ.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Activist seeks postponement of MLC elections||Complaining about extremely low registration of voters in Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies, a political activist from Pune has moved the Bombay high court (HC), seeking postponement of elections to the Maharashtra state Legislative Council (MLC) from these constituencies.Laxman Chavan, president of Prajasattak Bharat Paksha, has also sought a direction to the Election Commission of India (ECI) to not hold the elections till at least 50℅ of graduates from these constituencies are registered as voters.In Maharashtra, of the total 78 members of the Legislative Council, 31 are elected by members of the Legislative Assembly, 21 by elected representatives from local authorities, 12 are nominated by the Governor, and seven each are elected by graduates and teachers from Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Konkan, Aurangabad, Nagpur, and Amravati divisions.In the public interest litigation (PIL) filed through advocate Asim Sarode, Chavan pointed out that on September 5, 2016, ECI has issued clear instructions to all chief electoral officers to take special efforts to ensure that every eligible person is duly enrolled. They were ordered to facilitate the online filing of application forms, give wide publicity to the process of revision of electoral rolls, and set up special counters for collection of applications. Besides, they were also instructed to use voter registration centres for Assembly elections to get voters enrolled for the Council elections.Chavan complained that these instructions are not being followed in Maharashtra because of which the ratio of registered voters to the population of the constituencies has remained abysmally low.His petition offered Pune graduates’ constituency as an example. The population of the constituency, which comprises all five districts of Western Maharashtra, is 2.34 crore, including 1.94 crore educated individuals. However, the number of registered voters here is as low as 3.08 lakh – 1.58 ℅ of the total population.Similarly, in Nagpur constituency, barely 1.22 lakh graduates (1.23 ℅ of the total population) of 1.17 crore are registered as voters. In Aurangabad constituency, the percentage of voters is 2.48℅. Here, 3.55 lakh graduates are registered as voters, against the total population of 1.87 crore, with 1.43 crore educated individuals.The PIL adds that in 2014 when elections were held in these three constituencies, only in Nagpur, 60.14℅ of the registered voters exercised their right to vote. Aurangabad and Pune constituencies recorded a very low turnout of 34.03 ℅ and 25.78℅, respectively.Chavan also complained that hardly any efforts are made to ensure voter registration for graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies, whereas revision of voter lists for Assembly elections is almost a continuous process.He added that for the forthcoming elections, new applications were invited in January but the final list has not been published yet, despite the terms of the elected members from the three graduates’ constituencies coming to an end in July.The PIL is scheduled to come up for hearing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/activist-seeks-postponement-of-mlc-elections/story-M4jHXU2fGCfwTgB0coDOfN.html
26-06-2020||City||Cop suspended for not filing cases against prawn thieves||Assistant police inspector (API) Raju Narwade has been suspended by Dattaray Shinde, superintendent of police (SP) Palghar, on Wednesday, for not taking cognisance of the complaints about ‘prawn thieves’. Narwade was in charge of Kelwe coastal police station which has scores of prawn farms under its jurisdiction. The officer has been suspended with immediate effect and API Mansinh Patil, formerly with the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Palghar, has been given charge of Kelwe police station, said Shinde.On 16 June, a mob of around 125 men and women entered a prawn farm owned by Anant Govind Patil of Jalsar-Tembhikodave village and looted 300kg prawns worth nearly ₹1 lakh. When Patil went to lodge a complaint, API Narwade turned him away and reprimanded him for not employing security guards at his farm. He also said the police have other work to do instead of guarding prawn farms spread over 250 acres in Saphale, said a police source.In another case, a group of 16 dacoits in boats entered a prawn farm at Khardi-Dativare owned by Nachiket Patil of Pune and attacked the watchmen and other labourers at the farm with sickles, knives and stones, and stole around 65kg prawns worth around ₹60,000 on June 18. Narwade, who received a written complaint from an employee of the prawn firm, did not register an FIR.When the SP got to know about the developments, he ordered API Narwade to register a case under section 395 (dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code on June 23. Six accused have been arrested in the case, and more arrests are likely.Citing that API Narwade did not take serious note of dacoity in prawn farms, the SP suspended him on Wednesday, said a PRO of Palghar police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-suspended-for-not-filing-cases-against-prawn-thieves/story-cWUMw8okURqEBy0rWybxIN.html
26-06-2020||City||KDMC lists 6 unauthorised schools||The education department of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Thursday declared a list of six schools which are not approved by the state government in a bid to make parents aware before the start of the new academic year. The circular released by the department stated that parents should not enrol their children in these schools.“Every year, we make a list of these schools to ensure that those taking admissions in these schools are aware that it is not recognised by the government. Until we get proper papers citing that they have permission, we continue to include their name in the list and alert the school to stop functioning,” E Tadvi, education officer, KDMC, said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-lists-6-unauthorised-schools/story-4IKaSqGQqfxqFbKGZC58TM.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Boat with 10K litres of diesel seized, accused flee||In a major crackdown against diesel mafia operation in sea around the Mumbai harbour, the property cell of Mumbai Police’s crime branch along with the Port zone team conducted surveillance and patrolling on Thursday wee hours and seized a boat and 10,000 litres of diesel. Four to five accused who were on a boat managed to flee.Police got information that some people from Dadar village in Raigad are involved in diesel smuggling. They brought diesel from cargo ships in Uran at a low price, three times lower than the market rate, and sold to fishermen and others at slightly less than market price, said police inspector Kedari Pawar of the property cell. Following the tip-off, a police team of property cell along with Port zone hired a private boat and started conducting surveillance and patrolling and around 2am on Thursday spotted a suspicious boat. Police then chased the boat from Hay Bunder to till Ghaslet Bunder, added Pawar.The accused then left the boat in mangroves, jumped into water and fled. There were four to five people on the boat, said Pawar. “The boat and around 10,000 litres of diesel have been seized. After inquiring with the people in the village, we have identified two accused, Jahangir and Gulam,” said Pawar. The police are trying to identify the other accused and nab them, added a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/boat-with-10k-litres-of-diesel-seized-accused-flee/story-wE4FuzysZLAHyoPKZU4a6H.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay’s autumn semester classes to be conducted online||In view of the Covid-19 outbreak in the country the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has decided to go completely online to conduct the classes for the next semester of the new academic year.The institute’s senate on Wednesday had decided that the autumn semester will be conducted online in the interest of the students’ safety. Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B, said that the senate’s decision to conduct online classes is applicable only for the autumn semester. “Online classes could entail classes in all possible virtual forms. The modality for each lecture will be decided by the course instructor,” said Chaudhuri.The institute has been shut since March 14, followed by the announcement of an early summer vacation from April 1 to May 31. However, owing to continuing lockdown, classes haven’t resumed yet. While the classes for the spring semester of 2020 had been concluded prior to the lockdown, the exams for the semester were pending.On May 17, the administration announced an elaborate scheme to do away with spring semester exams and promote students based on their scores of the previous semester.Now with the autumn semester set to begin soon, the institute administration is making all possible efforts to equip students for online classes.In a first-of-its-kind campaign, the administration has been raising funds through crowdsourcing to provide information technology (IT) hardware such as laptops and broadband connectivity to students from marginalised communities. The institute aims to raise ₹5 crore through donations for the purpose. “Our alumni have already provided a decent amount, but we still need more to make sure that no student is left out,” said Chaudhuri. Donors will be entitled to tax benefits under section 80G of the Income Tax Act. Meanwhile, around 70 final-year undergraduate and post-graduate students, who are currently residing in hostels due to the lockdown, have been asked to vacate the hostel premises to make room for students from the next academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-s-autumn-semester-classes-to-be-conducted-online/story-KJqqPDPKakEXxm7IN97WVO.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Crocodile rescued from Aarey; second case in 9 days||A three-foot female sub-adult crocodile weighing 2.72 kg was rescued from an artificial pond near Royal Palms in Aarey Colony, Goregaon on Wednesday. On June 15, a one-foot juvenile marsh crocodile weighing 700 grams was rescued from the same spot, making this the second rescue within a span of nine days. Marsh crocodiles are protected under schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972The wildlife rescue team, NGO Wildlife Welfare Association (WWA), said the area was an abandoned construction site near one of the bungalows at Royal Palms where an excavated area was converted into a 10 to 12-foot-deep artificial pond.“We set up a trap on Tuesday night by placing fishing nets by dividing the pond into three sections. On Wednesday, as the crocodile moved closer to the surface of the pond, it got trapped,” said Aditya Patil, president, WWA. “The reptile was safely rescued using a grasper net and was found healthy after a medical check-up.”Forest officials said both the crocodiles were kept under observation at Thane Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (TSPCA). “They will be released in the wild soon,” said Jitendra Ramgaonkar, deputy conservator of forest, Thane.WWA members said this may be a case of pet trade wherein hatchlings were picked up from nearby crocodile habitats and kept in isolated areas to be illegally sold. “This unethical relocation has been spotted across parts of Mumbai and Thane over the years where crocs have been seized. Better monitoring of source habitats such as Vihar, Tulsi, and Powai lakes is needed,” said Patil.Ramgaonkar, however, said the department has not come to any conclusions yet. Range forest officer (Mumbai) Santosh Kank said, “We are investigating whether these reptiles are using pipelines to move or are naturally pushed to such areas as lakes swell during monsoon. However, relocation by humans is ruled out.”Herpetologist Kedar Bhide had a similar view. “Our work in Savitri river, Mahad (Raigad) has shown crocodile dispersal as far as 3km to isolated ponds. So this is possible from Vihar or Tulsi lakes to Aarey. There are less chances of them being relocated by people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crocodile-rescued-from-aarey-second-case-in-9-days/story-sI1i0O2Ene6BfV5rmyVxmM.html
26-06-2020||City||Stay on Navi Mumbai civic commissioner’s transfer order?||In a major twist, Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal on Thursday said his transfer order has been cancelled.The state on Tuesday had issued transfer orders for Misal and some other municipal commissioners amid the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases. The order stated that Misal would be replaced by 2008 batch India Administrative Services (IAS) officer Abhijit Bangar. Bangar reportedly came to Navi Mumbai on Wednesday to take charge, but returned after the transfer was stayed. Confirming the development, Misal said, “I never went anywhere, so there is no question on being back. I will continue to take measures to fight the Covid-19 outbreak in the city which is witnessing rising cases.”Sources privy to the development claim that there is a political angle to the stay on the transfer. “There was unhappiness among certain sections about the new appointment. Thus, there were efforts on the political front to stop the transfer,” a source said.According to another source, Misal pointed out to his superiors that he had taken charge only 11 months ago in July last year and it would be injustice to transfer him in a short span of time. “We will take up contact-tracing and conduct rapid tests. We will also strictly implement the norms in containment zones to ensure there is social distancing. I urge all residents to cooperate with us,” the civic commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stay-on-navi-mumbai-civic-commissioner-s-transfer-order/story-27kacnxzHQQt3Ff28B0OGI.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||‘20 workers at Deonar waste treatment unit had to resign over discrimination’||With the outbreak of Covid-19, a major issue for the city has been the management of biomedical and associated waste. Fear of infection has led to frontline workers being stigmatised and 20 sanitation workers at the common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWFT) in Deonar quit following discrimination from neighbours. The CBWFT incinerates all Covid-19 and non Covid-19 biomedical waste (BMW), which is managed as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) protocol.Covid-19 waste includes used masks, head and shoe covers, disposable gowns and coveralls as well as associated waste, like leftover food, disposable plates and used tissues of Covid-19 patients.All of the city’s Covid-19 waste passes through the Deonar landfill before reaching private operator SMS Envocare for incineration. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officers said the landfill is operating a no-contact approach followed by deep burial. Daily, 140 vehicles dump waste at Deonar. They are sprayed with sodium hypochlorite solution when they enter the site. Sandesh Lanke, sub-engineer at Deonar, said each day, least two pits that are 10-12-foot deep and 25 feet wide are dug by labourers. Vehicles dump the waste in the pits and then cover the pits with debris. “This way we avoid any contamination,” said Lanke, adding that Covid-19 tests and thermal screening are carried out regularly. So far, two security guards and six labourers at the landfill have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, but all of them have recovered and reported duty again, said Lanke.SMS Envocare, appointed by BMC to collect and incinerate the city’s daily waste, received 9 tons of Covid-19 waste and 6 tons of associated biomedical waste between June 1 and June 14. “From June 15-June 25, this waste increased to 12 tons for Covid-19 waste and 8 tons of BMW,” said Anup Nilawar, director, SMS Envocare.Nilawar said no SMS Envocare workers had contracted Covid-19 and confirmed that 20 frontline sanitation workers had quit in the past two months. “Some quit for fear of contracting the virus. Most workers have concealed that they work at a waste treatment facility. However, those who disclosed their profession faced a major backlash, which has been demoralising, especially as they are the real Covid-19 warriors,” said Nilawar.SMS Envocare said it is spending over Rs. 1 lakh per day, over and above their daily operational cost. “We started a separate Covid-19 allowance for all 386 workers. We have increased daily wages, providing incentives and purchasing additional PPE kits,” said Nilawar. “Those doing overtime are also given special allowances daily. All workers are regularly being counselled and daily health check-ups are organised.”CPCB has urged citizens to help with waste segregation to minimise risk of environmental damage. “We are asking citizens to cut their masks, face shields, gloves etc. into pieces and collect as a part of the dry waste itself. This will go to the waste-to-energy plant in Kanjurmarg and very little, if at all, will be sent to the Deonar landfill,” said B Vinod Babu, nodal officer, CPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-workers-at-deonar-waste-treatment-unit-had-to-resign-over-discrimination/story-AaVcOCymo2U6gmFSqUheHK.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Central team to visit Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana to chalk out new Covid management plan||The Centre will send a team of experts to three big states — Maharashtra, Gujarat and Telangana — that have emerged as key concerns in the Centre’s Covid-19 management plan.The team will visit Maharashtra on Friday, Gujarat on Saturday and spend the next two days in Telangana. India’s worst-affected state, Maharashtra, is reporting an average of 3,500 new cases and analysts believe it will soon become the first state with 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases. The state’s total cases till Wednesday stood at 1,42,900.While Maharashtra’s silver lining is that the case doubling rate now stands at 23 days, its fatality rate however is 3.7 — much higher than the national average.Unlike the previous tour, the national team of experts will not concentrate on Mumbai, but tour the districts of Pune, Thane and Palghar. “These three districts have seen a sudden rise in the number of cases. The central team will assist in plugging the loopholes and help the state formulate new strategies, if required,” said an official.Also read | 3 more cops die of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, force’s death toll climbs to 54After Maharashtra, the team will go to Gujarat and will tour Ahmedabad, among other areas. According to the government data, Gujarat has been reporting about 530 new cases everyday and has a fatality rate of 6%. “Ahmedabad is a cause for concern,” another official said.Meanwhile, Telangana, which tested at a slow pace initially, has now picked up the testing rate. The state now reports an average of 550 cases per day, but has the quickest doubling rate among the three states.“Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra are getting doubled in 23 days, while Gujarat takes 33 days for cases to double. However, in Telangana, cases are doubling in just 8.5 days,” said another official.The Centre has told all the states to not shy away from reporting high Covid-19 figures, but the implementation of health norms, including social distance, proper sealing of containment zones, use of masks, should be proper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-team-to-visit-thane-and-palghar-to-chalk-out-new-plans/story-8KSM1giTyFAk8IjdwKnWtO.html
26-06-2020||City||Panchkula crosses 100 mark in 97 days, 70% cases in June alone||Over three months after the district confirmed its first Covid-19 case, the number of cases crossed the 100 mark on Thursday with four more people testing positive.Panchkula now has 103 confirmed cases, of which 50 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 53 active cases. There has been no fatality.In the tricity, Chandigarh was the first to confirm 100 cases on May 4, followed by Mohali on May 11. The tally of both cities has since reached 423 and 236, respectively.Among the latest patients in Panchkula are a 30-year-old woman and her 10-year-old daughter, residents of Chandimandir. Her husband has been tested and the result is awaited. The family had returned from Delhi on June 23.A 29-year-old man from Sector 20 was also found infected. He is a contact of a positive patient in Mohali. The fourth patient is a 30-year-old man, who recently travelled to Uttar Pradesh. A resident of Kot village, he works in a factory that manufacturers steel components for locomotives and had been travelling to Uttar Pradesh for work. His primary contacts have been traced and isolated at home, and will be sampled.Cases soared in JuneSignificantly, 73 of the 103 cases (70.8%) were confirmed in June alone. It took the district 97 days to reach the 103 mark on June 25 since its first case on March 21.The first positive case was reported on March 21 when a 38-year-old salon worker living in Kharak Mangoli village came in contact with Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient. She was discharged on April 11.Between March 21 and May 21, the district recorded 25 more cases, after which it had zero cases for 12 days till June 3, when a resident of Sector 12A tested positive following a visit to Delhi. A day later, his 19-year-old son, who had accompanied him on the trip, was also found infected.This was followed by eight new cases till June 8, and another 16 cases in the following week till June 15. Since then, as of June 25, 51 persons have tested positive.Most cases have travel historyThe 73 patients found positive in June are either those who have travelled to Panchkula or came in contact with people with travel history.The district administration has already made home 14-day home quarantine mandatory for any person visiting Panchkula for over 24 hours. Government employees attending office in the district have been exempted. The district administration has also roped in the RWAs and NGOs to report outsiders at 1950 helpline.“There was a gradual increase till June. But, we are prepared for the surge in cases,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.“Better screening and testing will add to the count, but will definitely help us deal with the situation. Teachers and police are aiding the efforts of the health department,” she added. She said more government and private colleges will be used as Covid care centres.“More Covid care facilities have been prepared, so that the hospital can focus on moderate to severe cases,” Dr Kaur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-crosses-100-mark-in-97-days-70-cases-in-june-alone/story-WOhBcaKelHcFcji23qWnMK.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||60-year-old man mauled to death by tiger in TATR buffer zone||A 60-year-old man was killed after a tiger attacked him on Thursday at the Mul range in the buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur.This takes the tally of human deaths due to tiger attacks in the state to 24 between January and June this year with 16 deaths reported from Chandrapur alone. In 2019 there were 26 deaths and 25 deaths were reported in 2018.There have been 40 human deaths in the state due to animal attacks this year including tigers, leopards, sloth bears etc. In the latest case, Ramesh Bhimrao Veladi, a cattle grazer from Katwan village, was mauled to death by the tiger in the afternoon, said forest officials. “This is the first human death reported in the Mul range in over the past two years. Based on our inquiry, it seems that the tiger was about to attack and kill his cattle when he may have come in the way while trying to protect his cattle. We found his body in compartment number 767 at 2pm,” said G Guruprasad, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), TATR buffer. “The man had permission and a pass for cattle grazing in the buffer area.”The forest department on Thursday gave a compensation of ₹30,000 to the family. “The remaining ₹14.7 lakh will be given following his autopsy report and other formalities,” said Guruprasad.HT had, on June 12, reported that the state chief wildlife warden had warned of increasing human-animal conflict cases in Chandrapur which is home to over 170 of 312 tigers in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/60-year-old-man-mauled-to-death-by-tiger-in-tatr-buffer-zone/story-2J9RHlVamKW4SeBpyUceYL.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Realty sales in Mumbai Metropolitan Region dip 74% this quarter, reveals survey||Not a single realty project was launched in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in the second quarter (April to June) of the year owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown. The sales in the region, too, saw a decline of 74% from the previous quarter (January to March) and 83% from the second quarter of 2019, a survey conducted by real estate consultancy firm ANAROCK Property Consultants revealed.Many real estate experts termed this period as one of the worst phases in the history of the sector. “A massive drop both in new launches as well as in home sales was expected owing to a complete lockdown for most of this quarter,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of ANAROCK. Puri said 3,620 properties were sold across MMR this quarter, but their deals were fixed before the lockdown and only formalities were completed in these three months. This a sharp decline from the 13,910 apartments sold in the region in the first quarter.According to the Builders Association of India (BAI), it was not possible for any developer to launch a project in the April-June period. “There was a massive negative sentiment [in the market] and all activities were paralysed. Our own offices were shut and there was no way we could have arranged site visits for homebuyers,” said Anand Gupta, committee member, BAI. He added that there would be fewer launches in the coming months too, owing to the weak economic conditions. “We are seeing job retrenchments and salary cuts. In such a scenario, a prospective homebuyer will not prefer taking a plunge and hence builders will be very cautious over launching new projects,” said Gupta. According to Puri, instead of new launches, builders will be focusing on completing their ongoing projects.The sector has been plagued by slowdown in the past few years, with buyers finding it difficult to buy properties owing to the exorbitant pricing. With the lockdown, the situation has worsened for the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/realty-sales-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-dip-74-this-quarter-reveals-survey/story-oYgTGph74lNlMgH0Z0CozN.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s civic hospitals see a rise in vacant beds||With the gradual dip in Covid-19 cases in the city, the number of vacant beds has jumped by 18 percentage points, compared to the first week of June, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data. Also, civic-run hospitals are reporting a gradual decrease in critically ill Covid-19 patients.On June 6, a total of 9,092 beds were reserved for Covid-19 patients in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) and Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC). Of these, 8,570 beds were occupied and 522 were vacant. Anticipating a rise in cases, BMC increased the bed strength by over 3,000 in the past 18 days. Currently, BMC has 12,130 beds in these hospitals, of which 2,923 beds are available.“With faster recovery rate and considerably fewer cases, more beds are available now. Many patients, especially those who are on ventilator support, were admitted earlier,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, part of the state’s Covid-19 task force. A majority of the vacant beds are in the intensive care unit (ICU), the capacity of which was recently increased to 1,362 from 1,102 beds. HT had reported how only nine ICU beds were available in the first week of June. As of June 24, 108 ICU beds (7.9%) are available.Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, Parel, said 25% of their total beds are currently unoccupied, up from zero vacancy on June 6. This despite the civic hospital receiving a majority of critical patients.Similarly, Dr Ramesh Bharmal, in-charge of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion Hospital, said the pressure has reduced. “The situation is better than earlier when we were struggling to arrange for beds. Now, we have 30-40 beds vacant on a daily basis,” he said. Data from BMC shows that 5,901 patients are on beds with oxygen facilities, compared to 3,424 such patients on June 6.Explaining the surge, Dr Akash Khobragade, medical superintendent of the government-run St George Hospital, said, “Mild and moderate patients with breathing difficulties are usually kept on oxygen support. As the number of such cases has increased, they are occupying more beds with oxygen support, which in a way a good sign as the fatality rate among them is the lowest.”Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert, however, said there was no uniformity in the availability of beds. The crisis of beds is getting more severe towards suburbs such as Kandivli and Borivli, where cases are gradually increasing. “The cases in south Mumbai have plateaued, but it hasn’t happened all across the city. Now, the load of patients has increased in suburban areas where hospitals like Shatabdi and Bhagwati are struggling to meet the demand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-civic-hospitals-see-a-rise-in-vacant-beds/story-e04Qa8VLgkWE8p4sUCatuK.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||HC disposes PIL after all migrant workers from Aurangabad sent back home||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) which was initiated following reports of migrant workers undertaking dangerous journeys to go back to their hometowns. After the district administration informed the court that all migrants kept in 218 relief camps across the district had been repatriated to their hometowns and some of the camps were being converted into Covid care centres, the court expressed its satisfaction and disposed of the PIL.A division bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice RG Avachat, while hearing the suo motu PIL through video-conferencing, was informed by the state on Tuesday that every single migrant worker sheltered in the 218 relief camps across Marathwada and Aurangabad had been repatriated to their hometowns. The state further submitted that some of the camps were being converted into Covid care centres. In April, a bench of the Aurangabad HC had taken cognisance of the plight of migrant workers who were forced to undertake long journeys on foot to reach their hometowns after they lost their sources of income in Aurangabad and adjoining districts due to the lockdown. The court had initiated the suo motu PIL and appointed advocate Amol Joshi to inform the court of the suffering of migrant workers and the needy. The Aurangabad district administration was also directed to initiate immediate measures to address the issue.While the district administration set up temporary shelters to house migrants and needy persons where they were provided with basic essentials, medical facilities and protective gear, it came to light that health workers were being harassed by locals residents who feared that they may spread the virus.The administration informed the court that all the migrants had been put on the trains arranged by the state and sent back home and that the shelter homes were vacant.The bench had also directed the district administration to provide protection to doctors and health workers. Following this, local politicians and nongovernment organisations were roped in and health workers and doctors were provided with personal protective equipment.After hearing the submissions made by the authorities related to migrant and health workers, the court stated that the purpose of PIL was served and disposed of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-disposes-pil-after-all-migrant-workers-from-aurangabad-sent-back-home/story-oajs0UM9Nbc4mMH8ZXyc0I.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Foetus died of haemorrhagic shock, had injury marks around head, neck||The post-mortem of the eight-month-old foetus, recovered from Sector 17 on Tuesday along with the severed feet of a woman, revealed that the cause of death was haemorrhagic shock (extreme blood loss). Police sources said the post-mortem report also revealed that there was injury marks around the head and neck of the foetus.The police, meanwhile, are scanning the records of pregnant women to gather more clues. Apart from this, midwives are also been questioned.Cops are also scanning the mobile dump data and closed circuit television cameras in the area. The detailed post-mortem report of the feet recovered is yet to be received by the police. The preliminary postmortem report had already indicated that the woman was killed before her feet were chopped off.The incident had come to light on Tuesday when a bank employee had spotted one foot, wrapped in a newspaper, along the cycle track near Press light point in Sector 17, when he was taking a walk post lunch. He immediately sounded the police, which later discovered the other foot and a foetus from the bushes nearby. The case has been lodged against unidentified persons under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/foetus-died-of-haemorrhagic-shock-had-injury-marks-around-head-neck/story-TycU2mDfTEK1jxzJ4tbBDO.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH, PGI have no plans to resume OPD services||With no immediate plans to resume OPD services, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, is focusing on providing tele-consultation services to patients.The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has also yet to decide on reopening its OPDs.In a press release, GMCH authorities said, “Although it is impractical to start the routine OPD services due to the pandemic, keeping in mind the patients’ needs, GMCH is committed to providing consultation to non-Covid patients through telemedicine and consultation facility.”The daily consultation in different clinics through telemedicine is provided to approximately 200 patients every day from 9.30am to 1pm, except on Sunday and gazetted holidays. Since April 28, more than 2,300 patients have availed of these services. Among them, 30.2% were fresh registrations and 69.7% old patients. “Most patients, 1,090 (47.3%), are from Chandigarh, followed by Punjab at 691 (30.0%) and Haryana at 397 (17.2%),” said Dr BS Chavan, director-principal, GMCH. “The functioning of telemedicine facility is a wise step to avoid congregation of patients at the hospital and ensures social distancing. It is also saving patients from unnecessary commute. As per the feedback received, the patients who are unable to visit the hospital due to Covid outbreak are finding these services very useful. Those who are found to require either physical examination or admission are being advised to report to the hospital,” the hospital spokesperson said. Meanwhile, PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “We will take the decision to reopen the OPDs once the graph of Covid cases drops. Abruptly opening OPDs will lead to huge rush of patients and social distancing norms will go for a toss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-pgi-have-no-plans-to-resume-opd-services/story-229fJ1FzOjLSH54zQ0FK8O.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Touchless hand sanitiser dispensing machine developed by Panjab University student||A second-year mechanical engineering student of Panjab University’s University Institute of Engineering (UIET), Arjun Mittal, has developed a touchless sanitiser dispensing machine. The machine costs Rs 500 and is instrumented with an active infrared sensor, small pump and transistor as switch to operate a small pump based on the signal of an active infrared sensor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/touchless-hand-sanitiser-dispensing-machine-developed-by-panjab-university-student/story-m9dKRIZ5zdMNukoMml6DhN.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh Police cops suspended||An assistant sub-inspector and a constable of the UT Police were suspended on Thursday.While ASI Balkar Singh is posted at the Sector 3 police station, constable Sandeep is deployed with the crime branch.ASI Balkar was suspended for negligent handling of his service weapon. He had suffered an injury in his foot after his service weapon accidentally went off at his house in Sector 20 on the intervening night of June 22 and 23. He was taken to GMSH, Sector 16, for the injury, and later referred to PGIMER. Balkar had maintained that he was changing clothes after returning from duty when his service weapon fired accidentally, leaving him injured.He was suspended following a report by the Sector 3 SHO and a DSP. “Handling of the weapon is part of training of all police personnel and Balkar was found negligent in it,” said a senior officer, not willing to be named.Constable Sandeep was suspended after he entered the house of DSP Gurmukh Singh in Sector 19 in an inebriated state on June 23 and misbehaved. During preliminary inquiry, Sandeep said he intended to go to the house of his colleague in Sector 20, but entered the DSP’s house by mistake. Both have been sent to the police lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-police-cops-suspended/story-gVMMToT2OZQjjh7Ts1gIFN.html
26-06-2020||City||Main accused in fake petrol pump dealership case gets bail||The main accused in the fake petrol pump dealership case was let off on bail after the police submitted before a Mohali court that they have nothing more to interrogate and the accused furnished bail bonds worth Rs 1 lakh on Thursday. The accused Mahinder Singh, 25, was arrested following the disclosure statement of Asif Khan, 38, a native of Jhansi, nabbed by the cybercrime cell of Mohali police along with Braham Prakash, 41, and Jatinder Singh, 29, of Gwalior, and Akash Singh, 25, of Uttar Pradesh on charges of duping people. Mohinder was arrested on May 23 and since then was in judicial custody.Cyber-crime cell deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi said that after the arrest of the five gangsters, police recovered Rs 4.9 lakh cash from their possession along with a Scorpio car, two laptops, many mobile phones, SIM cards, and 21 bank accounts which have been sealed and Rs 2.5 lakh from the bank accounts, which have been freezed. She said the modus operandi was to float a fake website and lure people to invest in petrol pump dealerships. The accused made around Rs 1 crore out of it. With their arrest, many people have been saved from being duped of their hard-earned money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/main-accused-in-fake-petrol-pump-dealership-case-gets-bail/story-hJYGSsN3tFjueoYhQ2pWyH.html
26-06-2020||City||At Rs 74.02/litre, diesel rate touches all-time high in Mohali||With diesel rates touching an all-time high of Rs 74.02 per litre in Mohali on Thursday, after a hike on the 18th consecutive day, petrol pump owners in the district were hit hard as their sales dipped due to the lower rates in the adjoining cities of Chandigarh and Panchkula.The rate of diesel in Chandigarh was Rs 71.34 per litre while in Panchkula, it was Rs 72.02.The petrol rate was ₹81.69 per litre in Mohali, Rs 77.14 per litre in Chandigarh and Rs 77.81 per litre in Panchkula.The effective value added tax, including cess, is 33.40% in Mohali, while in Chandigarh, it is 22.45% with no additional cess. In Panchkula, the VAT is 26.25%.Mohali district petroleum dealers association president Ashwinder Singh Mongia said, “Due to the difference in fuel rates, we have lost about 80% of our business. Dealers whose pumps are on the UT-Punjab border are the worst hit as due to availability of cheaper fuel just 2-3km away, people don’t go to them.”“When authorities can bring parity in liquor rates, why can’t they bring uniformity in fuel rates,” he asked.A petrol pump owner in Mohali, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Even in the national capital region, there is a fuel rate difference of just 25 paisa, despite the area being heavily populated and having a huge geographical area, including parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.”UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “Instead of asking us to increase VAT, dealers should ask Punjab and Haryana governments to slash the rates. We follow the instructions of the government of India and our motive is to benefit the consumers. We had recently increased the VAT to 22.45%.”Dealers in Mohali and Panchkula also resent the Chandigarh petrol pump owners for putting up boards and hoardings advertising the cheaper rates. They claim that the boards are illegal and questioned why the Chandigarh administration, which is usually very strict, has allowed such boards to stand.A senior official of the Punjab excise and taxation department said, “Since Mohali is part of Punjab, we cannot differentiate rates here from the rest of the state. Efforts were made, but still there is no parity in fuel prices. This is due to the different policies of the state and UT administration.”MOHALI SALES DROPAs per the record of Mohali district petroleum dealers association, sales in Mohali has dropped 42% from 15,000 kl per month in August 2016 to 9,200 kl in March 2020. In the corresponding period, Chandigarh doubled its diesel sale to 18,180kl from 8,883kl per month. In Panchkula, sales have dipped 40% from 10,000 litres per day per petrol pump in 2016 to 6,000 litres per day in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-rs-74-02-litre-diesel-rate-touches-all-time-high-in-mohali/story-F7ynM87arm31cILOc6gKFO.html
26-06-2020||City||Ludhiana man booked for abducting teen girl from Balongi||The Balongi police have booked a 22-year-old man for allegedly abducting an 18-year-old girl.The accused has been identified as Sunny Kumar, a resident of Ludhiana. The girl’s father told the police that Sunny abducted his daughter on June 18 after luring her with marriage. On his complaint, a case under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Balongi police station. Police are working to trace the accused and rescue the girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-booked-for-abducting-teen-girl-from-balongi/story-iKQ3YTlT6Wwi8bJSommsiI.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||St Joseph’s School put on notice for charging fee during lockdown in Chandigarh||A Chandigarh court on Wednesday put St Joseph’s School on notice after a parent filed a civil suit alleging that the school had been forcing him to pay fees without holding any physical classes.Yoginder Nagpal requested the court to stop the school from striking off the name of his child and imposing a late fee fine. The court has asked St Joseph’s, Sector 44, to respond by July 3.The parent alleged that his child, enrolled in Kindergarten, had been affected badly in the absence of classes, adding that the school had failed to use smart classrooms, sports equipment, other facilities and infrastructure.In his petition, Nagpal mentioned that the school had been coercing him to make monthly payment of fees from April onwards even though the school was closed.He further reasoned that the Right to Education was a fundamental right under Article 21, while pointing out that “the Section 16 of the Right to Education Act, 2009, provides that no child admitted in a school shall be held back in any class or expelled from school till the completion of elementary education”.The court observed that before passing any order, it was appropriate to hear the other party. Hence, the school was summoned for July 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/st-joseph-s-school-put-on-notice-for-charging-fee-during-lockdown-in-chandigarh/story-kzOQcahMwwgB2EIPTN1tiP.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||F&CC meeting: Chandigarh MC to run animal birth control programme on its own for now||In a meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC), mayor Raj Bala Malik on Thursday said the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) will run the animal birth control (ABC) in the city with its own existing staff.Meanwhile, tenders will be called once again to outsource the ABC programme, she said, adding that four security guards will be deployed for round the clock duty at the centre. Purchasing of surgical packs/equipment, necessary medicines and dog feed for the captured and sterilised dogs during their stay at the centre will be done.MANPOWER FOR SEC 17 PARKING TO BE OUTSOURCEDIn another decision, the committee decided that the MC will be outsourcing manpower for maintenance and functioning of the multilevel parking in Sector 17. The agenda was discussed in detail and accorded approval to engage labour/staff through the GeM portal amounting to ₹18.57 lakh per annum additional to the previously approved expenditure.The F&CC also approved the rough cost estimate of ₹29.34 lakh for laying water supply pipeline from existing ones to a booster in Industrial Area, Phase 2.Now, a peon and a data entry operator each will be provided for the camp office of zonal commissioners.Meanwhile, the committee approved a reserve price of ₹38.5 for six-year lease on mango, jamun, lichi, chikoo, guava, loquat, pomegranate, jackfruit and peach trees growing alongside Purv Marg touching Sector 28 and 29 on one side and Industrial Area, Phare 1 on other side, Chandigarh.The committee also accorded approval to the allotment of nursery sites at Mauli Jagran.The mayor and the commissioner launched an online ‘employee corner’ facility, where the regular employees of the MC can view their salary slips, income tax deductions, status of increments and pension slips for all the pensioners of MCC.Approval was accorded for providing free parking to the MC employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/f-cc-meeting-chandigarh-mc-to-run-animal-birth-control-programme-on-its-own-for-now/story-WwAEeS1HuomUsXa9S4n1AN.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMS doctor suspended over negligence||A casualty medical officer, Dr Kuldeep, at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, has been suspended by the executive council for not attending to veteran Congress leader and former lieutenant governor of Puducherry, Chandrawati, on June 12. The 92-year-old leader had visited PGIMS after she suffered a hip fracture at her Dadri residence. She was rushed to PGIMS, but on being unable to find a room, her grandson Jagjit Singh shifted her to a private hospital. PGIMS director Rohtash Yadav said Dr Kuldeep was suspended as he was not on duty when the first Haryana woman member of parliament, Chandrawati, was brought to the hospital. “There was negligence on the part of the doctor in performing his duties in the emergency area and it was a major lapse,” the director added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgims-doctor-suspended-over-negligence/story-igJ4xdZksFI5Ek8SSCDyJJ.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha set for more relaxations as 4,841 virus cases added in 24 hrs||Days before the fifth phase of the lockdown comes to an end on June 30, the state government is set to extend a few more industrial-commercial relaxations under its ‘Mission Begin Again’, even as it recorded its highest single-day spike of 4,841 coronavirus cases.An order issued late on Thursday stated that the barber shops, salons and beauty parlours in 19 municipal corporations earmarked as red zones, will open from June 28, while in the rest of the state they shall open from June 27. The order stated that the establishments can carry out select services like haircut, hair dyeing, waxing, threading, among others, excluding skin-related services. The state government has also made it mandatory for employees to wear protective gear such as gloves, aprons and masks, and that the workspace (chair) should be sanitised after every customer. Making sanitisation of the shop mandatory every two hours, the order said use of disposable towels, napkins is a must. Sterilisation and sanitisation of non-disposable items every time has also been made compulsory. They have also been mandated to entertain customers with prior appointments and putting up the notice describing the rules prominently in the premises. On Thursday, Maharashtra’s daily fresh infections for the first time crossed the 4,000 mark, taking the tally to 147,741. Of them, 63,342 are active cases, according to the state health department. The state also reported 192 deaths, taking the toll to 6,931. Mumbai, the worst-hit city across the country, crossed the 70,000 mark for cases with 1,350 new infections, pushing the count to 70,878. The city toll stands at 4,062 after 98 deaths were reported.Also read | 3 more cops die of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, force’s death toll climbs to 54Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during the cabinet meeting on Thursday said that salons will be allowed to operate from Sunday. Although the cabinet also discussed permitting gymnasiums to open, no final decision has yet been taken on this. Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said that the decision over gymnasiums will be taken next week, while the standard operating procedure for salons will be issued in next couple of days.“We are allowing salons to operate from Sunday, for both genders . Both the customer and the employee will have to wear masks and follow distancing rules. We are allowing these establishments to open, but we will assess the situation and take decisions for further activities,” said transport minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab.The state government is expected to allow private offices to operate with 25-30% of its staff, up from existing permission of 10% of staff from July 1. The state government, however, is not in any mood to allow train services for non-essential services or operate interstate public transport.Shaikh said, “Opening of the salon industry, too, was important as the small shopkeepers and their employees are suffering heavy losses and hardship. After a couple of suicides by salon shopkeepers, I had demanded opening of these shops by writing a letter to the CM. The SOP to be issued by the government will elaborate on the guidelines to be followed by the shops and customers.”Parab said that the decision about allowing more transport services in public and private sector will be taken after a meeting of the high-power taskforce, in consultation with the chief minister and deputy chief minister.A decision over interdistrict transportation is expected to be taken in the next couple of days. Currently, public transport is allowed within districts in non-red zones areas, which are the areas other than the 19 municipal corporations. The state government is expected to allow intra-district transportation in non-red zones.Also read | Nearly 17,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally to over 4.7 lakhParab said that since local train services for public were not possible to be allowed in near future, they were ensuring adequate transport facilities in the wake of more relaxations to the industrial and commercial activities. “Additional transport facilities will be required after easing out more restrictions on industrial-commercial activities. We have a consignment of essentials arriving at JNPT, but their offloading is not taking place for want of auxiliary services. The decision over relaxations to industries will be taken in due course. A taskforce appointed for the transport industry will decide on its operations and safety measures in the wake of pandemic,” he said.Containment zones and cities like Mumbai, Thane and Pune, which have high caseload, may continue with industrial curbs for few more weeks, said an official from the government.(with inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-set-for-more-relaxations-as-4-841-virus-cases-added-in-24-hrs/story-W4gOWzfhjfRmYg6jzBKlaK.html
26-06-2020||City||Charred remains of two men found in Rohtak||Charred remains of two unidentified men were found near a canal in Rohtak’s Nandal village on Thursday morning, police said.The police, along with a forensic science laboratory (FSL) team, visited the crime scene and also recovered a motorcycle from the spot.Lakhan Majra police station in-charge Raju Sandhu said they had received a call in the morning that charred bodies of two men and a bike were spotted near a canal in Nandal village. “Prime facie, it seems that both of them were killed and the accused disrobed them before setting them on fire in an attempt to conceal their identity. We have registered a case of murder against unidenitfied person(s). The bodies were sent for postmortem examination and DNA samples have been preserved to establish the identities of the victims,” the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/charred-remains-of-two-men-found-in-rohtak/story-mAOBWGkazppoVee3ltEpvN.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Missing liquor case: Kingpin’s brother helped suspended Kharkhauda SHO in fleeing, say police||A day after the special investigation team (SIT) constituted to look into the missing liquor case arrested the suspended Kharkhauda SHO, Jasbir Singh, who was on the run since April 30, the inspector confessed to his involvement in the scam. Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said Jasbir told them that he fled to Gujarat from Jhajjar on April 30 after he was transferred to the Police Lines when his name surfaced in the case. “He told the SIT he had travelled in a taxi and got support throughout. Jasbir said that he had also bought a new phone and a sim card while on the run,” he added. “During this period, kingpin Bhupinder Singh’s brother Jitender remained in regular touch with him via phone. He also arranged for the suspended SHO’s stay. Names of four liquor traders also cropped up on the first day of Jasbir’s remand,” the SP said.Randhawa said they were trying to identify other people who might have helped him. A cop privy to the development, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The SHO has revealed that he had been involved in the scam for past 18 months, but got exposed during the lockdown.”The SIT had caught Jasbir Singh from Rohtak on Wednesday and produced him in a local court that sent him in five-day police remand. It may be mentioned here that 5,500 boxes of liquor had gone missing from the godown owned by Bhupinder Singh’s mother early in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-liquor-case-kingpin-s-brother-helped-suspended-kharkhauda-sho-in-fleeing-say-police/story-CIfXeRCemCqxcfltiD2QTM.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||AGRI ORDINANCES: Badals betrayed Punjabis, abandoned ideology: Balbir Sidhu||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday accused the Badal family of betraying the interests of the state and the farmers by supporting the “anti-Punjab” agriculture ordinances passed by the Centre.In a statement, Sidhu claimed the central ordinances not only encroached upon the rights of the states but their implementation would also pave the way for the abolition of the ongoing marketing system which is ensuring the procurement of crops at minimum support price (MSP). “(Shiromani Akali Dal president) Sukhbir Singh Badal was well aware that these ordinances would damage the economy of the state but he turned his back on the farmers of the state only in the lure of a ministry,” he said.As per the Constitution of India, the subject of agriculture solely lies with the states and by issuing these ordinances the central government has violated the Constitution of India and its original spirit, the minister said. “This is not the first time that the SAD leadership abandoned its old agenda of giving autonomy to the states and supported the decisions of the Narendra Modi government which undermined the rights of the states. The Akali Dal had also supported the decision to split Jammu and Kashmir into three union territories,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/agri-ordinances-badals-betrayed-punjabis-abandoned-ideology-balbir-sidhu/story-GfQtYkILQoTcQbERGrvjBP.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab’s doubling rate drops by half to 18 days in 3 weeks||The recent spate of Covid-19 cases in Punjab has led to a drastic drop in the doubling rate of infection to almost by half from 34 days on June 1 to 18 days on June 22. Since the beginning of this month, as many as 1,934 fresh cases of infection were reported in the state, taking the total tally from 2,301 on June 1 to 4,235 on June 22. As per the daily Covid-19 analysis report prepared by the state health department, Punjab’s doubling rate is worse than Maharashtra, one of the worst-hit states, where cases are now doubling in 23.8 days. The national doubling rate is 19.5 days. However, the state’s rate is better than neighbouring Haryana and the national capital where cases are now getting two-fold in 13.6 and 12.8 days. Doubling rate is the number of days it takes for the cases to get twofold based on the growth rate of last seven days. Among all the districts, Jalandhar, which has the second highest number of infections in the state, has the fastest doubling rate where cases are getting twofold in just 10 days. The Ludhiana district, with the third highest number of cases, is second in terms of doubling rate at 11.9 days. In the week preceding June 22, maximum 217 new cases were detected in the Jalandhar district followed by 194 in Ludhiana and 153 in Amritsar. The Amritsar district, which has the highest number of cases, has a doubling rate of 22.4 days followed by Mohali (21.6), Patiala (20.6), Pathankot (18.7), Barnala (14.8), Sangrur (14.5), Kapurthala (13.5), Ferozepur (13.5) and Fazilka (12). The SBS Nagar district, which was declared the state’s first Covid-19 hotspot, now has the slowest doubling rate of 118.9 days. ‘CASES INCREASING AT AN IDENTICAL PACE’Experts say the figures indicate that cases are increasing in most of the districts now almost at an identical pace.But the state health authorities attribute the increase in cases to increase in testing. “Ramping up of the testing capacity and a rigorous contact tracing of patients are the reason behind increase in cases. Besides, people are not following social-distancing norms,” said Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.The data shows that the state’s testing per million on June 21 was 7,926, ahead of Karnataka (7,492), Haryana (7,332) and Maharashtra (6,243). India’s testing per million is 5,054.From June 1 to June 21, Punjab was next only to West Bengal and Tamil Nadu in terms of increasing the testing capacity, shows the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data. BOX: Districts with worst rateJalandhar: 10 days Ludhiana: 11.9 daysFazilka: 12 daysKapurthala: 13.5 daysFerozepur: 13.5 daysSangrur: 14.5 daysBarnala: 14.8 days||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-s-doubling-rate-drops-by-half-to-18-days-in-3-weeks/story-wifT5kI7hspJpn15Q1TaZL.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal hails Lok Nayak hospital’s services in Covid fight||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday inaugurated a video-calling facility for patients at Lok Nayak hospital, the city’s largest dedicated Covid-19 facility. Commending the hospital after it completed 100 days as a Covid-designated facility, Kejriwal said the Delhi government would work with the staff and administration to ensure any shortcomings were overcome.“Lok Nayak hospital has completed 100 days of treatment of Covid-19 patients. This is the biggest Covid-19 hospital in the country and over the past 100 days, 2,700 patients with severe symptoms have recovered and gone home. The doctors and staff have worked without worrying about their own health. They are doing a great job. Lok Nayak has started providing plasma therapy on a larger scale now, which has helped in reducing the deaths reported from the hospital,” Kejriwal said.The video-call service would help patients get in touch with their family members.To demonstrate how the video calling facility would help, Kejriwal went on to make video calls to a few patients and sought to know if they were satisfied with the treatment and services they were being given.Sharing an image of his video interaction with an elderly woman, Kejriwal tweeted, “relatives of Corona patients admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital will now be able to speak to them”.The need for a video calling facility was felt after many complained that they couldn’t talk to their critically ill relatives for days on end or get an update on their condition, a Delhi government spokesperson said.Also read | Delhi records 3,390 Covid-19 cases, widens undesired lead over MumbaiThe video calling facility will be offered with the help of 33 tablets, 31 of which have been placed in the Covid wards, and two at the help desk, Dr Suresh Kumar, the hospital’s medical director, said.During an interaction with the chief minister, the hospital’s medical director Dr Suresh Kumar said deaths resulting from Covid-19 have reduced at the Lok Nayak hospital, ever since various modes of treatment such as plasma therapy and the steroid dexamethasone were introduced.“The mortality rate recorded at the hospital fluctuates between 2.5% and 3.5% from week to week (since the hospital was turned into a Covid-19 facility). Although the data is yet to be analysed, we have seen a reduction in the number of deaths after various therapies were adopted by the hospital,” Kumar said.Later, when asked by HT, the hospital said it was not at liberty to share the number of deaths reported from the hospital. The hospital had administered plasma therapy to 29 Covid-19 patients during the phase 1 trial of the therapy in April, after it became the first government hospital in India to receive approval for the therapy. Also read | Delhi L-G reverses Covid order on home isolation after meeting CM KejriwalThe hospital received approval for phase 2 of the trial, with 200 patients, last week and nine patients have already been administered the therapy, which uses a blood component from people who have recovered from the infection that is rich in virus-fighting antibodies. This blood is administered to Covid-19 patients to boost their immunity. The government has created a plasma bank of 200 units at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.“The plasma therapy seems to help Covid-19 patients and fewer patients on this therapy go on to get severe symptoms as compared to a control group not receiving the therapy. We have also got a plasmapheresis machine at Lok Nayak and we are trying to persuade people who have recovered from the infection to donate plasma for use by others,”Kumar said. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain, who is recovering from the Covid-19, was also administered the therapy at a private hospital after a pneumonia patch in his lung started expanding.Apart from plasma therapy, the hospital has also completed a pilot study of the drug Tocilizumab. It is a monoclonal antibody (a laboratory created molecule that mimics the antibodies needed to fight Covid-19). Those with moderate symptoms are given the medicine on admission and the progression of the disease is evaluated against an equal number of control patients who did not receive the medicine, Kumar explained.The hospital said the trial data would be released after it is duly published in a scientific journal.The hospital will soon conduct trials on the antiviral drugs remdesivir and favipiravir, the medical director confirmed.With Delhi reporting over 3,000 cases a day, the hospital has provided oxygen support on all 2,000 beds. The hospital has also increased its ICU beds to 100 and is working on further increasing it to 500, according to the medical director. Currently, 718 of the 2,000 beds and 56 of the 100 ventilator-facility beds at the hospital are occupied, according to the Delhi Corona App.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-hails-lok-nayak-hospital-s-services-in-covid-fight/story-qy8ixGUto2fUHtOu9pKvrK.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Officials, residents laud reversal of isolation SOP in Delhi||District administration officials, residents’ welfare groups and health experts on Thursday welcomed the reversal of an order that had made it mandatory for every individual testing Covid-19 positive in a swab test to be taken to a Covid Care Centre (CCC) for aclinical assessment of the symptoms.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chaired by lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal restored the old system on Thursday whereby health officials will first establish contact with the patient through telephone, inquire about symptoms and then send a team to the residence of patients, following which a call is taken on whether the individual remains in home isolation or is shifted to a hospital/quarantine centre.The new rule of mandatory visits to CCC for clinical assessment was put into effect on Monday, when the director-general of health services (DGHS) of Delhi notified the L-G’s directions, till it was revoked on Thursday after a meeting of the DDMA.While the Delhi government vehemently opposed the L-G’s order, saying it would lead to chaos, at least 50 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) too had written to Anil Baijal on Wednesday urging him to withdraw the order. The RWAs had said instead of asking every patient to go to CCCs, which involved the risk of spreading the infection, the government should start tele-consultation services for asymptomatic and mild patients. Several district revenue officials, in charge of the implementation of all covid-related policies and standard procedures in their districts, on Thursday said Monday’s direction had given rise to a logistical nightmare.The implementation of the rule required that the city’s 163 dedicated Covid ambulances to make an average of 18 trips every day ferrying people from their homes to CCCs.“This was impossible. We had started implementing the guidelines but there was huge resistance from the people. The ones with mild symptoms did not want to go to Covid centres at all. We were wasting a lot of time in making them understand that this was no longer a choice but a rule,” a district magistrate, who did not wish to be identified, said.The crisis was such that at least two districts had even written to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) asking for buses for transportation of patients. A few other districts had hired private vans for the purpose. Another district magistrate, again not wishing to be named, said, “We did our best to implement the rule. We succeeded to some extent over the past four days, but we were not sure for how long we could have carried on with things as they were. The revocation of the order is a big relief.”With the guidelines now revoked, district officials said they can focus on strengthening surveillance teams, ramping up health care infrastructure and carrying out two major surveys, which have tight deadlines. One is the health screening of residents in 260-odd containment zones of the city that needs to be completed by June 30, and the other is a comprehensive health survey of the rest of Delhi that needs to be completed by July 7, as per the recommendations of Union home minister Amit Shah, later notified by the DGHS through an order issued on Monday.After Thursday’s decision, Baijal also emphasised on developing a “robust surveillance mechanism by Delhi’s health department.”Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung hospital, said, “The mandatory visits to CCCs had two issues. First, it was a logistical nightmare. Second, it increased chances of local transmission. The districts can now focus on strengthening the health care system and better surveillance.”Also read | Delhi records 3,390 Covid-19 cases, widens undesired lead over MumbaiResident welfare groups said the reversal would calm down anxieties and motivate more people to get tested.“People were fearing the idea of being sent to Covid centres, even for a clinical assessment. But the government must ensure that their health officials visit each patient’s house in time. We have come across a lot of complaints that this is not the case and the government should take note of that,” BS Vohra, president of the federation of resident welfare associations in east Delhi, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/officials-residents-laud-reversal-of-isolation-sop-in-delhi/story-6gJBuOvSFcjdN0DFBFVOpJ.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Social distancing goes for a toss at Delhi’s RML testing centre||A middle-aged man’s repeated coughs while answering queries at the registration counter of RML Hospital’s Covid testing centre draws a sharp reaction from Ramesh Nand, who is standing a few spots behind him. The seemingly ill man has coughed right into the speaker installed on the glass shield that separates patients from the staff jotting down details.“You’ll infect even those who are healthy,” 45-year-old Nand tells the man, who has symptoms and is getting himself tested. Nand, a resident of west Delhi’s Janakpuri, is at this central Delhi hospital to get his cousin tested for Covid-19.“I have left my cousin in the car and standing in his place in the queue. It is better I get infected than have my diabetic cousin risk his life in this queue,” Nand said.Also read | Delhi records 3,390 Covid-19 cases, widens undesired lead over MumbaiAt RML Hospital’s testing centre, which has been testing 400 Covid-19 patients every day since early June, social distancing barely exists. There isn’t anyone to enforce distancing either at this screening centre, the busiest in Delhi. On Thursday afternoon, over three dozen patients and their relatives stood closely behind each other in two queues or huddled together at different spots in a small space covered by a green fibre roof.BUSIEST SCREENING CENTRELocated near Gurudwara Bangla Sahib, this central government-run hospital has 157 beds for Covid patients, of which 146 (93%) were occupied as of 5.20pm on Thursday, according to the Delhi Corona app. Among government hospitals, only Safdarjung Hospital, with close to 98% occupancy, has a greater availability to occupancy ratio of beds in Delhi.The hospital is equipped with 14 ventilators for Covid patients, of which three were in use as on Thursday evening. Overall, this hospital has about 1,500 beds RML was the first to be recognised as Covid-19 treatment facility in Delhi and has been the busiest screening centre. It was also the first hospital to detect a Covid positive patient on March 2.The hospital tests around 400 people every day. Its timing was reduced to 9am-5pm since early June until when it would offer round-the-clock testing services. According to hospital authorities, the RT-PCR machine in the hospital has a capacity of 350 samples a day, which was stretched to 400.The testing centre receives samples from symptomatic as well as asymptomatic patients and those who need to get Covid test done before undergoing treatment and surgeries for non-Covid ailments.NON-COVID PATIENTS AT RISKIt were the asymptomatic and non-Covid patients who complained the most about non-existent social distancing.Surender Kumar, a 61-year-old heart patient who has been visiting the hospital for the last seven years and has a pacemaker, lay on a stretcher on one corner of this testing space for over two hours even as his son kept walking in and out of the queue. “For admission to the emergency ward of the hospital, we have been asked to get tested for Covid. My father hardly has any symptoms of Covid, but now I am worried he’ll contact the disease going through the process,” said his son, Arun Kumar. His father is here to get himself admitted after chest pain.Kumar pointed to the process one has to go through before submitting the swab for tests.Patients have to note down details such as phone and Aadhaar numbers on a paper and hold it in front of them so that the staff can see them. But most people were seen putting the paper against the glass shield.Also read | Delhi L-G reverses Covid order on home isolation after meeting CM KejriwalThe patients are required to answer a few queries in another queue. A speaker fixed to the glass shield facilities the conversations.Most patients placed their mouths within inches of the speaker to be audible. A few literally stuck their mouths in it.“We have taken all precautions at home to ensure social distancing, but we are exposed to infection at a place where the most caution should have been taken,” said Mahesh Kumar, nephew of a 48-year-old Pushpa who lay on another stretcher nearby.Pushpa has no symptoms of Covid, but needs to take the test which is required before she undergoes a surgery for a backbone fracture she suffered a week ago.‘WILL MOVE TO A SPACIOUS AREA’Dr Minakshi Bhardwaj, medical superintendent of the hospital, said efforts were on to sensitise people about the need to maintain social distancing. “We have tried positing more guards but the situation is similar. The people themselves have to understand the importance of social distance and maintain it in the form of a serpentine line or separate queue,” said Bhardwaj. The MS said efforts are on to move the screening centre to a more spacious area in the next 10 to 15 days.Lying on stretchers, Pushpa and Kumar were still luckier than most other patients and their relatives.Tek Chand, a 78-year-old man who was here with his wife for the test, sat at a gap of one chair from each other even as people ahead and behind them stood close to each other.The elderly couple had decided to take the test because their neighbour had tested positive.“We know it is futile to attempt social distancing but we are trying. There is a high chance these steel chairs are infected, but we just want to be sure that there was no compromise from our end,” said Chand.Some patients and relatives sat under trees nearby or in their cars while waiting for their chance.Then there was 37-year-old Naseema Begum who stayed far away from queue even as her daughter, Noor, tended to her.“I have severe cough and breathing problems, so I am staying away from others so that they don’t get infected. But there should have been a separate section for the people with no signs of infection,” Begum said.The lone visible security guard, meanwhile, sat in one corner without bothering anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-rml-testing-centre/story-ig9Opy3jFeOSmW7YLGSXaP.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Students, schools happy but confused after CBSE cancels exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) decision to cancel the pending board examinations for classes 10 and 12, which were scheduled to take place from July 1 amid the Covid-19 pandemic, came as a relief to students, parents and schools but it left some concerned over how the alternative assessments mechanism and college admissions will work.While the Class 10 exams in Hindi, English, science and social science were going to be conducted only in north-east Delhi, Class 12 exams across the country were remaining in 12 subjects, including Hindi, geography, business studies, biotechnology, and sociology. An additional 11 subjects were pending for Class 12 students in NE Delhi schools.“I would not have been able to study for the two remaining papers that were to be held in July. We lost our house, my books, our shop, and everything in the riots. I just want to pass my exams ,” said Mohammad Fazil, a Class 10 student and a resident of north-east Delhi’s Brijpuri, who has been waiting for four months for his board exams to get over.“There has been enough anxiety over this. I just wanted it to get over,” he said. On May 18, the national school board announced that papers postponed due to the February riots and Covid-19 pandemic would be conducted between July 1 and 15. It said in April that the board will only conduct exams in “main subjects” that will be required for promotion and admission in higher education institutions.In addition, Class 12 students from north-east Delhi were also slated to appear for their mathematics, economics, history, biology, political science, chemistry, physics, accountancy and English examinations.Responding to a plea filed in the Supreme Court against conducting exams, the board said no further exams will be held for Class 10 students. Those in Class 12 will be given a chance to appear for exams whenever it was held, if they wanted. On Thursday, the board said the evaluation will be made on a special marking scheme based “on the last three exams.” Later in the evening, it announced that this will be based as a calculation of average score of the three subjects that a student has already taken and scored the maximum in. If a student has taken three of fewer tests, the average will be based on best-of-two.“Parents had been worried that their children were being asked to appear for their papers amid rising Covid-19 cases. The cancellation of exams is a relief for them. Students, however, are still concerned as they are trained to focus on board scores and are wary of how it would affect their prospects,” said Aparajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents’ Association.Before it was clear that internal assessments will not be used to determine the theory paper score, a group of Class 12 students started a petition on change.org, an online petitioning forum, opposing such a plan. Their contention was based on the fact that school-level internal assessment is unlikely to be a standardised process across institutions.Naman Maheshwari, an aspiring engineer and Class 12 student of Mayo International School in IP Extension, said, “Many students don’t perform well in school exams and are likely to score around 10-15 marks more in their boards. These students will be at a disadvantage.”Arsh Malik, a class 12 student of Victoria Public School in Yamuna Vihar, said Thursday’s order had left many confused. “We have been calling teachers to understand what is happening with our exams. Personally, I would want to opt for the internal assessment mode because it has just been too long now. No one knows when the Covid-19 situation will get better.”Hazel Bali, class 12 student in Vasant Kunj, said most students are anxious as there is little clarity on the marking system. “This is distressing because everybody focusses on their performance during board exams and often don’t pay much attention to school papers,” she said, adding that she has a scholarship to study in the US.Most school principals are waiting for a clear direction from the board. Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales Road, Pusa Road, said, “This decision is balanced given the present circumstances. The open-ended solution caters to both groups – those who want to appear for their exams and improve their scores and others who don’t want to appear for their papers. We are waiting for the board to come up with the modalities.”Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School in Sadiq Nagar, said: “We will take all safety measures for the students who want to appear for their papers whenever it is conducted next. We must keep in mind that we can’t keep waiting endlessly for the exams to take place.”On June 17, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia had also written to the HRD minister, requesting him to cancel pending class 10 and 12 papers. “I am happy that today’s decision was taken in the best interest of students and providing relief to parents,” Sisodia tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-schools-happy-but-confused-after-cbse-cancels-exams/story-OYYBU6Vn2INQ9ktblenVoL.html
26-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram teachers raise apprehensions about reporting to work||Around 90% of the staff at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7 remained absent on Thursday after a Maths teacher tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday evening. Panic-stricken teachers chose to stay away from the school on Thursday despite the whole campus being sanitised on Wednesday. A diabetic patient, the affected teacher had been reporting to the school for work until last Friday and did not display any symptoms of the disease. “The affected individual did not display any symptoms. If he had displayed symptoms, people would have been extra cautious. With the whole staff reporting to work, interaction with each other is unavoidable and teachers now fear that they might have been infected. It is a scary situation. Teachers have been asked to report to work as per the routine but there is a lack of confidence especially since many tasks can be carried out from home,” said the teacher, who has also applied for a casual leave.Suman Sharma, school principal, said staff members who were in close contact with the affected teacher had been asked to give a written notice with details about the interaction and work from home till Saturday. “I have been receiving calls from many teachers asking for leave since a teacher from our school tested positive. Around 90% of the staff remained absent on Thursday, with most opting for casual leave,” said Sharma, adding said that this was a matter of concern since the department’s rules did not allow more than 20% of staff availing casual leave at the same time. This is the second Covid-19 case that has been reported from a government school in the district. Last week, a history teacher at the Government Senior Secondary School in Bhondsi had also tested positive. With coronavirus cases reaching schools, fear and anxiety are growing among members of the teaching community, who have been reporting to work regularly since the first week of June. Most teachers said that expecting teachers to report to work didn’t make much sense since children were not coming to school and online classes were already being conducted from home without any hindrances.Earlier in May, school principals and other officials who were needed for completion of administrative work had been asked to report to school. A fresh order issued by the department of education on June 6, however, directed the principals to ensure that all teachers are back at work and have regular attendance. Since then, schools have been operating at a 100% workforce.Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said, “Since June 6, we have been calling the entire staff to work. While we are abiding by physical distancing norms, with a workforce of about 100 people, some sort of bare minimum interaction does take place while marking the attendance. Many teachers have requested that they be allowed to work from home. But work has to continue in schools as we are bound by the directives,” said Sharma.Geeta Arya, principal, Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School, said that some teachers were travelling from other districts and even from neighbouring cities, such as Delhi, to report to work. “Many teachers come from places as far as Rewari and Delhi. While there is a risk of transmission, they are also facing an additional financial burden of transportation. Most of them are spending five times the normal costs due to the lack of public transport,” said Arya.Manjubala, a government school English teacher, said that there was no logic behind calling teachers to school on a daily basis, when most of the learning had shifted online. “We stay in school from 6 in the morning till 12:30 pm. After school hours, we are constantly in touch with students for classes since they access mobile phones at different times. Most of the work that we do at school can be done remotely,” said Manjubala.Another government school principal, who did not wish to be named, said that teachers with cold, cough, and flu — which might be indicators of Covid — were also reporting to work. “It is difficult to make out if people are suffering from Covid-19 or seasonal flu. Since it takes time to get tested, some of them continue to visit the school fearing action,” said the principal. She added that indirect pressure was being exerted on teachers to appear for work. “Information about education officers inspecting schools through surprise visits is shared on official WhatsApp group by seniors. They keep telling us about inquiry being initiated against missing teachers in other districts. Along with anxiety around staying safe, there is performance pressure too,” said the principal.Last week, the Haryana Lecturers Association had also raised objections to 100% staff being called to schools. Ashok Thakran, district head, Haryana School Lecturers Association, said that calling all teaches to school was not needed when their duties could be fulfilled remotely. “Children are not coming to school. In their absence, teachers will be largely idle at work and are bound to interact with each other. People are also travelling from Delhi and other areas which increases the risk of transmission,” said Thakran.Indu Boken, district education officer, said that the department was complying with directions that had been issued by the government. “We cannot take decisions regarding the attendance of teachers at the district level. These decisions are taken at the directorate level and need to be complied with,” said Boken, adding that apart from conducting online classes, teachers were also required in school for various other works such as dispersal of mid-day meals, book distribution, and maintenance of accounts.Boken said that the district administration had already given some relaxations to schools and teachers. “In schools that are in containment zones, teachers can be called as per a roster or as per need. Teachers who live in containment zones or are suffering from chronic illnesses such as diabetes and others can also work from home,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-teachers-raise-apprehensions-about-reporting-to-work/story-0r2yvTMHHN10xtfstSCuLJ.html
26-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: MLA to discuss feasibility of lockdown-like measures with admin to curb Covid||A meeting to discuss lockdown-like measures in parts of the city to slow down the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in hotspot areas is scheduled to be held Friday morning, to be attended by senior district administration officials and Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla, who had last week proposed the imposition of a 10-day lock down in the city. Singla on Thursday said he will be talking to the Gurugram deputy commissioner and other officials of the district administration to discuss these measures.“I had called for a 10-day lockdown as it is important to break the chain of transmission but this should be done in consultation with all stakeholders. There is a need to introduce strict measures in containment zones and clusters where the infection spread is high. Markets can be opened in a staggered manner; the goal is to prevent crowds. I will take up these issues in the meeting,” said Singla, adding that he was hopeful they will be able to check the spread of Covid by strict enforcement. The matter was also taken up in a meeting chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during his visit last week.On Thursday, a meeting was held at the office of the Gurugram police commissioner to discuss measures needed to slow down the transmission of this virus in different parts of the city. Senior officials including Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, and others were also present.Referring to the meeting, Gurugram police commissioner Mohammed Akil said they discussed measures to control the rising number of coronavirus cases and how these can be stopped from spreading. “It is in a conceptual stage and the outcome will be shared once all agencies give their view points,” he added.Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri did not respond to phone calls and messages for a comment.The areas in the city particularly under the scanner are municipal wards which have both high infection rate and high population density. These include ward 22 (68 cases), ward 16 (89), ward 17 (83), ward 20 (80), ward 18 (65), ward 33 (75), ward 23 (87), ward 15 (50), ward 26 (101) ward 28 (64), ward 35 (91), ward 34 (164), ward 32 (189) and ward 29 (109).Health department officials, meanwhile, said there was a possibility of collating containment zones into larger extended zones for better management and enforcement of rules related to social distancing and movement. The area of the containment zones, which was brought down from three km to one km, could again be expanded but a final decision is yet to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mla-to-discuss-feasibility-of-lockdown-like-measures-with-admin-to-curb-covid/story-qDfax2MQqpXXIMnN7yriJK.html
26-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Real estate stutters due to pandemic, 81% fall in housing sales, says report||The coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has had a debilitating impact on the real estate sector. It is estimated that housing sales plummeted by 81% in the second quarter of 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019 in the top seven markets of the country, according to a report by private real estate consultancy Anarock. Not surprisingly, the National Capital Region (NCR), the real estate hub of north India, also did not witness any new realty project being launched during this period, the report adds. The seven cities from where this data was collected include the MMR, NCR, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Pune and Kolkata.The report says residential property sales across the top seven cities of the country plunged to 12,720 units in the second quarter of this year, as compared to 68,000 units in the same period of 2019.Echoing a similar view, Gurugram-based developers and consultants said sales were virtually non-existent and that they were finding it difficult to manage even client visits. “There is a lot of uncertainty due to the coronavirus pandemic related to jobs and businesses. The latest tension with China has further added to the woes,” said Sanjay Sharma, a city-based consultant.The report stated that significant reduction in housing sales were witnessed in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and NCR as business fell by 83% in both areas in the second quarter of this year, compared to last year. The sale of houses in MMR was recorded at 2,100 units while NCR saw only 3,620 housing units being sold since the pandemic reared its head in the country, the report said.“A massive drop in both new launches and housing sales were, of course, expected on the back of a complete lockdown for most of this quarter,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock.He however said that some cities, despite being affected by Covid-19, showed a high number of sales, which was due to technology adoption which had helped in housing sales of late, as many developers are now strengthening their digital sales capabilities.The report also said that due to the impact of the pandemic, only 1,390 units were launched in the top seven markets in the country compared to 69,000 units launched in the similar period in 2019. In this quarter, only four projects – two in Bengaluru and one each in Pune and Kolkata – were launched while no new projects were launched in MMR, NCR, Hyderabad or Chennai, the report adds.Praveen Jain, vice-chairman of National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco), Haryana said the realty sector in Gurugram as well as across NCR is in rough waters as sales are negligible while projects are getting delayed due to lack of workforce, as migrant workers had returned to their home districts and villages due to the lack of means of livelihood during the national lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic. “The demand for new houses is quite subdued and no new inquiries are coming our way. My own company has been able to sell very few units and whatever sale propositions are being discussed are old leads. A booster shot is needed to revive the real estate sector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-real-estate-stutters-due-to-pandemic-81-fall-in-housing-sales-says-report/story-yrp0qVXRRiQx0U49zE0QHL.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Overcrowded shelter homes in Delhi face new coronavirus challenge||The raging Covid-19 pandemic in the capital has brought a fresh set of concerns for the state government — the safety of rescued children at government-run shelter homes.Alarm bells have started ringing in the state administration ever since 57 minors in a shelter home in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh tested positive for the virus on June 21.Back home, as the number of daily cases being reported from the city grows exponentially, the government is yet to formulate a protocol to test and safely house the newly rescued children who are placed in protection centres.Delhi has 27 shelter homes for children and women. Apart from their own facilities, the government has also roped in NGOs that run around 61 such centres.The caretakers of these packed facilities said that since the outbreak ,many shelter homes are struggling to ensure social distancing among its residents. However, the bigger problem now are the new entrants, where the background and exposure of children are not clear and to put them in direct contact with other minors in the protection homes could lead to more infections.Also read | Social distancing goes for a toss at Delhi’s RML testing centre“We are already running at full capacity and this pandemic has caused quite a few management problems. We have tried to place beds at a distance to ensure social distancing and to ensure that interaction between residents and even staff members happens from a distance, so that there is a limited chance of any infection spreading. However, if even one case comes up here, then controlling it would be a problem,” said the caretaker of one such government-run facility in west Delhi.He added, “These children who are rescued, often live in dingy places during their time away from their families and often come in contact with a lot of people, putting them at a greater risk of contracting the infection. Many could also be asymptomatic carriers, but there is no space to put them in quarantine.”A senior official at Nirmal Chhaya, a Delhi government shelter for children and women, said that on April 18, the administration had converted its short-stay home located on west Delhi’s Jail Road into an ‘isolation centre’ for rescued children and women. However, new entrants are not tested for coronavirus and isolation rules are barely being followed.“Testing all the rescued children who come here is not possible especially considering the low testing in the city. However, before being admitted children are put through a standard medical examination, which was followed even before the pandemic hit, and their temperature is recorded,” said the official.Social organisations working for the rescue of trafficked children said these centres are already in “poor condition”, bursting at their seems and functioning beyond its capacity. The pandemic has just made things worse.Also read | Covid-19 crisis: Sero survey to cover 20,000 people across Delhi’s 11 districtsRishi Kant from Shakti Vahini, an NGO fighting against human trafficking — which also partners with police and government agencies to rescue trafficked women and children — said, “The situation in these shelter homes was already bad. This virus has only strained the infrastructure more. There is a protocol that we must try that rescued children do not have to come to protection homes in the first place and are instead sent to their respective states and families immediately. But that is not happening.”Delhi minister for women and child development Rajendra Pal Gautam said that surprise inspections are being conducted in the shelter and observational homes to ensure that what happened in Kanpur (where 57 minors tested positive) does not repeat in the Capital.“We did a surprise inspection on Tuesday and found that the facilities were adequate. However, I have directed all officials to pay special attention to the health and safety of children and women. This is our priority,” Gautam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/overcrowded-shelter-homes-face-new-virus-challenge/story-yuUY39RGZhsuUX17mjdBBK.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Changes in CBSE evaluation process may affect DU admissions||Delhi University (DU) may have to make changes in its admission criteria in case the Central Board of Education’s (CBSE) alternative evaluation plan is not similar with that of other education and state boards like earlier years, officials said on Thursday.The CBSE on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it will not conduct the remaining class 10 and 12 exams, scheduled between July 1 and July 15, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The board, however, said those in class 12 can either take exams later or move ahead with the internal assessment based on their performance in the last three internal exams. The board, however, is yet to come up with a detailed evaluation plan for class 12 students.Shobha Bagai, Dean of Admissions (DU), said the university will hold a meeting to discuss the impact of any change in CBSE’s evaluation policy on the merit-based undergraduate admissions in DU colleges. “We will have to check how the CBSE is announcing the results this year. The changed criteria won’t affect the entrance-based admissions. But in case of merit-based admissions, we will have to see if CBSE’s plan of evaluation is in parity with other state educational boards. Many state boards have already announced their results. So, if the CBSE is not making major changes, we will go ahead with our existing admission process. However, if there are some major changes in the evaluation process and it becomes difficult to assess it on the same level of other educational boards, then we will have to think and make some adjustments in the admission process as well,” she said.In DU, the maximum number of applicants seeking admissions in undergraduate courses are from CBSE-affiliated schools. Last year, out of total 2,58,388 applications in UG courses, 2,05,434 were CBSE students.Pankaj Garg, a faculty at DU’s Rajdhani College and a former member of DU’s admission committee, said there could be a major issue in calculating best of four subjects due to changes in CBSE’s evaluation process. “The exams of some subjects such as Sociology, Geography and Hindi in which DU offers honours courses are still pending. For those from the northeast Delhi, other exams are pending. It’s mandatory to include these subjects while calculating the aggregate of the best four subjects for admission. In case, some students could not perform well in these subjects in the internal exams, they might lose the opportunity to get a seat in a DU college,” he said.Several principals raised concerns over the delay in the admission process. Rama Sharma, principal of Hansraj College, said, “Admissions are already delayed this year due to Covid-19. The university will be able to release cutoffs after the CBSE declares the results of class 12 exams. In case a large number of students opt for exams later as an option given by the board, the admission process can be delayed further. The university cannot wait for that long to start the admissions.”DU had started the registration process for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses on June 20. It did not declare the dates for the cutoff lists in view of the pending CBSE board exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/changes-in-cbse-evaluation-process-may-affect-du-admissions/story-2UM5GbeyRSewVJDZ3VDlmN.html
26-06-2020||Noida||Noida upgraded to three stars for waste management after review||The ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) on Thursday upgraded Noida’s rank for its solid waste management system to three stars from the one-star rating it had awarded last month.This was the first time that Noida participated in the rating exercise that looked into 25 key parameters on waste management. At present, it is the highest rated among the six cities in Uttar Pradesh that participated in the survey that was conducted in October last year. “My heartiest congratulations to Visakhapatnam, Vadodara, Ahmedanagar, Pune, Ballarpur, Noida, Gwalior,which have been upgraded in review as 3-Star #GarbageFreeCities. Their representation on recent certification has been scrutinised by 3rd Party & been found fit for higher rating,” tweeted Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, MoHUA.The Star Rating Of Garbage Free Cities survey requires participating cities to submit a self-assessment and self-verification document on its waste management system. It is then further verified through an independent third-party agency appointed by MoHUA.On the list of 141 cities that were awarded stars, there are 73 cities that now share the three-star rank. Five cities -- Ambikapur, Rajkot, Surat, Mysore, Indore and Navi Mumbai -- top the chart with five stars. The rating system helps cities assess their progress while encouraging them to move towards a better rating, thereby improving their overall cleanliness and aesthetics.“In the survey, they had given us zero for remediation. But we had a plant at sector 145 for this purpose. We approached the ministry with this and that got us the three stars,” said Ritu Maheshwari, Noida authority CEO.The Noida authority said they will aim to win five-star rating next year and the seven-star rating in 2022. “We had applied for the five-star category and worked very hard. But we are happy to get the three-star rank because it is the first time that Noida participated and won a prestigious award. Now we aim to improve in certain areas such as ensuring the garbage is not strewn on roadsides in the city and other parameters,” said SC Mishra senior project engineer of the Noida authority head of the health department.The health department said that it had planned to convert 350 undesignated garbage points into “beauty spots”.“But we could not finish this task before the survey that started in October, 2019. We could build only 140 beauty spots. We have fixed our target to improve on multiple areas to get five-star rating next year,” said Mishra.Other weak spots for the city were its failure to clean its 300 drains, not segregating waste at households, inadequate composting facilities, material recovery centre built only in two out of 10 and waste treatment facilities.Noida spread across 20000 hectares of an area generates around 650 tonne of waste daily. Gautam Budh Nagar district development residents’ welfare association (DDRWA), a residents’ body said that the authority could not develop a much-needed infrastructure on time.“The Noida authority started the preparations to make city garbage free late and could not finish its targets on time. Also, it has not taken residents’ on board from all sectors. The authority must focus on sustainable models so that the waste treatment facilities work for long term,” said NP Singh president of DDRWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-upgraded-to-three-stars-for-waste-management-after-review/story-a0tu2ZXmvmJH6USzMtsxRL.html
26-06-2020||Noida||Delhi health official assaulted by cops: SDMC files complaint with Noida police||Officials of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) have filed a complaint with the Noida commissioner of police and the district magistrate regarding the assault of a Delhi health department official at the Delhi-Noida-Direct flyway (DND) border allegedly by two Noida policemen.The alleged incident took place on June 19 around 6.30pm at DND when Dr Saurabh Mishra, a deputy health officer (DHO) with the West zone of SDMC was on his way home to Sector 137 in Noida. Despite having the requisite permission, his driver was allegedly stopped by a police head constable at the DND border, while Mishra was asleep in the back seat of his vehicle, his family had said. His family had alleged that the constable had misbehaved with him, while a police sub-inspector (SI) had manhandled him. Following the incident, the DHO filed a complaint with Noida police against the two cops.“It has been so many days and no action has been taken against the responsible parties,” said Namrata Narayan, Mishra’s wife on Thursday.Deputy commissioner of SDMC, Shirish Sharma, on Wednesday filed a complaint with the Noida police commissioner. “We have also written to the Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate to look into the matter and take appropriate action,” said Sharma.In the letter, the deputy commissioner said according to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines all restrictions on inter-state movement were lifted starting May 30. However, despite the guidelines, the DHO —who was returning home in Noida after performing his day’s work—was stopped at the border, asked to produce his ID card and duty pass, which is a clear violation of the MHA order, the letter alleged. The SDMC deputy commissioner demanded that due action should be taken to avoid the recurrence of such an incident. However, according to the Uttar Pradesh government rules, vehicles from Delhi can only enter Noida—which had sealed its border with the national capital in April— with a valid identity card and the pass issued by the Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate. When contacted, district magistrate Suhas LY said the city police were looking into the matter.The Noida police said a departmental inquiry in the case is already underway. “A probe in the matter is on and we will have a resolution soon,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.Police officers also said they have spoken to Mishra’s family as well. “The sub-inspector has conveyed his apology to the family. We will try to resolve this unfortunate incident amicably. The SI in question had been posted at the border since day one of the border sealing and lost his cool when he heard the doctor and head constable arguing. The case will be resolved soon,” said additional DCP, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.According to a police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the head constable asked the DHO’s driver for a pass who was not carrying it himself, but the DHO, who was sleeping on the backseat of the car, had the pass on him. The constable asked the driver to take a U-turn to Delhi as he was not carrying the pass. When the health officer was woken up, he produced the pass and allegedly pushed the constable two to three times. A scuffle ensued between the two following which the SI lost his cool and allegedly slapped the DHO, said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-health-official-assaulted-by-cops-sdmc-files-complaint-with-noida-police/story-jI1F2Oq6FVIyXgNEsrqqtJ.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Computer teachers accuse firm of demanding money, Chandigarh education dept seeks explanation||District education officer (DEO) Alka Mehta, taking a note of complaints by 300-odd computer teachers working in Chandigarh government schools, has sought an explanation from a Panchkula-based outsourcing firm on the allegations of teachers of demanding Rs 12,000 from each of them to retain their jobs.In a written complaint, the teachers had alleged that they were being asked to pay Rs 12,000 per person to retain their jobs the new contractor, RR Enterprises, hired by the education department.These teachers were previously outsourced by the education department via the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC), but on June 1, the contract was awarded to RR Enterprises.The teachers also alleged that the new contractor has no experience in IT and that he was adopting illegal methods to extract money from them to continue their jobs. The teachers also alleged that the new contractor was threatening to fire them if they did not pay the amount and would engage new appointees. The teachers, in their complaint, also mentioned the 2014 judgment of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), which had said that the department would have to continue with the services of these teachers till the administration selected computer teachers on a regular basis.Senior teachers draw a salary of around Rs 35,000 per month while junior teachers get around Rs 29,000 per month.Mehta said, “We have asked the firm to explain its position. Terms and conditions of the contract do not mention that they can ask for such a payment. If it’s true, the contract with the firm will be cancelled and terminated.”Akhil Sharma, proprietor of RR Enterprises, said, “Our legal team is looking into the matter of the CAT and will respond in the coming days and weeks. We will also respond to the DEO’s notice regarding the complaints of charging money by next week..”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/computer-teachers-accuse-firm-of-demanding-money-chandigarh-education-dept-seeks-explanation/story-QYe7SaoFMZhAQH0WV1713N.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||Railways fits emergency alarm systems in 50 Covid coaches||The Northern Railways has installed emergency alarm systems all its 50 railway coaches that have been turned into isolation wards at the Shakur Basti station washing shed.On Wednesday, the isolation coaches received two Covid-19 positive patients.The health of one of the two Covid-19 positive patients shifted to isolation coaches stationed at Shakur Basti railway station washing shed deteriorated on Thursday after which he was moved to a nearby hospital, senior northern railways officials said. Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital in Pitampura is the primary hospital attached to the isolation coaches, as per the agreement between the state government and the railways ministry. However, it was not clear whether the patient was admitted there or to some other hospital. Also read | Covid-19 crisis: Sero survey to cover 20,000 people across Delhi’s 11 districtsA senior district administration official, who asked not to be named, said that he was not aware that where the patient was shifted or what illness he had . The official said that there is a team of army doctors and health department doctors and they take the call in such situations. On being asked if the patient had pressed the emergency alarm bell installed in the coach to report about his health complications, a senior railway official, who wished not to be named said, “The patient was already under observation. This emergency alarm facility will come into use once all the coaches are filled with patients .”On Thursday, four more Covid-19 positive patients were shifted to the isolation facility, taking the total number of patients in such isolation wards to six.  The emergency alarm system comprises an alarm bell, a display board — having a buzzer and a light against each coach number — and a big emergency red light with siren fitted outside each coach. The objective behind installing the alarm system is to provide immediate medical or any other attention to Covid-19 positive patients in case of an emergency, Northern Railways officials said.Also read | At Delhi’s shelter homes, inmates complain of no medicine while doctors battle multiple threatsGiving details about how the alarm system functions, Deepak Kumar, chief public relations officer (CPRO) of Northern Railway, said that the alarm bell has been installed in each coach occupied by patients. The display board, on the other hand, has been installed in the coach housing doctors and specialised medical staff.“In case of an emergency, as soon as the patient presses the emergency call bell, a red light fitted outside the coach starts glowing along with a loud sound. This will also be simultaneously displayed on the display board installed inside the doctor’s coach, where the bulb against the coach number will light-up with an alarm sound. This will enable the caregivers to immediately rush to the particular coach to attend to the patient,” said Kumar.Another railway official, who did not want to be named, said that an alarm bell will also be installed in the coach where nursing attendant deployed by the Delhi health department will stay put.“The bell can be pressed either by the patient or the attendant. The siren system installed outside the coach is so strong that it will alert medical staff even if they are in the last coach. The red light will help them identify the coach from where the alarm was sounded,” said the official.In all, 503 railway coaches have been turned into makeshift Covid-19 isolation wards and are stationed at nine different stations – Anand Vihar, Shakur Basti, Sarai Rohilla, Shahdara, Safdarjung, Adarsh Nagar, Delhi Cantt, Tughlakabad and Patel Nagar – in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/railways-fits-emergency-alarm-systems-in-50-covid-coaches/story-ENTIwIpLynpBtDl5ZiFKgM.html
26-06-2020||Mumbai||Rising Covid-19 fatalities another worry for Maharashtra||The case fatality rate (CFR), which has been on the rise since the end of May, has emerged as another cause for concern for Maharashtra, along with the rise in cases. By the end of May, the state had successfully brought down the case fatality rate to 3.26% (on May 26) from 7.41% (with 148 deaths) on April 13.On Thursday, the case fatality rate was 4.69%, second highest in the country, after Gujarat where the CFR was 5.99% with 1,735 deaths (28,943 reported cases) till Wednesday. But Maharashtra has highest number of deaths across states in the country. The state recorded 192 deaths taking toll to 6,931. Of them, 109 deaths were from the past 48 hours, while the rest were from past few days, health officials said. The toll has reached close to the 7,000 mark in only four days, after crossing the 6,000 mark on June 21. In the past five days, the state has recorded as many as 947 deaths. On June 23 and 24, the daily toll was over 200. It also means 46.53% of total deaths in the country are registered in Maharashtra alone. On Thursday, the country’s death toll went up to 14,894.Officials admit that the rise in CFR is a concern, but insist a lot of deaths are from the past, as they are adding missing fatalities and the situation will be under control soon. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading state’s communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee, said, “Rising CFR is always a concern, but our case is a bit different as we are also adding missing number of deaths to the tally. This has impacted overall CFR of the state, but it is a temporary phenomenon.”State health minister Rajesh Tope said they have adopted a patient-centric policy and there is no need to fear. “We have also taken many important measures to reduce CFR such as constitution of a task force, preparing a treatment protocol and providing best available drugs. Today, we have also decided to start conducting rapid antigen tests and ELISA-based antibodies tests which help in gauging prevalence of the epidemic in a containment zone. Antigen tests will also be conducted on frontline workers such as doctors, nurses, ward boys, police etc.,” Tope said.Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a review meeting directed to constitute a task force comprising experts and senior doctors at district or division level to bring down CFR.The highest-single day toll was recorded with 248 deaths on June 23. Of them, 75 were from last 48 hours while the rest were from the past, clarified the health department.Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded 4,841 cases, the highest single-day spike on Thursday. This is the first time the tally of fresh cases crossed the 4,000 mark. With this, Covid-19 count in state has reached 1,47,741. Of them, 63,342 are active cases, according to the data released by state health department.With the state officials expecting a peak in July, the number of fresh cases is also likely to rise and situation may become more difficult in the coming days. On Wednesday, the state had reported the highest single-day spike then of 3,890 cases. It was also the 15th day when the state reported over 3000 cases in a day.Last week, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the peak has started. He said over 77,000 patients have recovered and discharged from various hospitals across Maharashtra. Of the 63,342 patients, 80% are asymptomatic, 10-15% have symptoms and only 4-5% patients have severe conditions.“The doubling rate has improved to 30 days, which is a parameter to determine the situation. In countries such as the US, UK, Spain France etc. cases per million are between 4,000 and 6000, whereas in Maharashtra, it is 1200 per million. While deaths per million in foreign countries are between 400 and 600, the number is 60 in the state,” the health minister said.The health minister also informed the state cabinet has decided to request the central government to postpone exams (due in August) of post-graduate medical students or promote them based on internal assessment as if they went for studies then the state will face a shortage of doctors in hospitals. They have also requested the health ministry to consider MBBS doctors’ service in hospitals as internship and also postpone NEET exams for medical students. A resolution was passed in the state cabinet meeting on Thursday.In the past two days, 7822 patients have recovered which has improved the recovery rate. On Thursday, 3661 patients recovered, while on Wednesday, the number was 4161. With this, the recovery rate has reached 52.42% On June 22, it slipped to 49.86% from 50.99% on June 16. The total number of recovered patients is 77,453.The health department said they have conducted 8,48,026 tests, of which 7,00,285 tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rising-covid-19-fatalities-another-worry-for-maharashtra/story-wZsLsVp4lEt6d2FM28xSBJ.html
26-06-2020||City||Barring Covid, no problem in holding elections in J&K, says L-G Murmu||Handpicked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the first lieutenant governor of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, Girish Chandra Murmu, 60, took charge on October 31 last year to foster peace, stability and development in the region three months after its special status was revoked. He spoke to HT principal correspondent Ravi Krishnan Khajuria on a host of issues, including opening up the political space for parties, setting up the delimitation commission and holding elections. Edited excerpts:It’s going to be a year of the revocation of Article 370 on August 5. When will political activity be revived in J&K? When will remaining political prisoners, particularly People’s Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti, be released?President’s rule is a temporary provision. The Election Commission has announced members to the delimitation commission. Political parties are conducting outreach programmes. So, the political process is there. We wanted to have local body elections in February and March but by then Covid-19 played spoilsport. There is a mechanism to review political detentions. It is done by a security review committee headed by the home secretary. Most detainees have been released. Beyond a certain period, you can’t detain politicians. The EC is the competent authority to take a call on delimitation. The situation here (in J&K) is good. Except Covid, I don’t see any problem in holding elections.Where do politicians such as former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti figure in the new political landscape?India is a secular, socialist, democratic republic where people choose their leaders. So, everyone has a role to play. Any old or new party has an equal right to elect and get elected. There is nothing like a new political landscape. Revoking the temporary provision (Article 370) was a historic decision, a watershed moment. It has opened up more opportunities for people to participate and be master of their destiny. As for Mehbooba Mufti’s release, there is a process of which I’m not a part so I can’t comment. Besides the security review committee, there are court directions.How do you see Apni Party, led by Syed Altaf Bukhari, in the new landscape? There was also talk about an advisory council.There can be a new or an old party or a combination. They have their own opportunities and challenges but they have been leaders. People will decide. I’m not aware of an advisory council. Under President’s rule, the power rests with the governor or lieutenant governor who takes advice from professionals. In J&K, we have four advisers. I don’t think that kind of arrangement (advisory council) exists anywhere in the country. Maybe it was a rumour.The killing of Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita and abduction of a woman sarpanch have reignited fears among Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley. How do you see the security scenario in Kashmir?Kashmir has always been plagued by certain issues since Independence. There are forces from outside and within aiding and abetting such activities but our security forces are taking on the challenges and have succeeded to a great extent. We are trying developmental programmes for participatory management and growth. I see it (the violence) as a phenomenon that was there earlier too and occasionally returns in the form of desperate attempts (to disrupt peace).Are you mulling security cover to over 25,000 sarpanches and panches? They are the only elected representatives in J&K today and the most vulnerable.I have a different approach to this. We want to secure the entire UT and its people. Of course, there is a provision to provide security to vulnerable representatives, depending upon the threat perception, but my intention is to give a general sense of well-being to all. We have an area domination mechanism in place but yes in rare cases of increased threat, security cover can be thought of.Pakistan has also gone all out, using psychological warfare and IT platforms to radicalise Kashmiri youth. What is being done to wean them away and bring them to the national mainstream?It’s been going on for the past many years in a bid to destabilise us but our security forces have been able to contain terrorism. The key is in all round development to bring them to the mainstream. Let there be development and employment so that everyone, particularly youngsters, gets an opportunity to progress. Recently, 10,000 jobs were announced and 30,000 to 40,000 more will be announced in six months in phases. We have introduced new recruitment rules and are focusing on the IT sector.Pakistan has been targeting our posts and villages on the LoC and border.Our security forces are prepared to deal with any contingency. We have faced such hostilities earlier also. It only shows Pakistan’s frustration.What are the plans to tide over rising unemployment?Unemployment is a global phenomenon and post-Covid most nations have suffered. J&K could not build infrastructure earlier and create job opportunities so investment could not come. We are focusing on education to enhance employability and entrepreneurship. If things get normal, the global investors’ summit will be held in October. MNCs have shown interest and we convinced film producers to set up studios here.Will Amarnath Yatra be held this year? What about the Vaishno Devi pilgrimage?We are prepared but we will have to protect people also. Let’s see how things evolve due to the pandemic but the traditional pooja will take place at the Amarnath shrine. We will take a decision at the right time on resuming the Vaishno Devi pilgrimage.Are you satisfied with J&K’s Covid mitigation efforts?Absolutely. We were the first to ensure 100% testing of returnees. Our recovery rate is tremendous and our doubling rate is 22 days. We have 25,000 per million tests and six labs are conducting Covid tests. The death increased a bit recently but still we are doing a good job. Our mortality rate is just 1.4% and the recovery rate is impressive. Our health staff, religious leaders and people have worked 24x7 and cooperated tremendously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/barring-covid-no-problem-in-holding-elections-in-j-k-says-l-g-murmu/story-w9iJmj9VAy3gKKkdKho0PO.html
26-06-2020||Delhi||After IIT-B, IIT-Delhi to shift all classes online for next semester||The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D) on Thursday said it will conduct all of the upcoming semester’s classes online in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, after the prestigious institute’s Mumbai branch announced a similar decision earlier in the day. IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao on Thursday said the institute will follow the recommendations made by a sub-committee on the minimum common strategy to be followed by all IITs. “We do not have a choice this year. We will follow the sub committee’s report, which recommends online mode to conduct classes for the upcoming semester,” he said. According to the sub-committee’s report — which HT has reviewed — submitted to the IIT council’s standing committee on June 15, classes for the first semester of the 2020-21 academic year will be conducted online for all courses. “Semester 1 (2020-21) classes for all UG [undergraduate] and PG [postgraduate] programs to be conducted in online mode for all courses, with short term and smaller weightage evaluations through viva, online quizzes, take-home exams, online exams, etc,” reads the report. Rao said IIT-D will allow students facing difficulties in attending online classes due to problems with internet access to return to the campus, as recommended by the sub-committee. “These students will also take online classes from their hostels. No individual shall be forced to return to campus, he/she shall take relevant safety, quarantine and safe travel measures, as applicable,” the report added. The institute will shift the laboratory component of the courses to a later part of the academic year, as recommended by the sub-committee.However, the situation will be reviewed again in October 2020, officials said. The institute will allow PhD students, who require experimental research facilities and others who need other institute resources, to return to the campus if they wish, after July 20. “We will allow the PhD students to return to the campus gradually after July 20. IIT-Delhi will mostly follow what the sub-committee report has recommended,” Rao said.The institute will also formulate standard operating procedures (SOP) for various research, administration, teaching and hostel activities to contain the spread of Covid-19. IIT-D has a combined staff and strength of over 20,000 students at its Hauz Khas campus. The institute had shifted all its classes online on March 13 in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-iit-b-iit-delhi-to-shift-all-classes-online-for-next-semester/story-qaoKBbuQwn3aJGBtizoDvJ.html
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab has cotton on 5 lakh hectares this season, highest in a decade||Amid shortage of migrant farmworkers due to coronavirus outbreak, Punjab this year has set a record by bringing 5.01 lakh hectares under cotton cultivation, which is the highest since 2011-12 kharif or summer-sown crop season.The Punjab agriculture and farmers welfare department had set a target of sowing cotton on 5 lakh hectares under its crop diversification programme.State agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi on Thursday attributed the addition of 25% area to the well-coordinated crop management plan that led to record cotton sowing.“After the outbreak of Covid-19, the state authorities had serious apprehensions to meet the target of enhancing cotton sowing in south Malwa region from 3.9 lakh hectares in 2019 to 5 lakh hectares this year. But joint efforts yielded encouraging results,” he saidIn 2012-13, cotton acreage was recorded at 4.81 lakh hectares in Punjab. Cotton is sown in eight districts of south Malwa with concentration in four districts only. This year, Bathinda leads with 1.72 lakh hectares under cotton cultivation, followed by Fazilka (1.22 lakh), Muktsar (1.01 lakh) and Mansa (93,775).Sangrur, Faridkot, Moga and Barnala districts together recorded sowing on over 12,000 hectares.Sources said the state crossed 5-lakh-hectare mark only once in 2011-12 when 5.16 lakh hectares were under cotton crop.In 2015, cotton belt suffered widespread damage to the crop after whitefly attack and in the next three years, the area under cotton shrunk drastically. In 2018-19, cotton was sown on 2.83 lakh hectares, lowest in the decade as the agronomy of the cotton belt was hit due to the pest attacks in 2015.However, 2019-20 saw a bumper season when cotton production touched the record 43 lakh quintals. Also, farmers got good returns as Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) purchased a sizeable chunk at MSP (minimum support price) and it motivated farmers to bring more area under cotton.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-has-cotton-on-5l-hectares-this-season-highest-in-a-decade/story-veRtL9UdZ79qybVoA1kbWK.html
26-06-2020||Pune||Garbage-free cities: Pune gets 3-star rating||Pune bagged three-star rating in a central government’s ranking for garbage-free cities (GFC), said officials on Thursday.The ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) upgraded the rating for Pune, Noida, Visakhapatnam, Vadodara, Ahmednagar, Ballarpur and Gwalior from one-star previously.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) aims to make it to top ten cities in the Swachh Survey. Solid waste management department head Gyaneshwar Molak said, “It is encouraging to receive three-star certificate in garbage-free cities. Some cities were ranked fivestar, but PMC scored in other parameters.”“My heartiest congratulations to Visakhapatnam, Vadodara, Ahmednagar, Pune, Ballarpur, Noida, Gwalior, which have been upgraded in review as three-star Garbage Free Cities. Their representations on recent certification have been scrutinised by a third party and were found fit for a higher rating,” MoHUA secretary DS Mishra tweeted.In another tweet, Mishra also applauded the efforts of citizens, city managers and political executives in managing the construction and demolition wastes, remediation of landfills and other aspects of solid waste and ODF (open-defecation free) management. “This will ensure Sampurna Swachhata (total cleanliness), improved quality of life and ease in living,” he said. The star rating of garbage-free cities, a MoHUA initiative, envisions to enable cities to gradually evolve into a model, seven-star city, with progressive improvements in their overall cleanliness. The star rating is based on 25 key parameters of solid waste management and has been designed to help cities assess their progress, encouraging them to move towards a better rating and improving their overall cleanliness and aesthetics.The certificate is based on the whole year’s performance in 2019. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “All the employees and residents will make efforts this year to take Pune to top spot. We have received three-star rating in garbage-free cities. We hope to top in the Swacch survey. PMC had not qualified for open defecation free status, but later it improved its ranking.”The mandatory parameters for GFC ratings include door-to-door garbage collection and their segregation at source besides sweeping at public, commercial and residential areas. It also includes the provision of litter bins, storage bins and processing of wet and dry wastes, besides redressals of people’s grievances, said officials.The desirable parameters include sustainability, on-site wet waste processing, dumpsite remediation besides collection and disposal of all forms of waste, penalty and spot fines, availability and use of scientific landfill, water bodies and storm water drains, screening of nallahs and construction waste management, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/garbage-free-cities-pune-gets-3-star-rating/story-80VBACGtLb8wNx2b1pJgaJ.html
26-06-2020||City||Nod to appointment of contractor, modern abattoir in Ludhiana may start operations in a month||With the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) of the municipal corporation (MC) giving a nod to the appointment of a contractor, the modern slaughterhouse facility in the Haibowal dairy complex is expected to commence operations in a month.The construction of the Rs 19.5-crore project, hanging fire for over a decade, was completed in January. The MC floated tenders for the selection of a contractor for five times, but only a single contractor came forward for running the facility each time. Finally, the MC decided to appoint the only contractor, who has offered Rs 35 lakh to the MC per annum for a 10-year contract.The committee approved a resolution, issuing a work order to the contractor, during a meeting held at mayor Balkar Sandhu’s camp office here on Wednesday. MC also received consent of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Wednesday for operating the plant, which was pending for the past six months.The facility is capable of slaughtering 2,000 poultry birds per hour in two shifts of eight hours each; and 1,000 goats, sheep and pigs.The MC House has fixed Rs 150 for slaughtering a goat/sheep, Rs 10 for a poultry bird and Rs 100 for a pig.The officials said the facility also has an effluent treatment plant, a preservation and chilling facility, and a blood processing unit. Once commissioned, the facility will enable the MC to implement a complete ban on illegal slaughtering in the city. Meat traders will have to get the animals slaughtered at the facility and will be allowed to sell only this meat at their respective shops.The officials said illegal slaughtering results in unhygienic conditions and the waste, including blood, is also dumped in the sewers, which is illegal. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had taken a note of the same in the past and directed the MC to stop illegal slaughtering. The MC is also establishing five modern shops at various locations of the city from where the contractor will be able to sell meat. Three shops have also been constructed on the Gill, Metro and Hambran roads.MC senior veterinary officer Dr YP Singh said, “The F&CC has issued the work order and the facility is expected to become operational in a month. The amount payable by the contractor would be increased by 5% every year. No illegal slaughtering will be allowed in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nod-to-appointment-of-contractor-modern-abattoir-in-ludhiana-may-start-operations-in-a-month/story-SyELT7BYguG74HtDu7W6WJ.html
